UNITED 
NATIONS 
General Assembly 
11 
PROVISIOHAL 
A/47/PV.56 
16 Hovember  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GEHERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIOHAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  56th MEETIHG 
Held  at Headquarters, Hew York, 
on Wednesday,  4 Hovember  1992, at 10  a.m. 
President: 
Mr. AL-HADDAD 
(Vice-President) 
(Yemen) 
Report  of  the United Hations Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  [79]  (continued) 
(a)  Report  of  the  Conference 
(b)  Report  of  the  Secretary-General 
This  record  contains  the original  text  of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text  will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one week, to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750,  2 United  Hations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy  of 
the record. 
92-61744  2591V  (E) 
A/47/PV.56 
2 
In the  absence  of  the President, Mr. Al-Haddad  (Yemen).  Vice-President. 
took the Chair. 
The meeting was  called  to order  at  10.20  a.m. 
AGEHDA  ITEM 79  (continued) 
REPORT OF THE UNITED HATIOHS  COHFEREHCE  OH ENVIRONMENT  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(a)  REPORT OF THE CONFERENCE  (A/COHF.151/26  (vol.I-IV  and  vol.II/Corr.l) 
(b)  REPORT OF THE  SECRETARY-GEHERAL  (A/47/598  and  Add.l) 
Mr. ERDENECHULUUN  (Mongolia):  We  are embarking  upon  a challenging 
and equally promising post-Rio  road,  and  the  forty-seventh  session of the 
United  Hations  General Assembly  is called  upon  to take  the  first  steps 
designed  to  fulfil  the obligations  that  the nations  of  the world  collectively 
undertook  in the documents  adopted  at  the Conference.  The United  Hations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED) will  undoubtedly  go down in 
the  annals of history  as one of  the most  remarkable  of gatherings  in the 
magnitude  of  its  concerns. 
The Rio  Conference  laid down  a conceptual  and practical  basis  for our 
future endeavours.  It  also  signified  the beginning  of  a new  global 
partnership.  For  this we  are profoundly  indebted  to Mr. Maurice  Strong, 
Secretary-General  of UHCED,  and Ambassador  Tommy  Koh of  Singapore  for their 
tireless  efforts, dedicated  commitment  and brilliant  leadership  during the 
preparatory  process  and  the Rio Conference  itself. 
We  are especially  grateful  to the Government  of  Brazil  for  the excellent 
arrangements  that  in no  small measure  contributed  to making  that  historic 
Conference  a success. 
We  also  thank  the Rapporteur,  the Foreign Minister  of Algeria,  for his 
report  on the Rio  Conference. 
A/47/PV.56 
3 
(Mr. Erdenechuluun.  Mongolia) 
We listened with great  interest  and  anticipation  to the  comprehensive  and 
thought-provoking  statement  by the Secretary-General.  My  delegation  commends 
him for the  reports  concerning  the  institutional  arrangements  to  follow up 
UNED. 
The Minister  of  State  for  Foreign Affairs  of Pakistan has  already  spoken 
on behalf of  the Group of  77.  Therefore  I will  confine my  remarks  to a few 
points of particular  interest  to my  delegation. 
The Rio Declaration,  Agenda  21 and  all other  documents mark  a  significant 
change in mankind's  attitude  towards  nature  and environment.  The  Rio 
Conference has made  it distinctly  clear  that development  can no  longer  be 
divorced  from  environment. 
Having put  this  interrelationship  at the top of  the  agenda,  the world 
community has  come  to  realize  that an advance  of  any given  country  is 
essentially dependent  upon  the collective  efforts  of both affluent  and 
developing nations. 
With the end  of  the cold war  and  the diminishing  of  the  threat  of  direct 
military confrontation between major  Powers, the environmental  problems  and 
their potential  catastrophic  consequences  today  represent  a greater  security 
risk for every nation.  It has become  incumbent  upon each  and every  country  to 
articulate its own Agenda  21. 
Rio has demonstrated  anew the unique  role of  the United Hations,  and  it 
is only here  that we  can make our  joint  efforts work. 
Mongolia  shares  the considered  view of many  that  the momentum  generated 
in Rio must  not be  lost, and  that  commitment  to  sustainable  development  has  to 
be translated  into practical  action. 
A/47/PV.56 
4 
(Mr. Erdenechuluun, Mongolia) 
The issue of the highest priority at this session is, of course, the 
establishment of a comprehensive institutional framework to follow up UHCED. 
My delegation is gratified to note that the views of the Secretary-General on 
the procedural and organizational modalities of the proposed Commission on 
Sustainable Development, which will have a vital role to play in monitoring 
and implementing Agenda 21, lay down a sound basis for constructive 
deliberations and early action. 
My delegation is in full agreement with the view of many that the 
membership of the Commission is to be determined on the basis of equitable 
geographical distribution and representation is to be at the highest possible 
level.  In order to ensure that the views of all are adeguately taken into 
account, non-member States should be given an opportunity to participate in 
the work of the Commission as observers.  It is also important that the 
relevant intergovernmental organizations, both within and outside the 
United Hations, as well as non-governmental organizations and private 
institutions, contribute to the work of the Commission, as envisaged in 
Agenda 21. 
My delegation would like to see the new Commission have distinct 
functions, concrete agendas and an effective organizational structure in order 
to avoid duplication of work. 
In addition to its functions foreseen in Agenda 21, the Commission on 
Sustainable Development will in our view also provide a crucial forum for 
ongoing Horth-South dialogue on environment and development issues and on the 
linkages between them.  Furthermore it will be the most effective mechanism 
for ensuring adherence to the principles of environmentally sound sustainable 
development. 
A/47/PV.56 
5 
(Mr. Erdenechuluun,  Mongolia) 
The  success  of  the UHCED decisions  undoubtedly will  depend  upon  the 
financial  commitments  of  the  industrialized  countries.  It is common  knowledge 
that the developing  countries will  not be able to cope with  the multitude  of 
problems on  their  own unless  new  and  additional  resources  are mobilized.  It 
is especially  related  to the need  to obtain environmentally  sound 
technologies.  We welcome  the pledges  recently  announced by  the major 
industrialized  countries,  as well  as those made  in Rio. 
He also welcome  the process  of  the  restructuring  of  the  Global 
Environment  Facility,  and hope  that  it will give  developing  countries  broader 
participation  in its decision making  procedure. 
The United Hations  Development  Programme  (UHDP), on  its part,  could  play 
an important  role with  its unique  comparative  advantages.  We  wholeheartedly 
welcome the UHDP's  new  "Capacity  21", designed  to support  developing  countries 
in formulating  environmental  policies  and  legislation  and  creating  their 
national  technical  and  administrative  structures. 
The United Hations  regional  commissions  have  an  important  role to play  in 
facilitating  regional  and/or  subregional  cooperation.  He believe  that 
countries  themselves  should  initiate  cooperative  action  that  could  result  in 
the creation of  specific  regional  and/or  subregional mechanisms  to deal  with 
issues related  to development  and  environment. 
He are encouraged  by  the  statement  made  in Rio by the President  of  the 
World Bank on  "Earth  increment". 
He hope  that  early  commitments  sufficient  to start  the  speedy 
implementation  of Agenda  21 will be made  and  that political  will  and  a  sense 
of responsibility will prevail  at this  session  of  the General  Assembly. 
A/47/PV.56 
5(a-z) 
(Mr. Erdenechuluun,  Mongolia) 
The question  of particular  importance  to my  delegation  is  the 
establishment  of  an open-ended  intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  for the 
elaboration  and  adoption of  an  international  convention  to  combat 
desertification,  particularly  in Africa, with  a view  to  finalizing  such a 
convention  by June 1994. 
The  report  of  the Secretary-General  in document  A/47/393  contains 
specific  requirements  and  arrangements  for  the  implementation  of  the plan of 
action of Agenda  21  in the areas of drought  and  desertification. 
The  severity  and  immensity  of  this problem  requires  of us urgent and 
decisive  action  at  this  session of  the General  Assembly. 
The Government  of Mongolia  attaches  great  importance  to  environmental 
issues,  and  they  form  an  integral part  of  its socio-economic  activities.  A 
new Ministry  of Environment  Protection  has been  created.  The  Government's 
environmental  policy places particular  emphasis  on  the  introduction  of 
environmentally  sound  technology.  The  newly elected  Parliament  of Mongolia is 
expected  to ratify  the Conventions  on climate  change  and biodiversity  later 
this year. 
In conclusion,  I express my delegation's  hope  that  our  deliberations will 
result  in practical  actions, and,  especially,  the  setting  up of  a Commission 
on Sustainable  Development  so that  it would  start  substantive work  early next 
year. 
A/47/PV.56 
6 
Mr. OLHAYE  (Djibouti);  The  task before  us is daunting  as we  move 
along the road  from  Rio  in concretizing  or  translating  the accomplishments  of 
the United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED) into  real 
programmes  and projects.  We  cannot  afford  to fail  to devise  an  effective 
follow-up mechanism  along  the  lines of  the  firm  agenda or  the  comprehensive 
framework we  established. 
The euphoria generated  as the Earth  Summit  drew to a close  on June  14 
this year must be  kept  alive  as the beacon of hope  against  an  ecological 
catastrophe.  As  the visionary,  indefatigable UHCED  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Maurice Strong, put  it  in his closing  statement  to the  Conference: 
"This process  has been  a profoundly  important  human  experience  from 
which none of us  can emerge unchanged.  The world will  not be  the same; 
international  diplomacy  and  the United Hations will  not be the  same; and 
the prospects  for  the Earth's  future  cannot be the  same." 
The excruciating,  often  long  and  stifling meetings  at Rio  eventually 
succeeded  in laying down new,  far-reaching  commitments  for  international 
cooperation in environment  and development  culminating  in the adoption of 
Important policy  documents:  the Rio Declaration,  the statement  on  forest 
principles and Agenda  21, perhaps  the principal  environment  and  development 
action or work  plan. 
Hot every  commitment  in Agenda  21, however,  is hard,  conclusive  or  even 
certain.  I refer  specifically  to the  financial  resources  and  transfer  of 
technology mechanisms.  Such  lingering  doubts on the part  of  the poor  nations 
of the world  are not  groundless, given  the bitter  past  experiences  of 
unfulfilled promises  and  scuttled  expectations.  The  serious  concerns  about 
desertification, poverty  and  other  development  problems  facing poor  countries. 
A/47/PV.56 
7 
(Mr. Olhaye,  Djibouti) 
particularly  in Africa, have  in the past been  invariably  overlooked  amid all 
the attention  devoted  to more global  environmental  problems  such  as climate 
change  and  ozone  depletion.  Lamenting  this  usual  neglect,  an  African 
policy-maker  had  to  remark: 
"For  the majority  of African  countries  daily  confronted  by the 
problems  of  thirst  and hunger,  the  struggle  against  environmental 
degradation  is a struggle  for  survival.  For  us, the problem  of 
environmental  protection  is a problem  of development,  a problem  of the 
sustainable  management  of natural  resources". 
The  fragile  consensus  crafted  in Rio must  not be  allowed  to  fall victim 
to  renewed  rancour,  insensitivity  or  incoherence.  Despite  the extensive body 
of  compromises,  often  short  of much  substance  and political  commitments, the 
final Agenda  21 provides  a satisfactory  framework  for  future  cooperation.  It 
has  indeed  set  the  stage  for  action.  Towards  this end,  the  recommendations 
contained  in the chapter  on  international  institutional  arrangements  call for 
strengthening  the  capacity  of  the United  Nations  system  itself  to address such 
challenges, with  the establishment  during  this  session  of  the General Assembly 
of  a permanent  high-level  Commission  on Sustainable  Devlopment,  whose role 
would be: 
"to ensure  the effective  follow-up  of  the Conference,  as well  as to 
enhance  international  cooperation  and  rationalize  the  intergovernmental 
decision-making  capacity  for the  integration  of  environment  and 
development  issues  and  to examine  the progress  in the  implementation of 
Agenda  21 at the national,  regional  and  international  levels". 
(A/CONF.151/26  (Vol,  Til), para  38.11) 
In this  respect, we welcome  the  report  of  the Secretary-General,  which 
provides  comprehensive  recommendations  on the  shape  and  scope  of  the 
A/47/PV.56 
8 
(Mr. Olhaye.  Diibouti) 
Commission 
its mandate  and  functions, composition,  funding,  secretariat,  and 
coordination mechanisms. 
The momentum  of  Rio  ought  to be maintained  and,  therefore,  the 
establishment  of  a strong,  versatile  Commission  with vision  and  vitality 
cannot be overemphasized.  The  Secretary-General's  keen  interest  and  direct 
involvement  in the  functioning  of  the Commission  will  immeasurably  enhance  its 
effectiveness.  The  far-reaching  ramifications  of  the Commission's  mandate, 
described as the most  challenging  of modern human endeavours, will  focus  in 
the coming months  on  critical  priority  issues.  Within  the ongoing process  of 
the United Nations  restructuring  and  revitalization,  it  is hoped  that  the 
substance  and mandate  of  the Commission  will not be  seriously  undermined  or 
its authority  and  special  status  in any way  compromised. 
At the centre  of  the Commission  is the question  of  the new and  additional 
resources needed  to  support  the wide-ranging  programmes  envisaged.  The 
international  donor  community  and  financial  institutions  are  collectively 
urged to heed  the  call of Agenda  21 for  the  realization  of  the  official 
development  assistance  target  of  0.7  per  cent,  for without  adeguate  commitment 
the implementation  process will  be  seriously  jeopardized. 
The earth  increment  for  the tenth  replenishment  of  the  International 
Development Association  covering  the period  1993-1995 will  definitely  provide 
an additional volume  of  resources.  Likewise, donor  countries  need  to  consider 
possible earth  increments  in  the  regional  development  banks  in  developing 
countries, namely,  in Africa,  Asia  and  Latin America,  and  also  in bilateral 
assistance programmes.  As we  look  further  at the  financial  follow-up  to Rio, 
the envisaged  restructuring  of  the Global  Environment  Facility must  be  seen  in 
perspective, particulary  in  respect  of  additional  resources  for  special 
environmental  conventions  still  to  come,  such as  those  on desertification  and 
A/47/PV.56 
9-10 
(Mr. Olhaye,  Diibouti) 
forests.  We  attach great  importance  to  the creation of  an  intergovernmental 
negotiating  committee  to elaborate  the convention  of  the  international 
framework  to combat  desertification. 
The  new Commission's  central  role will be  to monitor  the  implementation 
of Agenda  21 by Governments  and United Hations  agencies.  It also  calls for 
consideration  to be given  to the establishment  of  a high-level  advisory board 
consisting  of  eminent persons  knowledgeable  about  the environment  and 
development.  When  all  is  said  and done, however,  the  success  of  the Earth 
Summit,  as noted  by  a well-known  scholar,  would: 
"ultimately  be determined  not by what was  said  there but by what 
countries  and  international  agencies  did  afterwards". 
The bottom  line  is money.  Lewis  Preston of  the World  Bank  summed  it up well 
at Rio: 
"The question  is not whether we  can  afford  to do  it.  The question is: 
Can we  afford  not  to do it?" 
A/47/PV.56 
II 
Mr.  SWE  (Myanmar);  The United Hations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  (UHCED) will be  remembered  as a defining moment  in history.  From 
the Rio  summit  has  emerged  a global  consensus  and  a political  commitment, 
taken at the highest  levels, with  regard  to development  and  environment 
cooperation.  The  international  community  is being presented with  a historic 
opportunity  to  forge  a new  and equitable  partnership.  This opportunity  must 
not be  lost.  We must work  together  and  take necessary  follow-up  steps  so  that 
the spirit of  Rio will  be  kept  alive  and  the consensus  reached will be given 
practical  effect. 
Much needs  to be done by  the Assembly  as a follow-up  to UNCED.  The  three 
documents  adopted  at  the Summit 
namely,  the Rio Declaration,  Agenda  21 and 
the Forest Principles 
provide  the broad  framework  for the global  partnership 
that all of us aspire  to.  These documents, we hope, will be  adopted  in their 
entirety.  The  Assembly  must  also  determine  the  specific  procedures  and 
organizational  modalities  of  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  In 
this regard  let me highlight  some areas on which my delegation places  special 
emphasis. 
The Commission  on Sustainable Development  should be  a  functional 
commission  of  the Economic  and  Social Council.  Hhile  it  is logical  to  limit 
the size of  the Commission  to ensure  efficiency,  it should  be  large  enough  to 
take into account  the need  for equitable geographical  representation.  Since 
the Commission  stands  to benefit  from  the participation  of  the  entire 
international  community.  States Members  of  the Organization  or  of  its 
specialized  agencies  that  are not members  of  the Commission  should be  given 
observer  status, enabling  them  to participate  fully  and  effectively  in  the 
deliberations  of  the  CommiLSion. 
A/47/PV.56 
12 
(Mr. Swe, Myanmar) 
The functions of the Commission should be well defined.  In our view 
these should include the following.  First, it should monitor progress in the 
implementation of Agenda 21 and activities related to the integration of 
environment and development goals.  Secondly, it should review progress in the 
implementation of the commitments contained in Agenda 21, particularly those 
related to the provision of financial resources and transfer of technology. 
Here let me emphasize that my delegation regards the provision of new, 
adequate and additional financial resources and the transfer of technology as 
central to the effective implementation of Agenda 21.  We therefore regard 
this as one of the most important functions of the Commission.  Thirdly, it 
should review on a regular basis the adequacy of funding mechanisms, including 
targets where applicable. 
We regard capacity-building, particularly in developing countries, as 
extremely important.  We should indeed like to see the Commission monitor the 
progress achieved in attaining the objectives regarding capacity-building set 
forth in Agenda 21.  We should also like to see the envisaged Commission on 
Sustainable Development forge a strong, interactive relationship with the 
international financial institutions.  It is our hope that the Commission will 
monitor the activities of these institutions in relation to the implementation 
of Agenda 21. 
Agenda 21 addresses the pressing problems of today and exhorts us to make 
necessary preparations to be equal to the challenges that will face us in the 
future.  It is in fact a blueprint to save planet Earth and it needs the full 
support of the entire international community.  Organs, organizations and 
agencies of the United Nations system have a central role to play in support 
of Agenda 21.  We therefore see merit in the recent decision of the 
A/47/PV.56 
13 
(Mr. Swe,  Myanmar) 
Administrative  Committee  on Coordination  to establish  an  inter-agency 
committee  on  sustainable  development,  entrusting  it with  the task  of 
allocating  responsibilities  for  implementing  Agenda  21.  Efficient 
coordination  of  the organs, organizations  and  agencies  of  the United  Nations 
system  for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21 deserves  our  full  support. 
Hhile  the  importance  of  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development  cannot 
be overemphasized,  there  are other  areas  of  importance  which  reguire  the 
attention of  the General  Assembly.  I speak  of the establishment  of  an 
intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  for the preparation  of  an 
international  convention  to combat  desertification  in countries  experiencing 
serious drought  and/or  desertification.  Given  the  fact  that  approximately 
3 million people  died  in the mid-1980s  as a result  of droughts  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa, desertification  and drought  are problems  that  require  the  urgent 
attention of  the  international  community. 
The commitments  made  at Rio need  to be conscientiously  fulfilled  by  all 
if we are to achieve  sustainable  development  for  the common  good  of  mankind. 
Concrete actions  need  to be  taken  at the national,  regional  and  international 
levels.  The Chairman  of  the Myanmar  delegation,  the Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, who  is also  the Chairman of  the National  Commission  on  Environmental 
Affairs of  the Union  of Myanmar,  reiterated  in his  address  to the  General 
Assembly  on 5 October Myanmar's  firm  commitment  to the cause of  environment 
and sustainable  development  and affirmed  our  readiness  to  shoulder  our 
responsibilities  in keeping with  the  spirit  of Rio. 
Allow me briefly  to apprise  the Assembly  of  our views  on environment  and 
our national  endeavours  as  a follow-up  to UNCED. 
Myanmar  fully  subscribes  to the  concept  of  sustainable  development.  A 
central tenet  of  this,  in our  opinion,  is the protection  and  conservation  of 
A/47/PV.56 
14-15 
(Mr. Swe, Myanmar) 
the environment in the national endeavour for socio-economic development, 
taking fully into account the twin objectives of environment and development. 
In this endeavour, the living standard of the people, particularly of the 
rural population, will be raised through integrated rural-development schemes, 
while healthy human living conditions will be promoted.  Efficient use and 
conservation of energy will be promoted.  Environmental legislation will be 
strengthened in all pertinent sectors.  Public awareness and mass 
participation will be fostered and stimulated.  Forest resources will be 
managed in a sustainable manner and reforestation and afforestation will be 
actively promoted. 
We regard poverty as both the cause and the effect of environmental 
degradation.  Poverty alleviation, therefore, figures prominently in our 
national agenda.  As part of this agenda, the Government of Myanmar has 
embarked on an ambitious Programme for the Development of the Border Areas and 
national Races.  The border areas, mostly populated by ethnic national races, 
have traditionally been economically and socially backward owing to difficult 
geographical terrain, poor transport and poor communications. 
A/47/PV.56 
16 
(Mr. Swe. Myanmar) 
To  remedy  this, the Government  has  initiated  an  integrated  rural 
development  programme,  which  includes  infrastructure  building,  the 
introduction  of modern  agricultural  practices,  income-generating  schemes  and 
the provision  of  agriculture  extension  services, health  services  and  education 
facilities.  By providing  a whole  range of economic  and  social  services  the 
Government  not  only  aims  at  alleviating  poverty but  also hopes  that  the 
introduction  of modern  agricultural  practices will do  away with  the 
environmentally  wasteful method  of  slash-and-burn  agriculture, which  endangers 
the fragile  ecosystem  in these  areas.  To give  renewed  impetus  to the 
programme  and  to administer  it, the Government  has  since  the Rio  Summit  set  up 
a separate  ministry. 
Forests  constitute  a valuable  economic  resource  for Myanmar. 
Accordingly,  the  sustainable management  and  conservation  of  forests  occupy  a 
place of  importance  in the national  environment  policy.  Sustainable 
production of  forest  resources  and  conservation  of biodiversity  are assured  by 
a Forest Working  Plan, which  is revised  every  10 years  to  sustain  the 
resilience  of  the  forest  ecosystem.  Complementing  this  is an  afforestation 
programme whereby  36,000 hectares  are planted  annually.  This programme  has 
been reinforced  by  a scheme  for planting  fast-growing  trees  for  fuel  wood. 
Since Rio,  11 million  trees have been planted  countrywide with  full public 
participation.  We  are  also  engaging  in a nationwide  public-awareness  campaign 
stressing  the  need  to preserve  and protect  the environment.  The  Government 
has recently  laid down  effective  measures  to  increase  protected  areas 
fivefold.  Arrangements  arr- also well  under way  to complete  the  necessary 
domestic procedures  for  an early  ratification  of  the Conventions  on  Biological 
Diversity  and  on Climate  Change, which we  signed  at Rio. 
A/47/PV.56 
17 
(Mr. Swe,  Myanmar) 
Before  I conclude,  I wish  to comment  on one  of  the  important  documents of 
the Rio  Summit 
the non-legally  binding  authoritative  statement  of principles 
for a global  consensus  on the management,  conservation  and  sustainable 
development  of  all  types  of  forests.  We  are proud  to be  associated with the 
efforts which  culminated  in  its  adoption,  and,  as a country  rich  in forest 
resources, we place  special  emphasis  on  that document.  The  forest  principles 
contain  all  the elements  necessary  for the management,  conservation  and 
sustainable  development  of  forests.  In our  view,  these principles provide an 
adequate basis  for  international  cooperation  on  forests. 
The  current  session  of  the General  Assembly  can make  a  lasting 
contribution  to the  cause  of  sustainable  development.  It can do much to keep 
the  spirit  of  Rio  alive  and  to build  on the political  momentum  achieved 
there.  It  is now  time  for  all of us  to work  together  in a cooperative spirit 
and  to  fulfil  our  commitment  in good  faith.  Then,  and only  then, can we hope 
to have  a sustainable  future  for  all of us. 
Mr. PADILLA  (Philippines);  The  intimate  linkages  of  the various 
elements  that  spell  economic  well-being  or  economic  deterioration  in the world 
are well  known.  Everybody  understands,  for  instance, that  the  incapacity of 
countries  and private  firms  to negotiate  new  loans because  of  their 
external-debt  record  limits, their  capacity  to purchase  factories  and equipment 
that  incorporate  new  technologies.  This  limitation  constrains  them  from 
producing  competitive  export  goods.  The  consequent  constriction  of  income 
from  international  trade  reduces  national  budgets.  This, and  the need to meet 
heavy  external  debt  and  de'jt-service  obligations,  severely  cripple  the 
capacity  of  developing  countries  to provide basic  services  to  their peoples. 
This  inability  to provide  for basic  needs exacerbates  poverty,  and  poverty 
A/47/PV.56 
18 
(Mr. Padilla.  Philippines) 
inevitably  exacts  a great  toll on nature.  The poor will  seek to  feed 
themselves  and  their  families by burning  forests  for  tillable  land or by 
fishing by wantonly  destructive means. 
We  could  go on citing  example  after  example  of  such  intimate  linkages  of 
economic  and  social  realities.  One  important  linkage  that  nobody  now denies 
is that between  the environment  and development.  To  say anything  more on  this 
linkage is to  stress  the obvious  beyond measure. 
The global  assertion  of  that  significant  interconnection  was  the  raison 
d'etre  of  the unprecedented  meeting  of world  leaders  in Rio de Janeiro  last 
summer.  That was what moved  the General Assembly  to formulate  the  monumental 
resolution 44/228, which mandated  the convocation  of  the United  Nations 
Conference on Environment  and Development  (UNCED).  That  is what  is  foremost 
in our minds  now  as we discuss  the  importance  of  implementing  fully,  promptly, 
and effectively  the  agreements  we  reached  at Rio. 
At Rio, we  signed  the  framework  Conventions  on Biodiversity  and on 
Climate Change.  We  formulated  the principles  contained  in the  Rio 
Declaration.  We  adopted  Agenda  21.  Earlier  speakers have  noted  that  Rio was 
a definitive moment  in the history  of  international  cooperation.  In 1945, we 
agreed to seek the means  to maintain peace  and  security  in our  world. 
Subsequently,  we  adopted  a Charter  on the  rights of men.  In Rio, we built  on 
these human  rights  and viewed  them  in the context  of our  common heritage  and 
home;  Mother  Earth. 
Of the many  points we  agreed  upon  at Rio, and which delegation  after 
delegation has  spoken of  since  last Monday,  the Philippine  delegation  today 
wishes to  stress  a  few:  first,  the  right  to development  and  the human  face of 
development;  secondly,  the  categorical  imperative  of  international 
A/47/PV.56 
19-20 
(Mr. Padilla, Philippines) 
cooperation; thirdly, the financing of Agenda 21; fourthly, the transfer of 
technology; and, fifthly, institutional coordination. 
UNCED's recognition of the right to development, we think, was one of 
Rio's most important achievements.  We believe that the right to development 
proceeds very logically from every man's right to life.  If a man has a right 
to life, he also has a right to that which preserves and perfects that life. 
To that end, economic and social development should be seen as a sine qua 
non for the preservation and perfection of life.  What is true for the 
individual is true for nations.  From the human being's right to life and 
development proceeds the right of peoples and nations to development. 
A/47/PV.56 
21 
(Mr. Padilla.  Philippines) 
He are pleased  to note  that  the Rio Declaration  and Agenda  21 manifest  a 
human-centered  approach  to development.  Not  too  long  ago, I am told,  there 
were some  in the United  Nations who wanted  to view economic  issues  from  a 
purely economic  perspective.  They  felt  that  any explicit  expression  of man's 
central role  in development  was  an unwelcome  intrusion of  the  philosophical 
into the purity  of  economic  theory.  This view could not be  farther  from 
reality.  Economics  is a man-centred  discipline.  Finance,  trade,  investment, 
debt relief:  all  these  issues become meaningless without  reference  to the 
individual human  being. 
The  International  Development  Strategy  for  the  Fourth United  Hations 
Development Decade was  a milestone  in development  thinking.  The  Strategy  is 
based upon the  importance  of man  in all  development. 
He in the Philippines  are convinced  of the paramount  importance  of  the 
human being  in the hierarchy  of political,  social  and  economic  values.  We 
feel that  in any  conflict  that  could possibly  arise, involving  a choice 
between men and  the environment,  our  unqualified  choice would  be  for  the human 
being.  We  should  therefore  strive  to prevent  such critical  choices  from  ever 
having to be made. 
I turn to  the  subject  of  international  cooperation.  Man  is not only at 
the centre of all development  efforts; he  is also  the  fundamental  objective  of 
all international  cooperation,  be  it cooperation  for  international  peace  and 
security or  cooperation  for economic  growth  and development.  Incidentally, 
the distinction  that  I have  just made  fades  in the  light of  another  truth we 
hold dear, that  there  can be  no  true peace  and  security  in our world  without 
economic and  social  development.  Pope Paul VI's words have been  quoted 
often:  "Peace has  a new name;  development."  We  cooperate  not  only  for  the 
A/47/PV.56 
22 
(Mr. Padilla, Philippine^) 
welfare  of nations  and States, but ultimately  for  the people, the human 
beings, who make up  these nations  and States. 
Let those great  countries blessed  by God with political might  and 
economic  power  realize  that their  achievements  are due to the  talent, industry 
and dedication  of the  individual men  and women  in various  disciplines 
from 
agriculture  to  finance, from  scientific  theory  to applied  technology, from 
factories  to universities.  Let  them  recognize  that when they sit down to 
formulate macroeconomic  policies  for their  countries  they  are  inevitably also 
touching on the  lives of millions  of other  human beings  throughout  the world. 
Such  is the magnitude  of  their  responsibility  that they  should  not be remiss 
and wanting  in hiiman compassion. 
Let me  say, however, that the  statements  in this debate of  the 
representatives  of  the European Community  and Japan, the United  States and 
other  industrialized  countries  show that there  is compassion, there is 
concern, there  is a momentum  of  cooperation.  The momentum  generated by UNCED 
should not be  lost. 
There  is a need  for  international  cooperation  to follow up the decisions 
and  agreements  reached  in UHCED, not only  for  those  issues  specifically 
mentioned  in chapter  2 of Agenda  21, "International  cooperation  to accelerate 
sustainable  development...", but also  for  the  implementation  of all the 
commitments  of  the Rio Declaration,  all the programmes  incorporated  in the 40 
chapters  of Agenda  21 and  all the provisions  of  the Conventions  on 
biodiversity  a»d climate change. 
Cooperation, of  course, begins with  the  fulfilment of one's  specific 
duties  at home.  Formulating  sound policies  and managing  their  implementation 
are of  such obvious  importance  that they hardly need mentioning.  But there is 
A/47/PV.56 
23 
(Mr. Padilla,  Philippines) 
obviously  a need  to concentrate  on certain habits  and  traditional  actions  that 
have been described  in Agenda  21 as unsound,  such as unsustainable  patterns  of 
consumption, which exhaust  nature,  and of production, which pollute  and 
degrade the  environment. 
Besides  action  on these points, which  can be  addressed  domestically, 
there is a need  for  thoughtful,  serious, politically willed  cooperation  in 
breaking down unreasonable  trade barriers, promoting  capital  formation  through 
direct  foreign  investments  and establishing  definitive  solutions  to the 
external debt problem.  These matters  cannot be dealt with by one  Government 
alone; they are by nature bilateral  and multilateral  concerns, and  it is  thus 
that they  should be  treated. 
I come to  financing,  one of  the most  difficult  issues  related  to 
Agenda 21.  We have  agreed  on elaborate  and apparently  feasible programmes  and 
projects calculated  to pursue  the goal of  sustainable  development  during  the 
last decade  of  the  twentieth  century  and well  into  the  twenty-first. 
But  translating  blueprints  into a desirable  edifice  requires  the 
wherewithal.  Hone  of  the programmes  and projects  described  in Agenda  21 will 
come to fruition without  adequate  funding.  It must be noted  that  for  these 
programmes  the developing  countries  are expected  to draw  from  their  own 
resources  to the extent  of  80 per  cent  of costs.  Only a meagre  20 per  cent  is 
expected  from  international  community  contributions. 
It is therefore  critical  that  the Global  Environment  Facility be  funded 
with new, additional  and  adequate  resources, that  its scope be broadened  and 
that its governance  be made more  representative.  But  the Global  Environment 
Facility is not  enough.  For developing  countries  to help  themselves 
initially,  it  is critical  that  they be  relieved  of  the debt  burden  that weighs 
A/47/PV.56 
24-25 
(Mr. Padilla,  Philippine^) 
heavily upon their economies; that higher  levels of official  development 
assistance  (ODA) be granted  them;  and  that  there be  significant  help from 
International  Development  Association  funds  for  those whose  low  incomes 
seriously  impede  their  growth. 
As we  read  in Agenda 21, 
"Funding  for Agenda  21 and other  outcomes  of  the Conference  should 
be provided  in a way  that maximizes  the  availability  of new and 
additional  resources  and uses all  available  funding  sources  and 
mechanisms."  (A/CONF.151/26.  (Vol. Ill), para.  33.14). 
My  next  subject  is transfer  of  technology.  Environmentally  sound 
technologies  and  technologies  for  sustainable  development  continue  to be 
developed.  One  cannot  expect  impoverished  developing  countries  to adopt such 
technologies, which  cost money,  unless  they  are  shared  as grants  or unless 
they  are purchased,  either  at big discounts  or with  funds borrowed  on 
concessional  and preferential  terms. 
A/47/PV.56 
26 
(Mr. Padilla.  Philippines) 
On the  subject  of  institutional  arrangements,  if Agenda  21 is to be 
implemented  properly  and efficiently  it  is important  that  a  competent 
organization  take  the  initiative  in following up the provisions of the Agenda, 
evaluate  the extent  of  its implementation,  and make  recoimnendatlons  to 
specific agencies  and Governments whenever  necessary  and  relevant. 
Initially,  the Philippines  held  that  a revitalized  Economic  and  Social 
Council could  take  care of  coordinating  the  implementation  of UNCED's 
decisions.  He  felt  that  the Council  itself  could  create  - should  it  consider 
this necessary 
a committee  from  its own membership  to deal with the  concrete 
implementation  of  General Assembly  and Corincil decisions. He believed  that 
there was no need  for  a proliferation  of bodies. However, eventually we  joined 
the consensus  on  the establishment  of  a Commission  on Sustainable  Development. 
He hope  that  this Commission will operate  in the broader  context  and  in 
the spirit of  a progressive process  of  restructuring  and  revitalising  the 
United Nations  system,  of which the  Secretary-General  spoke  In his  keynote 
address at this  debate. 
A paper on the nature  and  functions of  this Coimilsslon has been prepared 
by the Group of  77 to clarify  its position on the  relevant  consensus 
provisions of jlgenda 21.  We  agree with the Group's position  and we do  not 
feel any need  to expound on  its details  further  at this moment. 
As we  speak of procedures  and modalities of  follow-up  and  follow-through, 
it is important  to remember  at all times the ultimate goal not only of  UNCED 
but also of  all our  efforts  in the United Nations: the perfection of  man's 
life now and  in the  future. 
Mr. MARTINI  HERRERA  (Guatemala)(interpretation  from  Spanish)i  On 
behalf of the  delegations  of Costa Rica, El  Salvador,  Guatemala, Honduras, 
A/47/PV.56 
27 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera,  Guatemala) 
Nicaragua  and Panama,  I have  the honour  to  speak  on the  agenda  item  "Report of 
the United  Hations  Conference  on Environment  and Development".  He  are 
grateful  for  the timely  and  satisfactory  introduction  of  the  report.  We the 
countries  of Central  America  attach  special  importance  to this  subject.  Our 
Presidents  and high-level  representatives  were present  at  this  event  of 
world-wide  significance. 
Central American  participation  in the  last preparatory  meeting  before 
UNCED was very  active.  It was  a catalytic  event  for  our  countries, and our 
Presidents  and  representatives  to be  able  to participate  actively  and support 
the contents  of Agenda  21 as negotiated,  and  thus  share  in the  agreements on 
the protection  of  the environment  which UNCED  produced. 
Today we Central  Americans  continue  to be  concerned  by  the way  in which 
the  subject  of  the environment might  be dealt with.  He  are  following up the 
establishment  of  a commission  on the environment  which  came out  of  the Rio de 
Janeiro  Conference  and which  is to ensure  compliance  with  the  agreements 
reached  at the Conference.  The  commission  must  be  set  up  in accordance with 
genuinely  equitable  geographical  distribution,  in which  subregions  like 
Central  America  are adequately  represented.  By that  I mean  that  the direct 
participation  of  our  region must be  ensured.  Of  necessity  the  commission must 
reflect  the concerns  of  all  countries, both developed  and developing, but 
especially  those of  the developing  countries because  of  their  need  to struggle 
against misery, poverty  and  ignorance.  It must  comply  effectively  with the 
right  to development,  which  those  of  us living  in countries which have not yet 
attained  it,  in particular  the  small  countries, must  be  able  to  achieve as a 
matter  of  urgency. 
The  commission  must hi ve  available  to  it the  necessary  assistance and 
A/47/PV.56 
28-30 
(Mr. Martini Herrera.  Guatemala) 
infrastructure  so that  it can comply  effectively with  the  functions  agreed  to 
in chapter  38 of Agenda  21, and  to be  able to make  the necessary  inputs, 
reports and  studies  of high quality  and  content, which  can  serve our  countries 
in adopting adequate  development  decisions  and policies  in accordance  with  the 
Rio de Janeiro  agreements. 
The  important  tasks of  the  commission  suggest  three  areas of  activity 
which have  to be  carefully  outlined;  it should be a follow-up  agent  to  the 
actions of  the United  Nations  and  the other  international  organizations  in 
implementing  Agenda  21 and promoting  sustained  development;  a mechanism  for 
reviewing  the  flow of  financial  resources  to the developing  countries  in 
support of their efforts  to  attain  sustainable  development;  and  a forum  with 
high-level participation  for discussing,  forming  a consensus  on and  taking 
decisions  regarding  the  subjects  contained  in Agenda  21.  Its activity must  be 
directed  towards  assistance,  transfer  of  technology  and exchange  of 
information;  it should  not be an organ of  judgement  and  condemnation. 
Emphasis must  be placed  on  international  cooperation; we must  bear  in mind 
that every country  has  its own origin  and history but  that we  all have  a 
common future. 
We cannot  fail  to emphasize  our  concern at  the limited  results  of  the 
conference  in respect  of  the  financial  resources which  are  so essential  if we 
are to be able  to clean  up the environment.  It  is our  feeling  that  there  is 
no reciprocal  commitment  between  those whose economies  are  stronger  and who 
could make  a bigger  contribution  to  solving environmental  problems  and  all  the 
rest of us who  are  so  short  of  the  resources  and  technology  required  to do 
so.  It follows  from  the  results  of UNCED  that most  of  the  financial  resources 
to be allocated  to environmental  matters will have  to come  disproportionately 
from the South,  from  the developing  sector. 
A/47/PV.56 
31 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera. 
Guatemala) 
The  environment  is too  important  to  the  survival  of our planet,  and a 
greater  political will  on the part of  all  States Members  of  the United Nations 
is essential  for us  to be  able to  fulfil  the goals  and objectives  envisaged 
and adopted  in Rio.  Its  importance  was emphasized  by  the  impressive 
participation  by  the Heads  of  State  or Government  of most  countries  of the 
world.  This  clearly  reflects  existing  concern  at the deterioration  of the 
environment,  environmental  pollution,  the use  and  abuse  of  natural  resources 
by  the most  industrialized  countries, as well  as the desire  to establish a 
genuine  international  cooperation  that would  allow the developing  countries to 
give  impetus  to acceptable  and ecologically  sustainable  development  without 
condemning  their peoples  to backwardness  and  primitivism. 
It  is imperative  to point  out  that  80 per  cent  of  the world's population 
lives  in the developing  countries.  Most  live below  the extreme-poverty line, 
with privations  of  every  kind  and  lack of  access  to health  services, drinking 
water,  education  and  fuel.  In the  rural  areas, human beings  simply  subsist; 
they enjoy neither  the  conveniences  nor  the  facilities  of  the urban areas, and 
far  fewer  of  the common medicines  that  the peoples  of  the  developed  countries 
take  for  granted. 
It  is for  these  sectors of  the population  that  it  is essential  to 
formulate  strategies  and policies  to  assure  their  economic growth  and social 
development,  in conditions  of equality,  dignity,  security, well-being  and 
independence, with  respect  for their  cultural  heritage  and  their  lifestyles. 
He  cannot  accept  as a final  result  of  the Conference  unilateral  and  compulsory 
measures  imposed  by  those whose  development  since  the  industrial  revolution 
has  in  large measure, been  at the expense  of  the world  environment.  If there 
A/47/PV.56 
32 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera, 
Guatemala) 
is to be genuine  international  cooperation,  how  can the Rio  commitment  be 
imposed on the  developing  countries  unless  the developed  countries  show the 
will to implement  the  same  rules, support  the process  of  integral  development 
and facilitate  cooperation by allocating  resources  and  adopting measures  that 
will improve  the  international  economic  environment? 
He, the Central  American  countries,  are  aware  of  the need  to protect  the 
environment,  and we have  the political will  to do  so, as was proved by  the 
fact that tJie Presidents  of  the  region  at their  summit meetings have  entered 
into commitments  to protect  it.  Every country  of the  subregion has  set up a 
national commission  that  cooperates  and  coordinates  closely with  the  Central 
American Commission  on the Environment,  national  and  subregional  strategies 
contain important  segments  for  that purpose.  The  Special  Plan of  Economic 
Cooperation  for  Central  America  also  includes  efforts  to promote  and  improve 
the environment,  and  support  is given to Governments  to design  a strategy  to 
be followed  at the world  conference. 
Concerted  efforts  by  the countries  of Central America  have  yielded 
positive results, such as  the establishment  of a Central  American  system  of 
protected areas; the  signing  of  a regional  Convention  that  forbids  any 
cross-border movement  of-toxic wastes; and  the Central  American  Convention  on 
biodiversity, which was  signed  recently  in Managua, Nicaragua.  It  is 
important  to emphasize  the  actions  agreed  to in  relation  to  indigenous  peoples 
and their development,  and  the national  and  regional plan  submitted by  the 
first Ladies of Central  AiiK'rica entitled  "Homen, Environment  and 
Development".  These programmes  will  also  require  the necessary  financing  to 
become reality. 
A/47/PV.56 
33 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera. 
Guatemala) 
Central  America participated  actively  in the meeting held  in Mexico that 
led to the Tlatelolco Treaty, which  contains  the Latin American  and Caribbean 
strategy  on the  subject.  Programmes  of exchange  of debt  in kind have been 
tried,  and  their benefits  or  limitations  should  be  assessed  in order  to 
determine  their  desirability.  In cooperation with  the United  Hations 
Educational,  Scientific  and Cultural  Organization  (UHESCO), we have developed 
an aggressive  programme  designed  to protect  the environment,  the Maya Route, 
which promotes  tourism with  an ecological  conscience.  All of  these will 
require  sufficient  and varied  resources  to enable  us to  advance  significantly 
in this vital  field. 
He Central  Americans  belong  to one  of  the  few  remaining  regions of the 
planet with  a tropical  rain forest, home  to a wealth of biological  variety 
whose potential  has yet  to be  fully  studied.  We  listened with great  interest 
to the proposal made by Canada  to  finance  three model  forests  in developing 
countries,  and we  feel  that  our  region offers  ideal  conditions  for that 
project  to be viable  and beneficial  for our planet.  He urge  this  sister 
country,  in coordination with  our Governments,  to give  serious  study to the 
possibility  of  financing  the establishment  of  one of  these model  forests in 
Central  America. 
UHESCO  has declared  as a patrimony  of humankind  several  zones  and places 
containing  cultural  and  indigenous  cities  and  centres, as well  as  the 
biosphere  reserve  of  the Platano  River  in Honduras,  considered  the  largest in 
Latin America  after  the Amazon.  We must  accordingly  conclude  that  its jungle 
renders  a service  to  the  survival  of our planet,  as does  the Amazon  region in 
the  southern hemisphere  of  the American  continent.  And yet  this  service goes 
A/47/PV. 56 
34 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera, 
Guatemala) 
unnoticed  in the world.  While  international,  commercial  and  multilateral 
banking  is concerned with debt payment,  including  interest,  no recognition  is 
given of the debt  that  the developed  countries  owe  to all  those  less  developed 
countries, which, by  their very  nature, generate  the oxygen  needed  for  human 
survival  and  serve  to  lessen  the noxious  effects  of  carbon monoxide.  This 
service should be  recognized  in a just  and equitable manner,  as  required  by 
circumstances. 
In order  to be  able  to protect  the environment  adequately, we  need 
concerted action  and  international  solidarity.  In this  context, we  support 
the statement made by  the Chairman  of  the Group of 77, as expressed  by his 
Ministers  at the  last ministerial  meeting,  to the effect  that  the  environment 
is a concern of humankind  and  that  its problems must be  solved  through 
multilateral  cooperation  based  on common but  differentiated  responsibility  and 
with a balanced  perspective. 
It is accordingly  necessary  to negotiate  and define  the parameters, 
strategies and policies  that will give  life to the concept  of  sustainable 
development. 
We also need  the  commitment  of both  the wealthy  and  less wealthy  nations 
to cooperate more  fully  and  struggle  to narrow  and eventually  close tihe 
ever-widening gap between  the  two.  It is unacceptable  that  20 per  cent  of  the 
world's population  should have  a profusion  of goods  and  services  available  to 
them while  the  rest  of  the world  subsists  in a harsh environment,  without 
sufficient  access  to education,  health  care, housing,  drinking water  and basic 
services. 
A/47/PV.56 
35 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera. 
Guatemala) 
We  should  not  seek  to change  indigenous  cultures;  rather we  should give 
them  access  to education 
which will  lead  to  an  awareness  of  the need to 
protect  the environment  - and  to  life with dignity.  It  is essential  to 
promote  the education  of women  and  children,  and  for women  to participate in 
the decision-making  processes  affecting  the  integral  development  of their 
societies, because  it  is women who bear primary  responsibility  for the care, 
nurturing  and quality  of  family  life. 
How  are we  to persuade  our  rural populations  that  they  are not to 
continue  to cut  down  trees  or burn  fields  for purposes  of  agricultural 
production  or  the  feeding  of  livestock,  unless we  can provide  them  an adequate 
income  that will  guarantee  not  only  their  survival  but  a better  life? 
Any  strategy  that  ignores  that  reality  is doomed  to  failure. 
A/47/PV. 56 
36 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera, 
Guatemala) 
The  item  on Agenda  21 is of paramount  importance,  as the  strategy  for  the 
next century must be broad  and  include,  inter  alia, development  guidelines, 
mechanisms  and priorities, the modalities  and  allocation  of  responsibilities, 
including  financial  responsibilities,  and  the urgent  need  for  the transfer  of 
environmentally  sound  technology.  Yet, we  are concerned  that  this  technology 
and cooperation  for development will be  insufficient  and/or  limited,  or  that 
the anticipated  costs of  acquiring  such technology will make  it  inaccessible, 
which would make  international  efforts  ineffective.  Our  countries,  in 
extremely difficult  circumstances  that  are well  known, have  contracted  an 
external debt  that we must  renegotiate  in the  light of  the  realities  that  gave 
rise to them,  and we  cannot  therefore  incur more  debt  in the same way. 
The United Hations  should  consider mechanisms  to  strengthen 
capacity-building  in the developing  countries by effective  technical 
cooperation programmes  and  transfer  of  know-how  and  technology.  The 
possibility  should be  considered  of holding workshops  and arranging  exchanges 
of information  among  the various  regions of  the world  so as to  share 
experience  and  avoid  the errors  committed  in the past  in order  to  improve  the 
national  capability  to protect  the environment  and  its ecosystem.  For  it is 
the indigenous peoples who must be educated  and trained  to be  able to make a 
rational  and  responsible  use of  their natural  resources  and,  from  the  trade 
and exploitation  of  these  resources, to  receive  an  income  that will  enable 
them to exercise  their  fundamental  rights  recognized  in  international 
instruments. 
Our countries must  not be  condemned  to poverty,  ignorance  and 
backwardness.  What  is  required  therefore  is the commitment  of  the  developed 
A/47/PV. 56 
37 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera. 
Guatemala) 
countries  to permit  free access  to their markets, eliminate  protectionist 
measures  and  respect  fair prices  for  the products  of  the  developing 
countries.  The  developing  countries  are not  asking  for  alms; they are asking 
for what  is genuinely  theirs by  law. 
We must  also  emphasize  the  importance  of promoting  and encouraging close 
cooperation between  the developing  countries, as we must  face our  internal 
problems  and  find  our  own  solutions.  He, the developing  countries, must 
assume our historic  responsibility  over our  future, which  implies  economic, 
social  and political  stability  leading  to general well-being  in  conjunction 
with environmental  awareness  and  responsibility.  He must  forge our  destiny 
and carry  it out, and  invest  our  resources  rationally  and productively  for the 
benefit  of  our peoples. 
He,  the developing  countries, have  serious problems  and very  critical 
aspects  that we have  to solve.  In Central  America  our political  independence 
was  threatened  in recent years  and  some countries  embarked  on  fratricidal wars 
that  led  to an ever-increasing  degree of poverty.  Owing  to  structural 
adjustment  programmes,  social  sacrifices have been enormous.  Our budgets were 
even  reduced  for education, health,  social  services  and environmental  clean-up, 
In Latin America  and the Caribbean  today we  are being  threatened by the 
resurgence  of  cholera.  The whole world  is being  attacked  by  a series of 
epidemics  and other  conditions  and diseases  in addition  to the  usually 
critical  health problems.  Our  economic .indexes have  been  lowered  to levels 
below  those  of  20 years  ago  and yet  today we  are  facing a challenge  - our 
integrated  development  in a better  and more  just world,  in which  the riches of 
A/47/PV.56 
38 
(Mr. Martini  Herrera, 
Guatemala) 
nature are being  defended  and preserved,  but without  sacrificing human beings, 
which are  the most wonderful miracle  of  Creation.  The  international  community 
faces a challenge  in future  - to create  a lifestyle  in harmony with nature, 
which should be  our  commitment  for  the  twenty-first  century. 
Mr. PEHHAHEACH  (Togo)  (interpretation  from  French):  "The Earth  is 
unique!  Let us  take  care of  it  together!" 
This  inspiring  slogan  is both  an acknowledgement  of  the  dangers 
threatening  our good  old Earth,  the common  heritage  of mankind,  and  an  urgent 
appeal to joint  action  to  save  it and better  distribute  its many  riches. 
The  irrepressible  euphoria  long caused  by the numerous  benefits  of 
scientific  and  technical  progress  for social, cultural, political  and  economic 
life is receding  increasingly  today  against  the  repeated  and  destructive 
assaults on the environment  by man's  economic  and  industrial  activities  and by 
patterns of  consumption  and  social  organization. 
The objective  limits of  scientism,  or better, an apology  for  the  conquest 
and transformation  of nature  are  increasingly  noticeable  today  to  such an 
extent  that,  to paraphrase  the  famous  French writer, Rabelais, we  are  tempted 
to state that  science without  conscience  only brings  ruin to the  environment 
and to development. 
Quite  revealing  in this  regard  is the  report of  the United  Hations 
Environment  Programme  (UNEP) on the  state of  the environment  from  1972  to 
1992.  This  report quite  rightly  emphasizes  the various  forms of  environmental 
deterioration  and  their  impact  on development.  Indeed,  research  carried  out 
over the past  two decades  indicates  that  the usual  atmospheric  pollutants  have 
been compounded  by  numerous  organic  components  and  trace metals  that have  been 
A/47/PV.56 
39-40 
(Mr. Pennaneach. Togo) 
released  into  the  atmosphere  by hxunan activity.  The pollution  of  the 
atmosphere  has had effects  on human health,  on vegetation  and on various 
materials. 
As  to the depletion  of  the ozone  layer, which  is a world  problem 
requiring worldwide  solutions, the  report  of UNEP  reveals  that  this phenomenon 
might have undesirable  consequences  for  the Earth's  climate  and,  among other 
things, might  result  in an increase  in ultraviolet  rays  reaching  the Earth's 
surface.  Exposure  to  these  rays might  lead  to  a weakening  of  the immtine 
system  and  could  increase  the  incidence  or  seriousness  of  some  illnesses. 
We  should  also  note  that  the world  increase  in concentrations  of hothouse 
gases  in the atmosphere  and  the  resulting  climate  changes  could have  serious 
repercussions  on natural  ecosystems. 
Moreover,  the UHEP  report  emphasizes  that  some human  activities have a 
direct  impact  on coastal  areas, and  that  the over-exploitation  of marine 
biological  resources  entails, among other  things, the danger  of  sharply 
reducing  fish  supplies. 
A/47/PV.56 
41 
(Mr. Pennaneach. Togo) 
We want to place special emphasis on the report's important conclusion 
that soil degradation and desertification are preventing countries from 
producing sufficient food to meet the needs of their peoples and thus reducing 
regional and world food-production capacities. 
Coming after the Stockholm Conference, which blazed the trail towards 
better joint management of the environment, the Rio Conference on Environment 
and Development has already gone down in history as a new acknowledgement of 
our common destiny and as a crucial stage in the quest for ways and means to 
promote development with a truly human dimension. 
While the Conference did not respond fully to the legitimate concerns and 
expectations of the developing countries, it is none the less true that it 
succeeded in reaching very useful conclusions;  first, recognition of 
collective responsibility for the deterioration of the environment, of the 
vital need to take urgent measures to improve environmental protection and of 
the dynamic interaction between environment and development; and, secondly, 
establishment of a solid foundation for sustainable development, through the 
adoption of important decisions, including the Conventions on climate change 
and biological diversity, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development -
a true environmental charter - and, above all. Agenda 21, a relatively 
consistent and ambitious programme of action. 
The results of the Rio Conference were even more meaningful because they 
were based on a new approach to development;  a more integrated and 
multidimensional approach. 
As the Secretary-General stresses in his report on the work of the 
Organization, 
"[The Rio Conference] opened new paths for communication and cooperation 
between official and non-official organizations working towards 
A/47/PV.56 
42 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Toqtf) 
developmental  and environmental  goals  [and] led  to an enormous  increase 
in public  awareness  of  the  issues  that were  tackled  in the process  an 
awareness  that  ought  to  facilitate  the adoption of policies  and the 
allocation  of  additional  resources  to  fulfil  the  task".  (A/47/1. 
para.  76) 
It will  no  longer be possible  to consider  any viable  development  programme 
without  incorporating  the crucial  environmental  dimension. 
If Rio  is not  to  remain  just  another  manifestation  of  international 
solidarity,  generous  intentions  and  fine promises,  it  is absolutely  essential 
that we  concentrate  on  the  speedy  implementation  and efficient  functioning of 
the machinery  for  follow-up  and evaluation,  and on mobilizing  the  necessary 
financial  resources.  Like  the Secretary-General, we  urge  the donor  community 
to  release  the  necessary  resources  in order  to  serve  the  common  interests of 
the entire world.  In that  connection, we  urge  that  a pledging  conference for 
financing  Agenda  21 be  convened  as soon as possible. 
Furthermore,  the delegation  of Togo  considers  that  urgent decisions must 
be  taken  at  this  session of  the General  Assembly,  in particular  with  respect 
to an international  intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  to draft  an 
international  convention  on desertification,  and with  respect  to the 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development,  to  an  international  conference  on 
sustainable  development  for  small  island  developing  States  and  to a world 
conference  on  sharing  experience  in the  integrated  management  and  sustainable 
development  of marine  and  coastal  zones. 
The  dimensions  and gravity  of drought  and desertification  are  clearly 
stated  in the  report  of  the Secretary-General  on the  campaign  against  those 
scourges.  The  report  says  that  84 per  cent  of  the  5.2  billion hectares of 
arid  land  that  are potentially  productive  are exposed  to drought  and 
A/47/PV.56 
43 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Togo) 
desertification.  It  is estimated  that  some 3.6  billion hectares, or 
70 per  cent  of  the  total, are  currently  threatened  by various  forms  of 
deterioration  of  the  land,  especially  desertification,  which will  adversely 
affect the well-being  and  future of  those who  live  there. 
In that  context,  it goes without  saying  that  it is a matter  of great 
urgency  to draft  an  international  convention  on desertification.  In the  view 
of my delegation,  and  as many  other African delegations have  already  stressed 
in this Hall,  the negotiating  process  for that  convention  should meet  the 
following  requirements: 
First,  it must  take due  account  of  the close  relationship  between 
desertification  and  drought. 
Secondly,  in view of  the relatively  short  time-frame  for  completing  the 
convention 
18 months  from  January  1993  - it would  be desirable  for 
preparations  to be  carried  out with great  care and discipline.  The members  of 
the negotiating  committee  should be persons  of great  competence.  During  the 
preparatory work,  the  committee  should have  the benefit  of  contributions  from 
and the expertise  of United  Hations  agencies  competent  in the sphere of 
desertification  and drought, particularly  the United Nations  Environment 
Programme,  the  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  of  the United Hations, the 
United Hations  Sudano-Sahelian  Office  and  the Horld  Meteorological 
Organization. 
Thirdly,  countries  directly  affected  and  concerned by desertification  and 
drought, as well  as the  least  developed  countries,  should have  access  to 
financial  and  technical  facilities  to enable  them  to take an active part  in 
the entire  negotiating  process.  In that  connection,  a fund  should be  created 
without delay,  and  substantial  contributions  should be made  to  it. 
A/47/PV.56 
44-45 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Togo) 
Fourthly,  attention  should  be given  to  strengthening  the warning  and 
monitoring  system  for desertification  and  drought. 
Fifthly,  in preparing his progress  report on  the negotiations,  the 
chairman of  the  intergovernmental  committee  should  indicate whether  the work 
had  advanced  to the point where  the convention  could  be  completed  in time or 
whether  an extension was necessary.  The  idea is  to ensure  a  sound  convention. 
Finally,  the drafting  should  take  into due  account  the  concerns  and 
problems of  the  countries  affected  by desertification  and drought;  at the same 
time,  it should proceed  in a spirit  of  constructive  dialogue  and  consensus, so 
as to  facilitate  the  subsequent  ratification  of  the  convention  and  its rapid 
entry  into  force. 
By the  terms of  chapter  38 of Agenda  21, a high-level  Commission  on 
Sustainable Development  should be established  in accordance with Article 68 of 
the Charter  of  the United Hations  in order  to ensure  the effective  follow-up 
of the Conference,  as well  as to enhance  international  cooperation  and 
rationalize  the  intergoveriunental  decision-making  capacity  for  the  integration 
of environment  and development  issues  and  to examine  the progress  in the 
implementation  of Agenda  21 at the national,  regional  and  international 
levels.  It is clear  from  that  chapter  that  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development has  a central  role to play  in the  follow-up  of  the  Rio 
Conference.  In that  connection, my  delegation believes  that  in  its 
functioning  it should meet  the  following  requirements! 
First,  the Commission  secretariat  should  be  sufficiently  competent  to 
provide  the best  assistance  to the Commission  in the  fulfilment  of  its 
mandate.  It  should be  a separate  entity  led by an  Under-Secretary-General 
reporting  to the Secretary-General  of  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.56 
46 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Togo) 
Secondly,  special  attention  should be given  to ways  and means  of 
facilitating  the  transfer  of environmentally  sound  technology  to  developing 
countries  and  the mobilization of  financial  resources  and  information  from, 
and effective  participation  by,  non-governmental  organizations.  In  this 
connection,  chapters  33, 34 and  38 of Agenda  21 should be put  into  effect. 
Thirdly,  the Commission  on Sustainable Development  should  also  follow 
closely the  implementation  of programmes  to eliminate poverty  and hunger, 
which bring about destruction  of  the  environment. 
Fourthly,  like many African delegations  such as those of Burkina Faso, 
Benin, Gabon  and others, we  should  like the  first  session of  the Commission  to 
be held  in 1993  in New York. 
Fifthly,  the Togolese  delegation  supports  the proposals  of  the 
Group of 77, especially  the proposal  that  the Commission  should have  53 
members. 
In any case,  the Commission  on Sustainable Development  should  act  as a 
watchdog,  at the  appropriate  time  identifying  obstacles  to the  implementation 
of Agenda 21 and  formulating  recommendations  in that  regard. 
In the exchange  of experience  on  integrated management  and  sustainable 
development  in marine  and coastal  zones, we must not  lose  sight of  the 
difficult problem  of  coastal  erosion,  to which many  coastal  developing 
countries fall  victim. 
In my  delegation's  view,  there must be  a world  conference  on  this 
important problem  by  the end of  1993, in accordance with  the  recommendations 
in chapter  17 of Agenda 21. 
Sustainable  development  also  reguires  that environmentally  sound 
management of  toxic  chemical  substances  and dangerous waste materials  and 
A/47/PV.56 
47 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Togo) 
radioactive  waste prevent,  among other  things, traffic  in  such materials to 
developing  countries.  This  is especially  timely because most  countries  are 
not  equipped  to process  such products. 
The  strengthening  of  the  role of major groups  is also provided  for in 
Agenda  21 as another  effective means  of  fostering  sustainable  development. 
Homen,  non-governmental  organizations  and  farmers  are  the  target groups that 
should  be given  substantial  assistance  to enable  them  to make  their  full 
contribution  to  development. 
Hith  this  in view, we must  ensure  swift  implementation  of  the  following 
measures. 
First,  an evaluation by  the Secretary-General  of  the  role of  all the 
bodies  of  the United Hations  system,  especially  those  that  emphasize  the 
contribution  of women  to the attainment  of objectives  set  for  development and 
environment,  and  the  formulation  of  recommendations  to  strengthen  their 
capacities. 
Secondly,  the elaboration of programmes  designed  to eliminate  negative 
images,  stereotypes, persistent  conduct  and prejudice  against women  and to 
bring  about  a heightened  awareness  of  the  importance  of women  as consumers and 
promote  their  active participation  in  decision-making. 
Thirdly,  a study by the United Hations  system  of ways  to  strengthen 
existing proceedings  and mechanisms  to enable  non-governmental  organizations 
to participate  in policy  planning,  decision-making  and  the  implementation and 
evaluation  of  the activities  of each  body. 
Fourthly,  a study of  levels of  financing  and  administrative  support for 
non-governmental  organizations,  as well  as  the degree  of  their  participation 
in the  implementation  and effectiveness  of plans  and programmes,  with a view 
to  increasing  the  role of  these  organizations  as  social  partners. 
A/47/PV.56 
48 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Togo) 
Fifthly,  the development  of  environmentally  sound  agricultural  techniques 
in order  to  increase yields while maintaining  soil quality,  recycling 
nutritive elements,  saving water  and energy  and  combating  parasites  and 
noxious weeds, as well  as  studies on  types of  agriculture  that  require  many 
resources  and  those  that  require  few,  in order  to compare  their  productivity 
and durability. 
The  implementation  of  the ambitious  Agenda  21 goes  far beyond  the major 
challenges we  shall  face  in the twenty-first  century,  in the hope  of  creating 
a world  in which  all  can  live well. 
Gaining  an increased  awareness  that we  all belong  to the  same planet  and 
that we must make  joint  efforts  to prevent  it from deteriorating  amounts  to 
establishing  the milestones  for  a new vision of  interdependence  and 
international  cooperation  for  development. 
He must  today  act  to  save mankind  and  its habitat.  As Georges  Duhamel 
said,  "Hith due deference  to  zealots who  favour  new technology  and  those who 
profit from  inventions, however  admirable, our  role  - that of  the  United 
Hations  - is carefully  to consider  changes  in habits  and  to counter  the 
shortcomings  of  a civilization  that  is now devouring  itself".  In order  to do 
that, we must  act,  and  act  quickly. 
In the  interest  of  all mankind,  let us see to  it that  this  exceptional 
upsurge of  solidarity  is accompanied  by  concrete  action that  can give 
sustainable  development  a fourfold  dimension:  equitable  distribution  of  the 
world's wealth;  reduction  of  the gap between  rich and poor  countries;  final 
elimination of poverty  and hunger;  and  consolidation  of  the balance  between 
mankind and  its  environment. 
A/47/PV.56 
49-50 
(Mr.  Pennaneach. Togo) 
Mr.  BUTLER  (Australia):  Australia welcomes  the  Secretary-General's 
report on  the United Hations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development 
(UNCED). 
The Earth  Summit  was  the  culmination  of  two years  of extremely  complex 
and  sometimes  contentious  negotiations.  Those negotiations  were  supported 
effectively  by  the UNCED  secretariat  and  the  secretariats  of  the  climate 
change  and biodiversity  intergovernmental  negotiating  committees. 
Australia  congratulates  the  Secretary-General  of  the Conference  for his 
able and enthusiastic  management  of  the  largest  international  meeting ever. 
He  reiterate  our  appreciation  to the host  country,  Brazil,  for  the 
excellent  facilities  provided  to the  Summit. 
UHCED was of historic  importance  for  two central  reasons;  it  responded 
to the urgent  need  to move  to a sustainable path  for global  development, and 
it gave birth  to an unprecedented  spirit  of cooperation  and  consensus.  Our 
task  now  is to maintain  that historic  momentum. 
The Australian  environment  is characterized  by  a varied  range of 
sensitive  ecosystems,  rich  in biodiversity, with  a large  number  of  species 
found  only  in Australia.  At  the  same  time we  rely economically  on resource-
based  industries. 
Accordingly  the Earth  Summit  and  its outcomes  are  important  for 
Australia.  The  Brundtland  report,  the UHCED preparations  and  the Rio 
Conference  itself  encourage  the Australian  community 
not  just  environment 
organizations, but  industry,  indigenous groups, development  organizations and 
others 
to consider  in depth,  and  to participate  actively  in discussions on, 
and  approaches  to, sustainable  development. 
A/47/PV.56 
51 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
In 1989  the Australian  Government  established  a number  of  national 
working groups  to make  recommendations  for  sustainable  development,  in 
particular  economic  sectors, and  to deal with cross-sectoral  issues.  These 
working groups  draw on  the expertise  of environmentalists,  industrialists, 
scientists  and other  academics,  and other  community  interest groups.  He  have 
made substantial  progress  in the  introduction  of appropriate  policies  designed 
to achieve  sustainable  development.  The UHCED outcomes will  provide 
additional guidance  to our  future efforts. 
UHCED  fulfilled  the challenging mandate  set by resolution  44/228.  It 
addressed  the multitude  of  interlinked  issues that  are the conditions  for 
sustainable development 
the use of  resources, the avoidance  of pollution, 
poverty  alleviation  and  international  trade, and the building  of  financial, 
technological  and human  capacities. 
The United Hations  Framework Convention  on Climate Change  is an  excellent 
starting point  for  further  international  efforts  to tackle  a subject which  is 
extremely complex  in both economic  and  scientific  terms.  The  urgency  of 
precautionary  action on climate  change  cannot be underestimated,  as our 
colleagues  from  low-lying  island  States  and coastal  areas  know very well. 
Australia has moved quickly  to  institute  consultations  on measures  we 
need to take  in order  to  ratify  the Convention.  He  are confident  that many of 
these measures  are  already  in place.  He encourage  other  countries  to  ratify 
the Convention  so that  it can enter  into  force  as soon as possible.  In the 
meantime, Australia  is keen  to participate  in the ongoing meetings  of  the 
Intergovernmental  negotiating  Committee  to prepare  a programme  of work  for  the 
Conference of Parties. 
The Convention  on Biological  Diversity  is the most  significant 
A/47/PV.56 
52 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
development  in decades  in the  field of  conservation  and  the  sustainable  use of 
living  resources.  It contains  agreements  on conserving  the Earth's  species, 
ecosystems  and genetic  diversity,  and  also promotes  cooperation  on the 
sustainable  utilization  of genetic  resources.  Hork  is now underway  in 
Australia  towards  the  ratification of  the Convention,  and we  look  forward to 
its early entry  into  force.  Australia  is also developing  a national  strategy 
for the protection  of  biodiversity. 
The high number  of  signatories  to these Conventions  is evidence  of the 
international  community's  commitment  to action on the vital  issues  they 
address.  This  should  facilitate  their early entry  into  force. 
The varying priorities  of  the delegations  to the UHCED  Preparatory 
Committee  for  the Rio Declaration  on Environment  and Development  are reflected 
in the cautious  balance  of  the text.  In our view,  the  text  includes  the 
essence  of  a number  of  important  sustainable-development  principles, and the 
Declaration  also  represents  the current  consensus  of  the  international 
community  on guiding  principles  for  sustainable  development.  He must hope 
that, by providing guidance  for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21, the Rio 
Declaration will  assist  in building  confidence  and  strengthening  cooperation 
between developed  and developing  countries  on  sustainable  development,  and by 
this means  contribute  to  stronger,  shared  views  in the  future. 
The  statement  of  forest principles,  like the Rio Declaration,  reflects a 
fragile  consensus.  But  it,  too, contains  some  important  principles.  Action 
on the  forests  chapter  of Agenda  21 should  facilitate  the  implementation of 
the  statement. 
Agenda  21 reflects  a consensus  of  the  international  community  concerning 
the  actions  that  need  to be  taken at all  levels to achieve  sustainable 
A/47/PV.56 
53 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
development  in all  sectors.  In many  cases, these  actions  are to be  taken 
through other  intergovernmental  conferences  and meetings  tasked  with 
developing  further  agreed  policies  on sustainable  development with  respect  to 
specific  issues.  Agenda  21 is also  described  in its preamble  as being open  to 
revision in the  future.  Thus,  it carries  the  seeds of  its own development  and 
adaptation  to changing  needs. 
Agenda  21 is a comprehensive  and valuable  resource.  In the United 
Hations  system. Agenda  21  should be  regarded  as a key development  strategy 
with which  individual  programmes  must be made  consistent.  Many  of  the  Agenda 
21 recommendations  will  reflect objectives  already pursued  in the  individual 
programmes  of various United Hations bodies.  Australia hopes  that not  only 
the international  organizations  and national  Governments, but  also  local 
authorities, industry  and community  organizations will become  familiar  with 
Agenda 21 and help promote  its  importance. 
Australia  intends  to continue  assisting  developing  countries  to build 
human, institutional  and  technological  capacities  for  implementation  of  the 
UNCED outcomes.  The Australian  overseas  development  assistance  programme 
already places  a  strong emphasis  on poverty  alleviation,  training  and 
population  issues, which  are  important  to sustainable  development.  Assistance 
in the development  and  implementation  of  sustainable  land  and marine  resources 
policies already  have  a strong place  in Australia's  overseas  aid  programme. 
We have also built  ecological  sustainability  requirements  into  all elements  of 
our overseas  aid  programme. 
Australia  is committed  to the provision  of  new and  additional  financial 
resources  for  developing  countries  through  the Global  Environment  Facility 
(GEF), to address  agreed  environmental  activities  of global  significance  that 
A/47/PV.56 
54-55 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
provide global  benefits.  Along with other  GEF participants, we have  supported 
the need  to review  the governance  of  the GEF  in  line with proposals  already 
under  way. 
Australia made  an early  commitment  to contribute  additional  funds for 
environmental  activities.  Last year,  in the  lead-up  to UHCED,  Australia 
announced  a new $80-million,  four-year  environment  assistance  programme  to 
promote ecologically  sustainable  development  through bilateral,  regional and 
global  cooperation programmes.  He  also announced  a commitment  to provide 
$30 million  to the GEF  over  seven years. 
At  the  1992  South Pacific  Forum,  Prime Minister  Keating  announced  that 
part  of our  contribution  to the GEF would be used  to  support  the GEF's South 
Pacific biodiversity  conservation programme.  He  also  announced  that our 
support  for  regional  climate monitoring  activities would be  increased.  In 
1991, Australia  established  an  International  Tropical Marine  Resource Centre 
to provide  training  in tropical marine  resource  management. 
What  should  the General  Assembly  do to  facilitate  early  follow-up to 
UHCED?  Australia  hopes  that  the General Assembly  will  strongly  endorse the 
UHCED outcomes.  They  are the  result  of  lengthy  and  complex  negotiations, the 
substance  of which  should  not be  revisited  or  reopened  here. 
But  it  is also necessary  to  lay the groundwork  for carrying  forward 
specific UHCED  initiatives.  For example,  a major  task of  the General Assembly 
at this  session will  be  to create  the new Commission  for  Sustainable 
Development.  The  Commission will  play  a crucial  role  in the  integration of 
environment  and development  activities  throughout  the United Nations  system. 
It will have  responsibility  for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21 at the 
international,  national  and  regional  levels, and  for  the  review of  the 
financing  of Agenda  21. 
A/47/PV.56 
56 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
We believe  the  Commission  should  include  a high-level  segment  which  would 
constitute both  a venue  for political  decision-making  and  a forum  for  debate 
on and discussion of progress  towards  the  implementation,  development  and 
updating of Agenda 21. 
Australia  attaches  considerable  importance  to the open  and  effective 
participation  of  relevant  non-governmental  organizations  in the  Coinmission. 
Rules of procedure must  be established  for the Commission  based  on  those 
applying to the UNCED process  to ensure  such  participation. 
The activities  of  all United  Nations  and non-United  Nations  multilateral 
organizations  in the environment  and development  fields, including  the 
international,  financial  and  trade  institutions, are  relevant  to  the 
Commission's  mandate.  The participation  of  specially  appointed 
representatives  from  those  agencies  in the work of  the Commission will  be 
vital to its  success. 
Australia  attaches great  importance  to government plans  for  sustainable 
development,  and would  strongly  encourage  the  submission  of  reports  by 
national Governments  on  such plans  and on any difficulties  they encounter  in 
implementing  them.  Countries  should  report  on all aspects  of Agenda 21, 
including,  in the  case of developed  countries, their  initiatives  to  assist 
developing countries.  Such exchanges  of  information will prove vital  in the 
proper evaluation  of  the  contents  and  implementation  of Agenda  21,and  will 
benefit all participants. 
Australia  supports  the establishment  of an  intergovernmental  conference 
on straddling  stocks  and highly migratory  species.  There  are  real  and 
pressing problems  of  stock depletion which may be  resolved  only  if more 
effective cooperation mechanisms  can be developed  in relation  to  those 
A/47/PV.56 
57 
(Mr.  Butler,  Australia) 
stocks.  We believe  that members  of  the  international  community  should work to 
convene  the  conference  as  soon  as possible.  Some  fundamental  questions on the 
implementation  of  rights  and obligations  under  the Law of  the  Sea  Convention 
and  the  strengthening  of  conservation  and proper management  of  fisheries need 
to be  addressed  urgently.  The work of  the conference  is of  particular 
importance  to developing  coastal  States, and we  urge  that  some mechanism be 
found  to assist  their  participation  in the conference  and  in the  preparatory 
committees  leading up  to  it. 
The  General  Assembly  should  establish  an  intergovernmental  negotiating 
committee  for  the elaboration  of  a convention  on desertification.  Australia 
hopes  that  the  committee  will  address  the underlying  causes  of 
desertification,  but  it would  not be desirable  for  the General  Assembly to 
attempt  to anticipate  the  substantive  provisions  of  such a convention before 
the committee  began  its work.  We  consider  the main United Nations  agencies 
having  a central  role  in supporting  the negotiations  to be  the United Nations 
Environment  Programme  (UHEP),  the  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  of the 
United  Hations  (FAO) and  the United  Hations  Development  Programme  (UHDP). 
We  also  support  the convening  of  a conference  on  sustainable  development 
for  small  island  States.  Such  a conference  should provide  a valuable 
opportunity  for  small  islands  of different  regions  to  share  their  experience 
and  consolidate  information  networks  on the development  of  sustainable 
development  plans  relevant  to the particular  difficulties  they  face.  He look 
forward  to working with  the countries  of  the Alliance  of  Small  Island States 
to consider  the modalities  for  that  conference. 
The  Rio Conference was  a turning point  of historic  importance;  that is 
clear.  But precisely  because  it had  that  character  it  represented  not the 
A/47/PV.56 
58 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
end, but  the beginning,  of  a long and complex  process.  The  concept  of 
sustainable  development  has  introduced  a new dimension  to the  traditional 
Horth-South  focus of United Nations  economic  activity.  Our  future  approaches 
to these  issues must  be  different  and  linked by our vital, mutual  interest  in 
the preservation  of  an environment  and the achievement  of development  which 
can be sustained  for  future generations.  The Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development has  a central  role to play  in this process. 
Earlier  this year we  took  a major  step  in the  right direction,  a 
direction we  all need  to  follow and must  follow.  Our  task  is to build  on  that 
now, for the  future. 
Mr. CAMILLERI  (Malta):  There  is general  agreement  that  this  year's 
United Hations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED) in Rio  de 
Janeiro reached  out  to the global  community  at  large more  forcefully  and 
effectively  than  any previous United Nations  conference has ever  done.  This 
is due to many  factors, both  substantive  and organizational.  They  include  the 
unprecedented  number,  range and  level of participants;  the  immense  scope of 
the issues tackled,  together with  the  impressive  manner  in which  their 
complexity  and  interrelatedness  were  conceptualized,  the direct  relevance  of 
the core subjects  to  individuals  throughout  the world;  and  the major 
organizational  effort  of  those  involved  - in particular,  the Government  and 
people of Brazil. 
Hhat  is rightly  regarded  as the outstanding  success of Rio  is  therefore 
the product of  relevance,  commitment  and  imagination.  These qualities  must 
continue to be  available  in abundance  if Rio  is, in the  long  run,  to be  seen 
as the watershed  of  a  long and complex  collective  endeavour  rather  than  as  an 
isolated expression  of  a concerned  but  ultimately passive  humanity. 
A/47/PV.56 
59 
(Mr. Camilleri, Malta) 
At  the beginning  of  the  follow-up process  to Rio  it  is perhaps  useful to 
mention briefly  those  things which  the Conference  did not  do,  since  through 
their  absence  these  elements  contributed  to the  successful  outcome.  Rio 
avoided  two tempting  extremes, one  arising  from  cataclysmic  scenarios of an 
irrevocably  deteriorating  natural  environment  and  the other  from  the 
confrontational  contraposing  of environmental  and developmental  concerns. 
Avoidance  of  these extremes was  in itself  the  result  of  the most 
significant  characteristics  of  the whole UNCED  process;  a sharp  focus on the 
human dimension,  a solid grasp of  realities  and  a firm  notion of  democratic 
involvement.  In addition  to guaranteeing  the  success  of Rio,  these 
characteristics  also  contributed  to the widening  and  strengthening  of the 
process  of  multilateralism. 
Principle  1 of  the Rio Declaration  captures  uniquely  the  right  tone and 
balance  of  the UHCED message, with  its simple  assertion  that 
"Human beings  are  at the centre  of  concerns  for  sustainable 
development.  They  are entitled  to a healthy  and productive  life in 
harmony with nature."  (A/COHF.151/26  (Vol. I ), p.  8) 
This  spirit  of  serene  commitment  pointing  towards  a common  objective must 
continue  to guide  the  international  community,  especially  at  these  initial 
post-conference  organizational  stages, when  the pressures  of parochial  and 
sectoral  interests  tend  to come to the  fore. 
Rio  imposed  obligations  on all  of us, at  the  level of  individuals, of 
States,  and of  the  international  community  as a whole.  The  definition of 
these  obligations  takes  account  of  a vast  range  of  factors  and  situations, of 
specific  interests  and universal  concerns, of  needs  and  capabilities, of 
historical  facts  and  current  conditions. 
A/47/PV.56 
60 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
The  specific  burdens  imposed  upon different  sectors of  the  international 
commtinity  as a  follow-up  to Rio may vary  in the  light  of  such  considerations. 
Hhat must  not be  lost  sight  of  is the  fact that  the  final goal  is equally 
vital to all:  a healthy,  viable  and prosperous  planet  for  future  generations 
to inherit. 
Issues  related  to  finance  and  technology permeate most  of  the  action 
programme  elaborated  under  Agenda  21 and must  inevitably  become  the  dominant 
themes of  the eventual  follow-up process.  In a number  of ways  finance  and 
technology may be  regarded  as two  sides of  the same  coin.  Together  they 
constitute the  indispensable means  through which we  can all  achieve  our 
defined objectives.  Both  are  available  in impressive  amounts, though not 
always in the  right places  or utilized  effectively; both are dynamic  elements 
capable of expansion  or  deviation  according  to uses and priorities. 
A/47/PV.56 
61 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
In a nutshell, the outstanding  success  of Rio was  the  agreement  by the 
international  community  to harness  all  available  finance  and  technology  in the 
collective  endeavour  towards  sustainable  development.  It  is to be hoped that, 
more  than a formal  consensus  decision. Agenda  21 represents  a genuine  and 
determined  commitment,  a commitment  that  encompasses  both  the  global 
dimensions  of  the objectives  of  sustainable  development  and  the nature of the 
sacrifices  that  are  called  for  at  individual  and  community  levels  in the 
necessary  reordering  of priorities, of  life-styles  and of  economic  management. 
The  task of building  the  institutional  set-up  and  launching  the 
administrative  process  needed  for  the effective  implementation  of  the 
decisions  taken  at Rio  falls  to the  current  session of  the General  Assembly. 
In considering  the question  of  institutional  arrangements, we  are privileged 
to benefit  from  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  in document  A/47/598, a 
report marked by  the  clarity,  comprehensiveness  and  intellectual  grasp of all 
relevant  issues  that we have  become  accustomed  to expect  from  our 
Secretary-General. 
I wish  to  commend  three  particularly  helpful  elements  of  the  report;  its 
succinct  definition  of  the  functions  and  the  related  structures  of  the 
proposed  Commission  on Sustainable  Development;  its  consideration  of the 
Commission's  work within  the broader  picture  of  the United  Hations  system's 
evolving  capacity  in the economic,  social  and  related  fields; and  its 
recognition  that  the necessary  secretariat  support  structure  should  be an 
integral  element'in  the current  revitalization  and  reform  efforts within the 
whole United  Hations  Secretariat. 
My  delegation  welcomes  the emphasis  the  Secretary-General  places  in his 
report  on  the  role of  the proposed  high-level  advisory  body  on  sustainable 
A/47/PV.56 
62 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
development,  and  supports  the  idea that  the work  of  that body  should  be 
integrated with  that  of  the existing  Committee  for Development  Planning. 
We  also  attach  importance  to  the Agenda  21 recommendation  that  the 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development  should  encourage  the participation  of 
non-governmental  organizations,  including  those  of  industry  and business  and 
the scientific  communities.  He  see  in these  aspects  the necessary  guarantee 
that the  follow-up  process  to the Conference will  remain  closely  linked  to  the 
fundamental  needs  and  concerns  of  the global  community. 
Agenda  21 looks beyond  the  functional  aspects of  the  follow-up  to  the  Rio 
decisions by envisaging  a process  of overall  review and  appraisal  at  the 
highest policy-making  levels.  The  General Assembly,  as the  principal 
policy-making  and  appraisal  organ  of  the United Hations  system, will  be 
undertaking this  task  at given  intervals, with  the  first  special  session  for 
the purpose  to take place  no  later  than 1997. 
My delegation  nevertheless  feels that  the United Hations  system  could 
provide a more  regular  and  consistent  review and appraisal process  detached 
both from  the day-to-day  functional  concerns  of the Economic  and  Social 
Council and  the new Commission  and  from  the wide-ranging  responsibilities  of 
the General Assembly  itself.  As my Prime Minister  explained  in his  address  to 
the General Assembly  on  28 September  this year, this  task  could be  assigned  to 
a revitalized Trusteeship  Council, which progressively,  as  its  traditional 
tasks are phased  out,  could  take over  the  role of guardian  and  trustee of  the 
common heritage  of  mankind. 
In addition  to institutional  issues, the UNCED  follow-up process  requires 
this session of  the  General  Assembly  to take  a number  of other  decisions. 
A/47/PV.56 
63 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
notably  in connection with  the convening of  the global  conferences  on 
straddling  and migratory  fish  stocks  and on the  sustainable  development of 
small  islands, as well  as with  the  launching of negotiations  on a  framework 
convention  on  desertification. 
As  a small  island  State, Malta  attaches  special  importance  to the 
conference  on  the  sustainable  development  of  small  islands, which  is proposed 
to be held  in Barbados  next  June.  Together with other members  of the Alliance 
of  Small  Island  States, Malta played  an active,  and we believe  a useful, role 
in the UHCED process. 
He  are particularly  proud  of  the  role we have played  in generating the 
necessary  awareness  that  led  to the  adoption of  the Framework  Convention on 
Climate Change.  Small  islands  are particularly  vulnerable  to climate change, 
especially  through  its effect on  the  seas, with which  their  lives  are so 
intimately  linked,  nevertheless, climate change,  and especially  its impact on 
global warming,  is not  a phenomenon  that exclusively  affects  small  islands, as 
the concerns with desertification,  for example,  clearly  underline.  The 
question of  climate  change  and  the catalytic  role  small  islands  have played in 
developing  awareness  about  it therefore  constitute  one example  of how, on 
issues  related  to environment  and development,  the  special  concerns of some 
are  intertwined within  the general  concerns of  all. 
The  commonality  of our  concerns  and destiny within  a single  global 
community,  which  stretches both horizontally  in space  and vertically  in time, 
is  indeed  the most  essential  and profound message  emerging  from Rio.  It is up 
to us to generate  the necessary  courage, wisdom  and determination  to 
accomplish  those  tasks whose  completion  is called  for  through the  acceptance 
of  this message. 
A/47/PV.56 
64 
Mr.  ERDOS  (Hungary):  The United  Hations  Conference  on  Environment 
and Development  (UHCED) opened  a new chapter  in the history  of man's 
relationship  to nature.  The  Earth  Summit was unprecedented  in the  scope of 
its work,  the  level of participation,  the  scale of governmental  and 
non-governmental  involvement  and  the extent of  its public  impact.  In the 
light of the many  opposing  interests  that had  to be brought  to bear,  the Earth 
Summit  achieved more  than had been  expected. 
never  again  shall we be  able  to talk about  "environment"  and 
"development"  as  separate  terms.  Due  to an endangered  environment  and to 
limited  resources,  it will  be necessary  in the  1990s  to promote  growth 
according  to the principles  of  sustainable  development.  However,  translating 
the concept of  sustainable  development  into  specific  international  and 
national programmes  is more  difficult  than was  thought  at the beginning  of  the 
process. 
Aware  of  the great  importance  of global  environmental  problems  and 
greatly concerned  about  the  state  of  its own environment,  Hungary  followed  the 
UHCED process with high  expectations  from the very beginning.  Hhen  Hungary 
signed the Convention  on Climate Change  and the Convention  on  Biological 
Diversity  it was motivated  not only by  responsibility  for the  conditions 
prevailing on  its own  territory,  but by  concern  for the  state  of  the  common 
heritage of humankind  as well.  At  the  same  time, to deal with  the  environment 
in a development  context presents  not  only  an enormous  chance but  also 
difficult  challenges  for  countries  like mine  that have been undergoing  a 
historic  transition. 
Unforeseen  and unforeseeable  radical  changes have  taken place  over  the 
past two years  in  the post-communist  countries.  Those  countries  now have  to 
face not only  the problems  of  technological  and  infrastructural  gap,  economic 
A/47/PV.56 
65 
(Mr. Erdos, Hungary) 
recession  and  social  tensions  that  inevitably  accompany  the  transition 
process, but  also  the  tragic  environmental  legacy of  the  former  regimes. 
One  such example  is the Gabcikovo-Hagymaros  Barrage  System  on the river 
Danube.  Back  in  1977  the Governments  of Hungary  and Czechoslovakia  signed a 
treaty on the construction  and  joint  operation  of  the barrage  system, without 
taking  into  account  its possible  environmental  effects.  During  the years that 
followed  the commencement  of  the project  the Hungarian public's  attention 
began  to  focus more  and more  on the need  to prevent  a further  forcible 
interference  in our habitat  and  to protect  the country's  and  the  region's 
unique  environment  and  natural  resources.  This  led  to  a popular 
reconsideration  of ecological  values, which  are not  always measurable  in 
economic  terms, and  to  acceptance  of  the  key  idea that  in the  prudent 
management  of  natural  resources  sustainable  development  is a basic principle. 
A/47/PV.56 
66 
(Mr. Erd</s. Hungary) 
Because  of  the  severity  of  the ecological  danger  that  completion  of  the 
barrage  system  on  the Danube would  pose, the Hungarian  Government  was  left 
with no option but  to terminate  the  1977 Treaty  in accordance with  a 
resolution of  the Hungarian  Parliament.  It did  so in May  this year.  The 
Government  of  the Czech  and  Slovak  Federal  Republic  and  the Government  of 
Slovakia  still view  the  1977 Treaty  as being  in force  and  continue  its 
implementation,  including  the unilateral  diversion  of  the Danube border  river 
to the territory  of  Slovakia. 
The Hungarian  Government  is concerned  about  the  irreversible  damage  that 
the diversion of  the Danube will  inflict  upon the  region's  environmental 
resources.  The  available  and potential  drinking water  reserves  of millions  of 
people are  threatened. 
Beyond  the ecological  threats, the diversion  of  the Danube  infringes  upon 
Hungarian sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  violates  the provisions  of 
the peace treaties  concluded  after  the  First  and  Second Horld Wars, which 
determine  the main  course  of  navigation  in this  section of  the Danube  as  the 
border between Czechoslovakia  and Hungary,  and deprives  Hungary of  its  lawful 
jurisdiction over  a major  economic  lifeline.  These  actions  are  at variance 
with the spirit  of  the  Conference  on Security  and Co-operation  in Europe 
(CSCE) process  and with  the provisions  of  the United Hations  Charter. 
Unfortunately,  they  also help  revive  the passions  of  post-communist 
nationalism. 
The Charter  of  the United nations,  customary  international  law and 
several bilateral  and multilateral  treaties  binding  on Czechoslovakia  and 
Hungary oblige  these  countries  to negotiate  in good  faith and  in a spirit  of 
cooperation.  Hungary has been,  and  continues  to be, ready  for  meaningful 
A/47/PV.56 
67 
(Mr. Erdos. Hungary) 
negotiations  with Czechoslovakia  on how to  reconcile  the  conflicting  sets of 
interests.  We  are convinced  that  it  is possible  to  find  a mutually  acceptable 
solution  to this problem  in  accordance  with both  international  legal and 
environmental  norms, taking due  account  of  ecological  and  economic 
considerations  alike. 
There  is a national  consensus  in Hungary  that  the  state  of our 
environment  should be  improved  and  further  damage  to  it prevented.  Hungary is 
committed  to an open, participatory  and monitored  management  of  its 
environment.  For  this purpose,  an  institutionalized  form  of  communication 
between Government  and  society  is to be  established.  It will  include full 
access  to  information  and  a systematic  and  legalized  role  for  non-governmental 
organizations. 
We  are  living  in a period  characterized  by  a remarkable,  though uneven, 
development  of  the world  economy  on  the one hand,  and by  reckless  plundering 
of natural  resources  and  the destruction  of  the environment  on the other. 
Fully  aware of  this  challenge, Hungary  is  ready  to  cooperate with  all 
countries  in making  the UHCED  follow-up process  a success. 
The Rio Declaration  and Agenda  21 have established  a new dimension of 
long-term  international  commitments.  We would  like  to  see  the  current legal 
and  institutional  mechanisms  of global  and  regional  cooperation  developed 
further  so as  to enable  environmental  considerations  to  influence  economic, 
social  and  scientific  programmes,  too. 
We  agree  that  follow-up  institutions  are needed  to determine  the global 
and  regional  activities  resulting  from  the  Rio Conference.  The  overall 
objective  of  integrating  environment  and  development  issues  at national, 
subregional,  regional  and  international  levels  should be  stressed,  with a view 
to ensuring  the  implementation  of  Agenda  21 in all  countries. 
A/47/PV.56 
68 
(Mr. Erdos. Hungary) 
We welcome  the  establishment  of  the high-level  Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development.  In our view,  the  follow-up  to UHCED  should be  fully  incorporated 
into the ongoing  revitalization  of  the United  nations  economic  and  social 
sectors.  During  this process,  careful  consideration  should be given  to  the 
mandate and  functions  of  the high-level  Commission  as well  as to  its 
relationship with  other  organizations  and  agencies  in the United  Hations 
family, especially  the United Hations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP).  We  think 
that in this  follow-up process  the  role of  the  regional  Economic  Commissions 
should be strengthened  as well. 
Undoubtedly,  steps  should  be taken  to implement  Agenda  21 through, 
inter alia, the  initiation  of negotiations  leading to  the elaboration  of 
binding international  instruments.  Hungary  favours a complex  approach,  by 
which global challenges,  commitments,  one's own economic  capacities  and 
International  assistance  efforts  are all  carefully  taken  into account  when 
working out national  obligations.  The viability  of  this  approach has  already 
been demonstrated  during  the  negotiations  on the Convention  on Climate  Change. 
The current  session  of  the General Assembly  has  the  important  task  of 
adopting concrete  decision:, related  to the UHCED  report  and  to a number  of 
specific recommendations  of  the Rio Conference.  I can assure  the  President, 
that the Hungarian  delegation will  participate  actively  in the  deliberations 
on this item. 
Mr. KALPAGE  (Sri  Lanka):  The United  Hations  Conference  on  Environment 
and Development  (UHCED),  held  at Rio de Janeiro  in June  1992, was  a most 
significant event  in human history.  In this discussion  on UHCED we  are 
addressing one  of  the major  issues before  the current  session of  the  General 
Assembly. 
A/47/PV.56 
69-70 
(Mr. Kalpage. Sri Lent.) 
UNCED  emphasized  the  concept  that  the environment  is the  common concern 
of humanity.  It also  stressed  that  the  lasting  solution  to global 
environmental  problems  lies  in  sustainable  development.  We  agreed  at UHCED 
that  these problems  should  be  redressed  through multilateral  cooperation based 
on common  but  differentiated  responsibilities,  common  action  and  a balanced 
perspective.  Such  cooperation  should  ensure  that  the protection  of the 
environment,  economic  growth  and development,  and poverty  eradication are 
mutually  reinforcing.  It is  imperative  to  integrate  development  and 
environmental  concerns.  The welfare  of  the human being  should be  at the 
centre  of our  concerns. 
The  international  community's  follow-up  action  to UNCED  should be in 
keeping with  these  concepts, developed  and  agreed  to  at Rio.  It is important 
that  the momentum  of  our  efforts  to  reach  the goals  envisaged  in the Rio 
Declaration  be maintained  in a spirit  of  cooperation. 
In charting  our  course  towards  sustainable  development, we  should bear in 
mind  the  agreed principles  enunciated  in the Declaration  as well  as in the 
United  Hations  Charter.  To  achieve  sustainable  development  globally. Member 
States must have  the political will  and  commitment  to work  out  and  implement 
national  strategies  that will promote  sustainable  growth  and  lifestyles.  To 
this  end.  States  should  reduce  and  eliminate  unsustainable  patterns of 
production  and  consumption  and promote  appropriate  demographic  policies. 
A/47/PV.56 
71 
(Mr. Kalpage. Sri  Lanka) 
International  cooperation  is essential  to  strengthen  endogenous  capacity-
building  for  sustainable  development  by enhancing  the development,  adaptation, 
diffusion and  transfer  to developing  countries, on concessional  and 
preferential  terms, of  technologies,  including  new and  innovative 
technologies. 
Cooperation between  States  to promote  a supportive  and open  international 
economic  system  cannot  be over-emphasized.  In this  regard  the  successful 
conclusion of  the Uruguay  Round  of  trade negotiations  is crucial  to  facilitate 
the generation of  financial  resources  through  trade.  The  financial  resource 
requirement  for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21 is extremely  large.  A 
substantial  flow of  new and  additional  resources  is necessary  to  facilitate 
the mobilization  of  resources  in developing  countries. 
It is important  to  set up effective  financial mechanisms  to  facilitate 
the flow of  financial  resources  for the  implementation  of global  as well  as 
national projects.  The  Global  Environment  Facility,  as one of  the  financial 
mechanisms  for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21, must  be  restructured  as 
discussed  at Rio. 
The cooperation  and  initiative  of all countries  and  all  sections  of 
society, including women, youth and  indigenous people  as well  as other  major 
groups and non-governmental  organizations,  are vital  in the achievement  of 
sustainable development.  The problems  of poverty, hunger,  ill-health  and 
illiteracy and  the continuing  deterioration  of  the ecosystems  on which we 
depend for our well-being  can be  addressed  successfully  only through  a global 
partnership  for  sustainable  development. 
The immediate  task before  us  is to establish  the  institutional 
arrangements  to  carry  forward  the  implementation  of Agenda  21.  My  delegation 
supports the  setting  up of  a Commission  on Sustainable  Development,  in 
A/47/PV.56 
72 
(Mr. Kalpage. Sri L^nV^) 
accordance  with Article  68 of  the Charter  of  the United Hations.  In this 
regard, we  endorse  the views  expressed  by  the  representative  of  Pakistan on 
behalf  of  the Group  of  77.  We believe  that  a highly  qualified  and  competent 
secretariat  support  structure  within  the United  Nations  Secretariat  is 
essential  to  facilitate  the Commission's  work. 
In addition  to  the  institutional  arrangements, other  issues  requiring 
special  action  are desertification  and  the problems  of  small  island developing 
countries.  He  support  the establishment  of  an  intergovernmental  committee to 
formulate  a convention  on desertification.  He  also  support  the holding in 
June  1993  of  the global  conference  on the  sustainable  development  of small 
island  developing  countries. 
The  cooperation  displayed  at Rio must  be nurtured.  It must guide us on 
the  road  from Rio  in the years  to  come.  Let us hope  that  our  cooperative 
efforts will make  this planet  a better  place  for everyone,  everywhere. 
Mr. CISSE  (Senegal)  (interpretation  from  French):  The Earth Summit 
marked  a historic  turning-point  in  international  relations  by  arousing an 
unprecedented  awareness  of  the major  importance  of  the environment  to the 
world  as a whole  and  the need  to establish  a new world  order  reconciling the 
interdependent  and  complementary  imperatives  of maintaining  peace and 
international  security,  protecting  the environment,  promoting  economic growth 
and development  and  eliminating poverty.  It  is agreed  that  the Conference 
gave  a new  impetus  to  the process  of  creating  a global  partnership  on the 
environment  and  development. 
In this  respect,  addressing  the General  Assembly  on  30 September this 
year. His  Excellency  President  Abdou  Diouf  said: 
"the Earth  Summit  held  in Rio  de Janeiro  last June has given us reason 
A/47/PV.56 
73-75 
(Mr. Cisse.  Senegal) 
for greater  optimism.  Indeed, while  far  from perfect,  it worked  for  the 
taking  into  account,  in the  long  term,  of  all  the concerns  and 
perspectives  of  the world.  It  is not  an exaggeration  to  say that  after 
Rio nothing  is the  same  as before  in approaching  environmental  problems 
and their  interrelationship  with development.  Hhat  is even better,  the 
change that has  taken place  thanks  to a real  awareness  of  the 
globalization  of mankind's problems  could be  the dawn of  the new world 
order."  (A/47/PV.18. p.  18) 
The results of  the United Hations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  (UHCED) will bear  fruit  if  specific  action  is taken quickly  to 
follow up the  commitments  made  at the highest  level  regarding  implementation 
of Agenda 21, particularly  as  regards  financial  resources  and  the  transfer  of 
technology; the establishment  under Article  68 of  the Charter  of  the United 
Hations of a high-level  Commission  on Sustainable  Development;  and  the 
drafting of an  international  convention  to combat  desertification  in  countries 
experiencing  serious  drought  or  desertification,  particularly  in Africa. 
I turn first  to  financial  resources  and  technology  transfer.  He  would 
insist that  the developed  countries prove  their political will  to  fulfil  the 
undertakings  they made when  they  supported  the adoption of Agenda  21.  In this 
respect, my delegation hopes  that  the pledging  conference  to take place  during 
this session will  be  the occasion  for  the countries  that  can do  so to provide 
information about  their  initial  financial  commitments.  Hot  only  should  those 
developed countries which have not yet  attained  the 0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national product  set by  the United  Hations  as the goal  for  official 
development  assistance  do  so as quickly  as possible; above  all, the  specific 
commitments  in chapter  33 concerning  new and  additional  financial  resources 
for the developing  countries must  be  respected. 
A/47/PV.56 
76 
(Mr.  Cisse. Senegal) 
Moreover,  existing mechanisms  and  financial  sources  should  play a key 
role  in the  implementation  of Agenda  21.  In this  connection,  the 
International  Development  Association  (IDA),  during  the  tenth  replenishment of 
its  resources,  should  be able, with  the assistance  of  the Horld  Bank, to 
finance  integrated  national  environmental  projects  through  the  establishment 
of  the Earth  increment. 
As  for  the Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF),  its  restructuring,  its 
democratic  and  transparent  administration  and  the periodic  evaluation of its 
activities will  enable  it to become  the major  financing mechanism  for 
Agenda  21.  In this  respect,  Senegal will play  an active  role at the meeting 
scheduled  for December  in Cote d'lvoire  within  the  framework  of  the 
restructuring  of  the GEF  mechanism. 
As  for  the  role  that  the  specialized  agencies  are  to play  in helping the 
developing  countries  implement  the Rio de Janeiro  decisions,  the delegation of 
Senegal welcomes  the Capacity  21 initiative  launched  by  the United  Hations 
Development  Programme  (UNDP),  which  is designed  to assist  developing countries 
in preparing  and  administering  their  own development  plans.  This initiative, 
involving  an expenditure  of more  than  $100 million, will  help  these countries 
to give  concrete  effect  to Agenda  21 and  to  launch  effective  national 
programmes  by  increasing  the expertise  of  developing  countries' national 
institutions, which will  enable  them  to  follow up on  the commitments  entered 
into  at Rio  de Janeiro. 
Capacity  21, in order  to bear  fruit,  should, when  implemented,  operate on 
the basis of  an  integrated  approach,  taking  into account  the priorities and 
objectives  of  the  recipient  countries with  regard  to the environment  and 
A/47/PV.56 
77 
(Mr. Cisse.  Senegal) 
development.  Moreover,  the  role of  regional  banks  in  financing  Agenda  21 
should not be  overlooked.  Lastly,  the mobilization  of  resources  for  the 
implementation  of Agenda  21 should  go hand  in hand with debt-relief  measures 
and increased  private  financing  as well  as more  investment.  Along  these 
lines, the convening  of  an  international  conference  to  finance  development 
would play  a decisive  role. 
I should now  like  to  touch on the no  less  important  question  of 
institutional  arrangements, basically  the establishment  of  the  high-level 
Commission on Sustainable Development.  This  Commission will be  a driving 
force in the  attainment  of  the main  objectives  of Agenda  21 and will  promote 
the strengthening  of  international  cooperation  for  sustainable  development. 
It will have  a decisive  role  in promoting  the  integration  of  the  environment 
and development  at  the United  Nations  system  level and  in  reviewing  the 
progress achieved  in the  implementation  of Agenda  21 at  the national,  regional 
and subregional  levels,  including  financial  contributions  and  transfers  of 
technology to the developing  countries. 
The Commission  should have  a clear  and  specific mandate,  avoiding  any 
duplication with other  organs  and  taking  into  account  the process  for 
restructuring  and  revitalizing  the United  Nations  system  in the economic  and 
social fields.  Moreover,  its composition  should  reflect  an  equitable 
geographical distribution.  Coordination  of  the activities  relate  to 
integrating environment  and development  at  the  level  of  the United  Nations 
. system is vital.  Likewise,  the  secretariat  to be established  should  consist 
, of highly qualified  persons  chosen on the basis of  their  competence  and with 
III the broadest possible  geographical  distribution.  This  secretariat  should  be 
led by a high-ranking  official  under  the direction  of  the  Secretary-General. 
A/47/PV.56 
78 
(Mr. Cisse.  Senegal) 
As  regards  the headquarters  of  the Commission,  the Government  of Senegal 
has  taken note with  interest  of  the offer  of  the Government  of  Switzerland. 
The delegation  of  Senegal  hopes  that  the  current  negotiations will lead 
to the adoption of  a resolution  in which  the General Assembly  will determine 
the  specific  organizational  modalities  for  the work  of  the  high-level 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development,  in particular  its membership, its 
relationship  with  other  intergovernmental  United  Hations bodies  dealing with 
matters  related  to environment  and  development,  and  the  frequency, duration 
and venue  of  its meetings. 
A source  of major  concern  for my  delegation  is the precariousness  of the 
environment  in Africa,  exacerbated  by  the encroachment  of deserts  and the 
devastating  drought which  led  to the death of  approximately  3 million people 
in  sub-Saharan Africa  in the  1980s  and which  is currently  inflicting enormous 
damage on  the  southern part  of  the continent.  Despite national,  regional and 
international  efforts, particularly  within  the  context  of programmes  such as 
the Permanent  Inter-State  Committee  on Drought  Control  in the  Sahel and the 
Sahara-Sahel  observatory,  the  situation has worsened  and has  required 
large-scale  global  action.  In this  respect,  the decision  taken by the United 
Hations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  to establish  an 
intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  to draft  an  international  convention 
to combat  desertification,  especially  in Africa, has  come  just  in time.  The 
negotiations  under way  at  the present  session  should  enable  the Committee to 
start  its work  in  1993  so as to  complete  the drafting  of  the  convention before 
June  1994.  The  convention  should  contain provisions  on measures  designed to 
put  an end  to and  reverse  the  trends  towards  increased  desertification  as well 
as measures  to control  and prevent  drought  situations. 
A/47/PV.56 
79-80 
(Mr. Cisse.  Senegal) 
Clearly,  the  implementation  by developing  countries  of  such a  legal 
instrument will  require  firm  commitments  on the part  of  the  international 
community  to the mobilization  of  financial  resources,  the transfer  of 
technology  and  the provision  of  assistance  in training  and data  collection. 
In this context,  the  role of  regional  organizations  such as the  Permanent 
Inter-State  Committee  on Drought  Control  in the Sahel  should  be  strengthened. 
The delegation  of  Senegal wishes  to  reiterate  the  importance  it  attaches 
to other chapters  of Agenda  21, in particular  the beginning  of  an 
international  process  to  review  the principles  on the protection  of  forests; 
on the convening,  as  soon as possible, of  an international  conference  on 
migratory  species  and high-seas  fishing; on  the  ratification  and entry  into 
force of the Convention  on Climate  Change; on the establishment  before  1993 by 
all States of  national  plans  of  action  for  the  integration  of  environment  and 
development. 
Lastly, we  also believe  that  there must be  a review  in 1997, in the 
middle of the  follow-up  to Rio process, to evaluate  the progress  achieved, 
both within  the United  nations  system  and  at the  regional  and national  levels, 
in implementing  the  decisions  adopted  at the historic  Earth  Siunmit.  That 
evaluation  should  include  the  status of  the  implementation  of  the  convention 
to combat  desertification,  which  is to be  drafted. 
The  PRESIDEHT  :  In accordance with  the decision  taken by  the 
General Assembly  at  its  52nd plenary meeting,  on  2 Hovember  1992, I now  call 
on the Observer  of  Switzerland. 
A/47/PV.56 
81 
Mr. ROCH (Switzerland) (interpretation from French):  Switzerland 
made a firm commitment to the process that culminated in the Earth Summit, 
held in Rio last June.  In our view, the exercise was a success overall. 
Rio was an extraordinary Summit meeting, marking the convergence of the 
issues of development, protection of the environment and efficient resource 
management.  The wealth of exchanges of views throughout the Rio process, 
considerably enriched by the contributions of hundreds of non-governmental 
organizations, brought about a new way of thinking.  How it is up to us to 
create a new way of acting. 
In this regard, we should like first to repeat the commitments we and the 
rest of the community of States made in Rio de Janeiro.  We signed the 
Conventions on Climate Change and on Biodiversity, and adopted the Rio 
Declaration, the Statement on forests and Agenda 21.  We hope the members of 
the General Assembly will formally adopt all the final documents of the 
Conference. 
We believe that the next steps to be taken on the road to sustainable 
development are crucial.  First, the "spirit of Rio" must be implemented in 
each of our countries.  In Switzerland, the federal Government is currently 
reviewing Agenda 21 to identify all the recommendations that it must now take 
into account.  At the same time, efforts are being made to involve local 
officials, as well as the population and non-governmental organizations in 
this work.  Their support and their motivated, active participation are 
essential if we are to make the very important adjustments needed in a highly 
industrialized country such as ours.  We hope before the end of the year to be 
able to identify a number of areas for priority action and to begin work on 
them. 
A/47/PV.56 
82 
(Mr. Roch.  Switzerland) 
It is now  clear  that one of  our major  actions will be  to  implement  a 
series of measures  to meet  the objective  of  reducing emissions  of  gases 
causing the greenhouse  effect. 
Now more  than ever, one  of our objectives  is to have  environmental 
factors taken  into  account  in the  setting of prices  and,  in particular  to use 
economic  instruments  such  as a tax on carbon dioxide emissions, to protect  the 
environment.  Apart  from  the  theoretical  work  involved  in this  approach 
work 
that is by and  large  under way 
there  is the question of  a minimum 
international  harmonization  to avoid  trade  distortions  and guarantee  the 
effectiveness  of  these  instruments.  We hope  that  a consensus will be  reached 
as speedily  as possible.  We will  spare no effort  to this end, particularly  in 
the European  context. 
This leads me  to measures  that  should be taken  internationally.  First, 
Switzerland  is convinced  of  the need  to undertake without  delay  the work 
necessary for the  development  and  implementation  of  the two Conventions  signed 
in Rio.  This  afternoon  in the Second  Committee  we will have  the  opportunity 
to return to questions  concerning  the Convention  on Climate  Change. 
Switzerland  is also  convinced  that  the  convention  on  desertification 
proposed by  the African group  could  improve  and  facilitate  international 
efforts to control  land degradation.  That  is why  it welcomes  the  forthcoming 
work on this new  legal  instrument,  in whose elaboration  it will  participate 
actively. 
Moreover, we  attach  the greatest  importance  to the establishment  of a 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development,  with  a strong  and  substantial  mandate, 
to be a future  forum  for  constructive  and  effective  debate  on  everything 
related to the  implementation  of Agenda  21.  Overall, we welcome  the 
A/47/PV.56 
83 
(Mr. Roch.  Switzerland) 
recommendations  in this  regard  in the  report  of  the Secretary-General  on 
institutional  follow up of  the United  Nations  Conference  on Enviroiunent and 
Development  (UNCED). 
More  specifically,  Switzerland  supports  the  idea that  the  Commission 
should  allow  for  the  fullest  possible  participation  of  States, whether  or not 
they  are Members  of  the United Nations,  and  specialized  agencies  of the 
system.  The  choice of  Commission  members  should  reflect  the  criteria of 
equitable  geographical  distribution.  Non-Member  States  should  have  observer 
status, defined  in such a way  that  they may  fully participate  in  its work. 
Non-governmental  organizations,  too,  should be  able  to play  an  active part in 
the Commission's  work.  The model  of  cooperation  developed  for UNCED  and its 
preparatory  committees  should  serve  as a basis  for  thinking  about  this matter. 
The  Commission  should be  supported  by a secretariat  of  the highest 
calibre, particularly  as  it should  be  capable  of providing  considerable 
assistance  to coordination  efforts within  the United Hations  system,  such as 
those of  the Administrative  Committee  on  Coordination. 
He  are  fully aware  that establishing  the Commission  and  its  secretariat 
raises numerous  difficult  questions  at a time when  the  system  and  the 
Secretariat  are going  through  an active phase of  restructuring  and 
revitalization.  Moreover,  the concept  of  sustainable  development  reinforces 
the  interdependence  of  the  specialized  agencies  and  institutions  responsible 
for work  in this  field.  The harmonization  and  coordination  of  the  various 
components  of  the  system,  the  simplification  of  lines  of  decision-making and 
the  avoidance  of  duplication  are  therefore more  necessary  than  ever.  These 
challenges, which  are very  important  to us, require  a certain  flexibility at 
this  stage.  In this  regard, we  are  ready  to take  an  active  part  in the 
A/47/PV.56 
84-85 
(Mr. Roch.  Switzerland) 
negotiations  soon to be begun under  the  chairmanship  of Ambassador  Razali, 
which we believe will  have positive  results. 
As for  financing  Agenda  21, which will  involve  considerable  additional 
costs, particularly  for  the developing  countries,  the Swiss  Government, 
undertook during  the Rio  Conference  to increase  its official  development 
assistance over  time  in order  to play  its  full part  in the  necessary 
international  effort. 
Finally,  I repeat  an offer made by my Government:  Switzerland  would  be 
pleased to contribute  to  the  success of  the  follow-up  of UHCED by hosting  in 
Geneva meetings  of  the high-level  Commission  on Sustainable  Development;  by 
having the secretariat  headquarters  there; and by providing  financial  support. 
I should  like  to make  it clear  that no country  should be prevented  from 
taking part  in the Commission's  work  for  lack of permanent  representation  in 
Geneva.  Switzerland  is prepared  to make  available  in Geneva  the  necessary 
infrastructure  to enable  least  developed  countries without permanent  missions 
in Geneva to take part  fully  in the Commission's  work. 
Switzerland  is also prepared  to make  available  the necessary  funding  to 
cover the travel expenses  of  representatives  of  least developed  countries  that 
do not have a permanent  mission  in Geneva, without  excluding  other  countries. 
It will submit  detailed  proposals  on the matter  to the Group of  77 next  week. 
The United Hations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  and  its 
follow-up offer  us a unique  opportunity.  He  should give  ourselves  the 
financial and political  means  to seize  this opportunity  and  to emerge  from  the 
vicious circle of underdevelopment  and destruction  of the  environment. 
A/47/PV.56 
86 
The  PRESIDENT  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  The  representative of 
Czechoslovakia  wished  to make  a statement  in exercise  of  the  right of reply, 
Before  calling  on him,  I remind members  that  in accordance with  General 
Assembly  decision  34/401  statements  in exercise  of  the  right  of  reply are 
limited  to 10 minutes  for  the  first  statement  and  to  5 minutes  for the second 
statement  and  should  be made by delegations  from  their  seats. 
I cal  on the  representative  of  Czechoslovakia. 
Mr.  KUKAN  (Czechoslovakia):  I wish  to  react  to  that part of the 
statment  of my  colleague  the Permanent  Representative  of Hungary which dealt 
with  the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros  project.  I shall  use  this  opportunity  to present 
the position  of my  Government  on  that  issue. 
The  Gabcikovo-Hagymaros  project  is for  a barrage  system  on the Danube 
jointly designed  and  agreed  upon by  Czechoslovakia  and Hungary.  Hhile both 
parts of  the project were  intended  to provide energy  and  to  ameliorate 
navigation  conditions, one of  the main motives  for  the project  has always been 
flood  protection. 
During  the years  following  the  signature  of  the  1977  treaty on this 
project,  construction  amounting  to $1.5 billion was  carried  out, mainly on the 
Czechoslovak  side of  the project.  When  Hungary proposed  first  to  slow down 
the work  in  1981, invoking  financial  problems, and  then, contrariwise, to 
speed up  the  termination  of  the project  by  15 months,  in February 1989, 
Czechoslovakia  responded with  understanding.  In May  1989 Hungary  decided 
without  any  consultation  with  Czechoslovakia  to  suspend  the  construction of 
the Hagymaros  part  of  the project, which  lies entirely  on Hungarian  territory. 
A/47/PV.56 
87 
(Mr. Kukan,  Czechoslovakia) 
and two months  later  also to  suspend work  on the Hungarian  sector  of  the 
Gabcikovo part of  the project, which  is situated mainly  on  Czechoslovak 
territory, ignoring  at the  same time  all damage  claims by  Czechoslovakia, 
which were based  on  relevant  treaty provisions. 
In October  1989  the Hungarian  Parliament, invoking  as a general  argument 
the priority of ecological  interests, decided  to stop permanently  the 
construction of the Hagymaros part of the project, and  in April  1990  empowered 
the Hungarian Government  to propose  to Czechoslovakia  the termination of  the 
1977 treaty, the dismantling  of all construction  carried out during  those  12 
years, and the  restoration  of  the original  state of  the area.  Since that  time 
Hungary has insisted  on this as the only  subject  for negotiations  with 
Czechoslovakia, continuously  refusing  to discuss  any other  solution,  including 
the possibility of  revising  the technical elements  of  the project, a  revision 
which would be based  on thorough  studies undertaken by experts  from  both 
countries, with the participation  of  impartial experts. 
The environmental  impact of the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros  project were 
thoroughly reevaluated by  several  expert commissions  in Czechoslovakia.  The 
result of those  studies was  that the best  solution would be to complete  the 
whole project in accordance with  the  1977 treaty, with certain  additional 
measures aimed  at diminishing, or even eliminating, the  identified  undesired 
environmental  impacts.  No  threat of an "environmental  catastrophe", as so 
often referred  to by Hungary, was  found. 
In order to obtain  the complete picture, even  the possibility  of 
abandoning the project  and  completely  rehabilitating  the area was  studied.  It 
A/47/PV.56 
88 
(Mr. Kukan. CzechoslovaH^) 
was concluded that, at this stage of the work, it is technically impossible to 
restore the original productive state of the territory, as far as the 
Gabchikovo part of the project is concerned. 
Having duly considered the existing situation, the Czechoslovak 
Government decided in July 1991, after having previously notified the 
Hungarian Government, to proceed with a provisional solution, the so-called 
variant C of the Gabcikovo project.  This consists of putting that part of the 
project into operation, at least the structures situated on Czechoslovak 
territory.  This solution of last resort was the only possibile way of 
diminishing the great economic losses that Czechoslovakia has suffered as a 
result of Hungary's non-compliance with its treaty obligations.  During the 
two and a half years of the delay, the economic loss for Czechoslovakia has 
been at least 15 billion crowns, that is, more than half a billion dollars. 
Even more than the financial aspect, we feel the burden of the urgent need for 
flood protection and for stopping the environmental deterioration of the area. 
During the work on the provisional solution, Czechoslovakia was always 
ready to seek a solution to the disputed questions with Hungary, and welcomed 
the readiness of the Commission of the European Community to provide 
assistance and to chair a trilateral committee of experts.  On 16 May 1992 
Hungary declared the 1977 treaty unilaterally terminated, effective 
25 May 1992.  That act, contrary to the relevant rules of the law of treaties, 
is considered by Czechoslovakia to have no legal effect.  The 1977 treaty of 
the Gabcikovo-Hagymaros project remains valid. 
A/47/PV.56 
89 
(Mr. Kukan,  Czechoslovakia) 
In August  1992 Czechoslovakia  duly  notified  the Danube Commission  about 
the final work  in the bed of  the Danube planned  for  the  last part  of  October, 
which required  the  suspension  of  navigation  for  about  10 days.  Owing  to 
climatic conditions,  this work  can be  done only  in the autumn, when  the water 
level is low. 
Accordingly between  24 and  31 October  a provisional  closure  dike was 
built in the river bed.  The  navigation  channel  was  filled,  and on  2 Hovember 
was opened to navigation  by  the  terms of  the  1977  treaty,  nevertheless, 
Czechoslovakia  did not  stait  the  reservoir,  thus  limiting  the operation  of  the 
system to the navigation  channel.  The power plant was  consequently  not put 
into operation.  The whole quantity  of water  again  runs  in the original  river 
oed.  The measures  that  have  been  adopted  are of a provisional  and  reversible 
character.  They do not  exclude  the possibility  of putting  into operation  the 
whole Gabcikovo part  of  the project,  including  the construction  on  Hungarian 
territory. 
The provisional  solution  and  the construction  of  the  Gabcikovo-Hagymaros 
project by the  terms of  the  1977 treaty cannot  and do not produce  any  change 
in the border between  the  two countries.  Indeed,  the  1977  treaty  contains  an 
explicit provision  in that  respect. 
At the tripartite meeting  of  the  representatives  of  Czechoslovakia, 
Hungary and the Commission  of  the European Community  held  on  28 October  1992 
in London, it was  agreed  that  on a date  specified by  the European  Community 
Commission on the basis  of  the  report  submitted by  the tripartite  fact-finding 
mission, all the work  on variant  C of  the project would be  stopped.  A working 
A/47/PV.56 
90 
(Mr. Kukan, Czechoslnv»tij) 
group of  experts,  including  specialists  in environmental  matters, hydrology 
and water  architecture, will  be  set up  immediately  with  the mandate to make an 
on-site  inspection  of  the  structures  of variant  C and  to  assess  factors 
pertaining  to all  aspects  of  those  structures. 
Both Czechoslovakia  and Hungary have  committed  themselves  to submitting 
the whole dispute  connected with  the Gabcikovo-Hagymaros  project,  in all its 
aspects,  to binding  international  arbitration  or  to the  International Court of 
Justice. 
In conclusion,  I want  to  reiterate  the  strong  interest  of  the 
Czechoslovak  Government  in  solving  the  issue  through meaningful  and 
businesslike  negotiations.  We believe  that political  slogans or  accusations 
of  any kind will  not help  this  cause. 
The meeting  rose at  1.20  p.m. 
