NITED 
ATIONS 
m  General  Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.31 
22 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  31st  MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Friday,  9 October  1992, at  10  a.m. 
President: 
M r.  GANEV 
(President) 
(Bulgaria) 
Report  of  the Secretary-General  on the work  of  the  organization: 
reports  of  the Secretary-General  [10] 
This  record  contains  the original  text of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one week, to  the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750,  2 United  Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61388  1737V  (E) 
A/47/PV.31 
2-5 
The meeting was  called  to order  at  10:20  a.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  10 
REPORT OF THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  ON THE WORK  OF THE ORGANIZATION:  REPORTS OF 
THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/1, A/47/277) 
The PRESIDENT:  This morning  the General  Assembly  will  consider 
agenda  item  10, entitled  "Report  of  the Secretary-General  on  the Work  of  the 
Organization"  (A/47/1),  including  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  entitled 
"An Agenda  for Peace 
preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and  peace-keeping" 
(A/47/277). 
It  is my hope  that we  shall have  an energetic,  creative  and  fruitful 
discussion  fully  realizing  the potential  of  this  item  and of  this  forum,  the 
General  Assembly. 
Sir David  HANNAY  (United  Kingdom):  I should  like  to begin by  simply 
saying how much  the European Community  and  its member  States, on whose  behalf 
I  am speaking, welcome  the  initiative  that you. Sir, as President  have  taken 
to have  two days of debate  on this particular  issue, that  is to  say,  the 
follow-up  - in our view  the  action-oriented  follow-up 
required  to  the 
Secretary-General's  report  on  "An Agenda  for Peace". 
A/47/PV.31 
6 
(Sir David  Hannay.  United 
Kingdom) 
We welcome  the  Secretary-General's  report  on  the work  of  the  Organization 
(A/47/1) in general, his wider  report,  and  I should  say at the outset  that  we 
are encouraged  by  the commitment  he has made  to  restructuring  the 
Secretariat.  We  also welcome  the Secretary-General's  emphasis  on  the work  of 
the United  Nations  in the  fields of economic  and  social development  as well  as 
those of peace  and  security.  But  in this  statement  this morning  I intend  to 
focus on his  report  "An Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277). 
As Mr Douglas  Hurd,  the Foreign  Secretary,  speaking  on behalf  of  the 
European Community,  said  in the general  debate, the Community  and  its  member 
States warmly welcome  the Secretary-General's  report  and  thank him  and his 
staff  for  all  their  efforts  in preparing  it.  We  attach  importance  to the 
request  for  the  report, which was made  in the presidential  statement  that  was 
agreed  at  the Summit  Meeting  of  the Security  Council  on 31 January.  The 
European  Community  and  its member  States  submitted  an  informal  contribution  to 
the Secretary-General  while  the  report was being prepared  and we were 
encouraged by how much  common ground  there was between  the contribution  we 
made and  the eventual  report. 
The  Secretary-General's  report  is a comprehensive  step  towards 
strengthening  the United  Nations.  It is wide-ranging  and contains  a wealth  of 
interesting  ideas.  We welcome  the widest possible  discussion  of  them.  We 
listened with  interest  to the preliminary  views of delegations  expressed  in 
the Special  Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations  in August  and  to  the views 
expressed by those Heads  of  State  and Government  and  Foreign Ministers  who 
participated  in the general  debate which has  just  finished.  We  are  pleased 
that the Security  Council  has  carried  out  some preliminary  work  to  identify 
A/47/PV.31 
7 
(Sir David  Hannay. United 
Kingdom) 
those parts  of  the Secretary-General's  report which  are of  interest  to  it and 
we  look  forward  to that work  progressing  in as action-oriented  a way  as the 
work  in the  Assembly. 
On preventive  diplomacy  first:  it is a statement  of  the obvious  that 
preventive  diplomacy  is more useful  to people  about  to be embroiled  in 
conflict  than the most  successful peace-keeping  or peacemaking  operation.  It 
is less costly  in terms of  lives  and  cash and we  therefore  believe  that the 
Secretary-General  should be  ready to make  full  use of his  powers  under 
Article  99 of  the Charter  to draw the attention  of  the  Security  Council  to any 
matter  which  in his opinion may  threaten  international  peace  and  security.  To 
do  so the Secretary-General  should make  full use of  the  Secretariat's 
information-gathering  capabilities  and  seek to  improve  them.  The  Secretariat 
should  continue  to gather  and evaluate  all  relevant  information  originating 
from  all parts of  the United Nations  system  around  the world  and  from Member 
States.  In this  regard we  are  in favour  of  confidence-building  measures and 
endorse  the greater  use of  fact-finding missions  as proposed  in the 
Secretary-General's  report  and  as practised  by  the Secretary-General  in recent 
weeks.  We  recall  the Assembly's  declaration  last year  on  fact-finding, which 
was  initiated  by members  of  the European Community.  The  recent  fact-finding 
missions  to Moldova, Nagorno-Karabakh,  Tajikstan  and  Georgia have  already made 
a valuable  contribution.  But one has  to  recognize  the  fact  that  the  success 
of preventive  diplomacy  depends  also  on  the political  will  of  the  parties 
involved  or  about  to be  involved  in a  conflict. 
The  Secretary-General  suggests  that  the  time has  come  to  consider 
preventive  deployments  of  troops when  so requested,  to deter  aggression or 
A/47/PV.31 
8 
(Sir David Hannay.  United 
Kingdom) 
conflict between  States, possibly  involving  deployment  to only one  side of  an 
international  boundary.  There may be timing  and other difficulties  about  the 
dispatch of  such a force  in a given  crisis, but  essentially we believe  that 
this is a sound  idea which  should  be  followed  up on a case-by-case  basis.  In 
some cases  it may  also be useful  to establish  a demilitarized  zone with  the 
consent of  the parties  as a preventive measure  in advance  of  a risk of 
conflict. 
We  also  see merit  in the  idea of preventive  deployment  in the event  of  an 
internal  crisis, when help with humanitarian  assistance  or  conciliation  is 
requested.  The  failure  to  take  such measures  in the cases  Of  Somalia  and 
Bosnia and Herzegovina  are  clear  cases  that  remind  us of  the need  for  such 
preventive  action.  Of  course no two cases would  be  the  same.  Before  any 
deployment  there would  need  to be careful  discussion with the Governments  and 
parties concerned.  Recognizing  that,  the European  Community  and  its  member 
States have  already  decided  in principle  to send  civilian monitoring  missions 
I 
to States which want  them 
where  this would help  to avert  a crisis  and 
possible bloodshed.  In South Africa with  the agreement  of  all parties,  the 
II 
United Nations, the European Community  and  the Commonwealth  are  all  sending 
i 
observers  to  reinforce  the domestic  peace  mechanism. 
I should  like now to  speak a little  about peacemaking.  The  European 
Community  and  its member  States believe  that,  as the  Secretary-General 
1 suggests, the United  Nations  should put  an  increased  effort  into  peacemaking 
by taking advantage  of  the provisions  of  the Charter  for dispute  settlement. 
In this regard,  the European  Community  and  its member  States  fully  share  the 
observation of  the Secretary-General  that  the  Security  Council may,  under 
A/47/PV.31 
9 
(Sir David  Hannav. United 
Kingdom) 
Articles  36 and  37 of  the Charter,  recommend  to Member  States  the  submission 
of  a dispute  to the  International  Court  of Justice, or  arbitration,  or  other 
dispute-settlement  mechanisms. 
In connection with Article  50 of  the Charter, we  are  acutely  aware  of the 
economic  difficulties  often  caused  to third  countries  by  the  imposition  of 
sanctions  under  Chapter  VII.  Countries which need balance-of-payments  help 
and which  are also  implementing  prudent  adjustment  programmes  are  being 
adversely  affected.  The  international  financial  institutions  are well  placed 
to assess  and  then take  into account  the effects  of United  Nations  mandatory 
sanctions when  they design  support packages  for  these  countries.  This 
question  is also  currently being  examined  in the Charter  Committee  and we look 
forward  to contributing  constructively  to the outcome. 
The  Secretary-General's  report  contains  a number  of proposals  for Member 
States  to earmark  forces  for enforcement  action  and  for peace-keeping.  One 
member  of  the European Community  has  already  offered  to make  1000  troops 
available  at 48 hours' notice  and  another  1000 within  one week. 
On peace-keeping:  so far  as peace-keeping  operations  are  concerned  the 
member  countries  of  the European Community  are  currently  providing more  than 
14,000 peace-keepers  and  this will  increase with  the deployment  of  the  second 
part  of  the United Nations  Protection  Force  (UNPR0F0R)  in Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina.  All  the Twelve have  responded  to  the  Secretary-General's 
questionnaire  on  forces  that  could be made  available  for  peace-keeping 
operations  and  all member  States will  keep  this  under  regular  review.  The 
Twelve  believe  it would  also be  useful  if the Secretariat  could  update  the 
questionnaire  and  issue  a similar  one  on civilian police  and  other  civilian 
A/47/PV.31 
10 
(Sir David  Hannay.  United 
Kingdom) 
personnel who might be made  available  for peace-keeping  operations.  There 
should be,  in our view, must greater  contact between  the military  and  defence 
establishments  of Member  States  and  the  Secretariat  to clarify what  support 
might be  needed  and what might be  available,  to pave  the way  for  possible 
future  agreements  between  the United Nations  and  individual Member  States. 
The Twelve  therefore  stand  ready  to make  troops  available  for  peace-keeping 
operations. 
The  European  Community  and  its member  States  recall  that  the  Special 
Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations  has made  interesting  recommendations 
which have been  adopted  by  the General  Assembly  in recent years.  Many  of 
these have  concerned  training  for United  Nations peace-keepers.  Like  the 
Secretary-General, we  are keen  to  see  improved  training  for  peace-keeping 
personnel.  We welcome  the  strengthening  of  the Department  of  Peace-keeping 
Affairs  and  the proposed  augmentation  of  the  strength  and  capability  of  the 
Military Adviser's  office.  Given  the  increasing  role of  civilian police  in 
peace-keeping  operations,  consideration  should be given  to the appointment  of 
a Senior  Police Adviser  to the Secretary-General.  We  also  commend  the  idea  in 
the Secretary-General's  report  that Governments  should  keep  appropriate 
equipment  on  stand-by  for  use by  the United  Nations.  This  should help  ease 
the problems  that  often  arise  in the early phases  of  the deployment  of  a 
peace-keeping  operation. 
The  role of  the United  Nations  does not  stop once  a  conflict  is over. 
The Secretary-General's  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" rightly  looks  at how we 
might help  in peace-building  after  a conflict.  The United Nations  is making  a 
crucial contribution,  for example  in El  Salvador,  in Angola  and  in  Cambodia, 
A/47/PV.31 
10(a-z) 
(Sir David Hannay. United 
Kingdom) 
and we look forward to its being able to do so very soon in Mozambique.  The 
promotion of free elections and democratic institutions is a key part of such 
peace-building and  a proper area of activity for the United Nations.  So, at a 
practical level, is the removal of mines.  It is  a stern commentary on the 
state of the world that the removal of mines in the aftermath of conflict is 
so high on our agenda, and must be so.  In Cambodia, Afghanistan, Somalia and 
Angola this problem is a dramatic one.  We therefore welcome the appointment 
of a de-mining expert on the Military Adviser's staff. 
A/47/PV.31 
11 
(Sir David Hannay. United  Kingdom) 
Clearly,  the  fostering  of  sound  economic  and  social  development  in areas 
torn by  conflict  is an essential  part of  reconstruction  and peace-  building. 
Equally,  as the  Secretary-General  says, good governance  must  be promoted.  The 
absence of  democratic  and pluralistic  internal  structures  is a source  of 
political  and  economic  instability which may well  result  in a threat  to 
international  peace  and  security.  The  exercise  of  sovereignty  involves 
internal  and external  responsibilities.  Sovereignty  cannot be used  as a 
general  cover  for  systematic  human-rights  violations,  in particular  when  such 
violations  take  the  form of  internal  repression  and  threaten  international 
peace  and  stability.  The  European Community  and  its member  States  have 
underlined  that  all  Governments  are  accountable  to the  international  community 
for the observance  of  those  obligations  they have  freely  assumed.  There 
cannot be  arguments  about  interference  in their  internal  affairs  to  avoid 
criticism  for  failure  to meet  those  international  obligations. 
The European  Community  and  its member  States welcome  the emphasis  the 
Secretary-General  gives  to human  rights, democracy  and development.  We  want 
the World  Conference  on Human  Rights  at Vienna  in June  1993  to take  real  steps 
to achieve  this.  It  could  support  and  reinforce efforts  of  individual 
countries  to promote  democracy,  respect  for human  rights  and  accountability  at 
all  levels.  We  also  look  forward  to the adoption  of  the declaration  on  the 
rights  of persons  belonging  to minorities  at  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 
The  European  Community  and  its member  States warmly welcome  the  tide of 
political  reform  now  flowing  in many parts  of  the world.  We  are  playing 
A/47/PV.31 
12 
(Sir David  Hannay. United  Kingdom) 
our  part  in furthering  this.  Europe, both  at  the national  and  the  Community 
level, has  already  shown  its  readiness  to respond  to  requests  for  assistance 
in election-monitoring  in a number  of countries. 
We have  noted  that  a major  theme  in the  Secretary-General's  report  is 
the  role that  can be played  by  regional  organizations  in problems  of 
international  peace  and  security.  We  commend  this  idea.  In many  situations a 
bigger  and more effective  role can be played  by  the  relevant  regional 
organizations  in coordination with  the United Nations.  We welcome  the 
increasing  trend  for  regional  organizations  to do more  in respect  of  both 
peace-keeping  and peacemaking,  and we  look  forward  to  the  continued 
development  of  this  trend.  We hope  that  in the  future  the Conference  on 
Security  and Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE) will be effective  in the  prevention 
of  conflict  throughout  Europe.  With  the adoption  of  the Helsinki  Document the 
CSCE has begun  to give  itself  the  tools  to tackle problems  by  conciliation and 
arbitration  before  they  slide  into violence,  and  to manage  crises  once  they 
develop;  this  includes  the possibility  of CSCE peace-keeping  operations.  The 
Helsinski  Document  adopted  in July  recognizes  that  the  CSCE  is a  regional 
arrangement,  according  to Chapter  VIII  of  the Charter,  and  thus provides  an 
important  link between  European  and global  security. 
The  European Community  Monitoring Mission  is soon  to extend  its 
activities  beyond  the  former Yugoslavia  to the borders  between  the  former 
Yugoslavia  and Hungary,  Bulgaria  and Albania.  In our view  this  is  precisely 
the  sort of  area  in which  regional  organizations  can make  a major 
A/47/PV.31 
13 
(Sir David  Hannay. United  Kingdom) 
contribution,  in collaboration  and  coordination with  the United  Nations, to 
tackle potential  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
Cooperation  between  the European Community  Monitoring Mission  and  the 
United Nations  Protection  Force  (UNPROFOR)  in the  field has been  close.  It is 
now paralleled  at  the very highest  political  level  in the Conference  on  the 
former Socialist  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia, which  the Secretary-  General 
and Prime Minister  Major  co-chaired  in September,  and which  is now  continuing 
in Geneva. 
We note  the  Secretary-General's  comments  on the vital  issue of  the 
safety of peace-keeping  personnel.  There may be cases where  it would  be 
useful  for  the  Security  Council  to warn  the parties  before  deployment  that 
collective measures  will be  considered  if United  Nations  personnel  are 
attacked  or  the purposes  of  a United  Nations  operation  are  frustrated.  We 
take this opportunity  to  reiterate  our  call  to all host  countries  and  all 
parties  to a conflict  to do everything  possible  to ensure  the  safety of  United 
Nations peace-keeping  personnel  and  to  respect  their  international  status.  We 
also pay tribute  to  the men  and women who  are  serving  in  peace-keeping 
operations  in the  field,  and  to those who have  served  in the past.  They  often 
serve in difficult  and  dangerous  conditions,  and,  tragically,  some have  lost 
their lives  in the  service  of peace  - 29  this year  alone.  And  if  I may be 
permitted  a personal  remark  at this point,  I would  say that  it  is high  time 
the Organization  found  some way  to mark  in a memorial  the names  of  those  whose 
lives have been  lost on behalf  of  the United Nations. 
The European  Community  member  States make  a substantial  financial  as 
well as military  contribution  to peace-keeping  operations.  The  figures  speak 
A/47/PV.31 
14 
(Sir David  Hannay. United  Kingdom) 
for  themselves.  Twelve member  States of  the European  Community  are  supposed 
to contribute  one  third of  the  cost of peace-keeping  operations  as  financed 
through  assessed  contributions.  At  the end of August  this year  these  12 
countries had  in fact given 40.1 per  cent  of  the actual  contributions 
collected  so far  for the various  new operations  launched  or  expanded  since the 
end  of the previous  General  Assembly  session.  In fact,  the  true  costs of 
peace-keeping  considerably  exceed  that  figure.  Those  European  Community 
member  States participating  in the new operations  in Bosnia will  do so, 
exceptionally,  at no cost  to the United Nations.  And  as Mr. Hurd,  speaking on 
behalf  of  the European Community  and  its member  States, said  in  the general 
debate, we  are doing  our bit; we  look  to others  to do  the  same. 
The  Secretary-General  is quite  right  to say that  the  financial  problems 
of  the United Nations must  not be  allowed  to  fester.  Nearly  two  thirds of the 
membership  are behind  in their  payments.  And  it is particularly  unfortunate 
that these  include major  contributors.  The Organization's  ability  to 
intervene  is critically  dependent  in the  short  term  on the  availability of 
financial  resources.  We therefore  support  the proposed  peace-keeping  reserve 
fund,  subject  to negotiation  on the detail.  The  detailed  arrangements  in this 
case are  for the Fifth Committee  and  the Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative 
and Budgetary  Questions.  I hope very much  that we will  reach  a decision on 
this point  during  the  course  of  this  General  Assembly  session.  I must stress 
that  there  is a relationship  between  the  financing  of peace-keeping  and the 
overall  financial  situation  of  the United  Nations.  The  same need  for prompt 
and  full payment  of  assessed  contributions  applies  there,  too. 
A/47/PV.31 
15 
(Sir David  Hannav. United  Kingdom) 
In conclusion,  the European Community  and  its member  States welcome  "An 
Agenda  for  Peace" as a valuable  contribution  to the continuing  debate  on  the 
role of  the United  Nations  in international  affairs.  We believe  that  the 
action points  should  now be  followed  up  in the appropriate  bodies 
for 
example,  the  Special  Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations,  the  Charter 
Committee,  the  Fifth Committee,  the Security  Council  and  the Secretariat  - and 
of course  also by Member  States  themselves  and by  regional  organizations.  It 
is important  that  no  time be  lost  in pursuing  these points  in an 
action-oriented  way  in these  forums, and we  see the main objective  of  this 
debate as being  to provide  stimulus  to that decision- making.  We  look  forward 
to continuing  the discussion  and collaboration with other  delegations  in 
pursuit  of  this  objective. 
Mr. BUTLER  (Australia):  In his  first  annual  report  to the  General 
Assembly  on  the work  of  the Organization,  the Secretary-General  identified 
clearly  the opportunities  and  challenges  facing the United Nations  in the 
post-cold-war  era. 
We have  in this new era new opportunities  for enhanced  global 
cooperation  to tackle  transnational  problems, problems:  of  the  environment; 
arms control; drugs; AIDS; and of  course  the continuing  tragedy  of  poverty. 
We also face challenges  arising  from  the unleashing  of ethnic  rivalries  and 
the splintering  of  nation  States. 
Simply,  the demands  on the United  Nations  have  never been greater,  nor 
the expectations  so high. 
A/47/PV.31 
16 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
In his  report  to the Assembly,  the  Secretary-General  has  set himself 
the ambitious  but  essential  goal  of creating  "a new United  Nations  for  a new 
international  era"  (A/47/1, para.  5) 
a process which he  acknowledges  will be 
"neither  easy  nor  risk-free"  (A/47/1, para.6). 
The  "new United  Nations" is being put  to the test,  dramatically,  by the 
outbreak  of  conflict,  often within  and between newly emerging  States.  In his 
landmark  report  "An Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277),  the  Secretary-General 
focused  on the need  to enhance  the capacity  of  the United  Nations  to  fulfil 
its  fundamental  Charter  objective  of  "maintaining  international  peace  and 
security" by  summarizing  a range  of actions  to prevent,  contain  and  resolve 
situations  of  conflict. 
The  front  line of United  Nations  involvement  in peace  and  security should 
be the prevention  of conflict.  We  should be working  through  the  United 
Nations  to create  conditions which minimize  insecurity  and  threats  to peace, 
and which enable  specific  high-risk  situations  to be  addressed  before  they get 
to the point  of  requiring  either peace-keeping  or, worse  still,  coercive 
peace-enforcement  measures. 
A major  challenge  in the years  ahead will be  to establish  effective 
mechanisms  and means  for  converting  the potential  promise  of  preventive 
diplomacy  from  rhetoric  into  reality. 
In his  statement  to the General  Assembly  last week,  the  Australian 
Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  and Trade,  Senator  Gareth  Evans, outlined  a 
series of  initiatives  designed  to address  the  non-military,  as well  as 
military  threats  to  security.  Natural  disasters,  acute poverty,  famine and 
environmental  degradation  are  all  fundamental  causes  of  instability  and thus 
the United  Nations  must  assume  a major  role  in addressing  such  non-military 
threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
A/47/PV.31 
17 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
Australia  particularly  welcomes  the creation of  the new Department  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs, which has  a crucial  role  to play  in seeking  to  avert 
preventable  tragedies.  One  such area where we would  like  to  see  an  enhanced 
United Nations  role  is in the prevention  of  famine.  To  this end, we have 
proposed  the establishment  of  a group  of  senior  officials  from developed  and 
developing  countries  and  relevant United Nations  agencies,  supported  by a 
comprehensive  database,  to conduct high-level  reviews of  the global  famine 
situation  and  to  identify  emerging  crisis  situations.  Surely  this  is a case 
where prevention  is vastly  preferable  to cure. 
We  also  endorse  the Secretary-General's  observation  in his  report  on the 
work of the Organization  that democratic  structures, popular  participation  and 
observance  of human  rights  are all  fundamental  sources of  creativity  in the 
process of development.  Economic  development  and political progress go hand 
in hand and can mutually  reinforce  resolution  of many of  the  underlying 
tensions which  lead to  conflict. 
Today's  discussion  of  "An Agenda  for Peace" is a beginning,  not  an end. 
We expect  the debate  to continue  and amplify,  involving  the whole  United 
Nations membership.  The  contribution  that we will make  today will  highlight 
one aspect  of  an  "agenda  for peace" which we believe  to be of  particular 
importance  to  the current  international  situation,  namely  strengthening  the 
role of the United  Nations  in preventive  diplomacy.  We plan  to take up  other 
aspects of what  is  a large, but  very necessary,  agenda  in  subsequent 
i 
discussions on  "An Agenda  for Peace" in this  and other  relevant  forums. 
A/47/PV.31 
18 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
Turning  to the  issue that  I would  like  to highlight  today,  I will  centre 
my  remarks on means of  strengthening  the United  Nations  preventive  diplomacy 
and peacemaking  arrangements  to deal  at an early  stage with  specific  high-risk 
situations.  Others may have  their own  ideas, and we believe  that  it is 
crucial  that  those  ideas be put  forward,  so that  all  ideas  can be  discussed 
and  suggestions  further  refined  in order  that we may establish  a truly viable 
system  for preventing  disputes  at the  international  and  regional  levels. 
Indeed, we believe  that preventive  diplomacy  is  so important  that  it  should 
become  a major  foundation-stone  on which  the United  Nations  new  agenda for 
peace  is built. 
One of  the major  stumbling-blocks  to preventive  diplomacy  has been the 
problem  of  timing.  The Charter  explicitly  states, in Article  36, that  the 
United  Nations may become  involved  "at  any stage  of  a dispute  ... or of a 
situation"  and  the  1988 Declaration  on the Prevention  and  Removal  of Disputes, 
which was  adopted  unanimously by  the General  Assembly,  encourages  the United 
Nations  to become  involved  "at  an early  stage"  (resolution  43/51. 
annex, para.  1  (12)). 
In practice, however,  the threshold  for defining  a situation  as a threat 
to  international  peace  and  security  has  tended  to be  the outbreak  of armed 
hostilities.  Typically,  the  Security  Council  has waited  for  this  threshold to 
be  crossed  before  it has  acted.  In cases where  the  Secretary-General  waits to 
be mandated by  the Council  before  acting,  the United  Nations  often  finds 
itself  intervening  at the very point where  the disputing parties  are  least 
likely  to accept peaceful methods  of  dispute  resolution 
in other words, when 
it  is too  late. 
A/47/PV.31 
19 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
Effective  preventive  diplomacy,  however,  requires  action before  a dispute 
has reached  that  threshold,  that  is, as early  as possible 
before  the  issues 
have generalized;  before  antagonisms have become malignant;  before  the major 
motivation  of  the parties has become  a desire  for  retribution,  and  before 
parties have become  committed  and entrapped by  their own aggressive  posturing, 
rhetoric  and  actions. 
The overriding  reason  for parties' reluctance  to bring disputes  to the 
United Nations  appears  to be  concern  about  losing  control  over 
decision-making.  Discussions  about  the  rights of  "sovereignty"  and  concerns 
about  "internationalizing"  a dispute  translate  to mean  that many,  and  probably 
most. States prefer  to maintain  control  over how their disputes will  be 
resolved,  at  least  until  such  time as the  situation becomes  desperate. 
Because of  these  sensitivities,  third parties  have  also been  reluctant  to 
bring a situation  to  the Council  at an early  stage.  Thus, Members  seldom  use 
Article  35, which  allows  any Member  of  the United Nations  to bring  a dispute 
to the attention  of  the Council,  and  similarly,  past  Secretaries-General  have 
rarely used Article  99. 
In our view,  the United  Nations  needs  to develop  a mechanism  which will 
be acceptable  to Members  and which will  allow those who  cannot  reach  a 
peaceful  settlement  on their  own to avail  themselves  of mediation  and good 
offices at an early  stage  in their  dispute. 
What  is needed  is a mechanism  which  can offer  a dispute  resolution 
service  to its Members  to assist  them  in complying  with Chapter VI  of  the 
Charter.  Through  such  a mechanism,  Members  could maintain  a say over  how 
their dispute  is settled,  while  at  the  same time  receiving  assistance  in 
A/47/PV.31 
20 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
communicating  with one  another 
in minimizing  inflammatory  rhetoric;  in 
defining  the  issues, concerns  and grievances which  are  causing  the  dispute, 
and  in creating  innovative  and  imaginative  solutions which  can address  and 
reconcile  these  conflicting  interests.  There  is an  increasing  recognition 
among Member  States  that  it is the Secretary-General  and his  staff who  can 
most effectively  offer  this kind of assistance. 
A/47/PV.31 
21 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
Some of  these  ideas  are  already being  implemented  within  the 
Secretariat.  Australia  applauds  the efforts made by  the Secretary-General  to 
establish geographically-based  Divisions within  the Department  of  Political 
Affairs, whose  task  it will be to monitor  various  regions.  We believe  that, 
if properly  supported  and  resourced,  the  six Divisions  that have been  set  up 
hold considerable promise  for providing  continuity  in conflict-prevention.  To 
be effective, however,  this newly developed  preventive  diplomacy  and 
peacemaking mechanism will  need  the  support of Member  States. 
For preventive  diplomacy  to  succeed,  it will  require  adequate  resources 
and staff who have  a sophisticated  level of expertise  and  skill.  Currently 
the six Divisions  are headed  by Directors who have had considerable  experience 
in good offices  and peacemaking.  They will, however,  need  to be  supported  by 
staff who  are  skilled  in political  analysis  and who have  an  in-depth  knowledge 
of the cultural, political  and historical  background  of  the countries  of  the 
region. 
Staff will  also be needed who  are knowledgeable  in  conflict-analysis, 
negotiation  and mediation.  Recruitment  of new  staff,  training  of  current 
staff through programmes  such as the proposed  new  fellowship programme  on 
preventive diplomacy  and peacemaking  of  the United  Nations  Institute  for 
Training and Research  and  the use of expert  consultants  could  all provide  the 
necessary  skills  for  carrying  out preventive  diplomacy. 
In addition,  staff will be needed who  can devote  their  full  attention  to 
preventive  diplomacy without  being  consumed  by  the demands  of ongoing,  larger 
crises.  They will  need  to be backed  up with  an adequate  infrastructure. 
Access to wire  services, on-line  computer  facilities,  data banks,  advanced 
A/47/PV.31 
22 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
telecommunications  and  travel  for  routine visits  to the  field  and  to  relevant 
meetings will be  required. 
Resources  for  these vital  tasks  could be  redeployed  from  other  parts of 
the United Nations where  they are no  longer  needed.  Indeed,  perhaps  the most 
important  way  in which Member  States  could  contribute  to  the development  of 
this new mechanism  is through  their  support  of  such  a. reallocation  of 
resources.  The  amounts  involved would  not be  large, but  the benefits  accruing 
to all of us could be considerable.  Of course, Members  could  also  assist the 
Secretary-General  in developing  an adequate  infrastructure  by  providing 
voluntary  contributions  earmarked  for much needed  expenses. 
Another way  in which Member  States  could  assist  the  Secretariat would be 
to offer  expertise  through  the  secondment  of experts  to help  in tasks  such as 
the creation of  a rapid  response  information  network;  the development  of 
creative proposals  for particular  disputes; and  the  training  of  middle-level 
staff  in political  analysis  and dispute-resolution.  This  kind  of  contribution 
from Member  States has become  commonplace  in the area of  peace-keeping, and 
could  also be very useful  in the development  of preventive  diplomacy. 
Preventive-diplomacy  units will need  to establish  a  rapid-response 
information  network which can provide  continuous  and  reliable  information and 
which will be  responsive  to changing  situations.  Members  could  assist  the 
Secretary-General  by providing  regular  information  on disputes, tensions and 
developments  in their  region.  A wide  range of  sources would  allow 
preventive-diplomacy  staff  to examine  the  reliability  of  information  and would 
provide  them with  the  full  range  of perspectives  on  the  issues  involved.  Of 
course,  an  independent  capacity,  on the part  of  the Secretariat,  to  assess 
relevant  information  will be  a crucial  element  in determining  its  credibility 
and usefulness. 
A/47/PV.31 
23 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
Regular  and  routine visits  to the  capitals  and  "hot  spots" of  the  region 
would  allow  Secretariat  staff  to  identify  emerging  disputes,  to  track 
developments  in existing  disputes,  to develop  a sense of  trust  and a 
reputation  for  fairness,  to urge  the parties  to come to  the negotiating  table 
and to offer good  offices  and mediation when  it is deemed  appropriate.  Such 
visits would  also  allow United Nations  staff  to coordinate  on  a  regular  and 
consistent basis with United  Nations  agencies  in the  field,  as well  as with 
regional  and  subregional  organisations. 
Members  could  assist United  Nations  staff  in developing  contacts  within 
their countries  and  their  region  and  facilitate  and encourage  regular  visits 
of preventive  diplomacy  staff.  This would  allow quiet  diplomacy  to develop  in 
a manner which did not  call  attention  to itself, and which did not 
"internationalise"  the dispute.  Routine visits would, we believe, be more 
acceptable  to parties  than  formally  constituted  "fact-finding" missions, 
especially  if  carried  out  as  standard United  Nations  practice  throughout  all 
reqions.  Thus we believe that quiet  diplomacy  and early prevention  should be 
the essence  of preventive  diplomacy.  Such  a mechanism  will, we believe,  be 
more acceptable  to Members  and,  therefore, more  effective. 
Finally, Members  may be  able to assist  the Secretary-General  and his 
staff  in providing  or  supporting good  offices  and mediation.  The  assistance 
of the five Central American  Presidents  in the  resolution  of  the El  Salvador 
dispute and  the Paris Conference  on Cambodia  are but  two examples  of how  third 
parties can assist  the United  Nations  in dispute-resolution  through  persuasion 
or the development  of  new  ideas or proposals. 
Australia  therefore  urges Members  to do everything  they can to  support 
the efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to establish  an effective  mechanism  for 
A/47/PV.31 
24-25 
(Mr. Butler.  Australia) 
carrying  out preventive  diplomacy.  In terms of United Nations  operations, 
preventive  diplomacy  is certainly  cost-effective  when  compared  to 
peace-keeping  operations  or  peace-enforcement. 
But, even more  importantly,  it  is cost-effective  in human  terms.  When 
disputes  are  resolved  through preventive  diplomacy,  we  can  avoid  the  tragic 
and wanton  loss of  life of  countless men, women  and  children,  such  as we are 
now witnessing  in Somalia and  the  former Yugoslavia.  The  needless  destruction 
of homes, cities  and  social  infrastructure  could be  averted.  Resources  that 
would have been  spent on weapons  and war  could be  available  instead  to be 
applied  to the  social  and economic  problems  of  these  societies.  When  disputes 
are  settled  through preventive  diplomacy,  grievances  are  lessened  or 
ameliorated,  and hostilities between peoples  do not  fester  and grow  into 
reverberating  echoes of violence. 
Of  course,  some parties will not want  to  avail  themselves  of  preventive 
diplomacy,  and,  even when  they do, in some cases  it will  not work.  But even 
if preventive  diplomacy  is effective  only  now  and  then,  it is worth  the 
effort.  If, by having  an effective  preventive  diplomacy-mechanism  in place, 
we could have prevented  one  situation  from deteriorating  into  a Somalia or a 
Yugoslavia  or  an  Iran-Iraq  war  or  an Afghanistan  or  a Cambodia,  would  it not 
have been worth while?  Should  we not proceed  with  all haste  to prevent  the 
possibility  of  future bloodshed  in disputes  such as those brewing  in 
Nogorno-Karabakh,  Georgia  and  elsewhere? 
A new time'requires  new  approaches, bold  steps.  Preventive  diplomacy is 
one such  step.  It would  provide  a clear  response  to  the particular  challenges 
we  face  in this  new  international  era. 
A/47/PV.31 
26 
Mr. VAZQUEZ  (Argentina)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  I have  the 
honour  to  speak on behalf  of  the  countries members  of  the Permanent  Mechanism 
for Consultation  and Political  Concertation,  known  as the Rio Group 
that is, 
Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,  Ecuador  and Honduras, on behalf  of  four 
Central American  countries; Jamaica, on behalf  of  11 countries members  of  the 
Caribbean Community  (CARICOM);  and Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay,  Venezuela  and 
Argentina. 
Our  countries  have  felt  impelled  to take part  in the debate on  agenda 
item  10, the  report  of  the Secretary-General  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace". 
That  report, which was  requested  by the Security  Council  Summit Meeting  held 
on 31 January  1992, is a valuable  instrument  that enables  us to  initiate  an 
immediate  debate  on  the  strengthening  and  the  future  of  the Organization.  We 
also consider  it necessary  for the debate  to take place  in the  General 
Assembly,  the only principal  organ of  the United  Nations with  universal 
membership. 
It  is appropriate  to  recall  that  the Rio Group took the  initiative  of 
issuing  statements,  circulated  as documents A/47/232  and  S/24025, prior  to the 
submission of  the  Secretary-General's  report.  We have noted with  satisfaction 
the existence  of  a broad  area of  agreement between our proposals  and  the 
contents  of  "An Agenda  for Peace". 
The  international  community  has  entered  a new  stage, one  in which  the 
United Nations  is undoubtedly  reserved  an important  role.  In order  to live  up 
to the challenges  of  the new era, we must deal with  issues  relating  to 
collective  security within  the framework  of  a renewed  commitment  to the  letter 
and the  spirit of  the United Nations  Charter.  In  so doing, we  shall be  able 
to begin without  delay  the  task of  strengthening  the United Nations  in the 
spheres  of preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and  peace-keeping. 
A/47/PV.31 
27 
(Mr. Vazquez.  Argentina) 
The  Secretary-General's  report  introduces  a number  of  interesting 
concepts  and proposals.  Some of  them  are aimed  at  the  full  enforcement  of the 
United Nations  Charter, others  at  improving  the work  of  the  Organization. 
There  are  also  innovative  proposals.  All of  them  open  the way  for  reflection 
and decision-making.  Today, we  should  like  to expound  on our  Group's  initial 
position. 
The  framework  for  a discussion  of  this document  must, we  repeat, be the 
letter  and  spirit  of  the Organization's  Charter.  In particular,  that 
discussion must  be based  on  respect  for the principles  of  sovereignty, 
non-intervention,  sovereign equality,  the  territorial  integrity  of  States, the 
self-determination  of peoples, and  the powers  and  areas  of  competence  of the 
principal  organs of  the United  Nations. 
First, we  should  like  to discuss  the concept  of preventive  diplomacy. 
The  analysis  of this  issue  is  important  for  all United  Nations  bodies  and 
regional  organizations  and, because of  its undeniable  impact  on  the 
revitalization  of  the United  Nations  system,  it  should  be  the  subject  of 
direct  consultations  between  the Secretary-General  and Member  States. 
At  its  last  session  the General  Assembly  made  an  important  contribution 
with  the  adoption by  consensus  of  resolution  46/59, which  includes  the 
Declaration  on Fact-finding by  the United Nations  in the  Field  of  the 
Maintenance  of  International  Peace  and  Security.  Since  its  inception,  the Rio 
Group has  considered  social  and economic  instability  an  important  factor in 
the generation  df  conflicts.  Measures  aimed  at promoting  economic  and social 
development  must  be  included  in the concept  of preventive  diplomacy. 
Secondly,  another  important  aspect  of  the Secretary-General's  report is 
the question  of peacemaking.  The  General  Assembly,  the Security  Council and 
A/47/PV.31 
28 
(Mr. Vazquez.  Argentina) 
the Secretary-General  are empowered  to take measures, excluding  the use of 
force, to  limit  the magnitude  of  a conflict  and  lead  the  search  for  a 
solution.  Regional  organizations  can also play  an  important  role  in  this 
connection. 
All  efforts  to promote  a diplomatic  settlement  of disputes  should  be made 
in a timely manner.  The mechanisms  for  the peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
provided  in Chapter  VI  of  the Charter must be exhausted  before  recourse  is had 
to other measures. 
We  support  a  discussion  of whether  the General  Assembly  should  authorize 
the Secretary-General  to  request  an advisory  opinion of the  International 
Court of Justice  in the case of disputes  in which  the  Secretary-General  has 
been requested  to  act or has been  assigned  a. role and  the States parties  to 
the dispute give  their  consent  for  such  a  request  to be made. 
Thirdly, with  regard  to peace-keeping  operations,  it  is important  to 
recognize  that  such operations  constitute  a  relevant  tool  for  the 
international  community  to use  in leading  conflicts  towards negotiations,  and 
sometimes  for  containing  armed  confrontation. 
Such peace-keeping  operations  are perceived  by  international  public 
opinion as one  of  the most  effective  and prestigious  activities  of  the United 
Nations, and  they generate  high  expectations.  Such prestige  is certainly  well 
deserved  and  entails  a  high degree  of  sacrifice  from  the men  and women  who 
take part  in these  operations. 
Over  the past  40 years  the United  Nations  Secretariat  has  acquired  a high 
level of experience  in handling  peace-keeping  operations.  The  Secretariat  and 
Member  States, through  the Special  Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations, may 
improve  those  operations  and make  the necessary  adjustments  to the  rather  new 
A/47/PV.31 
29-30 
(Mr. Vazquez.  Argentina) 
characteristics  and patterns  that emerge.  In that  connection we  should  like 
to emphasize  General  Assembly  resolution 46/48. 
Today,  one of  the most  serious  constraints  such activities  face  is 
financial  in nature.  Yet  the cost of peace-keeping  operations  is  infinitely 
lower  than the  cost of war.  It  is important  to ensure  the  Organization's 
financial  ability  to carry out this  task. 
For  the Rio Group,  the  financing  of peace-keeping  operations  is a 
collective  but  differentiated  activity.  In this, the permanent  members  of the 
Security  Council  have  a special  responsibility.  The present  system  of 
financing  must be given predictability  and  stability  by  the 
institutionalization  of the  system  of  assessed  contributions  established  in 
General  Assembly  resolution  3101  (XXVIII). 
Fourthly,  the consolidation  of peace  once  conflicts have  ended  is a 
concept  related  to that of preventive  diplomacy.  The  Rio  Group  considers that 
this process  should  focus, through  concrete measures,  on the economic  and 
social  spheres  as well  as on all  those  areas directly  related  to the various 
aspects of  security. 
Fifthly, we have  already made  reference  to regional  organizations.  A 
closer  relationship  between  the United  Nations  and  those  organizations must be 
sought within  the  framework  of Chapter  VIII  of  the United  Nations  Charter and 
the charters  of  those organizations.  The  Rio Group  considers  that  the current 
and potential  role to be played  by  the  regional  organizations  in preventive 
diplomacy  and peacemaking  and peace-keeping  is very  important.  In that 
connection  the Organization  of American  States  has  already  stated  its 
willingness  to cooperate  with  the United  Nations  and  coordinate  its efforts to 
improve  collective means  of preventing  and  solving  conflicts. 
A/47/PV.31 
31 
(Mr. Vazquez.  Argentina) 
In  its document  the Rio Group has  also brought  up  some points  relating  to 
the Security  Council,  the body with  the primary  responsibility  for  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  Given  the  increasing  role of  the  Security 
Council,  it is becoming  ever more  necessary  that  its work  reflect  a clear 
awareness  that  in carrying  out  its tasks  the Council  acts on behalf  of  the 
Members  of  the Organization.  The  Security  Council's  deliberative  and 
decision-making  processes must  be  transparent.  While  the value  and  usefulness 
of informal  consultations  should  not be overlooked,  Article  31 of  the  Charter, 
regarding  the participation  of  States  that  are not members  of  the  Security 
Council  in those questions  that  affect  their  interests, should be borne  in 
mind. 
Today more  than  ever  before  it is important  to highlight  the  role  that 
could be played  by  the  reports of  the Security  Council  to the  General 
Assembly.  Such  reports, in  so  far as they  are  substantive,  could be  the 
channel of  communication  between  the Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly,  as provided  for  in Article  15, paragraph  1 and Article 24, 
paragraph  3 of  the Charter.  As  regards  decisions  of  the Security  Council  that 
affect  third parties, practical mechanisms  need  to be  set up  for the  effective 
implementation  of Article  50 of  the  Charter. 
The Rio  Group  has  identified  other  suggestions  included  in the 
Secretary-General's  report  that  in its view will undoubtedly  also  call  for  a 
slow and  careful  analysis by  all Member  States.  We  shall  not  try to  cover 
them all and we  shall mention  just  a few:  an  invitation  from  the  Security 
Council  to a revitalized  and  restructured  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
report on events  that might  threaten  international  peace  and  security; 
A/47/PV.31 
32 
(Mr. Vazquez.  Argentina) 
preventive  deployment  of a United Nations presence  along  the border  of  a party 
to  a conflict  at the  request  of  that party  and  a request  for  unilateral 
preventive  deployment  if there  is fear  of  a transboundary  attack;  the 
establishment  of demilitarized  zones  as a form  of preventive  deployment; 
preventive  deployment  in the event  of  an  internal  crisis  in  a  country,  at its 
request;  the use of military  force  in accordance  with  the mechanisms  provided 
for  in Chapter VII  of  the Charter; early  adherence  to  the  special  agreements 
provided  for  in Article  43 of  the Charter,  in order  to put  troops  at  the 
disposal  of  the Security  Council  on  a permanent  basis; the  establishment  of 
peace-enforcement  units; the adoption of measures,  including  those  provided 
for  in Chapter VII of  the Charter,  in the event  of  threats  to  the  security of 
United Nations  staff members; and various proposals  for  the  financing  of 
peace-keeping  operations. 
The  Rio Group considers  that  the  foregoing  issues  are of great  importance 
and  require urgent  examination by  the  international  community.  In this 
context, we  should now turn to the question  of  the procedures  that  should be 
adopted  for a practical  future  discussion  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace" and  the decisions  required to 
implement  it. 
The  Security  Council has  set up  a working group made up of  its members to 
identify  the areas that  should be  considered  and  acted  upon by  the Council. 
Some  subsidiary  organs of  the General  Assembly  have  already begun  examining 
the report  of the  Secretary-General. 
In the  light of the  foregoing,  the Rio Group  considers  it advisable  for 
the General  Assembly  to establish  an open-ended  working group  that  would 
examine  the  "Agenda  for Peace" and  submit  to the Assembly  recommendations  or 
A/47/PV.31 
33 
(Mr. Vazquez.  Argentina) 
decisions  on  those proposals  that  are of  concern  to the General  Assembly. 
That working  group would  undoubtedly  contribute  to the establishment  of a 
dialogue with other  organs  to which  the  report  is addressed  and would  provide 
political  orientation  for  the  specialized  subsidiary  organs.  The  member 
countries  of  the Rio Group  are  convinced  that because  of  its importance  and 
scope the  "Agenda  for Peace" deserves  our deep  appreciation  and  that we  must 
carefully  analyse  it.  That  is the  reason  for our  interest  in creating  the 
proposed  working  group. 
We cannot  finish  this  statement without  recalling,  as we did  in the  Rio 
Group document,  that 
"international  peace  and  security will be genuinely guaranteed  to the 
extent  that  the underlying  causes of conflicts  are eliminated.  In 
reaffirming  the  importance  of economic  and  social development  as one of 
the basic  premises  underlying  the strengthening  of  international  peace 
and  security, we believe  that, along with violations  of  the Charter  and 
other  norms of  international  law, the disparity  in wealth  between 
nations, which  leads  to crises  caused  by a whole  series of  unmet needs, 
may be an important  source of  instablility  in the post-cold-war  world." 
(A/47/232,  annex, para.  5) 
The Rio Group  considers  that,  although  it is true that  the  "Agenda  for 
Peace" constitutes  a document  of  far-reaching  importance  for the  Organization 
as far  as its management  and  its objectives  are concerned,  it must  be 
remembered  that peace  is only one of  the  issues  that  deserve our  greatest 
attention.  A more  intense  focus on development  could  consitute  the  "kind 
face" of the Organization,  and  for that  reason  it seems  to us  that  the  "Agenda 
for Peace" proposed  by  the  Secretary-General  must be  accompanied  by  a true 
A/47/PV.31 
37 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
In the past  this provision was  invoked  in  a  number  of  situations,  albeit 
less  frequently  than  required.  Let us only mention  that  in the  early  1950s a 
particular  aspect  of  the  situation  in the Balkans,  arising  from military  and 
political  pressure  of  a super-Power  on  a smaller  State, was  considered  by the 
General  Assembly  on that basis.  Action by the Assembly  contributed  very 
considerably  to the containment  of that  situation  and prevented  its potential 
deterioration  into  an armed  conflict. 
At  this very  session  the General  Assembly  was  informed  by  the  Foreign 
Ministers  of  Italy  and Austria,  two of  Slovenia's  neighbours,  that  the 
situation  concerning  the German-speaking  inhabitants  of  Alto Adige  or  South 
Tyrol,  in Italy had been  successfully  resolved.  It  is worth  recalling  that 
the General  Assembly  took up that  situation,  in 1960, on the basis  of 
Article  14 of  the United  Nations  Charter.  The preventive  effect  of  that 
action was  important,  and may  serve  today  as a source  of  inspiration  for 
dealing with  certain  new  situations. 
The provisions  of Article  14 of  the United  Nations  Charter  are  invaluable 
for the General Assembly,  which may 
at the  initiative  of  a Member  State or 
of  the  Secretary-General  - address  any political  situation,  "regardless of 
origin", much before  it deteriorates  into an open  dispute  or  even  into a 
situation  involving  a threat  to  international  peace  and  security. 
Article  14 of  the United  Nations  Charter  clearly permits  various  types of 
action by the General  Assembly.  According  to an  advisory  opinion of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  delivered  in  1962 
to be  found  in 
International  Court  of Justice  Reports,  1962, page  163 
the General  Assembly 
may not only make  substantive  or procedural  recommendations  regarding  "the 
peaceful  adjustment"  of  the  situation, but,  so the Court  said, may  take any 
measure  short  of  coercive  action.  In our  opinion,  therefore,  the  General 
A/47/PV.31 
38 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
Assembly  may  create working bodies  and develop various methods  to  supervise 
the implementation  of  its decisions  concerning  situations  considered  on  the 
basis of Article  14 of  the Charter.  It goes without  saying  that  in pursuit  of 
such an approach  a certain  amount  of  imagination  and  a great  deal  of hard 
diplomatic work would  be  required. 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
contains  a  series  of  ideas  concerning  cooperation between  the United  Nations 
and regional  arrangements  and organizations.  Indeed,  it would be  a  serious 
omission  if that  aspect  of  international  efforts  for the maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security were  overlooked.  The  Secretary-General 
correctly  states,  in paragraph  61 of  the  report  that 
"The Charter  deliberately  provides  no precise  definition  of  regional 
arrangements  and  agencies, thus  allowing  useful  flexibility." 
It is important  to understand  the  changing  nature of  such arrangements  in 
changed  circumstances,  that  is, the  fact  that  some  regional  arrangements  may 
become obsolete, while  others gain new roles  and potential which go 
substantially beyond  the original  design. 
Recent  changes, in particular  those  that  took place  in Europe, have 
illustrated  the dynamic  nature of  regional  arrangements  with  abundant 
clarity.  Whereas  some organizations,  including  the Warsaw  Treaty 
Organization,  ceased  to exist, others,  including  in particular  the  Conference 
on Security  and Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE), gained  completely  new  roles 
which are much more  ambitious  than originally  designed. 
In some  instances  new circumstances  give  rise to the  creation  of  entirely 
new groupings,  such  as  the Central  European Group 
formerly  known  as the 
"pentagonal" and  for  a period  of  time  as the  "hexagonal" group. 
The new  and  dynamic  roles of  regional  arrangements  can be  seen  in all 
A/47/PV.31 
39 
(Mr, Tiirk. Slovenia) 
regions of  the world,  and they  include  a variety  of groups, such  as  the 
Association  of South-East  Asian Nations  (ASEAN),  the Rio  Group  and others. 
How best  can the United Nations  take  advantage  of this dynamic  element  in 
international  relations  and, more  specifically,  how useful  can  such  groups 
become  in the  future  activities  of  the General  Assembly? 
An  interpretation which would  limit this potential  only  to  the  framework 
defined  in Article  53 of the Charter 
that  is, the utilization  of  regional 
arrangements  by the Security Council  for enforcement  action 
would  certainly 
fall  short of  actual  needs.  In order  fully  to utilize  their potential  and to 
realize maximum  effect,  it  is necessary  to develop  a continuous  and  productive 
dialogue, perhaps within  the General  Assembly,  focused  on those  issues  which 
can best be understood  in the context  of  regional  arrangements.  Full 
advantage must be taken of the  fact  that  regional  arrangements  - as  a rule 
provide  an important  opportunity  for understanding  local  circumstances,  the 
roots  and  the history  of  a given problem,  and possible  solutions.  It is not 
necessary  that  such a dialogue with  regional  arrangements  be made  contingent 
upon  any  formal  stipulation.  The  important  requirement  here  is that  it be 
conducted  in accordance with the principles  of  the Charter  and  that  it yield 
proper  and practical  results.  The  relations between  the United  Nations  and 
regional  institutions  should be  seen  in terms not of  subordination  but  of 
cooperation  and dialogue. 
I  should now like to proceed  to  a  specific  thematic  issue which  has 
recently  given  rise to serious  consideration,  namely  to  the  issue  of  national 
and ethnic minorities.  The  General  Assembly will  soon have before  it a 
declaration  on  the rights of persons belonging  to national  or  ethnic, 
religious  and  linguistic minorities.  The  Secretary-General  has  reminded  us in 
his  "Agenda  for Peace" that  "The League  of Nations  provided  a machinery  for the 
A/47/PV.31 
40 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
international  protection  of minorities".  The  adoption of  that  declaration, 
"together with the  increasingly  effective machinery  of  the United  Nations 
dealing with human  rights,  should enhance  the  situation of minorities  as well 
as the  stability of  States".  (A/47/277, para.  18) 
Here,  as we  see, the Secretary-General  has placed  a great  deal of hope  in 
United  Nations machinery  dealing with human  rights.  However,  a note of 
caution  seems  appropriate.  Like all other  international  machinery  in the 
field of human  rights, the human  rights mechanisms  of  the United  Nations  lack 
specific experience  in dealing with questions  involving  different  minorities. 
Furthermore,  such  situations  usually  involve  a political  dimension which goes 
beyond human  rights  considerations,  and this  should be duly  heeded. 
A/47/PV.31 
41 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
Coordinated  action by the human  rights bodies of  the United  Nations  and 
the appropriate  political  organs, including, when  circumstances  so warrant, 
the General Assembly,  would  be appropriate.  I referred  earlier,  in  the 
context  of my  references  to Article  14 of the Charter,  to  specific  situation 
involving  a minority 
the German-speaking  inhabitants  of 
Alto Adige/South Tyrol  in Italy 
a situation which was  successfully  dealt 
with and  resolved by due  reference  to the General Assembly  resolutions  adopted 
on the basis of Article  14 of the Charter.  It  is worth  keeping  in mind  that 
that  case was  not brought before  the General  Assembly  as o case  involving only 
issues of human  rights.  It was  raised and  resolved primarily  as  a political 
issue.  The  lesson  for the  future  is this:  there  are  situations where  it is 
necessary  to address the political dimension of problems  involving 
minorities.  Let me add  in passing  that  such  situations  often  arise  in areas 
where  there  is no clear  ethnic majority or  in those  States where  there  is no 
single  ethnic majority.  Political  solutions must be  sought  in  such 
situations, and political  organs of the United Nations,  including  the  General 
Assembly,  should be active.  In fact,  the General  Assembly  could  develop  a 
very useful  role  in such matters  and could,  if need be, act  through 
appropriate  ad hoc bodies  constituted  for this purpose. 
We  are  fully  aware  of  the fact that  the  ideas expressed  in this  statement 
require  critical  consideration  and  further  refinement.  We  are  also  looking 
forward  to the  comments  other participants  in this discussion will  have  to 
make.  Like other  delegations, we  too are aware of  the complexity  of  issues 
addressed  in the Secretary-General's  reports  currently  under  consideration. 
However,  all  this  should  not deter  us  from  the  attempt  to  find  new  answers to 
old  and new questions.  The expectations  of world  opinion  are high  and our 
responsibility  is considerable.  It would be  too  ambitious  to expect  that the 
A/47/PV.31 
42 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
debate  of  these  few days  in plenary meetings  alone will yield  optimal 
results.  Therefore we believe  that  it would be appropriate  to  conduct, 
throughout  this  session  of  the General  Assembly,  a series of  informal 
consultations  on  all pertinent  questions  dealt with  in the  Secretary-General's 
reports  currently  being discussed  in plenary meetings, with  a view to 
preparing  appropriate  decisions  to be adopted  at the end  of the  session. 
Perhaps we  should  invite you, Mr. President,  together with the  General 
Committee,  to develop  the most  appropriate working method  of  informal 
consultations which would  help the Assembly  to  formulate  the  right  decisions 
and to  respond  to  the challenges  of our  time, including  in particular  those 
reflected  in the  Secretary-General's  reports.  It goes without  saying  that  the 
representatives  of Slovenia will  assist  in such an endeavour  to the best of 
their  abilities. 
The  PRESIDENT:  I should  like to inform  representatives  that, with a 
view to  assisting  delegations  in their deliberations  under  agenda  item  10, the 
Secretariat  has prepared  a paper  compiling  all of the specific  recommendations 
contained  in the  report of  the Secretary-General  entitled  "An Agenda  for 
Peace".  The  document was  issued yesterday  under  the  symbol  A/INF/47/5  and is 
available  at  the documents  distribution  counter. 
Mr. HAJNOCZI  (Austria):  Austria welcomes  this opportunity  to 
comment  on this year's  report of  the Secretary-General  on the work  of  the 
Organization  (A/47/1), which builds on his  earlier,  seminal  report  "An Agenda 
for Peace"  (A/47/277).  Both  are timely and  inspiring  documents.  Timely, 
because never  before have  countries  and peoples  of  the world  relied more  on 
the United  Nations; timely, because 
as Austrian  Federal  Chancellor  Vranitzky 
put  it during  the  Summit  Meeting  of  the Security  Council  on  31  January: 
A/47/PV.31 
43 
(Mr, Hajnoczi.  Austria) 
"... the end of  the cold war has  freed minds  and  resources which were  for 
so  long bound by  a wasteful  and useless  confrontation".  (S/PVt3046,  Pt61) 
Inspiring,  because  the world  is now <> better but  less  stable  place,  which 
creates  almost  daily new tasks  and new challenges  for  the  Organization. 
In the  Security  Council  Austria has  advocated  substantive  and  urgent 
consideration  of  the  recommendations  in the Secretary-General's  report  "An 
Agenda  for Peace" concerning  the Council  since  the report was  issued  in June. 
We hope  that  such a consideration will now take place  there, with  Council 
members  having  the benefit  of  the views heard  during  the general  debate  and 
again  today.  Foreign Minister Mock has  already  expressed  Austria's  support 
for  further  efforts  to  improve  the capacity of  the United  Nations  in 
conflict-prevention,  peace-keeping,  peacemaking  and  peace-building. 
Today,  I shall  therefore  limit myself  to commenting  on  aspects  which 
concern primarily  the General  Assembly.  While  I shall  attempt  to be  as 
succinct  as possible, one more general  remark  is in order:  instability  and 
insecurity have many  sources 
military,  political, economic,  ethnic, 
religious,  social, humanitarian  and ecological.  We must  therefore  take an 
integrated,  comprehensive  approach even  though  it will  be  implemented  only 
step by  step. 
The  Secretary-General  shares  this view 
and has  expressed  it much more 
eloquently.  Austria  supports  the  following  recommendations  concerning  the 
General  Assembly 
in the order  in which  they  appear  in his  report  "An Agenda 
for Peace":  increased  resort  to  fact-finding missions, especially  for 
preventive  purposes, with the understanding  that  there will  be  a  follow-up; 
impartially  provided  humanitarian  assistance,  including  civilian  assistance in 
maintaining  security;  utilizing  the General  Assembly's  role  as  a  universal 
A/47/PV.31 
44-45 
(Mr. Hainoczi.  Austria) 
forum  to  consider  and  recommend  action  to pre-empt  or  contain  situations 
likely  to  threaten  international  peace  and  security;  authorizing  the 
Secretary-General  to  take advantage  of  the advisory  competence  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice; mobilizing  the  resources  of  the whole  United 
Nations  system  for  the  amelioration  of disputes  through  assistance; 
consideration  of  the  idea of  financing  peace-keeping  operations  from  defence 
budgets;  improving  training  for civilian, police  and military  peace-keeping 
personnel; promoting  good governance  at all  levels.  Here we would  stress  in 
particular  the  strengthening  of democratic  processes  and  institutions,  which 
the United  Nations  can  foster by providing  advice,  assistance  and monitors; 
consultations  between  the United Nations  and  regional  arrangements 
in the 
case of  Europe, Austria has proposed  the creation of  a liaison  mechanism 
between  the United  Nations  and  the  relevant European  arrangements,  in 
particular  the Conference  on Security  and Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE),  whose 
Conflict  Prevention  Centre  and  Security  Forum  are both  located  in Vienna 
recommending  measures  to  improve  the safety of United  Nations personnel; 
charging  interest  on the  amounts  of  assessed  contributions  that  are not  paid 
in time;  increasing  the Working  Capital  Fund  and  the establishment  of a 
revolving peace-keeping  reserve  fund. 
A/47/PV.31 
46 
(Mr. Hainoczi.  Austria) 
Austria  also welcomes  the strong emphasis  given  in the  report  on  the work 
of  the Organization  to the  role of  the United  Nations  in  international 
economic  relations.  The overwhelming  problems  of poverty,  underdevelopment, 
population pressures, mass migration, depletion  of  the ozone  layer,  global 
warming  and environmental  degradation  cannot be dealt with  successfully  by any 
one  country  or  any group  of  countries  no matter  how powerful  they might  be. 
These global  issues  force  all nations  to acknowledge  their  interdependence. 
It  is to be hoped  that  this will  lead  to greater  solidarity  and  equity  in the 
dealings  of nations with  one another.  The United  Nations,  and probably  only 
the United  Nations, can provide  a framework  in which  this  new  global 
partnership  for  sustainable  development  can be  translated  into  concrete  policy 
formulation  and  implementation.  Austria pledges  its  full  support  for  the 
Secretary-General  in pursuing  the goals  that he  formulates  in his  report  for 
the United  Nations  in the economic,  social  and  related  fields.  In this 
context we  feel  that  it would  be desirable  to  find  appropriate  ways  to 
consolidate  the  formidable  analytical  capacity  of  the United  Nations  system so 
that economic  policy guidance  can be given by  the United Nations  that  would 
indeed  influence  political  decisions  of economic  actors by virtue  of  the very 
quality  of  the assessments  on which  the  recommendations  are based.  We  have 
formulated  detailed  proposals  concerning  a  system  of  consolidated  reports in 
the context  of  the Economic  and  Social  Council's  ad hoc  Committee  on Enhancing 
International  Cooperation  for Development:  The  Role  of  the United  Nations 
System. 
In his  report  on  the work  of  the Organization,  the Secretary-General  has 
also  rightly  emphasized  the  importance  of  the promotion  of human  rights  as one 
of  the priority  objectives  of  the Charter,  along with preserving  international 
A/47/PV.31 
47 
(Mr. Hainoczi.  Austria) 
peace  and  security  and promoting  development.  He has  also  stressed  their 
interrelatedness.  Austria  supports  his proposal  that he  and  expert  human 
rights bodies be  empowered  to bring massive  violations  of human  rights  to the 
attention of  the  Security  Council,  together with  recommendations  for  action. 
We also wholeheartedly  endorse his view that  the United  Nations must be  able 
to take preventive  measures  and  that  the World  Conference  on Human  Rights, to 
be held  in Vienna  in  1993, will be  important  in this  regard.  A  report  from  a 
group of  experts  commissioned  by  the Secretary-General  on possible  preventive 
strategies  in the  social, humanitarian  and human  rights  fields  could  be  a 
useful basis  for our  further  deliberations. 
To  sum up:  Austria  is profoundly  convinced  of  the  inextricable 
interrelationship  between  the political,  the  socio-economic  and  the 
humanitarian missions  of  the United  Nations.  It  is our hope  that  in the 
course of  this  session of  the General  Assembly,  and  inspired by  the  proposals 
of the Secretary-General, we will be  able to advance  on all  tracks  in our 
pursuit  of  a more  just world  order where men, women  and  children  in every  part 
of the globe  can  live  in peace  and  freedom  and enjoy  a fair  share  of  the 
Earth's  resources without  jeopardizing  their  children's  ability  to do  the  same 
in the  future. 
Mr. MONTANO  (Mexico)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  The  Mexican 
delegation  fully  supports  the  statement  made by  the Permanent  Representative 
of Argentina,  on behalf  of  the Rio Group,  in relation  to the present  agenda 
item.  We  should  nevertheless  like  to note  a number  of points which  are of 
particular  interest  to  the Government  of Mexico. 
The  invitation  to  the Secretary-General  by  the  summit  meeting  of  the 
Security Council  to  submit  to the membership  of  the United  Nations  an  analysis 
A/47/PV.31 
48 
(Mr. Montano.  Mexico) 
and  recommendations  on ways  of  strengthening  and making more  efficient  the 
capacity  of  the United Nations  for preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and 
peace-keeping,  was  undoubtedly  a response  to  the universal  concern  to  find 
adequate  formulas  for meeting  the challenges  the community  of  nations  faces as 
a  result  of  the end of  the cold war. 
The  content  of  "An Agenda  for Peace" calls  for  joint  reflection  and 
invites  us to  seek,  in constant  dialogue with  the Secretary-General,  the means 
and mechanisms  for giving  the United Nations  the necessary  capacity  to 
discharge  its delicate  mandate  in the maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  The holding  of  this  debate, which we have  always  urged  and 
encouraged,  is convincing proof  of our  interest  in the  report,  the  importance 
we  attach  to  it, and  the need  for careful  consideration  of  its  recommendations. 
"An Agenda  for Peace" is rich  in ideas, imaginative  in conception  and 
ambitious  in the proposals  it makes, on a par with  the great  challenges  facing 
the Organization.  It makes  contributions  which  already  undoubtedly  lay the 
foundations  for  the new and more  enduring  structures  the United  Nations  needs 
in this  new phase  of  international  life, which  are  referred  to  clearly  in the 
"Report  of  the  Secretary-General  on the work  of  the Organization",  which was 
submitted  recently  for  consideration by  the General  Assembly. 
Progress  in building  these  structures  calls  for  a concerted  effort  by all 
Members  of  the Organization,  and  accordingly  the Secretary-General's  statement 
in  "An Agenda  for Peace" that  the  foundation  stone  of  the work  of  the United 
Nations  "is  and must  remain  the State"  (para. 17) seems  to us  fundamental. 
Respect  for  the  fundamental  sovereignty  of  States  is critical  in  any 
international  process.  This  is a matter  of practical  realism,  not  simply  a 
position of  principle. 
A/47/PV.31 
49-50 
(Mr. Montano.  Mexico) 
The  ideas  contained  in the  report  aimed  at achieving  a better  balance 
between  the principal  organs  of  the United  Nations  appear  to us timely  and 
appropriate.  The  strengthening  of  the Organization must be  carried  out  within 
the  framework  of  the  functions  and  responsibilities  assigned  to each  of  the 
principal  organs.  The primacy which  the Charter  assigns  to  the  General 
Assembly,  as  the Organization's  universal  and pluralist  governing  body 
par excellence  needs  to be  recalled  and  reaffirmed.  One of  the tasks  the 
Secretary-General's  report puts before  us is that of  achieving  greater 
coordination  between  the Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  in questions 
relating  to  international  peace  and  security. 
Strengthening  the  Secretary-General's  capacity  for action  is an  important 
step towards  creating  an Organization  capable  of  responding  in a timely  and 
effective manner  to  the growing  demands placed  upon  it by Member  States. 
Hence,  the  continued  importance  of  smooth  coordination  between  the  functions 
of the Secretariat  and  those  of  the principal  organs. 
The  Secretary-General's  report  is valuable  not  only  for  the proposals  it 
contains but  also  for  the  ideas  it  suggests.  We believe  that  the chapter  on 
preventive  diplomacy  could well be  supplemented  by  the one  that  deals  with 
post-conflict  peace-building.  In particular, we  consider  that  support  should 
be given  to the  idea that  the efforts  to  identify  and  support  structures  which 
will  tend  to  consolidate  peace  and  advance  a sense  of  confidence  and 
well-being  among people  should  also be  regarded  as preventive  mechanisms. 
A/47/PV.31 
51 
(Mr. Montano.  Mexico) 
Mexico's  experience  as a member  of  the Group of  Friends  of  the 
Secretary-General  in the dispute with El  Salvador  confirms  this  view. 
Likewise, we consider  that  an affirmative  response  should be  given  to the 
recommendation  that  the Secretary-General  be  authorized  to  seek  advisory 
opinions  from  the  International  Court of Justice, of  course with  the  consent 
of  the States  involved.  We believe  that  this will  also  strengthen  the 
Secretary-General's  capacity  for preventive  diplomacy. 
As we have noted,  the  concepts  and  ideas  in the  report merit  careful 
study.  In particular, we  feel  that greater  clarity  is needed with  regard to 
some of  the more  innovative  proposals,  such as preventive  deployment.  This is 
a concept which needs  to be more precisely  defined  in order  to make  it  clear 
in what  situations  and  in what way  that mechanism would  be  employed.  We 
should point  out at  this  juncture  that  the  adoption  of  any measure  that might 
impair  sovereign  rights or be  transformed  into  an excuse  to  intervene  in the 
internal  affairs of  States would  cause us  concern. 
In the same  context, we  consider  that what  is  referred  to as: 
"support  for the transformation  of deficient  national  structures  and 
capabilities,  and  for the  strengthening  of new democratic  institutions" 
(A/47/277, para.  59) 
-  albeit  a worthy proposal  - merits  cautious  consideration,  since  these  ideas 
fall  exclusively within  the  sovereignty  of  States. 
My delegation  is aware  that  the  content  of  the  "Agenda  for  Peace" should 
not be viewed  as a fixed package, but  as  a set of proposals  applicable  to the 
short,  the medium  and  the  long  term.  Like  any political  endeavour,  it  calls 
for  in-depth  and  substantive  analysis  of  its costs  and benefits. 
Nevertheless,  in defining  the priorities  a pragmatic  approach  needs  to be 
A/47/PV.31 
52 
(Mr. Montano. Mexico) 
taken that will make it possible to identify, on the basis of daily practice, 
problems capable of being resolved in the shortest possible time.  In this 
respect, there is an urgent need to define and lay the foundations for 
recognition of the fact that there are members of the international community 
which bear greater responsibility for meeting the financial requirements 
needed to guarantee international peace and security. 
Mexico wishes forcefully to support the proposal made by the 
representative of the United Kingdom on behalf of the Twelve that, as soon as 
possible, a monument should be erected as a tribute to those who have fallen 
in the course of peace-keeping operations. 
A document such as the one we are considering today needs to be viewed 
in the broader context of the Organization's activities as described in the 
Secretary-General's report (A/47/1), which correctly avers that States see the 
United Nations as an instrument capable of maintaining international peace and 
security, of "advancing justice and human rights, and of promoting, in the 
words of the Charter, social progress and better standards of life in larger 
freedom". 
As the Secretary-General rightly points out in his report, the historic 
time we are living through constitutes "an opportunity regained" (A/47/1. 
Introduction).  We have entered upon a new phase of international life which 
makes it incumbent upon us to fulfil the promises and expectations that in 
recent decades were disappointed.  It is time for the United Nations to have 
the means, including the political will, needed to give shape to the 
responsibility conferred on it by the Charter to promote economic and social 
development. 
A/47/PV.31 
53 
(Mr. Montano.  Mexico) 
We  agree  that  the United Nations: 
"is  the only  institution  capable of  comprehensively  addressing  global 
problems  in their political, humanitarian  and  socio-economic  dimensions." 
(A/47/1, para.  68) 
The  international  structure  requires  better  and more  effective  diplomatic 
instruments  for  conflict prevention,  and  for peace-building.  But  this 
structure  is clearly  fragile  if  it does not  include mechanisms  for  ensuring 
the  full economic  and  social development  of  all peoples.  The  need  to  take an 
approach  that  integrates  the objectives  of peace  and  security  with  the overall 
objectives  of development,  at an equivalent  level of priority,  is an  idea that 
meets with  our  strongest  support.  We  shall  seek to work  together  with  the 
Secretary-General  to make  the development  programme  he proposes  in his  report 
a  reality. 
Just  as the  Security  Council  has begun  analysing  "An Agenda  for Peace", 
we  consider  it appropriate  for  the General  Assembly,  as a principal  organ of 
the Organization  and  the only one  that  is universal  in nature,  to do  the same. 
Subsidiary  bodies of  the Assembly  have  already  taken  important  steps  in 
considering  specific  aspects  of  "An Agenda  for Peace".  Their  deliberations 
will be of  the greatest  importance,  and  they  should  continue  their  valuable 
work. 
For  this  reason we most  strongly  support  the proposal  made  by  the Rio 
Group  to the effect  that  it would  be desirable  for  the  General  Assembly  to 
establish,  under, its guidance,  a working  group  to consider  "An Agenda  for 
Peace".  Such  a group, of  open-ended  composition,  will  enable  us  to  deal 
systematically  and  in detail  with  the  content  of  the  report.  It will  also 
open up  channels  for dialogue  among  all Member  States on  the  important  ideas 
A/47/PV.31 
54-55 
(Mr. Montano.  Mexico) 
and proposals  contained  in the  report,  thus  facilitating  the  adoption  of 
decisions  on those  issues which merit  the consensus  support  of  this  forum. 
Our  idea  is not  aimed  at usurping mandates  or at  impeding  specialized 
consideration.  On the  contrary, we  are  seeking  to bring  into being  a 
framework  for  analysis which will of  itself  constitute  an active example  of 
the principles  of democracy  and  transparency  in the work  of  the  Organization. 
The suggested working  group  and  the  concomitant  efforts  being made will be  the 
melting pot  of  ideas  that  is  so much  needed  if we  are not  to  lose  the 
"opportunity  regained". 
Mr.  SARDENBERG  (Brazil):  The  representative  of Argentina  has 
already expressed  on behalf  of  the Rio Group,  to which Brazil has  the honour 
of belonging,  the basic  considerations  of our  delegations  on the document  "An 
Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277). 
While  fully  endorsing  those views, which  reflect  to a large  extent  the 
content  of  document  A/47/232  circulated  by  the Rio Group  last May,  I would 
like to comment  further  on  some of  the elements  contained  in the  report 
presented  by  the  Secretary-General. 
I wish  to thank  the  Secretary-General  for having prepared  such a 
far-reaching  document  containing many new and  relevant  ideas  and proposals. 
As stressed by  the  spokesman  for the Rio Group,  some of  them  aim  at  promoting 
the observance  and  implementation  of  the provisions  of  the Charter;  others 
seek to improve  the practices  of  the Organization.  The  ensemble  of  these 
ideas calls  for  thorough  consideration  by the entire membership  of  the United 
Nations. 
A fast-evolving  international  environment  entails  a search  for  conceptual 
frameworks  capable  of  dealing with  change.  A wide-ranging  dialogue  is  called 
for in the  interest  of  all States. 
A/47/PV.31 
56 
(Mr. Sardenberg.  Brazil) 
In the post-cold-war  era, when  the arms  race, which has  consumed  hundreds 
of billions  of dollars  annually,  is beginning  to abate,  the opportunity  should 
not be  lost to address  all dimensions  of  concern,  including  social  and 
economic  inequalities  at the international  level.  As  the  representative  of 
Brazil  said  in the opening  speech of  the general  debate, 
"An agenda  for peace  cannot  overlook  the  agenda  for  development". 
(A/47/PV.4. p.  22-25) 
While  strengthening  the  relevant  activities  of preventive  diplomacy, 
peacemaking,  peace-keeping  and post-conflict  peace-building,  we must  also 
strengthen  the capability  of  the United  Nations  for  the equally  urgent  task of 
preventive  peace-building. 
It is becoming  increasingly  clear  that  to maintain peace  it  is not enough 
to achieve  a state  of  the  absence  of war.  Peace  should be  understood  as a 
dynamic  process  encompassing  the  concomitant  promotion  of  fair  international 
economic  relations,  strict  respect  for the  rule of  law, within  and  across 
borders,  and  the democratization  of  international  relations. 
As the  representative  of Argentina  indicated,  the Rio  Group  has 
identified  a number  of  important  questions  contained  in  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
that  require  careful  consideration  by the Members  of  the Organization. Many of 
the  ideas presented  in the  Secretary-General's  report 
ideas  such  as 
preventive  deployment,  peace-enforcement  units, early warning  and  sanctions 
under  Chapter VII  - are more  of  a military  and  intelligence-related  nature. 
In the view of my delegation,  a peace  agenda  should  also  underscore  the 
importance  of  instances  of  a political  and diplomatic  nature. 
In the broadest  sense,  it could be  said  that  all  activities  of  the United 
Nations  are devoted  to preventive  diplomacy.  To be effective  and  successful, 
diplomatic  activities  require  a considerable  degree  of  flexibility  and 
A/47/PV.31 
57 
(Mr. Sardenberg.  Brazil) 
creativity.  All peaceful means  provided  for  in the Charter  must  be  exhausted 
before military  or other  enforcement  action  is resorted  to.  There  should  be 
no automatic  resort  to action entailing  the use  of military means. 
Before  expanding  on,  or extrapolating  from,  selected  provisions  of  the 
Charter, we must  endeavour  to make  full  use of  the  resources  already  provided 
for in the Charter.  One may,  for  instance,  contemplate  a more  active  role  for 
the General  Assembly  pursuant  to Article  14, under which  the Assembly  may 
recommend  measures  for  the peaceful  adjustment  of any  situation deemed  likely 
to affect  international  peace  and  security.  It  is incumbent  upon us to give 
more active  expression  to those provisions. 
In this  context,  there  is an  important  role  for  fact-finding  activities, 
as regulated by  the Declaration  on Fact-finding by  the United  Nations  in the 
Field of  the Maintenance  of  International  Peace  and  Security,  adopted  last 
year  in resolution 46/59. 
Another  mechanism  that  could be more  fully exploited 
this  time  to 
facilitate  the work  of  the  Security  Council 
is the provision  in Article  29 
for the establishment  of  ad hoc  subsidiary  organs, composed  not  only of 
Council members, but  also of  relevant  parties  involved  in a  situation 
affecting  international  peace  and  security.  In this  regard, more  than  20 
years ago  a memorandum  by Brazil  appeared  in document  A/7922,  in which we 
suggested  that  the  Security  Council  consider  the desirability  of  establishing 
ad hoc committees  for  the peaceful  settlement  of disputes; we proposed  that, 
when appropriate,  and with due  regard  to the  relevant  provisions  of  the 
Charter,  the Council  could  refer  to  such  committees  any dispute  as  described 
in Article  33 of  the Charter,  or  a similar  situation  in order  to promote  or 
facilitate  a solution  in accordance  with  the purposes  and principles  of  the 
Charter. 
A/47/PV.31 
58 
(Mr, Sardenberg.  Brazil) 
These  ideas  are but  a few examples  of diplomatic  tools  for  preventive 
diplomacy  and peacemaking  that  are  already  contemplated  in  the Charter  and 
could be better  utilized  by the  Organization. 
The  strengthening  of  the United Nations  in the  field of  international 
peace  and  security  requires  the  strengthening  of  all  its  relevant  organs.  The 
Charter  provides  the conditions  for  the effective  and harmonious  functioning 
of  these different  bodies, without  conflict  of  competence.  Their  actions can 
and  should be mutually  reinforcing. 
To prevent what  the Secretary-General,  in his  report  on  the work  of the 
Organization  (A/47/1) warns  is a possible  "crisis of  expectations", we must 
provide  adequate  resources  and conditions  of work  for  all  relevant  organs, 
which  in recent  times have gone  through  a  somewhat  unbalanced  process  of 
revitalization.  In  fact, document  A/47/1  reports, on page  6  "Expanding 
activities  of  the Security  Council",  an  "Expanding  role of  peace-keeping" and 
"Expanding mandates  of  the Secretariat",  but  no  corresponding  expansion for 
the General  Assembly  can be  reported  at this  stage. 
The  report  on the work  of  the Organization  presents  data  and  tables that 
underscore  the dramatic  increase  in the work-load  of  the  Security  Council and 
the related  increases  in peace-keeping  operations  and  Secretariat  activities. 
But, as my delegation  sees  it, we ought  to avoid  the  assumption  that  any and 
all matters  affecting  international  peace  and  security  should  necessarily be 
dealt with  at the  level of  the  Security  Council.  There  are  instances  in which 
the General  Assembly  may have  an  important  role  to play.  In others  it might 
be more  appropriate  to entrust  the  leading  role  to  regional  organizations. 
Practice  should  allow  for  a harmonious  and  coordinated  complementarity  of 
roles between  the Security  Council,  the General  Assembly,  the  Secretary-General 
A/47/PV.31 
59 
(Mr. Sardenberg.  Brazil) 
and,  as the  case may be,  regional  organizations  or  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. 
An effective  peace  agenda  should  seek to promote  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly's  role  in the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
by making  full use of  the possibilities  foreseen  in Articles  10, 11, 13, 14, 
15 and  17 of  the Charter.  In situations  of  international  tension or crisis, 
an appropriate  presence  and  action of  the General Assembly  should be  felt 
immediately  and  constantly. 
More  room  should be provided  for the political  and diplomatic  efforts  of 
the parties  to the  conflict  themselves  and of  regional  organizations.  We 
believe  that  there  should be  clear  recognition  of  the  fact  that  the  actions or 
arrangements  of  the United Nations  and of  regional  organizations  can  and 
should be mutually  reinforcing  and  complementary.  But  it should  also be 
recognized  that  the United Nations  and  the  regional  organizations  have  their 
own Charters  and  their  specific mandates  and  competence.  Cooperation  between 
the United Nations  and  the  regional  bodies  should be carried  out  on the basis 
of coordination  and  consultation. 
Turning  specifically  to the many  concepts  and  recommendations  contained 
in "An Agenda  for  Peace", my delegation would  like to express  some views, 
without prejudice  to  further  deliberations, which we believe  should  be 
undertaken  in  the working group whose  creation was  today  suggested  by  the 
representative  of Argentina  on behalf  of  the countries members  of  the  Rio 
Group. 
Preventive-diplomacy  activities  should be  conducted  strictly  in 
accordance with Chapter  VI  of  the Charter.  Peacemaking  activities  should  be 
guided by  the definition  contained  in  resolution  46/48, which was  adopted  last 
year.  Peace-keeping  operations,  for  their part,  should  scrupulously  follow 
A/47/PV.31 
60 
(MrT  Sardenberg.  Brazil) 
the principles  and practices  accumulated  by  the Organization  in  acquiring 
experience  in these matters.  In view of  the  limited  nature  of  existing 
precedents  concerning  the enforcement  activities  undertaken  under  Chapter VII, 
suggestions  and  recommendations  as to their  future modalities  should  be 
thoroughly  and  carefully  examined by  the membership  at  large.  Post-conflict 
peace-building  is still  an evolving  idea to be  carefully  implemented  in 
accordance with  the needs  and wishes  of  the parties  concerned.  Thorough 
attention  should  be given  to the task of preventive  peace-building,  taking 
into account  the overall mandate  and  resources  of  the United  Nations  system. 
My delegation believes  that  there  is a need  for greater  communication and 
dialogue between  the Security  Council,  the General  Assembly  and  the 
Secretary-General  in the  field of  international  peace  and  security.  In the 
light  of Article  24, there  is a need  for enhanced  transparency  in  the 
Council's  deliberative  and decision-making  processes;  a  need  for  more 
effective  consultations with United Nations Members  who  are not members  of the 
Council; and a need  for the Council  to  listen  to  the wider  membership  of the 
Organization.  In this  respect,  the annual  report  submitted  by  the  Security 
Council  to the General  Assembly  pursuant  to paragraph  3 of Article  24 is an 
important  instrument, which  should be made  less  formal, less opaque  and more 
substantive. 
We welcome  the trend  to make  the activities  of  the  Secretariat  more 
transparent  and more  accountable  to all Member  States.  Early-warning 
information  collected  by  the United Nations  system  should  be made  available 
promptly  and  systematically  to  the Member  States  concerned,  as  they  are the 
parties most  interested  in prompt  and  appropriate  action. 
A/47/PV.31 
61 
(Mr. Sardenberg.  Brazil) 
On the  subject  of  financing,  the  specific  suggestions  contained  in  "An 
Agenda  for Peace" and  in the  report  of  the Secretary-General  on the work  of 
the Organization  should be  subjected  to a thorough examination  by  the  proper 
subsidiary organs  of  the General  Assembly.  The  special  scale of  assessment 
for the financing  of peace-keeping  operations  recognizes  the  special 
responsibilities  of  the permanent  members  of  the Security  Council  and  reflects 
the effective  capacity  of Member  States  to pay, which  is not  reflected  as 
clearly  as  it should  be  in the  regular  budget. 
As was  clearly  stated  in the Rio Group document  of  28 May  1992: 
"Considerations  of political  and economic  realism make  the  current 
financing  system  the only viable mechanism.  It is therefore  necessary  to 
make  the  system predictable  and  stable by  adopting permanently  the 
current  system  of  contributions  for  the  financing  of  peace-keeping 
operations  established  under General  Assembly  resolution  3101  (XXVIII) 
and subsequent  resolutions."  (A/47/232, annex, para.  22) 
As crisis  after  crisis  unfolds  in this  rapidly evolving world  situation, 
new, and at times unprecedented. United Nations  operations  and missions  are 
being promptly  decided  upon  and  set up  and quickly  dispatched  to  different 
areas of the world.  Not  all of  these operations  or missions  can properly  be 
called "peace-keeping" operations.  The  decisions  on those operations  and 
missions are difficult  decisions  that have  in most  cases been  taken under  the 
pressure of  time  and  circumstances  and on an ad hoc basis. 
The maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  should be  a  shared 
endeavour of  the Security  Council, the General  Assembly,  the  Secretariat,  the 
relevant  regional  organizations  and  the States  involved  in  specific 
situations.  The  complexities  and diverse  nature of  crisis  situations make  it 
A/47/PV.31 
62 
(Mr. Sardenberg.  Brazil) 
difficult,  if not  impossible,  to have  recourse  to  standardized  mechanisms. 
Each  crisis  is unique. 
But  it  is clear  that decisions must be based  on the  consistent  and 
non-selective  application  of  the provisions  of  the Charter.  The  General 
Assembly  has yet  to develop  and adopt  a clear  set of guidelines  for  these 
operations, which have become  a central  aspect  of  the  activity  of  our 
Organization.  That  is an  important  and urgent  part  of  the task  ahead  of us in 
the days  and weeks  to come. 
Ultimately,  the prestige  and  legitimacy  of  the United Nations  role  in the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  rests  on the good  governance 
of  the Organization  itself.  That  can be ensured  in the  functioning  of  the 
relevant  organs by means of  transparency,  equity,  representation, 
accountability  and mutuality  of benefits  and obligations  on a 
non-discriminatory  basis.  We must  see to  it that  the  functions  and powers of 
each organ, as well  as  its composition,  ensure  efficiency  and  authority.  In 
deepening  our  deliberations  on the building  of  a new peace  agenda, we  should 
keep  in mind  the need  to apply  these parameters  consistently  in the 
institutional  and  functional  restructuring  of  the  relevant  bodies  of  the 
United Nations. 
Mr. HIDALGO  BASULTO  (Cuba)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  Today we 
are considering  two documents  of  fundamental  importance  to the United  Nations 
and  to its  future:  the report of  the Secretary-General  on  the work  of the 
Organization  since his  assumption  of his office  and  the document  entitled  "An 
Agenda  for Peace",  submitted by  the Secretary-General  purusant  to the  request 
made  to him  by  the Security Council  at  its meeting  on 31 January  1992. 
A/47/PV.31 
63 
(Mr. Hidaloo  Basulto.  Cuba) 
We  are particularly  grateful  to Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  for  his 
initiative  in making  this  second  text  available  to the  forty-seventh  session 
of the General  Assembly;  it has  already been  receiving, because of  its 
implications,  the most  careful  attention  of  the whole  international  community, 
and not only of  the  small group  of  countries  that  requested  its  preparation. 
We  also welcome  the  fact that  a substantive  debate  is taking place  this 
year on the now  traditional  General  Assembly  agenda  item  10.  We believe  that 
a broad and  in-depth  discussion  of  the  information  furnished  us by  the 
Secretary-General  from year  to year with  regard  to the  tasks undertaken  by the 
United Nations  and  the Organization's  prospects,  as well  as his  own  perception 
of the future,  should become  a sound practice  of the General  Assembly,  and 
should not be held  only when  a specific  text  arouses our  interest. 
While we  shall  try to  refer  so far as possible  to both  documents, which 
complement  each other  to  a considerable  degree, we will  focus primarily  on 
"Agenda for Peace", given  its  importance  to the  future  role being planned  for 
the United Nations. 
As we  see  it,  a series of  elements  necessarily  come  together  in any 
analysis of  this document.  If we  disregard  them we  risk  arriving  at mistaken 
or incomplete  conclusions, with  all  the consequences  that  that would  entail 
for the development  of  truly democratic  procedures within  the Organization  and 
for the preservation  of  its independence  as the  representative  of  the 
plurality of  interests  that  coexist,  and must  continue  to coexist, within  it. 
The Secretary-General  himself,  in his historic  statement  at  the  Tenth 
Conference of Heads  of  State or  Government  of Non-Aligned  Countries,  recently 
held in Jakarta,  Indonesia,  underscored  aspects  of  the  contemporary 
A/47/PV.31 
64 
(Mr. Hidaloo Basulto. Cuba) 
international scene that are already setting trends within the United Nations 
and that are thus inevitably a part of the analysis we are beginning today, 
aspects that must to a considerable extent guide us to our conclusions. 
On that occasion we were reminded by the Secretary-General that 
"The temptation to dominate, either world-wide or regionally, remains." 
He also alerted us to the fact that that temptation 
"threatens the weaker and poorer States, which are still the most 
numerous in the world." 
The thrust of Mr. Boutros-Ghali"s statement was to urge the non-aligned 
countries, the weakest, poorest and most numerous States of the planet, not to 
give in to defeatism, but, rather, to help the United Nations in the efforts 
it must make to confront the situation, to speak out and to remain faithful 
"unflinchingly faithful," in his inspired words - to the concept of national 
sovereignty, the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of 
States and the practice of real economic cooperation. 
The principles emphasized by the Secretary-General should be strictly 
observed, without exception and without discrimination of any kind, and 
mechanisms should be designed to defend the Organization against any 
temptation to use it as an instrument, either voluntary or involuntary, for 
violating those principles or exercising policies of domination.  We are 
convinced that that would constitute the best, most complete and most 
effective agenda for peace we could design within the framework of our 
international Organization and in defence of the concepts enshrined in the 
Charter. 
In that connection,we must express our concern and unease over the 
development within the United Nations of certain concepts, practices and 
A/47/PV.31 
65 
(Mr. Hidalgo  Basulto.  Cuba) 
trends  that  flagrantly  contradict  the principles  I have  just mentioned.  We 
also note with equal  concern  that  the document we  are beginning  to  consider 
not only  fails  to  suggest measures  to curb those phenomena, but  includes 
concepts  and proposes mechanisms  that would  tend,  in practice, to  strengthen 
them. 
A/47/PV.31 
66 
(Mr. Hidaloo Basulto. Cuba) 
To Cuba, any idea that tends to introduce criteria that would limit State 
sovereignty, or any sort of conduct that smacks of intervention or 
interference in the internal affairs of States Members of the Organization, 
is unacceptable, in whatever guise and under whatever pretext.  By the same 
token, we cannot accept absolute concepts of democracy that are based on 
models that are foreign to us and that generally correspond to those of the 
old colonial Powers.  In our view, the essence of democracy lies in allowing 
peoples to exercise self-determination on the basis of their own cultures, 
their own values, their own traditions, their own historical experience and 
their own religious beliefs, free of outside attempts, especially on the part 
of an Organization such as the United Nations, to exercise power and influence 
over them. 
What sort of democracy is it when a small group of countries, taking 
refuge behind the Organization, arrogate to themselves the almost-boundless 
power of making war; when they feel entitled to meddle in affairs that 
rightfully fall under the jurisdiction of other States; when, in clandestine 
councils where no one knows exactly what is happening, they impose their own 
interests, picking and choosing which matters they will act on and which ones 
they will simply ignore; when they are constantly trying to augment that power 
by assuming functions not their own, interpreting the Charter at their whim 
and intervening in activities within the exclusive domain, either of States 
themselves or of other bodies of this institution? 
Against that backdrop, if we allow the advancement of ideas that tend to 
grant even more power to the powerful, if we help them in their endeavour to 
pursue a policy of domination by manipulating our Organization, will we not, 
by acts of commission or omission, be making it easier, to violate the 
A/47/PV.31 
67 
(Mr. Hidalgo  Basulto.  Cuba) 
principles  to which  the  Secretary-General  referred  and which  should  be  gaining 
in sanctity  as  the cornerstone  of  all our  actions  in this unstable,  unipolar 
world?  Did  the  Secretary-General  himself  not  remind  us  in Jakarta  that  in 
accordance with  Article  2, paragraph  7 of  the Charter,  the United  Nations 
would never  interfere  in the  internal  affairs  of  a State, either  under  the 
cover of preventive  diplomacy  or  for the  sake of humanitarian  action? 
Would  the  acceptance  of  some of  the proposed  mechanisms  not be  a call  to 
undermine  the position  of  the Secretary-General,  as expounded  in an address  to 
more than  108 Members  of  the Organization, when  in fact we  should  all be 
supporting him  so that  he can  fulfil  that  solemn promise  that he made  to the 
non-aligned  countries? 
If we  really want  our  Organization  to play  the  role  for which  it was 
conceived,  expressed  with  the utmost  clarity  in the purposes  and  principles 
that make up the very basis of  the Charter, we have no choice but  to create a 
genuine climate  of  confidence  in the United Nations.  In no way  can that be 
achieved  through  the  random  and unrestricted  application  of the  operational 
mechanisms proposed  in the document  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace".  In our 
view, at least,  that  is not  the way  to gain  the confidence  of  the poorest, 
weakest  and most  numerous  States  in the world. 
If we  really want democracy,  confidence  and  a community  of  interests  to 
prevail  in the United  Nations,  for the attainment  of  the peace  and  security  to 
which we  all  aspire,  then  instead  of giving more power  to the powerful  by 
increasing  the  Security  Council's  exercise  of  its powers, which would 
inevitably  result  from  the application  of  the mechanisms proposed  in that 
document, we  should,  on  the  contrary,  radically  reform  the Council, prevent  it 
from assuming  functions  that  are not within  its mandate, as  it does by 
A/47/PV.31 
68 
(Mr. Hidalgo Basulto. Cuba) 
interfering in the internal affairs of States.  We should redefine the 
conditions of permanent membership, do away with the antidemocratic and 
antiquated privilege of veto, limit the uses and abuses of Chapter VII of the 
Charter and give the Council a membership, structure and operational 
procedures that are in line with the aspirations of the majority of nations 
represented in this Hall and that reflect the objective changes that have 
taken place on the international scene since the founding of our Organization 
almost 50 years ago. 
In paragraph 169 of his report, the Secretary-General points out that 
"Democracy within the family of nations means the application of its 
principles within the world Organization itself." (A/47/1, para. 169) 
He then goes on to say, 
"Preserving the moral authority of the United Nations requires the 
fullest consultation, participation and engagement of all States, large 
and small, in the work of the United Nations." (ibid.) 
Viewed in this framework, the document entitled "An Agenda for Peace" 
lacks  a clear, appropriate and consistent assessment of the responsibilities 
of the General Assembly and its obligations vis-a-vis the Security Council. 
In short, it should not be forgotten that the Council acts, or at least it 
should act, according to the Charter, on behalf of all States Members of the 
United Nations, to which it is answerable.  Therefore, it is the General 
Assembly  the only United Nations organ in which we are all represented 
that must bear responsibility for discharging the tasks of effectively 
supervising the work of the Council, preventing abuses of power and hegemonic 
tendencies within it and drawing up the necessary recommendations so that that 
body's functioning will be more democratic and more transparent. 
A/47/PV.31 
69 
(Mr. Hidalgo  Basulto.  Cuba) 
We  are pleased  that  in the  introduction  to his  report  the 
Secretary-General  reaffirms  that his  fundamental  priority  is the  full 
application  of  the principles  of  democracy between nations  and within  our 
Organization.  That  statement  encourages  us and gives  us hope  that  in the 
not-too-distant  future Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali will propose  concrete 
measures  to  turn  that  laudable  aspiration  from words  into deeds. 
We  cannot  fail  to note  that while  the report  of the  Secretary-General 
does attach due  importance  to the work of  the United Nations  in  connection 
with international  economic  cooperation  for development, whether  or not we  are 
in agreement with  all  the elements  included  therein,  that dimension  is, for 
all practical  purposes,  absent  from  the document  entitled  "An Agenda  for 
Peace".  Lest we  forget,  the  revitalization of a strategy  for  the 
comprehensive  development  of  the  third world  and  the eradication  of  poverty, 
illiteracy  and poor  sanitary  conditions,  to mention  just a  few of  the problems 
tragically  afflicting  the countries  of  the South,  should be  at the very  centre 
of United Nations  attention.  There  can be no peace  in the world  until  the 
international  economic  system  is substantively  altered  for  the  sake of  the 
economic  and  social  advancement  of  the underdeveloped  countries. 
But  in order  to  achieve  that end,  the  structures  of  the United  Nations 
must operate  effectively,  not  only  at the  level of  technical  or  humanitarian 
assistance but  also  in the very planning  and  implementation  of  a global 
strategy  for  sustainable  development  based  on justice  and  equity. 
It is essential  to  strengthen  the  functions  of  the General  Assembly  and 
its democratic  machinery  and not yield  to the  ideas of  some who,  on  the 
contrary,  aim  to weaken  the powers  of  this principal  organ  in that  sphere, or 
to the designs  of  others whose  intention  it  is to do away  totally with  role of 
A/47/PV.31 
70 
(Mr. Hidalgo  Basulto. Cuba) 
our  Organization  in the  field of economic  and  social development.  To  allow 
this would  be to contradict  the very words of  the Secretary-General,  who  notes 
in paragraph  57 of his  report, 
"...the United Nations  as an  institution  is uniquely  placed  to press for 
global  solutions  to global problems  in the economic  field whether  they 
pertain  to aid,  trade, technology  transfer,  commodity  prices  or debt 
relief."  (A/47/1, para.  57) 
A/47/PV.31 
71 
(Mr. Hidalgo  Basulto.  Cuba) 
Not  to  resolve  in the  short  term  the development  problems  affecting  the 
third world,  however  hard we work  towards  eliminating  the unfortunate  problems 
that occur  - and unfortunately  they will  continue  to occur 
in  different 
areas of  the  South, would  be  tantamount  to contradicting  the  conviction 
expressed  by the  Secretary-General  himself  in Jakarta,  to the effect  that 
"As  long  as underdevelopment  persists, with  its  long  train of  frustration 
and violence,  none of  our  victories, however  remarkable, will be  assured 
for any  length of time." 
It is obvious  that  the United Nations  Secretariat, with  its  experience 
and its efficiency,  must play  a role of a far-reaching  nature  in any effort  to 
strengthen  the Organization  and  to  facilitate  the  task of each one of  its 
organs  in carrying  out  the  functions  for which  it was  conceived.  We  believe 
that in this  framework,  geographical  distribution within the  Secretariat  must 
be inspired by democratic  ideas  akin  to those  that  should  inspire  the  rest  of 
our Organization.  It  is not  and would  not be  acceptable  for  Secretariat 
posts,  including  higher  posts, to be preassigned  to persons  of  a  determined 
nationality,  however  powerful  their  countries  of origin may be.  Hence we  must 
warmly welcome  paragraph  42 of  the  report  of  the Secretary-General,  in which 
we are told  that  there  is an intention  to  avoid  the politicization  of  the 
Secretariat  and  to  resist pressures  from outside  that  favour  a few at  the 
expense of  the majority.  Mr. Boutros-Ghali  can  rely on Cuba's  complete 
support  in this  undertaking,  and we hope  that  the changes  that  take place  in 
the future  in the  organizational  chart,  including  the higher  posts, will  be a 
reflection of  that  resolve. 
The document  "An Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277) proposes  to us a  series  of 
concrete  ideas  that would  lead  to operational  mechanisms  that  require  at  least 
A/47/PV.31 
72 
(Mr. Hidalgo  Basulto. Cuba) 
some preliminary  comment.  Suffice  it to  say that  like most  of  the  States 
Members  of our Organization,  we  are encouraged  by  the proposal  to  strengthen 
the capacity  of  the United  Nations  to avoid  threats  to  international  peace and 
security.  None  the  less, we do note with  concern how  some of  the  concepts 
pervading  the  report,  its  structure  and  important  omissions  in the  description 
of  the operational  mechanisms  suggested  seem  to  reflect  a lack of  certain 
cardinal  principles  that  should  inevitably  govern  our  work. 
I  should  like to  refer by way of example  to  the  subject  of  preventive 
diplomacy, where  the principles  of national  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity 
and non-interference  in internal  affairs must be  fully  respected,  just  as the 
principle  of prior  request  and  consent  of  a  State  to which  it  is planned  that 
a  fact-finding mission be  sent must  be  respected. 
Along  the  same  lines, and  also by way of  example, we  feel  that  the 
concept  of preventive  diplomacy which  is mentioned  in the  document  is not 
reflected  clearly enough  for all of  its  implications  to be  fully  understood. 
Everything would  seem  to indicate  that  reference  is being made  to  problems 
that  are exclusively  national 
in other words, internal  - over  which, 
according  to the Charter,  the Organization would  not have  jurisdiction,  and 
also  to the  initiation  of  operations  in the  course  of which  it would  be easy 
to violate  the  sovereignty  of a State.  The  same  applies  to  the  list  of 
situations  that might  constitute  a threat  to the peace, whose  length  and 
degree  of generality  could  lead  to  interpretations  that  are  potentially 
harmful  to  the  real  application  of  the above-mentioned  principles. 
Is  it our  intention  to have  the Organization  and  its  structures  devote 
their best  efforts  to our monitoring  each  other? 
A/47/PV.31 
73 
(Mr. Hidalgo  Basulto.  Cuba) 
Likewise, paragraph  44, on  the  "peace-enforcement  units", also  contains 
elements  that  are of  concern  as  far  as preservation  of the  sovereignty  and 
integrity of  States Members  of our  Organization  is concerned;  and 
paragraph  59, which  refers  to 
"support  for  the  transformation  of deficient  national  structures  and 
capabilities,  and  for  the strengthening  of new democratic  institutions", 
would  seem  to be  aimed  at  imposing  upon  sovereign  countries  pre-determined 
models  arbitrarily  defined,  such as  the ones  to which we have  already  referred. 
All of  this, as we  see  it,  shows  that  the document  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
requires profound  study  and  a much more  detailed  debate  than the one we  are 
conducting  now or  that we  are able  to conduct  now,  and  that  it  is  necessary 
for us to devise ways  of promoting  that discussion  and of determining what  we 
are all prepared  to accept  and what, because of  its  implications, we  should 
reject.  We  support  the proposal  for the establishment  of  a working group  of 
the General  Assembly  devoted  to this  task. 
I should  like, finally,  to  thank the Secretary-General  for  introducing  a 
document which,  although  it does  not necessarily  command  general  support  on 
each and every one  of  its aspects, does have  the great merit  of  compelling  us 
all to think  about  the  future  of our  Organization  under  the new conditions  of 
our world  today,  and which was  certainly prepared with  the  commendable 
intention of  strengthening  the United Nations  at a time when,  in spite  of  all 
our efforts, dangers  still  outweigh hopes. 
Mr. OSVALD  (Sweden):  I have  the honour  to  speak on behalf  of  the 
five Nordic  countries, Denmark,  Finland,  Iceland,  Norway  and  Sweden. 
The Nordic  countries  welcome  the Secretary-General's  report  "An Agenda 
for Peace"  (A/47/277).  We have  studied  it with  appreciation.  The  report 
A/47/PV.31 
74-75 
(Mr,  Qsvald.  Sweden) 
deals with  crucial  issues of principle  and policy  that merit  a  thorough 
discussion by  the General  Assembly,  the Security Council  and other  relevant 
United  Nations  forums. 
In the document  "Shaping  the Peace:  The United  Nations  in the  1990s" of 
23 October  1991  (A/46/591),  the Nordic  countries have put  forward  proposals on 
possible  elements  for  an  integrated United Nations  approach  to  peace-making, 
peace-keeping  and,  as a last  resort,  enforcement  action. 
In a message  to the Summit Meeting  of  the Security  Council,  "The 
Reykjavik  Statement  on the United Nations" of  22 January  1992  (S/23457, 
annex), we have  further  elaborated  on how to  improve  the  capability  of the 
United  Nations  in these  areas.  Moreover, Nordic  proposals  have been presented 
in the Special  Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations  and on other  occasions. 
A strong United Nations  is our best hope  for  coping with  the  conflicts 
emerging  in the post-cold-war  era.  Ethnic  conflicts,  situations  of grave 
implications  in humanitarian  terms, massive violations  of  human  rights, 
threatening  environmental  disasters  and economic  and  social  injustices  call 
for urgent  action.  Our  foremost  task must be  to  identify ways  and means of 
dealing  effectively with  these  challenges. 
"The end of  the cold war has provided  an unprecedented  opportunity to 
strengthen  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.31 
76 
(Mr. Osvald.  Sweden) 
In the new international  climate  of  cooperation,  the General Assembly  can 
reaffirm  its  responsibility  as an authoritative  forum  for discussion  and 
action on  international  issues, and  the  Security  Council  has begun  to  fulfil 
more effectively  its primary  responsibility  for  the maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security. 
We welcome  the  strengthened  role of  the Security  Council.  It is 
important  that  the decisions  of  the Security  Council  enjoy wide  support  from 
Member  States.  This  requires  close  cooperation between members  of  the 
Security Council  and other Members  of  the United Nations. 
In the view  of  the Nordic  countries, one of the messages  in  "An Agenda 
for Peace" can be  found on the conceptual  level.  Building  on an  emerging 
international  consensus  and on the  statement  from  the summit  meeting  of  the 
Security Council,  the Secretary-General  introduces  a broadened  security 
concept.  Security  can no  longer be  seen only  in a military  perspective. 
Other sources of  instability  in the economic,  social, humanitarian  and 
ecological  fields  are  increasingly  considered  threats  to  international  peace 
and security. 
The Nordic  countries  endorse  the Secretary-General's  views  in this 
regard.  Lasting peace  and  security  can be achieved when  the  necessary 
economic,  social  and environmental  conditions  are in place, when human  rights 
are respected  and  the principles  of democracy  are  applied. 
Post-conflict  peace-building  and  long-term  economic  and  social 
development  can thus not be  separated  from  security  issues.  As underlined  in 
the Secretary-General's  report  on the work  of  the Organization,  an  integrated 
approach  is  required.  A  stronger United Nations  in the  field of  international 
peace and  security must  go hand  in hand with  reformed  and  revitalized 
structures  in the  areas of  economic  and  social  development. 
A/47/PV.31 
77 
(Mr. Osvald.  Sweden) 
We  cannot  avoid  the difficult,  but necessary,  discussion  on how  to  strike 
a balance between the principle  of national  sovereignty  and  the need  for 
collective  international  action  to deal with  threatening  situations, while 
acting within the United Nations  Charter.  Otherwise,  the United  Nations may 
not be  able effectively  to promote  solutions  to conflicts  that  are  internal in 
a geographical  sense but may have  far-reaching  international  ramifications. 
The  Nordic  countries  strongly  support  the  Secretary-General's  view that 
preventive  diplomacy  is the most  desirable  and  efficient  way  to  defuse 
tensions  or contain  conflicts.  The  Secretary-General  should  be provided with 
the necessary  resources  to carry out effectively  his  role under  Article  99 of 
the Charter. 
Access  to adequate,  accurate  and  timely  information  and  analysis  is of 
fundamental  importance  for  the Secretary-General,  the General  Assembly  and the 
Security  Council when  considering  preventive  action. 
We believe  that the Organization  should  rationalize  and  enhance  its 
capability  to collect,  analyse  and disseminate  information  on  situations that 
might  develop  into conflicts.  This  capability  should  encompass  early warning, 
including  assessment  of global  trends.  Information-sharing  by Member  States 
as well  as non-governmental  organizations  to  the United Nations  can provide 
valuable  input.  An operative  link must  be established  between  the  collection 
and analysis  of  information  and  subsequent  action by  relevant United  Nations 
bodies. 
The Nordic'countries  welcome  the dispatch  of  fact-finding  missions by the 
Secretary-General  to areas of potential  or  actual  conflict  and would  like to 
see this practice  developed  and  expanded. 
A/47/PV.31 
78 
(Mr. Osvald.  Sweden) 
Information  on  levels of  armaments, conventional  as well  as weapons  of 
mass destruction,  and  on transfers  of  arms-related  technology  is crucial  for 
early warning  and  thus  for preventive  action.  The Nordic  countries  welcome 
the establishment  of  the Register  of Conventional Arms. 
We  furthermore  encourage  the General  Assembly,  the Security  Council  and 
the Secretary-General  to continue  to take appropriate  action  to prevent  the 
proliferation  of weapons 
especially weapons  of mass destruction 
to  areas 
of potential  or  actual  conflict.  The  Security  Council  should  consider  taking 
a greater  role  in ensuring  compliance  with disarmament,  arms  control  and 
non-proliferation  instruments. 
Access  to  information,  not  least  for early-warning  purposes, may be 
enhanced by establishing  an appropriate  system  for  information-sharing  between 
regional  arrangements  and organizations  and the United  Nations.  This  should 
include  information-sharing  on confidence-building  measures. 
The Nordic  countries  see a promising potential  for  increased  cooperation 
between the United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  also  in other  areas, 
such as peacemaking  and  peace-keeping. 
At  the  summit  meeting  of  the Conference  on Security  and Cooperation  in 
Europe  (CSCE) in Helsinki,  the CSCE explicitly pronounced  itself  as a  regional 
organization  as defined  in the United Nations  Charter.  The basis  for 
strengthening  the  coordination  and cooperation between  the CSCE  and  the United 
Nations has  thus been  laid  in the  areas  I have  mentioned. 
The Nordic  countries  agree with  the Secretary-General  that  preventive 
deployment  of peace-keeping  forces  as a deterrent  to potential  armed  conflict 
should be  considered.  Specific  situations may  arise when monitors  or  a 
peace-keeping  force might be deployed  for preventive  purposes  at  the  request 
of only one  of  the parties  concerned,  on  that party's  side of  a border. 
A/47/PV.31 
79 
(Mr. Osvald.  Sweden) 
The  setting  up of demilitarized  zones  can also,  as proposed  by  the 
Secretary-General, be a useful  preventive  measure. 
Peacemaking  activities, which may  include  good  offices, mediation, 
conciliation  and other  diplomatic  efforts, should play  an  increasingly 
important  role  in the  settlement  of disputes.  However,  to be effective, these 
activities must  be provided with  the necessary  political  support  and  adequate 
resources. 
In the view of the Nordic  countries,  the peacemaking  and  peace-keeping 
activities  of  the United  Nations  are  interdependent.  Coordination  should be 
improved  and enhanced  among  the  relevant bodies  of  the United  Nations  system 
in these  areas. 
Traditional  peacemaking  activities may  in many  cases be  supplemented by 
advisory  services  and training  to  facilitate  peaceful  settlements  of disputes 
and a transition  to democracy.  Contributions  by Member  States  to  the 
establishment  of a stand-by pool of qualified  personnel  in  the  fields of 
electoral  assistance, human  rights  and  civilian  administration  would  be 
helpful  in this  regard. 
An evaluation mechanism  should be developed  within  the  Secretariat with 
the purpose  of  systematically  collecting,  analysing  and  retaining  experience 
gained  from peacemaking  activities,  and  this  could  prove  useful  in other 
similar  situations. 
As pointed  out  in  "An Agenda  for Peace",  the  International  Court of 
Justice  remains  an underused  resource  for  the peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  Parties  to a dispute  should  use  the Court more  frequently.  Member 
States  should  accept  the compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  court.  Increased use 
should be made of  the possibility  to  request  the  advisory  opinion  of  the Court 
A/47/PV.31 
80 
(Mr. Osvald.  Sweden) 
on legal  issues  in order  to prevent  or defuse  a conflict.  The  Nordic 
countries  fully endorse  the  recommendation  of  the Secretary-General  to  support 
the Trust  Fund established  to assist  countries  who  cannot  afford  the  cost  of 
bringing  a dispute  to the  Court. 
The  Security  Council  should  consider  the use of warnings  and  sanctions 
against parties  that  are patently  unwilling  to solve peacefully  conflicts  that 
threaten international  peace  and  security.  To  improve  the  readiness  to act  in 
this regard,  the Security  Council might  consider  initiating  a study on  the 
effectiveness  and management  of different  types of  sanctions.  Special 
consideration  should be given  to the problem  of how better  to alleviate  the 
burden on  third  countries  that  are confronted  with  special  economic  problems 
as a result  of  such sanctions. 
In "An Agenda  for Peace" the Secretary-General  brings  up  the question  of 
a special  arrangement  between Member  States  and the United Nations  in order  to 
make armed  forces  available  to the United Nations  on a permanent  basis.  He 
furthermore  introduces  the new concept  of peace-enforcement  units. 
The possibilities  of  the Charter  in this  regard have  not yet been  fully 
explored.  The  ideas of  the  Secretary-General  are very  important  and merit 
serious consideration.  We  are prepared  to participate  in a discussion  aiming 
at the broadest  possible  agreement. 
The Nordic  countries welcome  the  innovative  approach  and  flexibility 
demonstrated  by the  Secretary-General  and  the Security  Council  in mounting 
increasingly  complex  and  diverse United Nations  operations when dealing  with 
threats to  international  peace  and  security.  However,  in order  to cope with 
the ever-increasing  demands,  it  is essential  that  the peace-keeping  operations 
be put on  a sound  and  secure  financial  basis  through  assessed  contributions. 
A/47/PV.31 
81 
(Mr. Osvald.  Sweden) 
Member  States must pay  their  assessed  contributions  for  peace-keeping 
activities  in full  and on time.  The  overall  funding  of  the  Organization must 
rest on the  collective  responsibility  of  the entire membership.  It  is also 
important  that  troop-contributing  countries  be guaranteed  that  the  United 
Nations will honour  its obligations  to make  adequate  and  timely  reimbursements 
to them.  One of  the priority  tasks of  the General  Assembly  at  this  session is 
to decide  to establish  a  system  for  funding  the  initial  phase  of  peace-keeping 
operations. 
The Nordic  countries would  like to  reiterate  their  strong  support  for the 
establishment  of  a reserve  fund  to  secure  the  financing  of  the  start-up phase 
of peace-keeping  operations.  Both  the Secretary-General  and his  predecessor 
have put  special  emphasis  on  this  idea. 
Adequate  organizational  structures must  also be  created  to deal with the 
new  challenges  in peace-keeping.  The organization  and  operation  of United 
Nations  peace-keeping  must be  streamlined  as much  as possible.  An  integrated 
organizational  and  command  structure would  enhance  effectiveness  and 
coordination.  On matters  such as personnel,  equipment,  logistics  and training 
the Special  Committee  on Peace-Keeping  Operations  provides  a  forum  for 
in-depth  discussions.  The Nordic  countries will  continue  to present  concrete 
proposals  in that  Committee  and  to participate  actively  in  its work.  We have 
noted with  appreciation  the  idea, put  forward  by  the President  of  the United 
States  in the general  debate, of holding  a special  meeting  of  the  Security 
Council  to discuss  various practical  aspects  of peace-keeping  operations. 
A/47/PV.31 
82 
(Mr. Osvald.  Sweden) 
The Nordic  countries  participate  in practically  all United  Nations 
peace-keeping  operations.  We  reiterate  our  offer  to  share our  experience  by 
providing  advice  and  training  to countries  which  are now preparing  for 
peace-keeping  missions. 
Successful  peacemaking  and peace-keeping  efforts  frequently  need  to be 
followed by post-conflict  peace-building  measures.  Peace must  be 
consolidated;  support must  be given  to new democratic  structures;  and  a  sense 
of confidence  and hope  for  the  future must be  created  in countries  previously 
ravaged by war.  These problems  are currently  being  addressed  by  the United 
Nations  in complex  operations  in, for example, Cambodia,  El Salvador,  Angola 
and Mozambique.  We  support  such a comprehensive  approach  to  peace-building. 
We are prepared  to consider  how best  to contribute  to  reconstruction projects, 
de-mining,  the  repatriation  of  refugees, training  of  civilian police or  other 
activities within  the  framework  of  peace-building. 
To conclude,  let me  summarize  the views of  the Nordic  countries  in three 
points: 
First,  the Nordic  countries  strongly  support  the  Secretary-General's 
approach in  "An Agenda  for Peace".  That  document  is very  timely  and  contains 
several proposals  that  should  be  implemented  without  delay. 
Secondly,  decisive measures  should be  taken  to close  the gap between  the 
increasing  and ever more  complex  demands  on the Organization  and  its present 
capabilities  and  resources.  Several  proposals  of  the  Secretary-General 
address this problem.  They  should  be  followed  up. 
A/47/PV.31 
83 
(Mr. Osvald.  Sweden) 
Thirdly,  immediate  action  should be  taken  to  strengthen  the  United 
Nations  capability  for preventive  diplomacy  and  to establish  a  reserve  fund to 
secure  the  financing  of  the  start-up  phase  of peace-keeping  operations. 
We  are prepared  to take part  in a comprehensive  consideration  of  the 
ideas  and proposals  in the Secretary-General's  report.  The  aim  should be to 
reach consensus  on  a series  of proposals  that  could be  implemented  without 
delay.  The  establishment  of  an open-ended  working-group  of  the Assembly  could 
be a mechanism  for  achieving  this goal.  Given  the  large  number  of  proposals 
and  the  complexity  of the  issues,  such a procedure  would  benefit  from  the 
active  involvement  of  the  relevant  organs  of  the General  Assembly  in 
elaborating  the proposals,  as suggested by  the European  Community. 
We must  not miss  this opportunity  to contribute  to a  stronger  United 
Nations.  To quote  the  Secretary-General's  words  in  "An Agenda  for Peace", 
"Now is the time  for  its nations  and peoples,  and  the men  and women who 
serve  it,  to seize  the moment  for the  sake of  the  future."  (A/47/277. 
para.  86) 
Mr. RAZALI  (Malaysia):  Our  discussion  today  is based  on  the report 
of the Secretary-General  on the work  of  the Organization,  document  A/47/1 of 
11 September  1992, and  the  report  of  the Secretary-General  pursuant  to the 
statement  adopted  by the  summit  meeting  of  the Security  Council  on 
31 January  1992, document  A/47/277  of  17 June  1992.  I must  congratulate the 
Secretary-General  on both  documents; both  are  constructive,  forward-looking 
and action-oriented.  I must  congratulate  those  concerned  on the  innovative 
step of having  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the work  of  the 
A/47/PV.31 
84 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
Organization  discussed  in plenary  meeting.  I hope  this practice will  continue 
in the future.  The  two  reports  reinforce  each other  and  seek  to promote  the 
United Nations  and  its activities  in  a  proactive  light,  taking on  the 
challenges  ahead. 
As a third-world  country,  a member  of  the Non-Aligned  Movement  and  of  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  and  a member  of  the Group  of 77, 
Malaysia obviously places  considerable  trust  and expectation  in the  United 
Nations, even  if we were  not  around  in 1945 to be  responsible  for the  manner 
of its inception.  Having  inherited  a United  Nations made very much  in  the 
image of  a few 
specifically  the victorious  Powers 
we  seek  every 
opportunity  now to effect  change  in the Organization.  We believe  that we  have 
now reached  such  a moment,  a point  in time where  reasonable  hopes  can be 
expected  from  changes  in the United  Nations.  We  realize  that despite  dramatic 
and qualitative  developments  affecting  the Organization  and  the  international 
scene, change within  the United Nations  and  in relations  among  States 
conducted within  the United  Nations  system  cannot  happen  overnight;  neither 
can it be  revolutionary.  Change will have  to be a process  conditioned  by  time 
and many other  factors  and,  as the Secretary-General  said  in his  report  on  the 
work of the Organization,  it will be neither  easy nor  risk  free.  But  one 
thing is certain:  there must be  change.  We must  not make  any  irreversible 
mistake that will make posterity  condemn  us  for not  taking  advantage  of a 
historic  opportunity. 
The end of  the  cold war  is generally  accepted  as having been  a turning 
point in the  affairs  of  the world:  after 45 years, countries  do not have  to 
A/47/PV.31 
85 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
live under  the  shadow or  threat of being vassals  of  one  so-called  super-Power 
or  the other.  We  are now determined  that there will  never  be  a recurrence of 
the  situation where  the world  is divided  into  two blocs  and where  that 
conflict  subsumes  all other  important  issues, such as the  dire  need  for 
development  in the South.  Malaysia does  not  agree  that  it was  communism  that 
mired  the world  for 45 years; more  accurately,  it was  the grand  ambition of 
the  super-Powers  that made  the entire globe  the  cockpit  of  its  rivalry. 
There  is a lot of ground  to be made  up after  the neglect  of  those years. 
This  is applicable  to the United  Nations  itself  as an organization.  The 
report  of  the Secretary-General  on the work of  the^Organization  clearly 
indicates  the Secretary-General's  readiness  to undertake  the  necessary changes 
in the Organization.  We wish  the Secretary-General  and his  team well.  At the 
same  time, we urge  that  the widest  consultations  be  attempted  in the process. 
The  Secretary-General  will be exposed  to many  views,  some more  pervasive than 
others.  The end of  the cold war  and  the changing  times  do not mean  the end of 
the pursuit  of primacy  of positions  and  ideas.  Those  that  have  profited from 
the United Nations  as structured  in 1945 will  fight  rearguard  actions to 
perpetuate  their  advantages.  In the  circumstances,  it  is  incumbent  on the 
third world,  through  the Non-Aligned  Movement  or  the Group  of  77, or 
individually,  to hold  strong to  their  collective  views. 
The bottom  line  is that  the United Nations  of  tshe future must  clearly be 
on the  side of  the world's majority.  It must  be  attentive  and  caring  to the 
problems  of  that majority.  Any  change  in the United Nations  through 
restructuring  or  revitalization must  result  in maximizing  the opportunity for 
A/47/PV.31 
85(a-z) 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
the South  and  the third world  to place  their problems before  the  Organization 
for attention  and  redress.  It is  in that  context  that we  in the South must 
make our  views  known  as much  as possible.  We must  take  the  Secretary-General 
at his word; we must  have  faith  in his  invitation  to dialogue.  We must  not 
let the  few continue  to  influence  the United Nations.  We  should  set  targets 
perhaps by  1995 
for discernable  changes within  the United  Nations  to be 
firmly  set  in  train. 
A/47/PV.31 
86 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
In the  report  on the work  of  the Organization,  the  Secretary-General 
singled  out  the  areas  the United Nations would  concentrate  on.  These  are: 
global  partnership  for development; managing  crises  and peaceful  settlements; 
and humanitarian  assistance  and democratization.  In the other  document, also 
known  as  "An Agenda  for Peace", the Secretary-General  elaborated  on the role 
of the Security  Council  and  the  role of  the Secretary-General  in pursuit of 
peace  and  security.  It  is clear  that  for  all  these  objectives  the United 
Nations  as an institution must  be demonstrably  efficient  and motivated  as well 
as clearly  represent  the majority  and  the  collective  aspirations  of  its 
membership. 
In his  first year  of office  the Secretary-General  has  undertaken many 
bold  changes which have been  supported  by us.  He has put  in motion  efforts to 
make  the Secretariat  a viable  force  for undertaking  actions  related  to 
policy-setting,  to research  and  analysis  and  to  financing,  coordinating and 
executing  operational  activities.  Some countries  have  in the past  felt that 
the  Secretariat  had gone  amiss  on  some of  these priorities,  and  they will now 
expect better  performance  in the years  ahead. 
In the  second phase  of  the  restructuring  to be undertaken  by  the 
Secretary-General, we would  like to  see more  tangible  progress.  The  time of 
interdepartmental  and  interagency  disputes  and  jockeying  for position must be 
a chapter  of  the past.  We expect  the Secretary-General,  through  an 
invigorated  Administrative  Committee  on Coordination,  to ensure  that  this is 
so. 
In the context  of  the United Nations  as a vehicle  to effect  a global 
partnership  for development,  the  record  of  the past  is not  a meritorious one. 
Even  in the present  context, many  countries  like Malaysia  are  concerned that 
A/47/PV.31 
87 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
the United Nations has diverted  time  and energy more  to problems  related  to 
peace and security  than to the needs of  the South.  The  report of  the 
Secretary-General  itself  states that political  progress  and  economic 
development  are  inseparable, that both  are equally  important  and that  they 
must be pursued  simultaneously.  In the new climate of  international  relations 
we must not miss  the opportunity  to develop at the United Nations  the 
necessary international  consensus  and policy  instruments  to promote  this 
integrated  approach.  The 45 years of neglect of  the South due to the cold war 
must be made up very quickly, and we  in the South  are looking  to the United 
Nations  for  this. 
The last four decades have  seen the marginalization  of  the United  Nations 
itself, which on policies  and factors  affecting  the condition  and  well-being 
of the South, has been overtaken by bodies  such as Bretton Woods.  It will be 
' an impossible task to bring  these  issues  completely back  to the United 
8 
Nations, but there must now be a clear  linkage between what happens  at Bretton 
1!: 
.
.. 
Woods and what would be  attempted  at the United Nations.  The world's  majority 
as reposed in the United Nations must have a say  in the critical  decisions 
taken at bodies  such as Bretton Woods  and the Group of 7.  The decisions  of 
*Bretton Woods  can no longer be  allowed  to be  taken in isolation or out of  step 
r with the collective  needs  expressed  at the United Nations. 
One of the dramatic  achievements  of the  last two years has been  the 
#preparations  and  final  decisions of the Rio  Summit, particularly  the  consensus 
to establish the  commission  on sustainable  development.  Here would  lie a 
oldstrong prospect of an  international  consensus  to address questions  on 
Hi development of the  South.  The Commission would  also provide  a needed 
](iOpportunity to  interface  the affairs of Bretton Woods with deliberations  at 
A/47/PV.31 
88 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
the United  Nations.  The world  social  summit  also promises  to  further  the 
international  consensus  for development  and  the  consolidation  of States. 
Malaysia  is encouraged  by  the Secretary-General's  commitment  to enhance the 
renewal  of global partnership  and development  as  reflected  in his  report.  We 
believe  that he has  a special  and  catalytic  role to play  to bring  about a 
fresh North-South  dialogue  and  cooperation.  The  Secretary-General  has been 
widely  acclaimed  for his  "Agenda  for Peace".  Now we would  appeal  to him for 
an  "agenda  for development"  to enhance  international  development  cooperation. 
The  report  on the organization  considered  extensively  United  Nations 
activities  in the context  of  conflict management  and humanitarian  assistance. 
This part  links up to the Secretary-General's  "Agenda  for  Peace".  It is a 
fact  that  the United Nations has  regained  considerable  credibility  on the 
basis of  successful  efforts  in defusing  tensions  and  conflicts  in the last few 
years.  The United Nations peace-keeping  operations  stand  out  as an 
outstanding  example  of what  the United  Nations  is capable  of  doing. 
In the  "Agenda  for Peace" the Secretary-General  focused  on  the question 
of preventive  diplomacy.  The  successful  application  of preventive diplomacy 
will make unnecessary  extensive peace-keeping  bogged  down  interminably and 
plagued  by  financial  constraints.  Malaysia  is convinced  that  the  future 
credibility  and effectiveness  of  the concept  of  collective  security  and the 
United Nations  role  in the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
require greater  use of  the mechanism  for preventive  diplomacy.  This will be 
possible  if there  is strong  support  for  the  Secretary-General  and  the Security 
Council  to undertake  pro-active  actions, early  actions  to evaluate  conflict 
situations  and undertake  decisive moves  to prevent  the  outbreak  of open 
conflicts.  But Member  States will give  their  support  only  if  there is 
A/47/PV.31 
89 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
sufficient  confidence  and  trust  especially  in the  actions  of  the  Security 
Council, something which has  to be  acquired  over  time. 
The Malaysian  delegation  also wishes  to  see that  the United  Nations, as 
an international  organization  committed  to peace  and development,  have  full 
recourse  to the collective  efforts  and  resources  under  the provision  of 
Chapter VI of  the Charter  on pacific  settlement  of disputes,  raised by  the 
Secretary-General  in paragraph  34 of his  report.  The pacific  settlement  of 
disputes, no matter  how difficult  to achieve, would  produce  lasting  results  in 
terms of ensuring  durable  peace  and  security.  Malaysia does  not hesitate  over 
the use of  force  as a collective  action.  We have  supported  such actions  in 
1 the past and have  insisted  that  force be  applied  in the case of  Bosnia  and 
'Herzegovina. 
My delegation  fully endorses  the Secretary-General's  view  that 
"The principles  of  the Charter must be applied  consistently,  not 
selectively,  for  if  the perception  should be of  the  latter,  trust  will 
wane and with  it the moral  authority which  is the greatest  and most 
s 
unique quality  of  that  instrument."  (A/47/277, para.  82) 
:.: 
The United  Nations  effectiveness  in preventing  and  settling  conflicts, 
illjand preserving  international  peace  is dependent  on the credibility  of  its 
{([.decisions and  the degree  of  consistency  in the  application  of  the  principles 
,-flf the Charter.  In the  spirit  of the Charter  and  the  interests  of  Member 
ii:.5tates, there has  to be harmonization  in the  relationship  between  the  General 
^Assembly and the  Security  Council  on the question  of peace  and  security.  We 
lljiust not have  a situation where  the views  of  the general membership  of  the 
t/nited Nations  are  ignored  and  the Council  chooses  to apply principles  only 
Aen  it suits  the  interests  and  convenience  of  certain members. 
id'1 
A/47/PV.31 
90 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
We  are not happy  over  the  absence of  a balanced,  mutually  reinforcing 
relationship  between  tlie Security  Council  and  the General  Assembly.  There 
should be  a greater  role  for  the General  Assembly  and more  regular  and closer 
consultations  between  the general membership  and  the  Security  Council  in 
matters  relating  to peace  and  security.  In this  regard,  the  General  Assembly 
should  assert  its  role  in upholding  the Charter  and  ensure  that  the expanding 
activities  of  the  Security  Council  do not go beyond  its mandate  or  run counter 
to the provisions  of  the Charter, particularly  Article  2  (7) concerning the 
cardinal  rule on non-interference  in the domestic  affairs  of Member  States. 
The United Nations  exists  on  the basis  of  sovereign  States, clearly  embodied 
and  reflected  in the business  conducted  at the General  Assembly.  There cannot 
be any attrition of  sovereignty,  either  by  actions  of  the  Security  Council or 
even  in peace-keeping  and  similar  actions.  While  traditional  concepts are 
undergoing  change, given  the asymetry  of  the power  equation  and  an unequal 
world,  sovereignty must  continue  to be  upheld. 
We endorse  the  call by the Secretary-General  for  closer  support between 
the United  Nations  and the  regional  organizations.  However,  this would 
require  further  efforts  at the  regional  levels  to enable  the  regional 
organizations  to play  a supportive  role  to the United Nations  in areas of 
confidence-building,  peaceful  resolutions  of  conflicts, peacemaking  and 
peace-keeping. 
Above  all, the current  situation underlines  the need  for  the  reform and 
restructuring  of  the  Security Council  so that  its membership  should be 
expanded  to  reflect  better  the general membership  of  the United  Nations, which 
has  increased  to  179 countries,  and  so that  there  is  transparency, 
accountability  and democratization  in the work  of  the Council.  The veto power 
A/47/PV.31 
90(a-z) 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
given to  the Permanent  Five  at the time of  the establishment  of  the United 
Nations has now become  highly  suspect.  More  and more  countries, both  from  the 
South and North,  urged  the  reform  and  restructuring  of  the Council  at  the 
current general  debate.  Clearly,  the time  for  change  is now and  the  General 
Assembly  should,  before  the end of  the  forty-seventh  session,  establish  a 
working group  to undertake  a study of  the reform  and  restructuring  of  the 
Council  and  submit  its  report  to the  forty-eighth  session of  the  General 
Assembly  though  actual  results may have  to await more  time.  In our 
estimation, given  the  increased workload  and  the expanded  role  being 
visualized  for  the Security  Council  in the Secretary-General's  "Agenda  for 
Peace", we  in Malaysia do not believe  that  the present  Security  Council  as 
constituted  and  structured  can be the viable vehicle  for  those objectives. 
A/47/PV.31 
91 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
My delegation notes with interest the Secretary-General's various 
proposals on the question of the financing of the United Nations.  Secure 
financing of the various United Nations peace-keeping operations is the 
collective responsibility of all States, and there must be prompt payments. 
The persistent problem of late payments and the accumulation of large arrears 
undermines the United Nations ability to perform its peace-keeping and 
peacemaking functions. 
The Secretary-General's report also points out the dramatic increase in 
the workload and activities of the Security Council.  While the increased 
activities of the Security Council, on the one hand, underline the importance 
of the United Nations role in the maintenance of peace and security, it is 
becoming a serious cause for concern that the end of the cold war and the 
collapse of the communist bloc have unleashed nationalist conflicts and ethnic 
strife that are over-stretching the capacity of the United Nations.  The 
$2.7 billion cost of current peace-keeping operations is two-and-a-half times 
the budget of the entire Organization.  The number of peace-keeping forces in 
the field has almost quadrupled, from 11,500 in January 1992 to 44,000 in 
mid-1992.  The effect of all this is not only that it has placed a severe 
strain it has brought on the capacities of the Organization, but in particular 
that it is becoming a serious test case of the concept of United Nations 
collective security at a time when so much is expected of the United Nations. 
Malaysia is particularly concerned that such a situation could, in the name of 
expedience, encourage selective and double standards in addressing threats to 
international peace and security. 
The case of Bosnia and Herzegovina is one example of where the financial 
crisis, in a way, has been the reason for inadequate United Nations action and 
has set a bad precedent, in the case of resolution 770 (1992), where only 
A/47/PV.31 
92 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
countries  that  can afford  to make  their  own military  contributions  to  the 
United Nations  Protection  Force  to ensure  the  safety of humanitarian  efforts 
can participate.  If  this  is allowed  to  continue,  the United  Nations  will  in 
fact be encouraging  peace-keeping  operations by  the  few and moving  away  from 
the accepted  practice  of having  as broad-based  a representation  as possible. 
There  are  several  proposals  in the Secretary-General's  report  on 
peace-keeping  that were  considered  in the meeting  of  the  Special  Committee  on 
Peace-keeping  Operations  earlier  this year  and  incorporated  in the  conclusion 
of that Committee's  report  in document  A/47/235.  The proposals  are  practical 
ones, relating  to more efficient  logistical  support  for  peace-keeping 
operations  and  a more  reliable  and  sustained  availability  of equipment.  There 
are also  specific  proposals  on  training  and  the  availability  of personnel.  In 
his report,  the Secretary-General  proposed  the establishment  of a 
peace-keeping  fund  as  a start-up  cost  for authorized  peace-keeping 
operations.  Malaysia  regards  these proposals  as practical  suggestions  to 
enhance the United  Nations  capacity  for peace-keeping,  and we believe  that 
these proposals  deserve  strong  support  from Member  States. 
Malaysia  is  strongly  committed  to enhancing  the United  Nations  capacity 
for preventive  diplomacy,  peace-keeping  and peacemaking.  Our  delegation  has 
been involved  in the work of  like-minded  countries  belonging  to the 
'  Non-Aligned Movement  in considering  the Secretary-General's  report  "An Agenda 
'  for Peace". My  country  is contributing military  and  civilian personnel  to many 
: of the United Nations peace-keeping  operations  around  the world.  Hence, 
regard, Malaysia would  actively participate  in any  future  follow-up  action  on 
II> the Secretary-General's  report  "An Agenda  for Peace".  We believe  that 
A/47/PV.31 
93 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
a working group  should be established  to  identify proposals  contained  in the 
Secretary-General's  report  that command  consensus  support,  so  that  they could 
be  implemented  as a matter  of  some urgency.  At  the  same time,  the working 
group  could deliberate  further  on those  ideas  that  require  further  study and 
work  towards  consensus-building,  so that  the  sum  total  of  their work would go 
towards  enhancing  the United Nations  capacity  for and use of  preventive 
diplomacy, peace-keeping  and  peacemaking. 
The meeting  rose  at 1.15  p.m. 
