UNITED 
NATIONS 
General Assembly 
m^ 
,1 i 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.52 
11 November  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  52nd  MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Monday,  2 November  1992, at  10  a.m. 
President! 
Mr.  GANEV 
(Bulgaria) 
Report  of the United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  [79] 
(a)  Report  of  the  Conference 
(b)  Report of  the  Secretary-General 
This  record  contains  the original  text  of  speeches  delivered  in  English 
and  interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text  will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be  sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one week,  to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United  Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the  record. 
92-61712  2509V  (E) 
A/47/PV.52 
2 
The meeting was called to order at 10.45 a.m. 
AGENDA ITEM 79 
REPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON ENVIRONMENT AND DEVELOPMENT 
(a)  REPORT OF THE CONFERENCE (A/CONF.151/26, vols.I-IV and vol.Il/Corr.1) 
(b)  REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/47/598 and Add.l); 
The PRESIDENT:  As members will recall, at its 3rd plenary meeting, 
the General Assembly decided that the debate on agenda item 79 would be held 
directly in plenary meeting, on the understanding that action on the item 
would be taken in the Second Committee. 
The report of the Secretary-General on the institutional arrangements to 
follow-up on the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development has 
been circulated in document A/47/598 and Add.l.  The report of the Conference 
has been issued as document A/CONF.151/26, volumes I to IV. 
I should like to inform the Assembly that I have received a letter dated 
30 October 1992 from the Permanent Representative of Denmark on behalf of the 
Western European and other States requesting that the Assembly hear in plenary 
meeting statements by the Observers of the Holy See and Switzerland during the 
debate on agenda item 79. 
Members will recall that, in accordance with the established practice of 
the General Assembly, observer non-Member States may normally make statements 
only in the Main Committees.  However, following consultations, and taking 
into account the importance attached to the issue under discussion, it is 
proposed that the General Assembly take a decision to hear the Observers of 
the Holy See and Switzerland in the course of the debate in plenary meeting on 
this agenda item.  I take it that there is no objection to this proposal. 
It was so decided. 
A/47/PV.52 
3-5 
The PRESIDENT:  I should  like  to propose  that  the  list  of  speakers 
in the  debate  on  this  item be  closed  this  afternoon  at  5 p.m.  If  I hear  no 
objection,  it will  be  so  decided. 
It was  so  decided. 
The  PRESIDENT;  I therefore  request  those  representatives  wishing  to 
participate  in the debate  to inscribe  their  names  as  soon as possible. 
I  call on  the Secretary-General  of  the United  Nations. 
The  SECRETARY-GENERAL;  I have  looked  forward  to the opening  of  this 
debate.  It  is an occasion  to share with you my  thinking  on  the United  Nations 
as  an agent  of  development.  The  report  of  the Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  (A/CONF.151/26, Vol.I-IV),  ranging  so widely  over  economic  and 
social  questions, gives me my platform.  I shall  also touch upon matters 
relating  directly  to the  follow-up  of that Conference, which  is now  in your 
hands. 
In my  first year  of office,  I have had  the privilege  of participating  in 
three  important  United Nations  events dealing with global  development!  first, 
the Cartagena  Conference  on Trade  and Development;  secondly,  the Rio 
Conference  on Environment  and Development;  and,  thirdly,  the  high-level 
segment  of  the Economic  and  Social Council  (ECOSOC).  I have  also  taken part 
in the work  of  regional  commissions  in Asia and  in Europe. 
My  evaluation  of  these events  - recently  summed  up  in my  annual  report  on 
the work  of  the Organization  (A/47/1) has  reinforced my  conviction  of  the 
potential  of  this  instutition.  The  Rio Earth  Summit was  an example  of  the 
capacity  of  the United  Nations  to mobilize  political, public  and  instutitional 
energies  around  key  issues of global  development.  Only  the United  Nations 
could have  achieved  it; its potential  is unique. 
A/47/PV.52 
6 
(The  Secretary-General) 
The  challenge  after  Rio  is to maintain  the momentum  of  commitment  to 
sustainable  development,  to transform  it  into policies  and practice,  and  to 
give  it effective  and coordinated  institutional  support. 
My  conviction  is sustained by my  sense  of  the opportunity  for 
constructive  action  created by  the end of  the cold war.  We  can now work  for 
an era of North-South  cooperation  that  is not  distorted  by  ideological  and 
political  East-West  tensions.  Peace  and prosperity  are  indivisible,  but  they 
are threatened  by gross  inequalities within  and between  nations.  Balanced 
planetary  development  is not only  an enlightened  aim;  it  is <a foundation  for 
the enduring progress  of  all  societies.  Development  cooperation  must  be 
carried  forward  on  this basis, in parallel with  technical  and  financial 
support  to help the  former planned  economies  in their  transition. 
This new era brings  new  intellectual  and political  challenges.  While the 
command  economy  is discredited,  the market  economy has yet  to  achieve  its 
potential.  The market  is an instrument  of  efficiency  and  of material  growth. 
But development  is more  than growth;  it  is the  improvement  of human well-
being.  Economic  growth  is the mainspring  of  development,  but  its  thrust must 
be guided by equity,  justice  and  social  and  ecological  responsibility  if 
development  is to endure.  This, in my view,  is  the meaning  behind  sustainable 
development. 
This  is the ground  for  the new contest  of  ideas.  Many  guestions  are open 
in democratic  political  discourse.  Even  in richer market  economies,  social 
tensions  and environmental  degradation  pose  serious problems  of  governance. 
In countries  everywhere,  the policies  to deal  simultaneously  with 
unemployment,  inflation,  debt  and  trade  imbalances  have proved  elusive. 
A/47/PV.52 
7 
(The  Secretary-General) 
In the years of bipolar  confrontation,  it was easy  to  fall back  on 
stereotypes.  These  are now  irrelevant.  Democracy  and  the market  economy  must 
not become mere  slogans.  The  new convergence  on these  forms brings with  it an 
obligation  to engage  in a sober  analysis  of  successes  and  failures  in 
orienting market  forces  in different  national  conditions  towards 
democratically  determined  goals.  It requires  a renewed  commitment  to  support 
developing  countries  in their efforts  to build democratic,  market-oriented 
societies.  It requires  a fresh  look  at the  international  environment  in which 
such  societies  can  flourish. 
This  debate on the content  of democratic governance  and  development, 
national  and  international,  sets  the context  for a redefinition  of  the  role of 
the United  Nations  in these  spheres.  This Organization must be  a major  source 
of  ideas  in this  debate.  It must be  faithful  to its mission while  adapting  to 
evolving  needs.  Its perspective must be global, seeking out  the  common 
interests  of  the world  community.  It must be centred on people,  their  rights 
and their  talents.  It must highlight  the unspoken concerns  of  the poor  and 
the needs of  future  generations. 
From  such a perspective,  the United Nations must bring  the major  issues 
to the Member  States' attention.  In its areas of competence,  it must  help 
them  to come  to grips with  the problems  of  these  times.  Member  States, for 
their part, must work  to keep  alive  the consensus  that  is unfolding  from  the 
special  session of  the General  Assembly,  through Cartagena  and Rio, to  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  This  consensus  is a source of guidance  and 
commitment  to policy  creation  and  institutional  renewal. 
I  am convinced  that  this Organization  can meet  the twin  challenges  of 
substance  and  structure.  The  intellectual  and managerial  task  is vast.  But 
A/47/PV.52 
8 
(The  Secretary-General) 
we  are guided  by  the genius  of  the Charter,  so  rich,  so  flexible,  and yet  so 
straightforward  in its provisions  for  international  economic  and  social 
cooperation. 
This  Organization must put  its development  objectives  on  a  par with  its 
political  and  security  commitments.  Intergovernmental  bodies must  promote 
policy  coherence  and programme  coordination.  And  different  types  of  programme 
activities, particularly  analytical  and operational  activities, must  support 
and  reinforce each other. 
Intergovernmental  reform  and Secretariat  reform  are  two  sides  of  the same 
coin.  Member  States have  their  share  of  responsibility  in this  joint 
venture.  It  is for them  to  adopt  consistent  positions  and  take  decisions  on 
the  reform  of  intergovernmental  structures, and  for me only  to  urge 
expeditious  action and  to advise  on  its  content. 
I  set great  store  on the continuing  reform  of  the Economic  and  Social 
Council.  I want  to  see  it live up  to  its central  responsibilities  under  the 
Charter.  The  Council,  functioning  intersessionally  as needed,  should  address 
development  issues  that  affect  international  security  and bring  them  to the 
attention  of  the Security  Council.  Integrated  oversight  is needed,  through 
the Economic  and  Social  Council, of  the governance  and priorities  of  all 
funding programmes  for development  operations,  including  the  amount  and 
predictability  of  their  financing.  The  Commission  on Sustainable  Development 
should  bolster  the Council's  efforts  to promote  coherence  and  coordination. 
While  the Council must  respond  to a diversity  of  interests  among  Member 
States,  the  logic  of priority-setting  must  lead  to  thinning  the  undergrowth of 
subsidiary bodies.  There  are now  some 40 bodies  reporting  directly  to  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  Many have  their  own  subsidiaries, bringing  the 
A/47/PV.52 
9-10 
(The  Secretary-General) 
total number  of expert  and  intergovernmental  committees  in the economic  and 
social  field  close  to 200.  While  there were,  I am  sure, valid  technical, 
substantive  reasons  for  their  creation, how many  Governments  can truly  cope 
with  such an extensive machinery?  What  is the limit beyond which  such  a 
machinery becomes  a burden,  rather  than a source of useful  inputs  for  national 
Governments  and  international  policy-making?  I trust  that,  in the context  of 
the current debate  on the  reform  of  the  intergovernmental  machinery,  there 
will be  the necessary  political will  to address  these questions  squarely. 
A/47/PV.52 
11 
(The  Secretary-General) 
These  are matters  for decision by Member  States.  But  a  contribution  can 
be made by  improvements  in the functioning  of  the Secretariat.  A  more 
effective  Secretariat  can provide better  service  to Member  States  and  to the 
intergovernmental  machinery.  It can also  stimulate  and  facilitate  the  reform 
of  that machinery.  The process  of  streamlining  intergovernmental  structures 
should  not hold  up Secretariat  reform.  A  revamped  Secretariat  can  better 
serve  the existing machinery while  awaiting  the  new. 
The  Secretariat  should  not be  sxibdivided by  its  legislative  history  or by 
the geography  of  the  intergovernmental  bodies  it  serves.  All  staff,  whether 
in a department,  a programme  or  a fund, must be  unified  under  the  authority of 
the Secretary-General.  We must motivate, mobilize  and  integrate  all 
analytical  and  operational  capacities  of  the Secretariat  at Headquarters  and 
in the  field.  Such  steps will  enable  the  Secretariat  to exercise  clearer 
leadership  in the United Nations  system  and provide  stronger  support  for the 
needs of Member  States. 
In  reviewing  options  for  further  reform  of  the  Secretariat  in the 
economic,  social  and environmental  areas, I have personally  sought  advice  from 
a panel  of  independent  advisers.  The  stature  of  the panelists  leaves me  in no 
doubt  as to the value of  their  advice, which  I have been  taking  into  account 
as their work proceeds.  I look  forward  to the  results  of  their  further work 
in the  coming weeks. 
The  thoughts  on  further  restructuring  that  I share with  the  Assembly 
today  are  advanced  on my own  responsibility.  Restructuring  and  streamlining 
the Secretariat  were  among my main preoccupations  on  taking  office.  They will 
A/47/PV.52 
12 
(The  Secretary-General) 
remain one  of my main commitments  throughout  my  tenure  as  Secretary-General. 
While  reform has no natural  stopping point,  it  should be concerted  and 
systematic. 
One of my  key objectives  is to build  a unity of purpose  for  the  economic, 
social  and environmental  sectors of  the Organization.  These have  grown 
increasingly  fragmented  and  compartmentalized.  I will  also  take  steps  to 
strengthen  linkages between  those  sectors  and  the political  and  humanitarian 
sectors  of  the Organization.  The  complex  field operations  in which  the United 
Nations  is  increasingly  engaged  should practice  an  integrated  approach  to 
peace  and  development. 
In earlier  restructuring  efforts, as  in the current  one, a central 
concern has been  to ensure  adequate  support  for  the  Secretary-General's 
managerial  and coordination  responsibilities  in the development  sphere. 
Different models  have been  advanced,  each with  strengths  and weaknesses.  My 
intention  is to address  the  issue  from  its roots. 
A prerequisite  is that  the Secretary-General  devote  the necessary  time 
and personal  attention  to these  responsibilities.  I am committed  to doing  so 
and to obtaining  the  support  I need  in this  task  from  all quarters  of  the 
Secretariat. 
My managerial  strategy will be  to define  clearly  those  tasks  for 
development  and  cooperation  that  should be  carried  out by  the  Organization 
itself within  the  system  of  the  specialized  agencies  and  institutions.  In the 
first  instance  I am moving  to determine  those  functions  that  should be  carried 
out here  at Headquarters.  I shall  then proceed  to decisions  on a more 
A/47/PV.52 
13 
(The  Secretary-General) 
rational  distribution  of  responsibilities  between Headquarters  and  United 
Nations  centres  in Geneva, Nairobi  and Vienna.  The  relocation  of  activities 
should provide  a clearer  purpose  for each of  the United  Nations  programmes, as 
well  as sharpening  the  substantive  focus of each of  the  centres. 
Clear  lines of  responsibility  in a simpler  structure,  together with  steps 
to eliminate  duplication  and overlapping,  can go  a long way  towards  solving 
the problem  of  coordination.  This  can be my main  contribution. 
Bearing  in mind  these  considerations  and  the experience  gained  from  the 
first phase of  restructuring,  I see  three  clusters  of  economic,  social  and 
environmental  functions  for Headquarters  in New York.  While  there  are 
different  options  for  translating  these  sets of  functions  into  institutional 
structures,  this  clustering necessarily  entails  a significant  decentralization 
of  activities  away  from Headquarters.  At the  same time, there may be  a need 
for  some  redeployment  to Headquarters. 
The  first  cluster  includes  coordination  and  substantive  support  for the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development. 
The  rationale  for  linking  these  two  responsibilities  derives  from  the  broad 
coverage  of Agenda  21 and  the Commission's  terms of  reference.  Support  for 
the Economic  and  Social  Council will  relate  to  its  functions  of  policy 
coordination  and governance  of operational  activities.  Support  for  the 
Commission  and  the  follow-up  to the United  Nations  Conference  on  Environment 
and Development  would be distinctly  organized  within  this  cluster. 
A/47/PV.52 
14-15 
(The  Secretary-General) 
The  second  cluster  comprises  data collection, methodology,  policy 
analysis  and  the  articulation  of development  perspectives.  The  Secretariat 
must be  recognized  as  a  centre  of excellence  for  the analysis  of  development 
trends  in all parts of  the world,  and of their  international  interactions. 
The proper  elaboration  of  statistics  and data 
the essential  foundation  for 
economic  and  social  analysis  - is one of the  riches of  the United Nations. 
This  collective  asset must be preserved,  strengthened  and  adapted  to new 
needs.  He must  ensure wide  access and dissemination,  especially  to  countries 
with  insufficient  national  capacities. 
The  third  cluster  involves  technical  cooperation.  This  should be  carried 
out  from Headquarters  only where  there  is a clear  comparative  advantage  in 
relation  to  the rest  of  the United Nations  and  the  system  as a whole.  It 
should  focus on programmes  that  cut across  regions  and  sectors, and on  the 
least developed  countries  and  those  requiring  special  assistance  programmes. 
A/47/PV.52 
16 
(The  Secretary-General) 
The  central  structures  should  also  include  a capacity  to  stimulate 
exchanges with  sources of  ideas  and  action proposals  outside  the  United 
Nations  and  the governmental  sphere.  Intellectual  communities,  citizens' 
associations  and  the corporate  sector  all have valuable  contributions  to 
make.  This was demonstrated  by UNCED.  The United Nations must  be  open  to the 
democratic  forces  of civil  society, without  losing  its  intergovernmental 
character. 
Striking  the  right balance between Headquarters  and other  centres, on the 
one hand,  and  regional  structures, on the other,  is a key question.  I believe 
that  the balance has  shifted  too much  to the centre.  It  is time  to  breathe 
new life  into  the  regional  commissions.  They must become  truly  representative 
of  the Organization, while moving more  clearly  into  the  range of  central 
oversight. 
The  strength of  the  regional  commissions  lies  in their  multidisciplinary 
reach  and  in their  ability  to mediate between global  and national  activities. 
They  too must  operate within  a coherent  institutional  strategy.  They  too need 
restructuring  and  streamlining  to fit  into  this  strategy  and  to  respond  to the 
changing  needs  of  their  regions. 
We  need  a fresh  look at the distribution  of  analytical  and  operational 
capacities  between global  and  regional  structures.  Some  redeployment  to the 
latter  is likely.  For  example, most  technical  advisory  services  could be more 
effectively  delivered  from  the  regions.  Such decentralization  would  imply 
greater  delegation  of  authority,  as well  as measures  to ensure  accountability. 
Turning  to the national  level,  I am determined  to  improve  United  Nations 
performance  in the  field.  Teamwork  is the key.  We must move quickly  to a 
single United  Nations  presence  that would  encompass  programmes  under my direct 
A/47/PV.52 
17 
(The  Secretary-General) 
authority,  including  the United Nations Development  Programme  (UNDP),  the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA),  the United Nations  Children's  Fund 
(UNICEF),  the United Nations Drug Control  Programme  (UNDCP) and  the World  Food 
Programme  (WFP).  This  combined  operation would  carry out  an  integrated 
strategy  in each country where  the Organization  operates.  It would  be  headed 
by a United Nations  Representative,  appointed by the Secretary-General,  who 
would  also be  the Resident  Coordinator  for  the United  Nations  system.  This 
would  strengthen  the  function of  the Resident  Coordinator,  in line with  the 
expressed  request  of Member  States. 
We have made  a start with unified  representation  in six countries  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States, the  former members  of  the Soviet Union. 
He have made progress with our  colleagues  in the Administrative  Committee  on 
Co-ordination  (ACC) in an approach  to common  country  strategies.  These 
measures  of  integration  need  to be  tested  in practice  and  adapted  in the  light 
of experience.  It  is my  hope  that  their  success will make  the case  for  the 
whole  system  to  speak with  one voice  in the capitals  of Member  States. 
These  ideas on the  clustering  of Headquarters  functions,  decentralization 
and the organization of operational  and  field  activities will  need  to be 
refined  and  translated  into  specific  institutional  arrangements.  The  further 
advice of  the panel  of experts  on these questions will be of great value  to my 
decisions. 
Greater  clarity  and  coherence will enhance  the capacity  of  the 
Organization  to promote  coordination within  the United  Nations  system.  I 
stress  again the  importance  I attach  to the ACC  and  to my  relationship,  as  its 
Chairman, with  the executive heads  of  all  of  the  specialized  agencies  and 
institutions  of  the  system.  I shall  continue  to give  that  role the  time  and 
attention  it deserves. 
A/47/PV.52 
18 
(The  Secretary-General) 
The  Committee  has  initiated  a  comprehensive  analysis  of  its  role  and 
functioning,  as well  as a radical  streamlining  of  its  subsidiary  machinery. 
This  should  enable  the Committee  to meet with new effectiveness  the  challenge 
of  the  times.  Harnessing  the  capacity  of  the  system  to  advance  Agenda  21 is 
such a challenge. 
The  concept  of  sustainable  development,  consecrated  in Rio,  can become  an 
instrument  of  integration, giving  coherence  to diverse programme  activities. 
Agenda  21 itself  offers  a framework  for  coordinating  the  development 
activities  of  the whole United  Nations  system  and  for mobilizing  organizations 
outside  it. 
Let me now turn to my  report  on the follow-up  to UNCED.  It  contains 
recommendations  on the  functioning  of  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  and on the High-Level  Advisory  Body on Sustainable  Development,  as 
well  as on related  arrangements  for  inter-agency  coordination  and  secretariat 
support. 
In preparing  this  report,  I followed  closely  the  relevant  recommendations 
in Agenda  21 and  sought  to  remain  faithful  to the  spirit  of  the  agreement 
reached  in Rio.  I have  already  referred  to the  secretariat  support 
arrangements.  I shall direct my  remarks now to other  aspects  of my  report. 
It  seems  clear  that  the Governments  assembled  at Rio  intended  to place 
the Commission  at  the heart  of  arrangements  to  achieve  sustainable  development 
and  keep  alive  the  spirit  of  the Earth  Summit.  The mobilization  of  political 
will,  intellectual  leadership  and partnerships  for  sustainable  development 
will provide  the necessary momentum.  Let me  address  these  three  elements 
briefly. 
In mobilizing political will, the Commission  starts with  a  significant 
advantage.  The  results of UNCED have  received  the explicit  endorsement  of 
A/47/PV.52 
19-20 
(The  Secretary-General) 
political  leaders  from  all parts of  the world.  The  Conference  has  produced 
Internationally  accepted  guidelines  for  the economic,  social  and  ecological 
future of our planet.  This  is a good beginning; we must  ensure  continuing 
political  involvement  in  its  follow-up.  The Commission  must be organized  so 
that ministers will want  to participate  in it.  One of  their  continuing  tasks 
will be  to define  and  refine  the strategies  and policies  needed  to  foster 
sustainable  development.  They will  also monitor  and promote  the  financial 
flows, both bilateral  and multilateral,  needed  to implement  Agenda  21 and to 
assist developing  countries  in their pursuit  of  sustainable  development. 
High-level  participation  in the Commission  is vital  for  success. 
A/47/PV.52 
21 
(The  Secretary-General) 
In exercising  intellectual  leadership,  the Commission  will  build  upon  the 
conceptual breakthroughs  embodied  in Agenda  21.  The  transition  to 
sustainability  involves  core  issues of  consumption  patterns, poverty  and 
demographic  pressures.  The  Commission's  analysis  should  focus  on  these  three 
elements  as a basis  for organizing  the assessment  of  the  future  evolution  of 
Agenda 21. 
Support  for  the  intellectual  leadership  of  the Commission  will  come  from 
the eminent  persons  participating  in the High-level  Advisory  Board  on 
sustainable  development.  Their  number  must  be  kept  relatively  small 
15 or 
so,  in my view 
to maximize  opportunities  for  effective  interaction  and 
dialogue.  They will bring wisdom  and  insights  from  the  sciences, business  and 
other non-governmental  sectors.  I propose  to  concentrate  available  expertise 
in a single  advisory body on environment  and  development,  bearing  in mind  that 
the present membership  of  the Committee  for Development  Planning  expires  at 
the end of  this year. 
UNCED generated  unprecedented  public  interest  in many  countries.  This 
led  to  increased public  awareness  of  the  issues  at  stake.  It  stimulated  a 
myriad  of  activities within  countries  and  communities,  notably by  advocacy 
groups  and  educators.  The UNCED process  also  stimulated  important  scientific 
and  technical  work  by  research  institutions  and professional  organizations, 
and  it engaged  the  involvement  of  representatives  of  the business  community. 
All  these  non-governmental  networks  fed back  into  the Conference  and  enhanced 
its political  and  intellectual  impact. 
The work  of  the Commission  must  continue  to attract  the partnership  of 
these  non-governmental  constituencies.  This,  in turn, will  serve  to  propagate 
A/47/PV.52 
22 
(The  Secretary-General) 
the  results  of  the Commission's  work  in the public  dialogue  on  sustainable 
development. 
UNCED  involved  a high degree of  cooperation between  all  agencies  and 
programmes  of  the United Nations  system.  A high-level,  policy-oriented 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development will provide  similar  incentives  for 
system-wide  cooperation,  especially  if  funding  aspects  are dealt  with 
effectively. 
The Administrative  Committee  on Coordination  (ACC) established  last week 
an Inter-Agency  Conunittee on Sustainable Development.  Its membership  for  an 
initial  two-year  period will  include  the core group  of  the preceding  ACC  task 
force:  the  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  of  the United Nations  (FAO),  the 
United  Nations  Educational, Scientific  and Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO),  the 
Horld Health Organization  (WHO),  the World  Bank, the World  Meteorological 
Organization  (WMO),  the United Nations Development  Programme  (UNDP) and  the 
United Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP).  To  these  I have  added, with  the 
agreement  of  the ACC, the  International  Labour  Organisation  (ILO) and  the 
Vienna-based  International  Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA).  The Committee  will be 
open to other members  of  the ACC  interested  in specific  issues on  its  agenda. 
This Committee  will  be the principal  source of  assistance  for the ACC  in 
discharging  its new  responsibilities  in the follow-up  to Rio.  Under  my 
chairmanship,  this will  be  a standing  item on the ACC  agenda. 
I assure members  that my ACC  colleagues  are  as committed  as I am  to 
meeting  fully  the  responsibilities  that UNCED has placed  upon us. 
(spoke  in  French) 
Allow me  to  summarize  the principal  items  in this  ambitious  reform,  which 
is vital  for  the  Organization. 
A/47/PV.52 
23 
(The  Secretary-General) 
The United Nations, as  I have  said, has a unique  role  to play,  if  it  is 
able  to meet  the challenge  of  change on  the dual  level  of  ideas  and 
institutions,  and  if Member  States  agree  to accept  their  responsibilities, 
because  the  reform  of the Secretariat  and of  the  intergovernmental  bodies 
depends  on the  agreement  of Member  States.  Here  I attribute  tremendous 
importance  to  the  reform  of  the Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
rationalization  of  its many  subsidiary bodies.  The  Secretary-General  must 
therefore  devote more  time  and personal  attention  to the economic  and  social 
sectors.  I promise  to do  so and,  secondly,  to  simplify,  eliminate  overlapping 
of duties  and  rationalize  the distribution  of  responsibilities. 
I  recommend  that  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development  have  a limited 
number  of members,  if  it is to function properly.  We need  a kind  of  Security 
Council  on development  issues. 
The  future  Inter-Agency  Committee  and  the Coinmission on  Sustainable 
Development  need  to cooperate  closely,  and they must  have  the  same 
secretariat.  The High-level  Advisory  Board  on  sustainable  development  must be 
extremely  restricted  in size;  its members  should  come  from Member  States, 
representing  not only Governments, but  also  scientific  institutions  and 
non-governmental  organizations,  and,  finally,  the business world,  which will 
have  to deal with  environmental  issues. 
I wish  to conclude by  repeating  that  all people  - men, women  and  society 
as a whole  - aspire  to development  and peace  and  to the enjoyment  of 
fundamental  rights  and democracy.  These  fundamental  values  appear  in the 
various  cultural  visions  of human well-being:  indeed,  they make  up  the four 
A/47/PV.52 
24-25 
(The  Secretarv-General) 
pillars  of  the Charter  of  the United Nations.  They  are  closely 
interdependent,  and progress  in one promotes  progress  in the others. 
Unfortunately,  in many  cases  these values  regress  to the point where  human 
dignity  and  even human  life are  threatened.  As Secretary-General  of  the 
United  Nations,  I firmly  intend  to defend  these values  on all  fronts  and  to 
make  the  Secretariat  an effective  instrument  serving not only  the purposes  and 
principles  of  our  Organization,  but  also  the people  that make  up  the  United 
Nations. 
A/47/PV.52 
26 
The  PRESIDENT!  I now call  on the Rapporteur-General  of  the United 
Nations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development. 
Mr.  BRAHIMI  (Algeria),  Rapporteur-General  of  the United  Nations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED)  (interpretation  from 
Arabic):  The United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development 
(UNCED),  which was held  in Rio  from  3 to 14 June, may be  considered,  as 
described  by  its Secretary-General, Mr. Maurice  Strong,  at  the very  beginning 
of  the preparatory  process, as the Conference  of  the  century. 
This  is due, first  of all, to the  record participation  in  the  Conference 
and  the high  level of  representation  that was  unprecedented  in the history of 
multilateral  diplomacy. 
It  is also  due  to the  issues discussed  and  the nature of  the  areas of 
investigation,  which  sought  to  reconcile Man with his  environment  and  to meet 
the present  and  future  reguirements  of  development. 
It  is due  also  to the  scope  of the Conference  and  to  its  impact,  which is 
likely  to  affect  the trends of multilateral  cooperation  in the  twenty-first 
century.  As  a matter  of  fact,  there has never been  an  intergovernmental 
meeting  that matched  the  success of  the Rio Conference  in mobilizing  so much 
energy,  attracting  so much  interest  and  raising  so many hopes. 
This must  have been due  to the unprecedented  gravity  of  the  threats 
arising  from  the many  and varied breaches  committed  against  the  fundamental 
ecological  balances. 
Consequently,  there has never been  such a clear manifestation  of  the 
international  will of  all  cations, rich and poor,  large  and  small,  to work 
together  in facing  up  to and dealing with  all  the phenomena  that  lead  to the 
deterioration  of  the  environment. 
A/47/PV.52 
27 
(Mr. Brahimi. 
Rapporteur-General.  UNCED) 
The United Nations  has never been  in a better  position  to discharge  the 
tasks entrusted  to  it by  the  founding  fathers, pursuant  to the  pertinent 
provisions  of  its constituent  Charter. 
A great  deal of  the credit  for the success of  this undertaking  lies with 
the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who, with his vision  and 
political  courage, did  inject  decisive momentum  into the work of  the 
Conference  itself  and  into  the Preparatory  Committee.  This has been  clearly 
evidenced  once  again by his highly  enlightening  and  instructive  introductory 
statement here  today  as we begin our discussion.  He has  shown us the path we 
should take  toward  the  completion  of  the enterprise  started  at 
Rio de Janeiro.  Our warmest  thanks go to him. 
The  other  indefatigable  architect  of  the successful  Earth Summit  meeting 
is unquestionably  its Secretary-General, Mr. Maurice  Strong.  We wish to pay 
him a warm  and well-deserved  tribute, and  to extend  to him,  once  again,  our 
gratitude. 
The  success  of  the Rio Conference would  not have been possible  without 
the outstanding  contribution made by the Chairman of  the Main  Committee, 
Ambassador  Tommy  Koh.  Thanks  to his  own brilliance  and his unstinting  and 
unremitting  efforts  over  a  cwo-year  period,  together with  the Chairmen  of  the 
three Working  Groups  and  the various  coordinators, he ensured  the  successful 
completion  of  the Preparatory  Committee's  work. 
Likewise, the excellent  facilities provided by the  authorities  of  the 
Federal Republic  of  Brazil, as well  as the highly professional  services  of 
Mr. Miles  Stoby  and his  excellent  team, greatly  contributed  to the  success  of 
the Rio de Janeiro  Conference. 
A/47/PV.52 
28 
(Mr. Brahimi. 
Rapporteur-General. UNCEDl 
The  same must be  said of  the  contribution 
particularly  significant 
because  of  the unprecedented  level  of participation  in the Conference  - of all 
the unofficial  sectors, especially  the  community  of  non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs).  That  contribution paved  the way  for  an expansion  of 
mutually  advantageous  cooperation, whose outlines  are  in the documents  that 
embodied  the  results of  the Conference. 
In concluding  its work,  the Earth  Summit  meeting  adopted,  first,  the 
Rio de Janeiro Declaration  on Environment  and Development,  the premises  of a 
real Earth Charter;  secondly,  an ambitious  programme  of  action,  entitled 
Agenda  21, covering no  fewer  than  115 areas  of  activity;  and  thirdly,  a 
statement  of non-legally  binding, but  authoritative  principles, on  the 
management,  conservation  and  sustainable  development  of  all  types  of  forests. 
The  Earth Summit  meeting  also  offered  the opportunity,  in parallel  with 
its  regular work,  for the holding  of  signing  ceremonies  for  the Convention on 
Climate Change  and  the Convention  on Biological  Diversity.  Each of  them has 
been  signed,  to date, by  153 countries. 
The  Rio de Janeiro  Declaration, which  articulated  the  relationship 
between  the environment  and development,  served  in a timely  fashion  to 
complement  and build  upon the principles  contained  in the  Stockholm 
Declaration  on the Human Environment  and  to prepare  the ground  for what  the 
Secretary-General  of  the United Nations  and Mr. Maurice  Strong  have  both 
described  as an Earth Charter, which might be  adopted  on the occasion  of the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV,52 
29-30 
(Mr. Brahimi. 
Rapporteur-General.  UNCED) 
The programme  of  action,  entitled  Agenda  21, sets out  to provide  the 
basis  for  a new global  partnership  for  sustainable  development  in an 
increasingly  interdependent  world. 
Having been established  on a solid  foundation  of  common  interests,  mutual 
needs  and  the  shared but  differentiated  responsibilities  of  States,  that 
programme  embodies  a new concept  of North-South  cooperation,  capable, we 
believe, of giving  birth  to  the sort of global partnership  to which we  all 
aspire  after. 
However,  if  such  a global  partnership  is to materialize,  the Agenda  21 
programmes  of  action must be  translated  into practical measures  on the  ground 
with  the aim of promoting  intersectoral  cooperation  amongst  all  the key  actor 
societies  and governments.  This  is where Agenda  21 is unique.  Its  uniqueness 
stems  from  the  fact  that  it parts  company with  traditional  patterns  of 
multilateral  cooperation,  in so far  as it is aimed  at governments,  agencies, 
organizations, programmes  of the United Nations  system,  other  governmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations, groups, associations  and  to public  opinion  at 
large, all of which  are  called upon to participate  fully  and  effectively,  at 
all levels,  in its  implementation.  The programmes  in Agenda  21 are  all 
centred  on a set of  issues within  a coordinated  strategy  aimed  at bringing 
about a global  transition  towards  sustainable  development. 
A/47/PV.52 
31 
(Mr. Brahimi. 
Rapporteur-General.  UNCEDl 
In adopting Agenda  21, the governments  of  the  industrialized  countries 
have  reaffirmed,  among other  things, their  commitment  to  achieving  the  target 
of  0.7  per  cent of  their gross national products  allocated  to  official 
development  assistance.  Furthermore,  they  stressed  the need  to  find  lasting 
solutions  to the debt problem,  especially  in the  case of  low- and 
middle-income  countries.  In adopting  Agenda  21, the Rio  Conference  also 
recommended  that  the  structure  and  the procedures  of  the Global  Environment 
Fund  should be modified  so as to expand  its scope  and  so  as to give  developing 
countries  a more  important  role  in the decision-making  process. 
At Rio,  it was  also decided  that governments  should promote  and  fund 
access  for developing  countries  to environmentally  sound  technologies, 
including  on a concessionary  and preferential  basis. 
In the domain of desertification,  a very  important  decision was  taken 
whereby  the present  session  of the General  Assembly  would  be  asked  to  set up 
an  intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  to draft  an  international 
convention  to combat  desertification,  particularly  in Africa. 
Furthermore,  the Rio Conference  recommended  the  convening  of  some 
important  international  conferences, particularly  a conference  on  sustainable 
development  for  small,  island  developing  States, a conference  on  the 
integrated  development  of  coastal  regions  and  a conference  on marine  resources. 
Chapter  38 of Agenda  21 calls  for  the  setting  up  of  a high-level 
commission  for  sustainable  development,  to be  responsible  for  follow-up  and 
coordination  of  the decisions  of  the United Nations  Conference  on  Environment 
and Development.  Moreover,  the  statement  of non-legally-binding  but 
authoritative  principles  for  a world  consensus  on  the management,  conservation 
A/47/PV.52 
32 
(Mr. Brahimi, 
Rapporteur-General,  UNCED) 
and environmentally  sound  development  of  all  types of  forest  is the  first 
global  consensus  achieved  in this  field. 
The  Rio Conference  represented,  for humankind,  an  important  step  forward 
on the path towards  sustainable  development.  However,  history will  remember 
not  so much what happened  at Rio  as how much was  or was not  achieved  in 
implementing  the decisions  taken  there; in effect,  future generations  will  be 
entitled  to  judge us not on the quality  of  the  texts  adopted  at 
Rio de Janeiro, but  rather  on whatever we do or  fail  to do  to  flesh out  the 
commitments  that were undertaken  there. 
This means  that we have yet  to face up to  the  responsibilities  that 
constitute  the  real  challenge  of Rio.  It certainly has put major  and  very 
special  responsibilities  on this  session of  the General  Assembly.  The  General 
Assembly,  having made  its contribution  to the Rio process,  is now  called  upon 
to finish the  job the Rio Conference  began.  Accordingly,  the Assembly  is 
called upon  to  follow up the many  recommendations  referred  to  it by  the 
Conference  and  to  set up the  institutional  follow-up machinery  envisaged 
therein.  Given  this background,  priority will have  to be given  to mobilizing 
the new and  additional  financial  resources  needed  to  implement  the 
undertakings made  in the  interest  of  the developing  countries.  In this 
respect,  the proposal  that  a  pledging  conference  - to ensure  that  the 
activities planned  under  Agenda  21 can be  carried  out 
should  be  called 
before  the end of  this year,  is one  that  should be  taken up. 
The  same  is true  for  the proposal  put  forward by the  tenth  summit  meeting 
of the Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the Non-aligned  Countries, which  took 
place  in Jakarta  in September,  to convene, at  a time  to be  agreed,  a  summit 
A/47/PV.52 
33 
(Mr. Brahimi, 
Rapporteur-General.  UNCED) 
meeting  to review and  follow up the  implementation  of  the  decisions  of  the Rio 
Conference. 
The  road  to Rio was particularly  complex  and arduous, but  the  road  that 
we  still must  travel before we  can  rise  to the  level of  the  ideals  proclaimed 
there will be  at least  as rugged  or perhaps  even more  so,  since  the  road 
onwards  from Rio will be more  important  that  the  road  that  led us  there. 
Therefore, as  I offer  for your  consideration  the  report  of  the United  Nations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development, which  appears  as  document 
A/CONF.151/26, Volumes  1 to  5, with  a view  to your  taking  the  necessary 
decisions,  I express  the hope that your  discussions  here will make  it possible 
to keep  alive  the  flame of hope  kindled  at the Earth  Svimmit  so that  the  Rio 
spirit  can continue  to inspire  our  actions  and guide our  steps  in our  journey 
of  solidarity  towards  our  common  future. 
Mr. CARDOSO  (Brazil);  I have  come  to this  session  to  signify  the 
importance  Brazil  attaches  to the  implementation  of the decisions  taken  last 
June  at the United Nations  Conference  on Enviroiunent  and Development  (UNCED). 
The peoples  of  the world were genuinely  and deeply  interested  in what  was 
discussed  in Rio de Janeiro.  At  stake was  the  future  of  our  planet. 
But  the Rio Conference  did not end  in Rio.  The  spirit  that marked  its 
deliberations  - which has been  termed  "the  spirit  of Rio" by 
Secretary-General  Boutros-Ghali 
should project  itself  far beyond  1992. 
As a Senator,  I had the opportunity  of drawing  public  attention  to the 
Conference,  and  I took part  in the  creation of  a Parliamentary  Committee  that 
followed  and  supported  the preparatory  work.  Next month Brazil will host the 
environment  and  development  Conference  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union.  How, 
A/47/PV.52 
34-35 
(Mr. Cardoso.  Brazil) 
as Foreign Minister,  I regard  it as a great honour  to ensure  our  participation 
in the common  endeavour  of  implementing  the results of  the Rio Conference  and 
of  responding  to the  challenges we  now have  to face. 
As  the host  country  to UNCED, Brazil  takes particular  pride  in an 
unprecedented United Nations  event  that  can be  identified  as a major  success. 
Hhat  emerged  from  Rio was  a consensus  on a broad  array of  subjects  related  to 
environment  and development.  The main virtue of  this  consensus  lies  in the 
vigorous  contribution  to the promotion  of a major  shift  in  international 
relations, particularly  in the way  in which  the North  and the  South 
interrelate. 
A/47/PV.52 
36 
(Mr. Cardoso.  Brazil) 
All  countries  are now partners  in  a  common  enterprise.  The  simple 
categories  of donor  and  recipient  countries  no longer  apply.  This  new 
partnership  expresses  a logic of  cooperation  that  rules out both  confrontation 
and patronizing  attitudes,  a trend  in which global  negotiations  are 
relegitimized  as a process  for the  fostering  of world-wide  understanding. 
Multilateralism  has been  strengthened  by  the  realization  that  solutions  to 
universal problems  require  universal  and equitable  participation. 
The  current process  of  redefining  the directions  and working methods of 
the United  Nations  cannot but be enriched by  that diplomatic  turning-point,  a 
milestone  among  the Rio  achievements.  International  cooperation  for 
development was  rescued  from the condition  of  stalemate  and  stagnation  in 
which  it had been  languishing  for so  long.  Lifestyles based  on waste  and 
squandering  are now called  into question, while  the perpetuation  of  poverty 
has  finally been  recognized  as unacceptable.  The United Nations  Conference on 
Environment  and Development  (UNCED) has  thus become  a  referent,  a point  of 
departure  for  the establishment  of new patterns  for  international  cooperation, 
guided by  the  imperative  need  to address, jointly,  the  issues of  environment 
and development.  The  link now  firmly established  between  overdevelopment  and 
underdevelopment  reinforces  the certainty  that  environment  and  development 
cannot be dealt with  separately,  since  the effective  protection  of  the  former 
depends  on the advancement  of  the  latter. 
It must be highlighted  that UNCED  sought  neither  a partial  reorientation 
of economic  activity  nor  the  adoption of palliative,  transitory  measures. 
Simply  stated,  its objective  was  to  redefine  development  and  to carry  this 
concept  to new  levels  of  rationality  and  solidarity  under  the  assumption. 
A/47/PV.52 
37 
(Mr. Cardoso,  Brazil) 
accepted by  all, that  this  is the only way  to guarantee  sustainability  and 
decent  living  conditions  for mankind  as a whole. 
Rio provided  fertile ground  for deliberations  on universal  problems  with 
the open  and egalitarian  participation of  all  States, big  and  small.  This was 
a true  lesson of  democracy  in international  relations.  Consequently,  a new 
standard  of  interests  and  responsibilities  emerged  from  these  negotiations. 
Rio  also  revealed  a trend  that has been  created  by  the  increasing 
participation  of  different  sectors of  society  in discussions  and  activities 
related  to environmental  and developmental  issues.  In this  connection  the 
role to be played  by non-governamental  organizations,  as well  as by  the 
scientific  and business  sectors, promises great prospects  for  international 
cooperation  in  this post-UHCED  period. 
At UNCED, a new paradigm  emerged  around  the concept  of  sustainable 
development.  It  seeks  to assure,  for the benefit  of present  and  future 
generations,  a rational balance  between  the  legitimate  aspirations  of 
well-being  and development,  on  the one hand,  and  the maintenance  of  a healthy 
planet,  on the other.  Sustainable  development  is the contemporary  expression 
of progress. 
Hith Agenda  21 and  the other  instruments  agreed  upon  at Rio,  developed 
and developing  countries have  recognized  that  they must  undertake  commitments 
in a spirit of mutuality,  based  on the principle  of equal but  differentiated 
responsibilities. 
In  relation  to  the  issue  of  forests, the  international  community  was,  for 
the first  time, able  to take  a stand, by  consensus, on  the  conservation, 
management  and  sustainable  development  of  all  types of  forest  through  the 
A/47/PV.52 
38 
(Mr. Cardoso.  Brazil) 
adoption of  a political  declaration  and  an action plan.  It  is  important  that 
these  arrangements  be given  sufficient  time to work. 
The  two  legal  instruments  opened  for  signature  at the  Rio  Conference 
the Convention  on Climate  Change  and  the Convention  on Biological  Diversity 
signify  the determination  of  the  international  community  to take  appropriate 
steps  for  the protection  of particularly  vulnerable  areas  of  the  environment. 
They  represent  a highly  relevant  contribution  to the development  of 
international  law in the  field of  sustainable  development. 
Inspired by  the Rio Declaration, we must  proceed.  The Declaration  is a 
product  of  this historical  moment, pointing  to the  future  without 
underestimating  or eluding  contemporary  problems,  among which  are  those 
related  to the disadvantageous  positions  of developing  countries  on  the 
international  scene.  It is of  special  significance  that  a core  element  in the 
Rio Declaration  is the  recognition  that  the  right  to development  must  be 
fulfilled  so as equitably  to meet  the developmental  and  environmental  needs of 
present  and  future generations. 
Bearing  in mind  the decisions  and  recommendations  of  the Conference,  the 
Latin American  and Caribbean  countries  set up  a group  that  considered  basic 
elements  related  to the establishment  of  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development.  Its  conclusions were presented  as  a  contribution  to  the 
activities  of  the Group  of  77.  As  a result,  a position  paper  was  agreed  upon 
that we  regard  as a sound basis  for  the deliberations  of  the General  Assembly 
on the matter. 
Agenda  21, whose  implementation  is to be  followed  by  the Commission,  is a 
bold programme  of work,  the  largest  ever  adopted  by  the  international 
community.  To meet  the  legitimate  expectations  it generated,  it has  to be put 
A/47/PV.52 
39 
(Mr. Cardoso.  Brazil) 
into effect  in  its entirety  at the  local, national,  regional  and  universal 
levels.  Partial  or misguided  appraisals  are pitfalls which must  be  avoided. 
To  that  end,  and  in order  to achieve  the goal of  sustainable  development 
as defined  in Agenda  21, it is  imperative  that  the  specific  commitments 
encompassed  in chapter  33 of  the Agenda  relative  to new and  additional 
financial  resources be met  through  a flexible,  transparent,  democratic  and 
universal  approach  to  the  financial  mechanisms. 
By the  same  token,  the provisions  related  to transfer  of  technology  are 
crucial  for  the  inception  of  the  follow-up process  and must be  translated  into 
tangible measures  in the  short  term.  Brazil hopes  that  at the  forty-seventh 
of the General Assembly  concrete  pledges  and  commitments  will be  announced. 
It is disquieting  to note  that during  the  five months  since  the Rio  Conference 
no significant movement  in terms of  financial  resources has been  perceived 
that could be  identified  with  the  commitments  upon which  the new  world-wide 
partnership  is to be  constructed. 
It is a matter  of  increasing  concern  that  in the  short but  significant 
post-UNCED period  the  issue of  the environment  has become  somewhat  less 
evident  in the  agenda of meetings  of developed  countries.  It now  seems  to 
receive  less  attention  than  it deserves  at meetings  of  important  pohcy-making 
bodies. 
Brazil  is determined  to  fulfil  its  responsibilities.  President 
Itamar Franco has decided  to create  a Ministry of  the  Environment, 
demonstrating  the priority he  attaches  to matters  related  to  sustainable 
development. 
The  spirit  of Rio must prevail.  That  is our business  here  during  this 
session of  the  General  Assembly.  Brazil  attaches  special  importance  to  the 
A/47/PV.52 
40 
(Mr. Cardoso.  Brazil) 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  The  effective  implementation  of  the 
new  framework  for  international  cooperation will, to a  large  extent,  depend  on 
the work  to be  carried  out by  this new  body. 
It is essential  that  it be given  the necessary  support  in  effectively 
carrying  out  its  functions, not  the  least  among which  is the  unprecedented 
mandate  to monitor matters  related  to chapter  33 on  financial  resources. 
Without  the  appropriate  provision  of  such  resources  neither  will 
implementation  of Agenda  21 be possible  nor  the creation of  the  high-level 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development  itself be  justified. 
For  the Commission  to be effective  an appropriate  degree  of 
proportionality  must be maintained.  The  implementation  of  the programme  of 
work  calls not only  for a high-level  commission  but  also  for  a high-level 
secretariat  with  a substantive  capability  and with  adequate  resources  for the 
implementation  of Agenda 21. 
A/47/PV.52 
41 
(Mr. Cardoso.  Brazil) 
As we  see  it, upon  its establishment  the Commission  should  have  as one of 
its main  aims  the early promotion, publicizing  and  fulfilment  of  the 
principles  embodied  in the Rio  Declaration. 
As  for Agenda  21, we must  keep  in mind  that  this blueprint  for  action  is 
the  fruit  of  a negotiating  process  of  a political  and diplomatic  nature.  Its 
follow-up  shall  therefore  be entrusted  to an  intergovernmental  body whose 
composition  is  to be essentially  political. 
Attention must  be paid  to the need  for precise  specification of  the  role 
and competence  of  those  sectors  assigned  to bring their  relevant  input  to  the 
deliberations  of governmental  representatives.  Otherwise  the effectiveness  of 
the Commission  could  be put  in  jeopardy. 
The establishment  of  the Commission  should  not, using  the argument  of 
avoiding duplication  of work within  the  system,  lead to the elimination  of 
other bodies  which have  their  own specific  and often  complementary  mandates. 
It would  indeed be  a contradiction  to tear  down  some of  the pillars  of 
the system  precisely  at a time when  so much effort  is being  directed  to  the 
strengthening  of United  Nations  responsiveness  and  ability  to cope with  the 
ever growing multiplicity  and  complexity  of  economic,  social  and  scientific 
and technological  problems  affecting  the  international  community. 
Brazil made  the offer  to host  an  international  research  centre  on 
sustainable  development.  We hope  that  this  initiative, which was  welcomed 
positively  in a resolution  approved  at the United Nations  Conference  on 
Environment  and Development  (UNCED), will meet with  the  support  of  the 
international  community. 
The  first measures  for  its  implementation  have  already been  taken.  Its 
purpose will  be  to  contribute  to a better  understanding  of  the concept  of 
A/47/PV.52 
42 
(Mr. Cardoso.  Brazil) 
sustainable  development  both  in theory  and  in practice,  thus becoming  an 
international  forum  for  the exchange  of  information,  public  education  and 
research  as  regards  the  implementation  of decisions  taken  in Rio. 
I have  invited  eminent personalities  and experts  to cooperate with  this 
project.  Among  them,  I would mention  Professor  Celso Lafer, who  as my 
predecessor  headed  the Brazilian  delegation  to the Rio  Conference  and  acted as 
one of  its Vice-Presidents.  I am grateful  for what he has accomplished  in 
preparing  for  the  setting-up of  the Centre. 
He believe  that  solid ground  has been  carefully prepared  for  a new, 
fruitful  era of  international  cooperation based  on democratically  negotiated 
commitments  and on  the principles  of  international  law. 
One  of  the great  accomplishments  of UNCED was  that  of giving  concrete 
shape  to the notion  that democratic  participation  cannot be  disregarded, 
either  domestically  or  internationally,  if common  goals  are  to be  pursued. 
That  concept was brought  forth at Rio  in an exceedingly  clear  fashion, within 
the context  of  a solid  linkage between  specific  interests  and  universal 
concerns. 
That was  a remarkable  example  of democracy  at work.  Let  us  carry  on 
along  the  same path. 
Mr. MACLEAN  (United  Kingdom);  I have  the honour  of  speaking  today 
on behalf  of  the European Community  and  its member  States. 
The  Earth  Summit  which  took place  in Rio de Janeiro  in June has  been 
rightly heralded  as  the most  significant  international  meeting  of  its  kind 
since  the  founding  fathers of  the United Nations met  in San  Francisco  almost 
50 years  ago.  We  congratulate  the Government  and  the generous  people  of 
Brazil  for  the hospitality  and welcome  they gave  to us  all  at  that  momentous 
meeting. 
A/47/PV.52 
43 
(Mr. MacLean. United  Kingdom) 
As  I think back  to Rio  and  contemplate  the work we have  to do to  fulfil 
the commitments  we  entered  into  there, I am reinforced  in my view  of how 
important  an event  it was.  The present  state of  the world  economy,  and  the 
difficulties  facing many  countries 
rich as well  as poor,  in the North  as 
well  as  in the  South 
brings  home  to all of us the importance  of  the 
development  aspect  of  the work  of  the United Nations  Conference  on  Environment 
and Development  (UNCED).  It  is legitimately  the  first  objective  of  any 
Government  to maintain  the quality  of  life of  its citizens. 
Today,  even  in the most developed  of  the world's  economies,  living 
standards  are  coming  under heavy pressure.  We  all  face the urgent  need  to 
quicken economic  activity,  to provide  a framework  for  sustainable  growth.  We 
need  such growth  if we  are to be able  to address  satisfactorily  the other, 
environment,  aspect of UNCED.  And of  course we  are  all now much more  aware 
that we  face disaster  unless we  take  account  of  the  impact  of  our  lifestyles 
on the  environment. 
UNCED was  right!  we  cannot  separate  environment  from  development.  Nor 
can we  separate North  from  South.  There  can be no question  of one  country  or 
group of  countries  pushing  their point  of view upon others.  More  than  a 
century  ago the great  English writer  John Ruskin wrote,  "When we build  let us 
think that we build  forever". 
In Rio we  laid  the  foundations  for  a  new approach  to the problems  of 
environment  and development,  which  I believe  in years  to come will be  seen as 
the Summit's  greatest  achievement.  UNCED was  all  about global  cooperation, 
cooperation  rooted  in vision.  There has never been  a time  in human  history 
when foresight  was more  necessary  to our  future well being.  We  cannot  of 
course foresee  all or  even most  of what  is to come.  But  some of what  is to 
come in the next  decade  is already painfully  visible. 
A/47/PV.52 
44-45 
(Mr. MacLean, United  Kingdom) 
He  know, with  some certainty,  that  there will be  a billion more  people on 
the planet.  We  know that  the protective  ozone  layer  in the  stratosphere  will 
be  further  depleted.  We  know that  the  concentration  of  carbon dioxide  in the 
atmosphere will have  further  increased.  We  cannot predict  the  speed  and  the 
extent  of  the global warming which will  result.  But we  are  told  that  a 
warming  effect  of even point  three of one degree  centigrade  per  decade  would 
greatly  exceed  the capacity  of our  natural  habitat  to cope. 
We  know  that every year  an area of  forest  equal  to the whole  surface of 
England  and Hales  is destroyed 
forest which performs  the vital  function of 
removing  carbon  dioxide  from  the air.  We  know  too that  if present  trends 
continue  some  240 billion tonnes more of  top  soil 
nearly  40 tonnes  per 
person  - will have been washed  away or  scattered  to  the winds  by  the  end of 
the decade,  a loss which  is already  affecting  harvests  in some of  the world's 
major  food producing  regions. 
But we bring  to these problems  new knowledge  and new  capabilities, the 
product  of  the extraordinary  technological  and other progress  that  has  taken 
place  since  the end of the Second Horld Har.  No generation  in history has had 
so many  opportunities  to  improve  the conditions  of  life.  In today's  world 
more people  are healthier  and  live  longer  than ever  before.  And  yet  more 
people  than ever before  - one billion  of  them 
live  in abject poverty.  As we 
look  into the  future  it is clear  that  the gains  that  some  of us have made and 
our prospects  for helping  those  less  fortunate will be  jeopardized  unless we 
are able to  first halt,  and  then  reverse,  the depletion  of  the  earth's  natural 
capital  and  the degradation  of  our  environment. 
The  profound  achievement  of UNCED was  to map  out  a  strategy  for  dealing 
with  these vast  and daunting  problems.  Its  success was  to turn  the world's 
attention  to  solutions  as well  as problems. 
A/47/PV.52 
46 
(Mr. MacLean. United  Kingdom) 
He  are  all  familiar with the highlights  of what was  achieved  in Rio:  the 
two conventions 
on climate  change  and biodiversity 
the Rio  Declaration, 
the  first global  consensus  on  forests  and  the adoption of Agenda  21.  These 
were historic  agreements.  But unless we proceed  rapidly  to the  implementation 
of the measures we  agreed  to  in Rio, the political  commitments  of  so many 
national  leaders  and  the  tens  of  thousands  of hours  of  analysis,  discussion 
and negotiation will  all have been  for  nought. 
The  European Community  and  its member  States  take the  implementation  of 
our Rio  commitments  very  seriously.  That  is why, within  days of  the  Rio 
Summit, we  committed  ourselves  at  the European Council  in Lisbon  to an 
eight-point  plan which envisages  a vigorous  programme  of work  to maintain 
momentum  on the  road  from Rio.  The  European Community  as a whole has  already 
undertaken  to stabilize  its carbon-dioxide  emissions  at the 1990  level by  the 
year  2000.  We have begun work  nationally  and  as a Community  on  developing 
strategies  showing how we  intend  to meet  our  commitments  under  the  Framework 
Convention  on Climate  Change, which we  signed  in Rio.  These  strategies  are a 
precursor  to  fulfilling  our  pledge  to ratify  the Convention,  if possible, 
before  the end  of  1993.  Ratification will  only be  a beginning;  in time we 
will need  to consider what  other  undertakings  will be  required  to  fill out  the 
framework. 
May  I take  this opportunity  to congratulate  those  countries  that  have 
already  completed  their  ratification processes  and  to urge  all  other  countries 
to ratify  the Convention  as  soon as possible.  There  is considerable  work  to 
be done before  the Convention  enters  into  force  and  the  first meeting  of  the 
Conference  of  the Parties  takes place.  We  therefore  hope  that  this  Assembly 
A/47/PV.52 
47 
(Mr. MacLean. United Kingdom) 
will give the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee an appropriate mandate 
and support to continue its activities until then. 
We are also working within the Community to establish a basis for the 
early ratification of the Convention on Biological Diversity, which the 
Community and its member States signed in Rio.  We look forward to a 
resxjmption of the work of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee as soon 
as possible next year.  In the meantime work on the preparation of national 
biodiversity strategies has begun.  This work will be much assisted by the 
requirements of the Community's Habitats Directive, which offers protection to 
large nvunbers of scarce plants and animals in Europe.  The Directive was 
adopted in May of this year and will come into force in 1995. 
The European Community and its member States attach high importance to 
the declaration on forest principles.  It is  a useful benchmark for future 
national and international measures and instruments, including a possible 
forestry convention, and we have undertaken to publish national plans for 
implementing these principles as well as  a Community strategy.  We are also 
committed to the establishment of an international review process for the 
principles.  We propose that this task be undertaken by the high level 
Commission on Sustainable Development and believe this could lead to 
strengthening international cooperation in this important area. 
The need to address the issue of desertification was clearly recognized 
in Rio.  The Lisbon Council endorsed our commitment to establishing an 
international process to begin preparing a convention on combating 
desertification in those countries, particularly in Africa, experiencing 
drought or desertification.  The Community and its member States believe that 
this session of the General Assembly should agree on the framework for such 
A/47/PV.52 
48 
(Mr. MacLean. United  Kingdom) 
negotiations,  including  the establishment  of  an intergovernmental  negotiating 
committee  along  similar  lines  to that which  successfully  prepared  the  climate 
Convention. 
Agenda  21  is a far-reaching  process.  It  is a framework  for  action  on 
sustainable  development;  but  it  is a framework whose  credibility  depends  on 
the willingness  of  all of  us to put  our own houses  in order.  That  is why  the 
European  Community  and  its member  States  set  such store by  the preparation  of 
national  and Community  strategies  for  sustainable  development  which will 
entail  integrating  environmental  policy with policy  in other  areas.  This  work 
is already well  advanced.  The  Fifth Action Programme  on the  Environment, 
which  I hope  to  see adopted  before  the end of  this year,  is the point  of 
departure within  the Community  for the  implementation  of Agenda  21.  It 
provides  a comprehensive  framework  for  integrating  all  kinds of  human 
activities  that  affect  the environment  in order  to move  towards  sustainability. 
The  Rio  Summit  has generated  many  national  initiatives.  My  own 
Government will  convene next year  a global  forum  of  non-governmental 
organizations  to examine  and clarify  their  roles  in the  practical 
implementation  of Agenda  21.  The United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  (UNCED) stressed  the  importance  of  access  to environmentally  sound 
technology,  and  I should  like to welcome here  the  initiative  of  the  Government 
of Greece  to organize  the  first  international  exhibition  and  conference  on 
environmental  technology  for  the Mediterranean  region  (HELECO), which will  be 
held  in Athens  next April.  He  also  look  forward  to the meeting  of  the 
Contracting  Parties  to the Montreal  Protocol  in Copenhagen  later  this  month. 
At  the heart  of  the UNCED  follow-up will be  the high  level Commission  on 
Sustainable  Development,  which we propose  should meet  in Geneva.  The 
A/47/PV.52 
49-50 
(Mr. MacLean. United  Kingdom) 
Secretary-General's  helpful  report  on  institutional  arrangements  to  follow up 
UNCED makes  clear  that  the creation of  such a Commission  involves many  issues, 
of which  I would  like to highlight  three. 
First,  to be effective  the Commission  must  have  a highly  qualified  and 
competent  secretariat,  led by  a high-ranking  official, both  to  service  the 
Commission  and  to act  as an  inter-agency  focal point  for  coordination  in the 
field of  sustainable  development. 
Second, we need  a Commission  that  is open to new  ideas  and which  provides 
for the effective  and ezihanced participation  of  non-governmental  and  other 
relevant  organizations,  including  international  financial  institutions  and 
regional  development  banks.  This Commission  should  focus on urgent  policy 
issues which  could be  reviewed  each year  at  a one- or  two-day meeting  of 
Ministers.  It  should provide, as UNCED did,  for  the European  Community  to 
participate  fully. 
Third,  the Commission's  work must  be organized  so as to  avoid  the  sterile 
and  repetitive  debates  that have  too  frequently  characterized  the work of 
subsidiary bodies  established  under  the Economic  and  Social  Council.  We are 
struck by the  advantages  of  the  segment-based  approach of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council, which  seems  to me  to provide  a more  attractive  model  on which 
to base  the new Commission.  He  also  recommend  that  the High-level  Advisory 
Board  proposed  at Rio, which will provide  intellectual  underpinning  for the 
work  of  the Commission,  be merged with  the Committee  for Development  Planning, 
a body  that has  already  acquired  an enviable  reputation  in the United  Nations 
system. 
Of course, putting  our  own house  in order  and establishing  the  Commission 
on Sustainable  Development  are only part  of what  needs  to be done  to  implement 
Agenda  21.  We must  also help others  to play  their part  in our  common  cause. 
A/47/PV.52 
51 
(Mr. MacLean. United  Kingdom) 
It was  agreed  in Rio  that,  in general, the  financing  for  the 
implementation  of Agenda  21 would  come  from a country's  own public  and  private 
sectors.  For developing  countries, particularly  the  least  developed 
countries, official  development  assistance  is a main  source of  external 
funding,  and  substantial  new and additional  funding  for  sustainable 
development  and  implementation  of Agenda  21 will be  reguired.  In Rio we 
reaffirmed  our  commitments  to  reach the accepted United Nations  target  of 
0.7 per  cent of gross  national product  for official  development  assistance  as 
soon as possible  and  to ensure prompt  and effective  implementation  of 
Agenda 21. 
The  European  Community  and  its member  States  are determined,  in 
fulfilment  of  these  commitments,  to  strengthen  our  assistance  to  developing 
countries  in the  field  of  sustainable  development  and to increase our  funding 
for Agenda  21.  Our  commitment  amounts  to 3 billion European  currency units, 
including  significant  new and  additional  resources  for  specific projects  and 
programmes  in key Agenda  21 sectors  as an initial  contribution  to  its early 
implementation.  Within each of  those  sectors, poverty  reduction,  technology 
transfer  and  institutional  capacity-building  will be given very  high 
priority.  We  are coordinating  actively  and urgently  the development  of  this 
initiative.  He will  continue  to report on  its  implementation  in the 
institutional  follow-up  to  the Conference. 
He  are  also  committed  to  the Global  Environment  Facility, which exists  to 
provide  additional  grant  and  concessional  funding  to finance  the  agreed 
incremental  costs  of  achieving  agreed global  environmental  benefits.  We 
envisage  that  the  Facility will become  the permanent  financial mechanism  for 
the Framework  Conventions  on  the Conservation  of Climate  and of  Biological 
A/47/PV.52 
52 
(Mr. MacLean. United Kingdom) 
Diversity and other relevant global environmental conventions.  For this 
purpose the Global Environment Facility should be appropriately restructured 
in accordance with chapter 33 of Agenda 21.  We are committed to its 
replenishment and to the provision of new and additional resources for this 
purpose.  We also recognize the need to provide substantial financial 
resources to the International Development Association in order to promote 
sustainable development, and we will continue to give consideration to an 
Earth increment for environmental purposes. 
There are many other important issues with which we will need to deal.  I 
am conscious that the road from Rio will be more crowded than the road to Rio 
and that we will not succeed in making the life chances we have enjoyed 
available to future generations unless we resolve the problems posed by the 
expected doubling of the planet's population by the year 2050.  We must make 
every effort to ensure that the 1994 Cairo Conference on Population and 
Development strengthens global cooperation on these interrelated issues. 
I am conscious that all the plans and strategies in the world will make 
little difference to the well-being of those without guaranteed access to 
human rights and democratic freedoms.  Achieving sustainable development is 
above all a participative endeavour.  It is difficult for those without 
freedom to participate. 
The road from Rio will be long and arduous, but the unprecedented 
gathering in Rio has set us off to a good start on this long march.  It is our 
duty now not to falter at the first milestone. 
Mr. ZAKI (Pakistan):  It is a great honour for me to participate, on 
behalf of Pakistan and the Group of 77, in the General Assembly's 
consideration of the report of the United Nations Conference on Environment 
and Development (A/CONF.151/26, vols. I-IV). 
A/47/PV.52 
53 
(Mr. Zaki. Pakistan) 
I  should  like to  take  this  opportunity  to thank  the  Secretary-General  and 
the Rapporteur-General,  the distinguished  Foreign Minister  of Algeria,  for 
their  reports  on the  Rio Conference.  I should  also  like to express  our 
appreciation  to  the Secretary-General  of  the Conference, Mr. Maurice  Strong, 
and to the  staff  of  its  secretariat,  who worked hard  to produce  the  final 
documents  now before  us.  Our  special  thanks  are also due  to Brazil  for making 
excellent  arrangements  in hosting  the Earth  Summit. 
We have  listened with great  interest  to the  statement  of  the 
Secretary-General  of  the United Nations  regarding  his plans  for  the 
restructuring  of  the United Nations  and  its Secretariat.  These  original  and 
far-reaching  proposals will  be  studied with  the greatest  interest by  the 
member  States of  the Group  of 77, who  are at present  engaged  in  considering 
the restructuring  of  the economic  and  social  sectors  of  the United  Nations 
under item 47 of  our  agenda. 
Through  the golden  ages of past  civilizations,  the harmony between  nature 
and man  remained basically  undisturbed.  The  industrial  revolution  produced 
the first  signs  of man's  capacity  to harness  the  forces  of nature  and  to 
change the balance  between himself  and his  environment.  This  capacity  has  led 
to phenomenal  growth  in economic  prosperity  and  technological  advancement, 
telescoping  the pace of  centuries  into decades, years, months  and days. 
We,  the men  and women  of  this century,  cannot but wonder  at  the 
achievements  of our  ingenuity  and endeavour.  Yet we must  also  frankly  admit 
that we have  failed  in at  least  two  important  respects. 
First, we have  allowed  economic  and  technological  progress  to be  uneven, 
unequal and  even  exploitative.  There  is now greater  disparity  between  the 
rich and the poor  and between  the advanced  and  the oppressed  peoples  of  the 
A/47/PV.52 
54-55 
(Mr. Zaki.  Pakistan) 
world.  The  challenge  of development  today  is not only  to achieve  growth, but 
to  realize growth with equity  and  justice.  This  is a challenge  among  nations 
as well  as within  nations.  Without  introducing  greater  equity,  the world will 
not be  able to  sustain  the political,  social  and  technological  structures 
which have provided  the  foundation  for  the dynamic  acceleration  of  growth, 
innovation  and  investment  in the developed  and many  developing  countries. 
A/47/PV.52 
56 
(Mr. Zaki,  Pakistan) 
Our  second  failure  is that our  strategies  and patterns  of growth  have 
virtually  disregarded  the  impact  of progress  on our planet  and on  the  delicate 
balance between man  and nature.  Growth has been based  largely  on  the 
consumption  of  fossil  fuels.  Industrial processes  have  ignored  the  grave 
impact  on our  rivers,  lakes  and  ecological  systems.  Some  schemes  for  rapid 
development  have brutally  devastated  vast  regions  of  the world.  And  poverty, 
made worse by  inequality  and  inequity, has obliged  destitute  peoples  to 
degrade  their  forests  and  lands  in the  race  to keep up with  the growing  price 
of  subsistence.  Meanwhile,  the  inexorable  growth  in population  is eating  away 
their  economic  growth  and  threatens  their  environment  and  their  social  and 
political  systems. 
The  Rio Conference  was  unique  in the breadth of  its concerns:  the  future 
well-being  of  the human  race and of  our planet.  With  120 Heads  of  State  or 
Government  in Rio,  the high  level of  its participants was historic.  Its 
decisions 
the Rio Declaration,  the programme  of action  called  Agenda  21, and 
the launching  of  the Conventions  on biodiversity  and  climate  change 
will 
continue  to have vital  importance  for all our  nations  in the  coming  century. 
The Prime Minister  of  Pakistan, Mr. Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  participated 
in the Conference  to underline  his  firm  commitment  to the promotion  of 
environmentally  sound development.  A national  conservation  strategy  has  been 
elaborated  and adopted  in Pakistan.  This will be used by the Government  of 
Pakistan  as a guide  to ensure  that  all  its  future  development  plans  are  in 
consonance with  the objective  of  arresting  environmental  deterioration. 
This  General  Assembly  is called  upon  to adopt  the  results  of  the  Rio 
Conference  and  to  initiate  the process  of  follow-up  action,  in particular  the 
A/47/PV.52 
57 
(Mr. Zaki.  Pakistan) 
implementation  of Agenda  21. 
The documents  approved  at Rio  constitute  an 
important  advance  towards global  recognition  of  the  twin  imperatives  of 
development with equity  and development without  damage  to the  environment. 
Both  these goals  are not only essential  but  also mutually  compatible  and 
mutually  reinforcing. 
The  intellectual  and  scientific  debates  relating  to  the Rio  Conference 
have  led  to a sharper  political  awareness  in the  industrial  countries  of the 
intimate  relationship  between  the environment  and  development  and  the 
interdependent  nature  of  the world  economy.  They have  also promoted  a greater 
consciousness  in the developing  countries  that  environmentally  sound growth is 
the most  sustainable  and desirable  form of  development. 
The  Rio  Summit  represents  a new approach  to development,  a new  concept of 
a mutually  dependent  partnership  for growth  and  survival,  thus  integrating the 
aspirations  of  the developing  countries  and  the  concerns  of  the  developed. 
This  new political  compact  provides  the paradigm  for  action  towards  genuine 
progress  and global  prosperity  in the  twenty-first  century. 
Allow me  to  state, on behalf  of  the developing  countries,  and 
particularly  the members  of  the Group  of  77, that we have  accepted  the 
commitments  flowing  from  the Rio  Summit  out  of  a sense  of  responsibility to 
our  own peoples  and  to  the  future well-being  of our  planet.  The  commitments 
undertaken  by  the developing  countries  at  the Rio  Summit  represent  a historic 
leap  in their political  readiness  to  respond  to  the  challenging  requirements 
of environmentally  sound  development. 
We must  frankly  express  our  sense  of  regret  that  the  commitment  to these 
global  goals of  the developed  countries  has  not been  at  a similar  level.  They 
A/47/PV.52 
58 
(Mr. Zaki.  Pakistan) 
remain preoccupied  with  their  immediate  economic, political  and  social 
problems.  The  solidarity  demanded by  the new paradigm  of  environmentally 
sound development  is  limited  if not  absent  in their policies  relating  to 
development  assistance,  trade  liberalization  and  technological  cooperation. 
The Group  of  77  is  firmly of  the view that  the provision  of  adequate  new 
and additional  financing  is an essential  condition,  a sine qua non,  for  the 
effective  implementation  of Agenda  21.  It  is obvious  that  the  financing 
requirements  for Agenda  21 far exceed  the  resources which can be mobilized  by 
the developing  countries.  Additional  external  financing  is required  at  the 
bilateral  level  and  through multilateral  channels  to  implement  the  projects 
and programmes  for  sustainable  development  in developing  countries.  The  Group 
of 77 therefore  calls  for  the  full  implementation  of  the  commitments  made  in 
chapter  33 of Agenda  21 on  financial  resources  and mechanisms. 
Sustainable  development  should be promoted  through  the establishment  of a 
Commission,  as envisaged  in Agenda  21.  The Group  of 77 has  circulated  a 
document  setting  out  its views on  the  functions  and  structure  of  the 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  The  tasks  of  this Commission  will  be 
both conceptual  and practical.  It must  enhance  the  international  cooperation 
required  to integrate  development  and environmental  issues. 
The Commission  on Sustainable  Development  should  regularly  review  and 
monitor  the activities  of various  financing  sources  and mechanisms  related  to 
Agenda 21 in order  to  fulfil  the objectives  of  chapter  33.  It should  also 
ensure an effective  link between  the  availability  and maximization  of  new  and 
additional  financial  resources. 
We believe  that  all  sources  and mechanisms,  including  the  global 
environment  facility,  must  regularly  report  to the Commission  on  Sustainable 
A/47/PV.52 
59-60 
(Mr. Zaki.  Pakistan) 
Development  on  the  level of  financing  so that  the Commission  is able  to 
monitor  effectively  the availability  of  funds. 
The  Global  Environment 
Facility  is only one of  the mechanisms  for  the  financing  of Agenda  21, and the 
Group  of  77 attaches  great  importance  to  its  restructuring  in accordance with 
Agenda  21, especially  to  the principles  of  democratic  governance  and 
transparency  in decision-making  and  operations.  This  restructuring  must  be 
undertaken  as  soon as possible  and  should  be  reported  and  reviewed  by  the 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development  at  its  first meeting  early  next  year. 
A/47/PV.52 
61 
(Mr. Zaki. Pakistan) 
Access  to technology  too  is a vital prerequisite  for  the  success  of  the 
goals of  the  Rio  summit.  We  attach  fundamental  importance  to the transfer  of 
technology  to the developing  countries  on preferential  and  concessionary 
terms.  A conscious  endeavour  is required  to promote  the  knowledge  and 
expertise  required  to  implement  environmentally  sound  development  policies  in 
the developing  counties.  Without  such capabilities  the  achievement  of 
sustainable  development  in those  countries will  remain  a mirage. 
Two  other  issues  require  special  action;  desertification  and  the 
problems  of  small  island  developing  countries.  He  look  forward  to  the 
establishment  of  an intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  to  formulate  a 
convention  to  combat  desertification.  The  Group of  77  further  proposes  that a 
global  conference  on the  sustainable  development  of  small  island  developing 
States should be held  in June  1993  to consider means  to overcome  the 
disadvantages  of  those  States. 
Further  action  is also  required  to build  on the  two Conventions 
on 
biological  diversity  and on climate  change,  respectively  - which were  opened 
for signature  at Rio.  The  financing mechanisms  and  sources, of which  the 
Global Environment  Facility  is one, should  report  to the conferences  of  the 
parties to those  Conventions. 
Much of  the world's  finite  resources  is being depleted  or  degraded  owing 
to unsustainable patterns  of  consumption  and production  in the  developed 
countries.  It  is well  recognized  that  the present  environmental  crisis  is due 
mainly to unrestrained  and unsustainable  consumption  patterns  and  lifestyles 
in the developed  countries.  Unfortunately,  Agenda  21 does not  contain 
specific  commitments  by the developed  countries  to address  these  issues. 
A/47/PV.52 
62 
(Mr. Zaki. Pakistan) 
The experience of inequality in the evolution of international economic 
relations must not be repeated in the promotion of the new partnership which 
was forged at the Rio summit to promote sustainable development.  The 
developing countries should not be asked to bear the brunt of sacrifices to 
preserve the world's environment and ecological system.  They must not be 
asked to forgo development while the industrialized countries persist in their 
present pattern of unrestrained consumption. 
An important step that must now be taken is to determine specific 
policies to create the external economic conditions that will enable the 
developing countries to reach the goals of sustainable development.  The most 
important of these conditions is access for the exports of developing 
countries to the markets of the advanced nations, which continue to shutter 
their economies behind tariffs and non-tariff barriers. 
The World Bank estimates that trade barriers cost the developing 
countries about $100 billion in lost annual income in 1990 alone, an amount 
that is twice the annual development assistance from the countries of the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and, even more 
significant, is twice the annual interest paid by the developing countries on 
their public external debt. 
The developed countries must overcome their squabbles over agriculture 
and speedily conclude the Uruguay Round.  They must respond with courage and 
conviction to resist and reverse the forces of protectionism.  They must 
resolve their differences on the fiscal and monetary policies which, together 
with their protectionist tendencies, are worsening the impact of the current 
global recession. 
A/47/PV.52 
63 
(Mr. Zaki. Pakistan) 
The momentum  generated  by  the Rio Conference  must  not be  allowed  to 
dissipate.  The  spirit  of  cooperation  displayed  at Rio must guide  us  in  the 
implementation  of Agenda  21.  The post-Rio  process must  consolidate  the gains 
and build  on  the  agreements  of Rio.  There  is an  inescapable  necessity  for  the 
international  community  to  act  in concert,  to ensure  for  succeeding 
generations  a pattern  of  sustainable  growth. 
We  inherited  this beautiful  planet  from  our  ancestors.  It was  full  of 
the bounties  of nature,  including  fresh air  and  clean water.  We have  an 
obligation  to pass  this  legacy  to our  children  and grandchildren,  free of 
pollution  and  able  to  sustain  and  nurture  life.  We must  therefore  make 
sincere  endeavours  to  realize  the historic  consensus  that was  forged  at  the 
Rio Conference. 
Mr. REILLY  (United  States  of America);  This week,  as  those who were 
in New York yesterday  no do\jbt discovered,  is Marathon Week  in New York  City. 
As members  may  know,  the object  of  some  runners  in  a marathon  is to win.  But 
for most  participants  it is simply  to  finish,  ideally  in a good  time.  For 
most participants  the  race, then,  is against  the clock,  that  is  against 
oneself.  That,  it  seems  to me, is not  a bad metaphor  for our  own work  at Rio 
and now here  this week.  We  are engaged  in a kind  of marathon:  a race  against 
the clock;  a race  against  ourselves; a race  for the planet;  a race  against  the 
exhaustion of  its natural  systems  and  the destruction  of  its  stability. 
For  almost half  a century  this body has been  the  repository  of many  of 
the world's  hopes  for  the  future.  The United Nations  has  fed  the  world's 
hungry, healed  the  sick  and protected  the oppressed.  Through nearly  50 years 
A/47/PV.52 
64-65 
(Mr. Reilly. United States) 
of political change, war and peace, economic growth and recession, this 
institution has helped bind the nations of the world together in a common 
humanitarian cause. 
Today we live in a world where change is more dramatic, more accelerated, 
more far-reaching than ever.  As political alliances shift, as fledgling 
democracies emerge from collapsed dictatorships, as national economies adjust 
to a growing interdependence in the global marketplace, we face staggering 
challenges. 
Nowhere is this change more evident, nowhere are the challenges more 
compelling than in the global need for economic development that does not make 
you sick, shorten your life or diminish your dignity:  development, in sum, 
that is environmentally sustainable.  Nowhere do we see more clearly the 
importance, the value of the United Nations.  The people of the world must 
work together to protect the global environment, and coordinated, cooperative 
action is the hallmark of the United Nations. 
A/47/PV.52 
66 
(Mr. Reilly. United  States) 
Last  June,  in Rio, over  170 countries met  at one  of  the most  important 
multinational  conferences  in history.  At Rio we  recognized  the danger  to 
human  survival  and  the  impediment  to economic  development  from  the  poisoning 
of our Earth,  from  the disruption  of the planet's  atmospheric  equilibrium, 
from  the degradation  of human  and ecological  health,  and  from the depletion  of 
our natural  resources.  After  two years of preparatory  negotiations,  the  Earth 
Summit had before  it a number  of  significant,  new  international  agreements  and 
statements;  the Rio Declaration;  the climate  change Convention, which  the 
United  States has  ratified;  the Declaration of  Forest  Principles; Agenda 21; 
and the Convention  on biodiversity.  At Rio we  also  agreed  to create  a new 
body within  the United Nations,  a Commission  on Sustainable  Development,  to 
help implement  Agenda  21 and help national  economies  grow  in ways  that  protect 
their environmental  support  systems. 
The  forty-seventh  session  of  the General Assembly  of  the United  Nations 
is the  first major  test  of  the obligations we  agreed  in Rio.  Here we  must 
move beyond  the  rhetoric  of Rio.  Here we must  translate  our  Rio pledges  into 
strong, cooperative  action. 
During  this  session,  the United  States  looks  forward  to  substantial 
progress  in several  areas.  We want  to establish  a strong basis  for 
negotiation  of  an  international  convention  to combat  desertification.  We  want 
to initiate  serious  discussions  related  to high  seas  fisheries,  especially 
highly migratory  species  and  straddling  stocks.  We  anticipate  discussing  ways 
to foster  sustainable  development  in small  island  States. 
But no  issue  in Agenda  21 is more  important  to us today  than the  creation 
of the Commission  on  Sustainable  Development.  My delegation believes  that  we 
can and must put  that machinery  in place  as  soon as possible,  so we  can  begin 
A/47/PV.52 
67 
(Mr. Reilly. United States) 
our substantive work as early as possible in the new year.  While pressing 
forward on the goals of Agenda 21, this new Commission must be part of the 
ongoing revitalization of the United Nations economic and social functions: 
efficient, innovative and built upon the resources available within the United 
Nations. 
This Commission must be a focus of international support for sustainable, 
environmentally sound development for generations to come.  It must be 
carefully, thoughtfully structured to help the emerging global market-place 
remain vigorous, while the natural systems and resources on which all human 
activity depends remain healthy and productive. 
There are several competing visions for this Commission.  We believe that 
the disparate and far-reaching commitments made in Rio need to be monitored, 
measured and piiblicized.  The most comprehensive and ambitious of the Rio 
documents is Agenda 21.  As a voluntary, non-binding statement of intentions 
it has no home or parent, no protector or patron.  The Commission on 
Sustainable Development should undertake this role. 
I foresee  a Commission charged with the responsibility to chart the 
progress and chronicle the digressions along the road from Rio.  I envisage a 
Commission which, while not exercising coercive power, uses the moral 
authority of this body to remind the world  and specific countries as 
appropriate  of practical opportunities to further sustainable development, 
and of shortcomings and failures, the strengths and also the weaknesses of 
policies, priorities and projects. 
There is no other appropriate institution to perform this essential 
function.  To do so effectively the Commission will need a strong and 
respected voice, leadership of stature, and international support.  It will 
A/47/PV.52 
68 
(Mr. Reilly. United  States) 
need professional  staff  and  the  capacity  to draw on the  technical  resources  of 
other United Nations  institutions. 
To ensure  that  the Commission  fulfils  the vision proposed  for  it at  Rio 
it should  review  and  report  on  the progress  of nations  in  implementing 
Agenda  21; it should  draw on the work  of United Nations  agencies  to  follow  the 
critical  issues  raised  in Agenda  21 
deforestation,  the  relationship  between 
poverty  and environmental  degradation,  the human misery  caused by  polluted 
drinking water  and  lack of  sanitation,  desertification,  and  others; it  should 
encourage  review of  subsidies  for unsustainable  development  and  promote 
consideration  of measures  aimed  at ending  them;  and  it  should promote  review 
of the environmental  effects  and  sustainability  of major  development  projects, 
especially  those  of  the Horld  Bank and of  regional  development  banks.  Its 
rules of procedure  must  be  flexible  so that  those with genuine  expertise  in 
sustainable  development  can contribute  to  its work, and  it must  ensure  that 
non-governmental  organizations  are  significantly  involved  in its work  in an 
appropriate way  as valued  partners. 
The  Commission  on Sustainable  Development will  address  a key  question 
facing nations  today:  how do we expand  our economies  to meet  the  aspirations 
of our people, while  still protecting human health  and the natural  resources 
on which  lasting  economic  growth depends?  How we  answer  this question  will 
define our quality  of  life  in the  twenty-first  century.  Thus  the United 
States  supports  the  idea of  the Coimnission and the goals  of  the  Commission, 
and we  shall  support  the Commission  in its operations  as well. 
In 1993, United  States  total overseas  development  assistance  will  grow to 
more than $11 billion,  a nearly  4 per  cent  increase  over  1992.  Some of  the 
increase will  come  from  additional  contributions  to multilateral  programmes 
A/47/PV.52 
69 
(Mr. Reilly. United  States) 
and  funds.  Our  contribution  to the United  Nations  Development  Programme  will 
grow by  9 per  cent,  to $125 million; United  States  funding  for  the United 
Nations  Environment  Programme  will  rise by  21 per  cent,  to $22 million.  For 
the Montreal  Protocol, we  intend  to provide  $28 million  in  1993, compared  to 
just over  $18 million  in 1992. 
Next month  the parties  to the Montreal  Protocol will meet  in  Copenhagen 
to consider  bringing  forward  the date  at which  nations  phase  out  manufacture 
of ozone-depleting  substances.  The United  States Government  will  phase out 
chlorofluorocarbons  (CFCs) by the end of  1995.  He  strongly  believe  that all 
developed  countries  should  agree  to do  the  same.  He  also  strongly  believe 
that  developing  countries  should  consider  following  the  example  of Mexico and 
Thailand  and  agree  to cease production  of  CFCs by  the year  2000.  But we 
recognize  that  they will  need  financial  help  to make  the  transition  to less 
harmful  substitutes.  Therefore we  are committed  to continuing  the Montreal 
Protocol  Fund  and  replenishing  it at  an appropriate  level  to meet  identified 
needs.  This, it  seems  clear  to me, is the bargain  reached with  the developing 
nations when  the London Agreements were  consummated  in the  summer  of  1990, and 
we  strongly  encourage  other developed  nations  to  join us  in making  this new 
financial  commitment  to maintaining  a healthy,  independent  Montreal  Protocol 
Fund. 
Total United  States  contributions  to multilateral  development  banks in 
1993 will be nearly  $1.6 billion,  including  a new contribution  of  $90 million 
for  the Multilateral  Investment  Fund of  the  Inter-American  Development  Bank. 
Now,  as these  figures  show,  the United  States  commitment  to the United Nations 
and  to  the  international  community  is stronger  than  ever. 
A/47/PV.52 
70 
(Mr. Reilly. United  States) 
At  the  same  time,  it  is important  to  remember  that  there  is more  the 
United  States  can and will  do, there  is more  all nations  can 
and must  - do, 
to support  sustainable  development world-wide.  Economic  and  environmental 
history  suggests  that poverty  and environmental  degradation go hand  in hand. 
The poorest  people  suffer  from  the most polluted  drinking water,  lack of 
sewage treatment  and  improper  disposal  of wastes.  Only economic  growth  can 
bring  the  financial  and  technical  resources  necessary  to protect  human  health 
and natural  systems.  In  fact, economic  growth  itself  is one of our most 
powerful  tools  for protecting  the  environment. 
A/47/PV.52 
71 
(Mr. Reilly. United  States) 
To  stimulate  economic  growth  and  support  sustainable  development,  we must 
ensure  that  the  fundamental  pillars  of  a strong market  economy  are built  in 
every nation.  This  requires  debt  reform,  open  investment  policies  and  trade 
liberalization.  The United  States has  advanced  these principles  with  our 
"Enterprise  for  the Americas"  initiative.  He will  continue  to push  for 
growth-stimulating  reform  through  the North American  Free Trade  Agreement, 
debt-for-nature  swaps, expanded  environmental  efforts  in  the  multilateral 
development  banks, and expanded  technical  cooperation with  nations  around the 
world.  All  this,  I am  convinced,  will  lead  to  increased  global  investments in 
environmental  protection. 
I  can think  of no better  example  of  the environmental  opportunities 
offered  by economic  reform  than that  of our good  neighbour  Mexico.  Over the 
past  several  years, Mexico's  economy  has grown  at  a  record-setting  pace. 
Because  of Mexico's move  toward  open  investment,  debt  reform,  free  trade and 
privatization,  more  than  $25 billion  in foreign  investment  has  flowed  into 
that  country.  During  the  same period,  Mexico's  investment  in  environmental 
protection has grown  to the point where  it is now  1 per  cent  of  gross national 
product. 
The  lesson here  is clear:  even  as we build  new  international 
institutions,  even  as we broaden  intergovernmental  cooperation,  we  must 
strengthen  our  national  economies  by  tearing  down  the barriers  to  free trade. 
The  economic  benefits  of  free  trade will  do more  to protect  the  global 
environment  thah we  could  ever  expect  from  foreign  aid  alone. 
We  in the United  States  cherish our political  and  economic  freedom.  We 
believe  it  is no coincidence  that  the American  Declaration  of  Independence and 
Adam  Smith's  The Wealth  of Nations were both written  in  the  same year.  In out 
A/47/PV.52 
72 
(Mr. Reilly. United  States) 
country,  free markets  and  individual  liberty  are mutually  supporting  and  bound 
together. 
Environmental  policy may well be  the  single most  successful  of  all United 
States domestic  policies  of  the past  20 years.  The United  States was  the 
first  country  to enact  comprehensive  national  environmental  laws, and 
environmental  conditions  today  are  far better  than they were  20 years  ago,  in 
urban air and water  quality,  in nature protection,  in park  and  wilderness 
protection  and  in the  revival  of endangered wildlife.  Most  important, we  made 
this environmental  progress while  our  economy  continued  to grow.  Economic 
growth financed  our  environmental  investments.  Economic  growth  and 
environmental  protection  can go  hand-in-hand. 
The American  people  support  the goals of Agenda  21.  We  support  a 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development with a strong voice  and  a  significant 
role.  We believe  in  sustainable  development  because  it  is increasingly  a 
valued  and  successful  part  of our  own national  experience.  Let us then  create 
the Commission  on Sustainable  Development  now,  so that we  can get  on with  the 
race on the  road  from Rio  in the  spirit  of  long-distance  runners, with our  eye 
on the clock. 
Mr. TOPFER  (Germany);  At  the  start  of  today's debate,  the 
representative  of  the United  Kingdom, my  colleague David MacLean, outlined  the 
position of  the European  Community  and  its member  States on the  report  of  the 
United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development.  The  Federal 
Republic of  Germany  supports  this view.  In the  light  of  the  special  political 
significance my  Government  attaches  to  the  follow-up  of  the Earth  Summit  in 
Hio, I should  like to add  the  following. 
A/47/PV.52 
73 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germanv) 
We have  concluded  a final  act of Rio.  Each of  its elements 
the  Rio 
Declaration,  Agenda  21 and  the  statement  on  forest principles 
is  important 
in itself,  as are the Conventions  signed  in Rio  on climate  change  and 
biodiversity.  All  the  results  are geared  towards  an honest,  committed 
follow-up process  in a global  partnership  of environment  and development.  The 
global  Rio process  for economic,  social  and environmental  development  and 
cooperation must  become  as  successful  as  the Helsinki  process  is  for  security 
and  cooperation  in Europe. 
The  crucial  challenge  facing us as industrialized  countries  is  laid down 
in the Rio Declaration,  namely  the  special  responsibility  we bear  in view of 
the pressures we have placed  on the global  environment  and  of  the  technologies 
and  financial  resources we  command. 
The  "spirit  of Rio", which we were happily  able  to help  engender, must 
now prove  its worth  in practice,  in particular  in an era where  the global 
economic  framework  is making  this more  rather  than  less  difficult. 
The United  Nations has  contributed  substantially  to  the end of  the 
East-West  conflict  and has emerged  from  it in a strengthened  position.  It has 
a central  role  to play  in securing  and maintaining  peace.  This  is to a large 
extent  thanks  to the  resolve  and vigour  demonstrated  by  the 
Secretary-General.  We must  use  the  capacities  thus  released  to  avoid  a new 
conflict between  rich and poor, between north, east  and  south. 
The United  Nations  is also  essential  to  solving  global  environment  and 
development  problems.  The preservation  of  creation,  the overcoming  of 
underdevelopment  and  the halting  of  the destruction  of  the  environment  are 
A/47/PV.52 
74 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germany) 
integral  elements  of  a sustainable  new world  order geared  towards  securing 
peace.  We need  a foreign policy  on economic  development  and  cooperation  and 
on the environment,  both by  States  and by  the United  Nations. 
He need  a strengthened,  internationally  coordinated  environmental  and 
development  competence:  we must gear  the United  Nations  Environment  Programme 
(UNEP) and  the United Nations Development  Programme  (UNDP) to the  new 
challenges we  face.  They must be put  in a position where  they  are  able  to 
fulfil  the tasks  set down  in Agenda  21, the manual  of environment  and 
development  cooperation. 
The  innovative  approach  taken  in Rio, however,  lies  in  integrating 
environment  and development 
two  sides of  the  same coin.  This  is the major 
task of  the new high-level  United Nations  Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development.  It must  act  as a coordinating  link not only between UNEP  and 
UNDP, but  also  among  all  the Members  of  the United  Nations  family,  national 
Governments  and  representatives  of  the non-governmental  sector.  A 
comprehensive  catalogue  of measures will make  it a significant  force  in the 
follow-up  to Rio. 
Given  the significance  of  the questions  at hand,  in particular  the  need 
to keep the public  at  large  focused  on them, we, together with our partners  in 
the European Community,  are  striving  to ensure  that  this  Commission  also  comes 
together  at  the ministerial  level during  its yearly meetings.  Negotiations 
that took place  during  the  concluding days  of  the Earth  Summit  in Rio  also 
showed that  important,  controversial  problems  can often be  solved  only  at  this 
level. 
A/47/PV.52 
75 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germany) 
We must  use  this  unique  and historic  chance  for  an  integrative 
interlocking  of  all  institutions  of  the United Nations  system.  We  must 
concentrate  all  energies  on perceiving  early  and meeting  constructively  the 
huge  challenges  facing us  in the economic,  social  and  environmental  fields. 
He welcome  the proposals  of  the  Secretary-General  to  link  closely  the 
institutional  follow-up  to Rio with  the  restructuring  measures  he  so 
vigorously  initiated  in the economic  and  social  sector. 
A/47/PV.52 
76 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germany) 
We encourage  the Secretary-General  to proceed  purposefully  with  this  reform 
task.  The United  Nations must become  an institution  that pursues  its goals  in 
the economic,  social  and environmental  field  as  responsibly  and  as urgently  as 
it fulfils  its obligations  in the area of peace  and  security.  At  the  same 
time, we  underline  the necessity  of  regionalization  or,  as we  call  it  in the 
European  Communities,  of  subsidiarity. 
He need  to translate  the Rio  results promptly  into practical  action.  Our 
priorities  are  the  following. 
Our  first  priority  is  immediate  ratification  and prompt  implementation  of 
the Conventions.  They must prove  to be dynamic  instruments  to  further  world(cid:173)
wide cooperation  in combating  the  serious global problems. 
This week, my  Government will pass  the Act  ratifying  the  Climate 
Convention  and  forward  it to parliament  immediately.  By the end of  the year, 
we will  submit  to the  secretariat  of  the  Intergovernmental  Negotiating 
Committee  in Geneva our  first  national  report  on the  steps we have  taken  to 
implement  the Convention.  It  is our  national  target  to  reduce  carbon  dioxide 
emissions by  25 per  cent  to  30 per  cent by  the year  2005 on the basis of  1987 
levels.  A whole  range  of measures  to  achieve  this  target have  already  been 
introduced; more  are being  prepared. 
In Rio, the European  Communities  and  their member  States  once  again 
affirmed  their  target  of  stabilizing  carbon dioxide  emissions  throughout  the 
Communities  by  the year  2000.  Germany  is pressing  for  the  introduction  of a 
carbon dioxide  energy  tax as an  important  instrument  in the  Communities' 
strategy. 
A/47/PV.52 
77 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germanv) 
In Rio  de Janeiro  the Federal  Chancellor  of Germany, Mr. Helmut  Kohl, 
offered  to host  the  first  Conference  of  the Contracting  Parties  to  the Climate 
Convention  in Germany.  He would be very happy  if  the General Assembly  would 
support  our  invitation.  The Conference  is designed  to bring  about progress in 
implementing  the Convention,  developing  it  further  and making  its  provisions 
more  stringent. 
Prompt  implementation  should  also be  a priority  for  the Convention on 
Biological  Diversity  at the next meeting  of  the Governing  Council  of  the 
United Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP).  He welcome  and  support  the steps 
that have been  taken  in this  regard by  the Executive Director  of UNEP, 
Mr. Tolba,  and  the  support by  the Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF). 
He  shall  strengthen  our  cooperation with developing  countries, as well as 
with  the countries  of Eastern Europe  and  the Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States  (CIS) to help  them  also  to promptly  implement  these  Conventions.  To 
this  end, we will  allocate  a total of DM  10 million  in additional  funds in 
1993  for  short-term  programmes  for the  rapid  implementation  of  both 
Conventions,  in cooperation with developing  countries. 
In order  to achieve  the global  convention  on desertification  by  1994, we 
shall  support  the  establishment  by  the General  Assembly  of  an 
intergovernmental  negotiating  committee.  The  same priority must  be  attached 
to  the protection  of water,  especially of  drinking  water. 
Our  second  priority  is implementation  and  further  development  of the 
forest principles.  The  forest  principles  agreed  on  in Rio  form  a good basis 
for effective measures  to manage, conserve  and  sustainably  develop  forests 
throughout  the world.  He must  now  implement  these  at  the  national  level and 
gear  our  international  cooperation  towards  them.  I am  convinced  that  on this 
A/47/PV.52 
78 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germany) 
basis  it will  be possible  for us to have  a constructive  dialogue  on  the 
implementation,  review  and  further  development  of  these principles  in the 
Commission  for  Sustainable  Development with a view  to drafting  further 
international  agreements. 
Our  third  priority  is new  forms of  international  economic  relations.  In 
order  to  improve  living  conditions  for  their people, developing  countries  need 
to strengthen  and make  full  use of their own capacities  rather  than  to be  the 
recipient  of external  support.  Therefore, we must break  down trade  barriers 
and open up our markets  to give weaker  economies  better  opportunities  to 
proceed with  sustainable  development  under  their  own  steam.  We  all  agree  on 
the tremendous  importance  of  a successful  conclusion  to the Uruguay  Round. 
With  regard  to the question  of  trade  and  the environment, we believe  that 
particular  priority must be given  in future  to  international  cooperation, 
especially  in the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade  (GATT) and  the United 
Nations Conference  on Trade  and Development  (UNCTAD).  This means  not  only 
avoiding  the creation by environmental  regulations  of  unjustified  trade 
barriers.  If we  are  serious  about  the principle  enshrined  in the Rio 
Declaration  on  internalizing  external  costs  and  about  the provisions  of 
Agenda 21, we must  also  commit  trade policy  to  sound environmental  practice 
and the preservation  of  resources 
in other words, to  sustainable 
development. 
Our  fourth priority  is new economic  behaviour  and  new living  patterns. 
An essential  element  of  sustainable  economic  behaviour  and  sustainable  living 
patterns  lies primarily  in changes  to our  own behaviour  as producers  and 
consumers.  He  in the  industrialized  countries have  a particular 
responsibility  in this  regard, given the major  part we play  in global 
A/47/PV.52 
79 
(Mr. Topfer,  Germany) 
environmental  damage.  Only by gearing  in particular  economic,  energy, 
transport  and  agricultural  policy  towards  the principles  of  sound 
environmental  practice will  it be possible  to  achieve  sustainable  development. 
It will  not be possible  to achieve  sustainable  development  without 
consistently  implementing  a life cycle  concept  that  evaluates  the 
environmental  soundness  of  a product  from manufacture  to disposal,  from  cradle 
to grave.  In Germany we  are paying  particular  attention  to waste policy in 
order  to move  away  from  the  "throw  away"  society  towards  environmentally  sound 
products  and production  techniques. 
The prices  of  our products  and  services  must  also  reflect  the  costs they 
entail  for  the environment.  We must  continue  to promote  the use  of  economic 
instruments  and market  incentives.  This  is the best way  to  engender 
environmentally  sound  technological  progress, which  should  also be  transferred 
within  the  framework  of  technological  cooperation.  Instruments  such  as these 
can, moreover,  be  innovative  sources  of  finance  for measures  to  promote 
sustainable  development. 
An  important  prerequisite  for  a change  in the behaviour  of  all our 
citizens  towards more  environmental  compatibility  is education  and  training, 
instruction  and  information.  These elements  must promote  and  strengthen 
awareness  of  the  fact  that each  individual  has  to play  his  or her part  in 
ensuring  sustainable  development  in order  to guarantee  our  joint  survival on 
this planet.  Given  the  limited  resources  at our  disposal  and  the poverty gulf 
between North  and  South, East  and West,  the  thinking  in terms  of  entitlement 
and possession  is also  coming  under  scrutiny. 
Our  fifth priority  is combating  poverty.  In order  to  remove  the causes 
of poverty,  structural  reforms  are essential.  This means  the  creation  of an 
A/47/PV.52 
80 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germany) 
economic, political  and  social  framework  at  the national  and  international 
level  to  reduce poverty.  Participation  by  the people,  as well  as  close 
integration with environmental  protection  and  sustainable  management  of 
resources  are new elements  of  our  joint  strategy  to combat  poverty,  as 
developed  in Agenda 21. 
German development  cooperation views efforts  to combat  poverty  as a 
priority  task,  and  is  involved  in  a great many projects  in all  areas  receiving 
assistance. 
A/47/PV.52 
81 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germany) 
Our  sixth priority  is population  policy.  Sustainable  development  cannot 
be  achieved without  a responsible population policy.  We  all  know  that 
measures  for the advancement  of women and  for  family planning  are  particularly 
effective 
or even effective  only 
if they  are  combined  into  integrated 
programmes  alongside measures  to combat  the underlying  causes  of  rapid 
population  growth, poverty  and underdevelopment.  That  is the only way  to 
escape  from  this vicious  circle.  An  improvement  in the  social  and  economic 
position of women  in developing  countries  is essential.  People must  be given 
the  right  to determine  the  size of  their  families  as their  own  responsibility. 
Our  seventh priority  is technological  cooperation,  the  spreading  of 
knowledge  and capacity  building.  Modern,  environmentally  sound  technologies 
must  increasingly  be used  throughout  the world,  in particular  in the  fields of 
energy  and  transport  and  industrial  and  agricultural  production.  Enlarging 
institutional  and  technical  capacities  - in particular  in  developing 
countries  - for  choosing  and  applying  suitable  and  adapted  technologies  is 
already  a major  element  in German bilateral  cooperation  in the  field  of 
environment  and development.  He give  our wholehearted  support  to  the 
Capacity  21 programme  of  the United Nations  Development  Programme  and have 
already made budgetary provisions  to  support  it. 
He  support  the  setting  up of  technology  consultation  centres,  in 
particular  in cooperation with  industry.  He have  therefore  set  up  such a 
centre  in South-East  Asia,  in cooperation with  Singapore,  and  are  seeking 
similar  cooperation  in Eastern Europe  and  in the Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States.  Hithin  the European Community,  we  are  currently working  on  the 
establishment  of  such a centre  in Africa. 
A/47/PV.52 
82 
(Mr. Topfer.  Germany) 
Our  eighth priority  is  financial  questions.  In Rio  the  Federal 
Chancellor, Mr. Kohl, made  clear  our  determination  to  live up  to our 
responsibility  vis-a-vis  the developing  countries.  In spite  of  the 
exceptional  situation  in the wake of  German  unification  and  our  tremendous 
contribution  to  the process  of  reconstruction  in the countries  of Central  and 
Eastern  Europe  and of  the Commonwealth  of  Independent  States, we  shall  make 
every effort  to do  justice  to the  financial  commitment  made  in Rio. 
He  continue  to  support  the  tripling  of  the  size of  the Global  Environment 
Facility  combined  with  a fair  burden-sharing.  The  ongoing  restructuring  of 
the Global  Environment  Facility  should be  concluded  promptly,  including,  in 
particular,  adequate  participation  by developing  countries  in  decision-making, 
in accordance with Agenda 21. 
He consider  it vital  that  the  tenth  replenishment  of  the  International 
Development  Association  should maintain  its value  in real  terms  and  that  an 
Earth  increment  should  be decided  on.  We  are  also prepared  for the  provision 
of further  relief within  the  framework  of  the debt-servicing  agreements  of  the 
Paris Club  if the  resources  thus  released  are made  available  for measures  to 
protect  and maintain  the  environment. 
Our ninth priority  is that  the aid we give  can only help  towards  self-
help.  The  developing  countries  and  the  countries  of Eastern  Europe  and  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States must  use  their  own  resources  for 
sustainable  development  by  taking  action  under  their  own  steam,  by  creating 
suitable economic  conditions  and by ensuring  democratic  development  and 
effective government.  There  are many hopeful  beginnings.  The  decisions  taken 
by the Conference  of  non-aligned  States  in Jakarta  show encouraging  progress, 
too. 
A/47/PV.52 
83 
(Mr. Topfer. Germanv) 
Our tenth priority is that environmental destruction is a threat to peace 
and a threat to mankind.  The large-scale, serious destruction of the 
environment is a topic that is of basic concern to us with a view to possible 
future conflicts, both in times of war and in times of peace.  We welcome the 
work being done by the International Law Commission on environmental crime. 
It must be possible to bring before an international criminal court crimes 
such as genocide, the gravest violations of human rights, and far-reaching, 
serious damage to the environment.  The international community must be 
enabled to punish such massive violations of international law.  Rio has not 
helped us make much progress in this regard.  I therefore consider that 
relevant, more-far-reaching decisions by the General Assembly are necessary. 
It seems to me to be equally urgent that the international community be 
better equipped for environmental accidents and disasters.  We need "Green 
Helmets" as a quickly available task force of voluntary experts from various 
countries comparable to the "Blue Helmets" of the United Nations peace-keeping 
forces.  These experts must be able to be summoned by the United Nations 
Environment Programme (UNEP) on short notice for immediate deployment on 
site.  The United Nations Centre for Urgent Environmental Assistance, decided 
on by the UNEP Governing Council in 1991 and now set up in Geneva, must be 
consistently promoted and expanded with this objective in mind. 
All this shows us once again that securing and maintaining peace can be 
achieved permanently only if it also covers comprehensively the economic, 
social and environmental spheres; therefore, these are requirements for a kind 
of security council as well. 
A/47/PV.52 
84 
(Mr. Topfer. Germanv) 
The Conference in Rio was an important milestone for us.  However, we 
shall be able to consolidate the success of this event only if, by means of a 
continuing, dynamic process backed up by world-wide solidarity and joint 
action in global partnership, we secure the basic conditions for sustainable 
development and thus for the survival of humanity on this planet. 
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m. 
