UN'TED'
NATIONS
•
Oeneral A••embl,
·A
PROVISIONAL .
A/47/PV.40
30 October 1992
ENGLISH
Forty-seventh session
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 40th MEETING
Held at Headquarters, New York,
on Thursday, 15 October 1992, at 3 p.m.
President:
later:
Mr. ROGERS
(Vice-President)
Mr. MONGBE
(Vice-President)
(Belize)
(Benin)
Social Development:
situation and to youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family [93]
(continued)
(a) Queations relating to the world social
International Conference on ageing and celebration of the ~>enth
anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan of Action on
Ageing:
(1) Repozts of the Secretary-General
(ii) Draft rftsolution
I . .•
This record contains tbe original text of speeches delivered in English
and interpretationc of speeches in the other languages. The final text will
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembly.
Corrections should be submitted to original speecheB only. They should
be sent under the signature of a member o.f the delegation concerned, within
one week,
Services,
the record.
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference
room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of
92-61490
1978V (E)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.oIO
l(a-s)
Adoption of the aglda aDd ol'guisatioll of vor,Jn
thaGeneral Ca-alttll [8] (eoDtipuI4)
third rlport of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAI.7/PV.40
2-5
Ip the Absepce of the PresidePt. Mr. Rogers (Beli,e), Vice-President,
tock the Chair,
The meeting was called to order at 3,15 p,m.
AGBNDA ITEM 93 (continued)
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT:
TO YOUTH, AGEING, DISABLED PERSONS AND THE FAMILY
(a) QUESTIONS RELATING TO THE WORLD SOCIAL SITUATION AND
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON AGEING AND CELEBRATION OF THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF
mE ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PLAN OF ACTION ON AGEING:
(i) REPORTS OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/47/339, Al47/369)
(il) DRAFT RESOLUTION (Al47/L,5/Rev.l)
The PRESIDENT: This afternoon,
the General Assembly,
in accordance
with the decision taken at its 3rd plenary meeting and pursuant to resolution
46/91, is holding the second of the plenary meetings devoted to an
international conference on ageing and to celebrate the tenth anniversary of
the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing, under sub-item (a)
of agenda item 93,
Mr. RICRARPSON (United Kingdom):
I have the honour to speak on
behalf of the European Community and its member States on what is a special
year for the United Nations programme on ageing, This is the tenth
anniversary of the World Assembly on Ageing and of the International Plan of
Action on Ageing. The aim of this international conference, endorsed by the
General Assembly in its resolution 46/91, is to celebrate this occasion and to
revieu a set of targets on ageing for the year 2001, This anniversary year
presents a unique opportunity to assess the progress of and obstacles to the
implementation of the Plan during the past d~cade and to develop a practical
strategy on ageing for the future.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.40
6
(Mr. RiCbardsgn, Upited Kipgdom)
Nearly 10 ye8rs of experience in implementing the International Plan of
Action on Ageing points to a need for a set of tangible targets in relation to
ageing.
In its resolution 46/91 the General Assembly adopted a resolution
entitled "Implementation of the International Plan of Action on Ageing and
related activities", urging Member States to identify their specific national
targets on ageing for the year 2001 and'to incorporate the United Nations
Principles for Older Persons. The Principles state that opportunities must be
provided for elderly people to participate in and contribute to the ongoing
activities of society. They include access to work, education and training
programmes and family community and health care. Older persons should be able
actively to participate in the formulation and implementation of policies
which directly affect their well being, and to pursue opportunities for the
full development of their potential. They should be able tp live in dignity
and ~ecurity, free from exploitation and physical or mental abuse. The
European Community and ~ts member States support these principles and hope
that today'~ cGIGbrationwl11 ma~k a turning-point in the international
community's awareDe8~ of the situation of elderly people.
The dramatic increase in the number and propor~ion of elderly persons in
the world will not only pose unique opportunities for every society but is
bringing about profound political, economic and social changes. The growing
number and improved health of elderly people in the population must be
considered in overall social and economic planning. This massive potential
for ageing in the near future has critical policy implications. We must also
recognize the skills and ezperie~ce which people ara capable of contributing
to society in lator life, and shape our policies accordingly. Allocation of
resources to ensure income security to elderly dependents, changes in patterns
of consumption and investment,
improvements in health care and other
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
7
(Mr. Ricbordson, United Kingdom)
developmental issues, as well as the individual needs .of rapidly increasing
numbers of elderly people are some of the factors to be addressed. Social
services should promote the personal autonomy of elderly people as well as
enabling them to stay in their environment. Decision makers must be persuaded
to start anticipating ageing on a massive scale as today's youth pass through
the life cycle to old age.
Such forward planning is particularly crucial in
developing countries where the number of elderly people is increasing at a
faster rate than in. the industrialized countries.
The ageing popUlation is especially important given the resources and
amenities reguired for their care. Policies are needed to promote care,
independence and dignity by developing an appropriate mix of self-help
opportUDi~ies, family and community support and government assistance. The
European Community Decisions of 26 No~ember 1990 and 24 June 1992 designated
1993 as the Year of Older People and Solidarity between Generations. Among
the objectives of the Year are to bring to public notice the challenges
reSUlting from the ageing of the population and to promote reflection and
discussion on the types of change required in order to deal with current
demographic developments. The measures planned throughout the Community by
Member StateD,
the Commission,
the European Parliament and older persons'
organizations include intergenerational activities and information campaigns
to combat ageism, promote health and raise awareness of the contribu~ion of
older people to society. Tho Year will be an occasion both of celebration and
reflection. The good news -
longer and better lives - will be celebrated in
exhibitions, festivals and books. What all this means for the rights and
needs of older people will be addressed in studies and seminars. Press, radio
and television will focus as never before on the concerns and hopes of o:der
peoplo. The Year will provide the starting-point for a wide-ranging, aeriou8
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
8
(Mr. Richordson, Upited Kingdom)
discussion OD a number of topics which are hecoming ever more importent wit~
the aqeing of the population. These include the age of retirement,
i.ncome
support and the quality and financing of care services.
It is common knowlodge that women comprise the majority of elderly
people. We therefore. welcomed the Experts Group Maeting on the intflgrati~n of
ageing and elderly women into development which took place in VielllJ),a in
October 1991. The Experts Group Meeting recommended that f;mployment poli.ciels
and practices that discriminate against elderly women should be eliminated.
Training and retraining should be availaDle to enable ageinq and elderly wOlllen
to enter or re-enter the labour force. Research is needed to identify ways in
which elderly women contribute to development. Governments" nron-qovernmental
organizations and the private sector should take maasures to identify and
eliminate the exploitation, abuse and neglect of elderly WOlwan, as well as
violence against elderly women.
The European Community and its member States ret\ffirm their support for
the York of the United Nations Trust Fund for Ageing. We also note with
satisfaction the establishment of the Banyan Fund Association~ a world fund
for ageing, under the patt'onage of the United Nations.
f~e welcome the
creation of this Fund, whose main objective is to promote activities that will
enable elderly people to remain independent and to contribute to society in
the context of the International Plan of Action on Ageing.
I should like to conclude by thanking the Secretary-General,
the
President of the General Assembly and all those who have participated in these
meetings. The European Community and its member States will continue to give
priority to the problems of ageing in order to ensure that the fullest
possible assistance is given to those older peo~le who need it and that the
value to society of all older people is recoqni,zed.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl4'/PV.40
9-10
Mrs. RQHS.CB (Germany)
(spoke in Germu; Bnglish test furnished by
the delegation): Aa Minister for Senior Citizens of the rederal Republic of
Germany, it ls a great pleasure for me to address the Aas8mbly vith regard to
the concerns of elderly people in the Member States of the United Rations. We
should take these plenary meetings as an opportunity to rai.e public avareness
concernin~ the problems, needs and living conditions of elderly people.
The International Plan of Action on Ageing vas adopted in Vienna in
1982. Ten years later, our meetings today enable us to appreciate this event
and to inquire as to its implementation.
For the future, further impetus can
be given to the realization of this programme.
In formulating new objectives
and ~oints of main emphasis of global policy for the elderly, we vill da~e to
look even beyond the turn of the millenium.
I fully agree with the ezplanations of the presidency of the European
Community.
It is a pleasure for me to be given the opportunity on this
occasion to make some supplementary remarks and explanations on issues of
national, European and internatioD&l policy for the elderly.
The Federal Government feels UDder a special obligation to th. objectives
of the International Plan of A~tion.
It met the J.:'equest to e.tabUsh national
institutions of policy for the elderly by founding its own Ministry for Senior
Citizens. The setting up of this ministry is a structural response to the
pressing soc!o-political challenges connected with demographic development in
Germany.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library..-----,-----------------------~--
Al471PV.40
11
Policy ideas and objectives on the elderly arc; ~Gflel::t4ltd in a recently
established Federal Action Programme for the Eldol'lYII which mervos 8S a
central supporting instrument for meeting the target~ of Germau policy on the
elderly.
In addition to community and Federal Landor m@8sures and projects, this
Federal Action Programme is not only the driving force behind but also a guide
for socio-cultural services for elderly in our country.
The Federal Action Programme for the Elderly vas developed in accordance
with the International Plan of Action on Ageing. The intention 10 to further
expand the contents of this Plan on a yearly basis.
In my opinion, four areas
of main emphasis are:
enco~raginq the independence of and 30c1al
participation by the elderly; supporting elderly people in need of assistance
and care with a view to their independence; bringing living conditions in
unified Germany into line; and,
last but not least, expanding intarnational
policy for senior citizens
The Federal Republic'S policy on the elderly, geared to the national and
international situations, supports the realization of United Nations global
targets on ageing for the year 2001, which we are to adopt jointly.
For Germany,
the Federal Government has, on various occasions and in
numerous documents, set national targets in its policy for the @lderly. A
national, comprehensive list of targets is currently being elaborated, one
that must be receptive to the new findings and experience we will gain from
international cooperation.
I find that our targets ~re, in many respects,
congruent with those of our neighbouring countries.
Because of reunification, however, Germans face a special and novel task
in connection with policy on the elderly. Living conditions will have to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW471PV.40
12
(~L ..!!~h, Germapy)
underqo political, ~conoml, ~d social traneform&tions unprecedented in the
world.
After the achievement of political union in 1989 througtl a peaceful
revolution in the former German Democratic Republic, attainil19 economic and
social union its now our main objective. The elderly people Jln the new Federal
Lander have gone through a~d ~uff~red under the rule of the National
Socialists,
the Second World War and 40 years of dictatorship of the Socialist
Unity Party of GeX'many.
Improving their living conditions is one af the
central tasks of present-jay Germany'llI senior-«:itizen policy.
Although this is 8
talk of national scaps,
tt1e differing social and
economic situations of elderly people in Weet and East Germany is an example
of the continuing division of Europe,
I am well aware of the fact that global
improvement in the living conditions of the elderly in our world will
certainly be an incomparably more difficult task, one that calls for manifold
efforts and the mobilization of large-scale resources.
If, however, we
succeed in offering people in West and East Germany comperable prospects in
the foreseeable future, we will also have given a signal OD a small scale to
respond to one of the global issues ~f ageing.
I am referring to the issue of
ageing in dignity, irrespe~tive of social environment and regional affiliation.
We would like to incorporate our national experience end the knowledge
gained from our policy on the elderly into a supranatlonal framework at a
o
European and an international level. The motto should be "giving and
learning". On the European Community level,
I am working towards a charter
for senior citizens to become a guide for European policy on the elderly.
This charter will serve as a useful supplement to the United Nations
Principles for Older Perso;ls.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
13
(Mrs. ROnsch, Germany)
The Federal Action Programme for the Elder1y that I mentioned earlier, as
an instrument of socio-cultural services for the elderly, can also be
considered as a measure of development policy at the national level. The
international focus of the Federal Action Programme for the Elderly, with its
possibilities of exchange of information beyond borders, points to a framework
larger than the national l~vel.
Social participation by the elderly in the community, on a regional level
and against a national and international background, is one of the pill.ars of
German policy on the elderly.
I
therefore intend to provide the elderly in
Germany, when they retire from their professional lives, with many more fields
of activity than ever before. So-called senior citizens' offices are to
ber
3 community contact agencies, where elderly people can obtain information
on .u~king a commitment to act as volunteers as well as on collaborating with
self-help groups and neighbourhood action groups.
Never before in history have so m,~y people lived to such a ripe old
age. This findinq also increasinqly applies to the developinq countries.
However,
this must not be interpreted as a global ttniqhtmare tt • Gerontological
research provides us with the knowledqe we need in stimulating our
socio-cultural resources to meet demands and cope with challenges.
International cooperation in research is important in terms of being able to
coordinate the solutions to the problems. The issue of 8qoinq in the
developing countries will .Iave to be conside~ed in this context even more
intensively in future.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
14
(Mrs. ROnsch, German~)
An important event relating to policy on the elderly at the European
level will be the "European Year of Older People and Solidarity bet~~en
Generations" in 1993.
In coordination with all the main governmental and
non-governmental organizations,
the Federal Government will mark that year in
Germany with a number of conqresses and events.
In a number of national and
European events,
the Year
)f Older People will demonstrate the significance of
the issue of ageing. We want the public's perception of the elderly to be
more realistic. We want it to correspond to the way the elderly see
themselves and want to be seen.
I
think it an important and useful measure to involve elderly people as
volunteers in the building of social and economic structures. The States
receiving this assistance 6ill benefit from the enormous experience and
knowledge of the older gene~ation~ This will be of particular importance in
establishing programmes of assistance for the elderly in the developing
countries and in the fledgling democracies of Eastern Europe. Older people
themselves can benefit from participating in such measures. They can once
again participate in society.
The agreements with o~r neighbouring States on cooperation in
senior-citizen policy I have already signed, as well as others still being
prepared,
include the mutual promotion of cooperation by non-governmental
organ~zations in the field of socio-cultural services for the elderly. The
collaboration of a broad range of organizations in solving the urgent
development problems in Eastern Europe is of partiCUlar importance.
Consequently,
I very much appreciate that the Centre for Social
Development and Humanitarian Affairs of the United Nations Office at Vienna
plans to hold an expert me~ting on the subject "Support for Age Care Activity
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV;40
15
(Mrs. BOnsch« Germany)
in Eastern. Europe", in cooperation with Help Age International. This expert
meeting will represent a useful contribution towards implementing the action
progr~~ on ageing for 1992 (resolution 45/106), adopted at the forty-fifth
session of tha General Assembly.
It will also provide a forum where we can
discuss practical projects and new fields of activity of the United Nations
and non-governmental organizations with regard to so~io-cultu~al services for
the elderly in the reform-minded States of Eastern Europe.
The organizational capacities of the non-governmental organizations in
organizing projects and programmes for improving the living conditions of
elderly people need to be expanded. Hence,
I am pleased that the
non-governmental organizations from West to East are exchanging experiences
about possible solutions tu these p~oblems under the umbrella of the United
Nations.
In this context, efforts should be made to contribute to the
establishment of a network of cooperation in the field of socio-cultural
services for the elderly in the fledgling democracies of Eastern Europe.
We appreciate the work of the committees where government representatives
debate the issues relating to agein~ and coordinate their strategies. Germany
will also continu~to participate in this work constructively.
Finally,
I should like once again to touch on our obligations to provide
assistance in Eastern Euro~e and in the developing countries.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl4.7/PV.40
16
(Mrs. ROnsch. Ge~)
The reform-minded States of Central and Eastern Europe and the successor
States of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics require our assistance in
building up their democracies and economic systems. The social structures of
the past which the reform-minded States, with their limited efficiency, have
taken over from the preceding governments are functioning only to a very
restricted extent after the breakdown of their totalitarian administrations.
Unless we take account of the social dimension, our forms of assistance in
building up democracy and market economy will therefore be nothin~ more than a
skeleton.
The material and social living conditions of elderly people who do not
have any possibility of securing their subsistence level through gainful
employment have substantially deteriorated.
Family structures are breaking
up, and this frequently deprives old people of their last line of support.
It
is the weakest members of society,
the elderly, who are hit hardest by the
lack of efficient and functioning structures in the social field.
The objective of the remedial measures emanating from my Ministry is to
enable the reform-minded States to bring up to date the still existing
structures of socio-cultural services for the elderly or even to build up new
structures, which is qUit~ in line with the motto "Assistance towards
self-help". We want to acquaint the political and social decision-making
bodies of the reform-minded States with the rules and the way of functioning
of modern structures of socio-cultural services for the elderly.
I expect
these measures to have an ~normous and broad-based effect, which will finally
be to the advantage of the elderly. The new opportunities that present
themselves are also of extraordinary significance.
I am thinking in this
context of encounters for old people, exchanges of experience and
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.40
17
kuowledge het~een experts on socio-cultural aervlces for the elderly and
''It'edis\':leminators'', and the projects which are sponsored by our Ministry.
The situation of the old in the f19dgling democracies reflects the social
mid governmental atructures th9re.
If we succeed in supporting those States
ilL improving the living conditions of their senior citizen~, we will also have
cCltntributed to preventing the disappearance of social and cutural values.
In the industrial nat~ons it is frequently noted with some amazement that
the age structures of populations are changing rather more rapidly in the
developing countries than in the ,;,ndustrial natiODl!=
In the year 2025, morG
than 70 per cent of people aged 60 years and above will be living in what we
toclay consider to be develuping countries.
A particular problem is the growing imbalance in the population structure
of the developing countries~ and especially of many African States. The
assistance already provided in this area by the community of the world's
nations still has to be reinforced. The recently established Banyan Fund
plays an important role he:e.
I am partiCUlarly glad to be able to inform tbe
Assenmly that an old age h~me, sponsored by resources from the Fund,
celebrated its opening in Uganda on 4 October 1992. On this occasion I should
like to thank Uganda and especially the diocese of Mukono not only for making
the grounds available but ~lso for ensuring the maintenance of the old-age
home in the future.
The Federal Government is Gtrivinq to develop measures and programmes
which will give SUppOl't to the countries of the third world in building up
their own social insurance systems. The changes in the age structures of the
developing countries will ~onsiderably increase the need for these kinds of
assistance in the future.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
18
(Mrs. ROpsch, GermanY)
My country's development aid policy will in the future increasingly
support target-group-oriented Dleasures which are geared specifically to
elderly people in the thirl w~rld. Concrete examples of this are the
establishment of old people's nursing schools in Korea and the extension of
open-door assistance services for senior citizens in Mexico City.
In support
of such measures my Ministry will also attend to the issues of cooperation
~ith less developed States to a still larger extent than has been the case in
the past.
In this context wete~l that we have a share of the responsibility for
creating a world of peace for the fair and equal participation of all people.
Mr. Kllid. (Finland):
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the
five Nordic countries: Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and Finland.
The principles and targets of the United Nations International Plan ~f
Action on Ageing, which was adopted ten years ago, are still valid. The World
Assembly on Ageing held in 1982 had considerable influence on the discussion
of old age in general and especially on people's attitudes. Today Ellderly
people are seen more and more clearly as a resource.
Independence, personal
initiative and living in one's own home'are aspects that are now emphasized
more than they were before in all Nordic countries. The emphasis in services
for the elderly has been shifted from institutional structures to open care.
In the Nordic countries,
the social status of the elderly has ~isen as a
result of their increased lverage age and improved health and social
conditions. Their needs,
thus, have to be taken into account in all sectors
of societal life:
in working life,
family policy, education and community
planning. This has resulted in improvements in the conditions necessary for
independent living, which has in turn led to greater understanding and
cooperation between 9~nerations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al471PV..tO
19-20
(Mr. Kiirii, Finland)
In the Nordic countries the bulk of expenditures related to old age goes
for pensions. Even though the structures and compensation levels of Nordi~
pension schemes vary considerably from country to country, the income security
of elderly people is, by international comparison~ good in all Nordic
countries.
In the Nordic countries pensions have relieved the younger generations of
everyday personal responsibility for securing the living conditions of the
older generations. The foreseeable growth of the overall e:penditures for
pensions", however" worries us..
pension schemes in order tu hold down expenditures.
It is obvious that we have t.o reform our
At present, a particular problem is retirement prior to the actual
It is paradozical that at the s8Jlle time as the health of the
pensionable age.
ageing popUlation is improving, people's desire to retire beiore the actual
pensionable age is increasing.
One major objective of Nordic social security policies is to provide all
residents with comprehensive social and health services. We have succeede~
relatively well in this regard. However, it is justifiable to ask if we have
paid enough attention to the everyday life of elderly people. Do we take
sufficient account of their own wishes? Has their participation in society
been adequately safeguarded? Do we genuinely listen to the voice and wisdom
of old age or do we plan their lives from above, so to speak, according to our
own values?
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
21
(Mt.IOOriD, Fipland)
The level of knowledge about ageing, about the preventinn of problems
related to old age, and about opportunities offered by the community is of
particular importance. During the last few years,
the elderly themselves,
through pensioners' organizations, have become increasingly involved in the
improvement of the velfar~ and vell-being of their own group. Participation
and equality remain major goals and imply that pensioners must be given the
same npportunities as others with regard to financial prosperity, education,
work, housing,
traveling 6Dd cultural and leisure pursuits.
According to a new law in Norway, Norwegian municipalities and counties
will be required to appoint councils for the elderly. The council is an
independent advisory body of five to nine old-age pensioners nominated by the
pensioners' union and appointed by the municipality or county.
Its tasks are
to make recommendations on all matters of policy concerning the elderly,
whether put forward by the municipality or county or on their own initiative.
The rising average age also means a growing number of people in need of
special care and welfare services. Especially those elderly people who suffer
from dementia need support and various types of services.
In Sweden a
comprehensive administrative refo~ is being implementad, bringing about a
major expansion of group dwellings for elderly people with dementia and those
with equivalent needs.
One of the most important reassessmants in welfare services for elderly
people in the Nordic countries has been the gradual shift of emphasis from
institutional to community services. This has been made possible through the
improved health and financial situation of elderly people as well as improved
housing conditions.
Denmar~ al~eady has an advanced and innovative system of
housing services, providing the elderly with a wide and flexible range of
choices and combinations.
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryIi
Al41/PV.40
22
(Mr.xairia, Finland)
The number and proportion of elderly people living in their private homes
is increasing. This indicates that an increase in the number of elderly
people dQes not necessarily increase the need for social services. We can
exert an influence in this respect by our own action and choices, as the
Danish examples show.
Old-age welfare policies are closely tied to the economy and to available
financial resources.
In tag years to come,
the implementation of the
objectives of such policies will be influenced by the slower growth in our
national economies, compared with what we were accustomed to i~ the 19805.
The needs of the elderly will have to compete for resources with Dther
sectors. This underlies the need for defining priorities based on common
values and effectively using available resources.
Given the demographic and economic changes,
the development of our
national policies for the elderly should be based on the followinq
principles. The boundaries between institutional and open care must be
broken, and elderly people in need of care should be able to choose between
the two. Alternative ways of providing the necessary services must be
discussed openly. Cooperation between social welfare and health care has to
be intensified. The strict division of labor between different categories of
professionals within the service network must be reduced and informal care and
voluntary activities encouraged. Moreover, elderly persons' own
responsibility for carrying the costs of services will be more important in
the future.
In order to be able t,) pursue a policy of humane and econo~ically sound
welfare for the aged, it is important to encourage the contributions of
families,
the local communtty and elderly people themselves,
in addition to
the appropriate financial support from society.
For instance, pensioners in
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA147/PV.40
23
(MlJliirii, Finland)
better health may wish to help their frai1er fellow citizens, if suitable
channels are found.
In Finland social legi31ation is being amended to improve the legal
status of informal caretakers, mostly family members. The aim is to make it
possible for frail elderly people to continue living within their familiar
settings and to make informal caretaking a real alternative to employment
outside the home.
In the foregoing,
I have sketched the outlines of welfare policies for
the elderly in Nordic countries and the future prospects of such policies,
which have many points in common with the Secretary-General's present proposal
of eight global targets on ageing for the year 2001 (A147/339). Especially
important in our view is target No, 3, regarding support for local communities
in their endeavours to create better services and programmes for the elderly.
This target corresponds to the Nordic approach, which aims to shift
decision-making and responsibility to a greater extent to the local level,
closer to the citizens' real needs.
In developing welfare policies for the elderly, it is of primary
importance to intensify cooperation at both national aad in~ernational levels,
inclUding Governments, non-governmental organizations, voluntary organizations
and researchers - without forgetting the elderly people ·themselves.
Such
cooperation requires an improved exchange of information between the United
Nations, its Member States and other bodies.
In the future,
regional
conferences could also be envisaged, as the problems vary consid~rab1y from
region to region.
Since the resources available in the near future may not be
growing, existing contacts such as the network of non-governmental
organizations should be used more effectively.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV. (0
24
(Mr.Xaaria, Finland)
The report of the Secretary-General quite rightly draws special attention
to the situation of the developing countries and the need to improve the
circumstances of the elderly in those countries. The United Nations has a
significant role to play, especially in supporting projects related to the
ageing of the population in the developing countries. Despite urbanization
and other structural changes in society,
the developing countries should be
given encouragement and support in their own efforts to maintain family
structures in which elderly people are respected and cared for at home.
As stated in the repo:t of the Secretary-·General, the broad goals of the
Plan of Action on Ageing, which was adopted 10 years ago, have not been
reached. Therefore, it would have been desirable for the General Assembly to
be presented at this special series of meetings with an evaluation of the
impact of the past decade on the living conditions of the elderly and the
development of welfare policies for them.
The report of the Secretary-General communicates the negative notion of
I
an uncontrollable demographic problem. While this concern can be shared by us
all, a positive and realistic approach backed up by adequate information would
be an important starting point for national and regional programmes of
action. The preparation of national targets and programmes is most important,
but setting goals and adopting national programmes is not enough. Active
implementation and evaluation of the measures taken is also needed.
All nations need old-dge welfare policies that are open to reform and
innovations and based on the needs of the elderly. Through international
cooperation we can learn from each other, applying the models of action that
suit cur own countries and cultures.
I am convincad that the dedication of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Librarythese four special meetings of the General Assembly to issues of ageing give
us th~ r~quired new impetus for rethinking and reformulating our old-age
policies at both the national and tha international levels.
(Mr,Eaaria, Finland)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.40
26
Mr. HOMO (Zimbabwe): The Zimbabwe delegation expresses its sincere
condolences and deepest sympathy to the delegation of Egypt, and through it to
the families of the victims of the recent earthquake which claimed many lives
and has caused so much SUffering to the people and Government of Egypt.
This tenth anniversary provides us with an occasion to evaluate the
implementation of the 1982 Vienna Plan of Action and to adopt the United
Nations Principles for Older Persons, a practical step indeed.
The issue of ageing is of vital importance to the developing countries
contrary to the myth that it is a concern of developed countries only.
It is
said that the world population is expected to reach 6.3 billion by the year
2007, and two thirds of. that number will be in developing countries.
According to United Nations projections for the years 1980 to 2025,
the
African region will experience one of the largest increases in numbers of
persons aged 60 and over among all the world's regions. Thus it is estimated
that its older population will rise from 22.9 million in 1980 to 101.9 million
by the year 2025.
It is also important to point out that in the coming decades,
the African
elderly population is going to remain largely rural. Recent projections
indicate that in the year 2000 approximately 60 per cent will live in areas
defined as rural.
Because of the cost of support structu~es for the elderly, developing
countries will probably take a path different from the welfare approach widely
adopted in developed countries. The policy implications of the rapid numerical
growth in Africa's elderly population during the period from 1980 to 2025
become even more pronounced if one considers that this group-will grow faster
than the population as a whole. Therefore the fact that in the year 2000 a
larger proportion of Africa's elderly will live in areas defined as rural is
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Libraryi
Al47/PV.40
27
(Mr.
,tomo, Zimbabwe)
cause for concern. The large increases in the number of older per~ons ~ust
influence planners in providing health care, social welfare,
income security
I
and rehabilitation facilities appropriate for this rapidly growing segment of
the population. Though the service infrastructure will have to be
strengthened in both the rural and the urban context to meet the needs of the
growing numbe~s of the ageing, policy makers should focus particular att~ntion
on the historically weaker rural areas.
State-based social security systems are not well established in most
developing countries. According to available evidence,
the extended family
and the community still constitute the primary sources of care for the
elderly, maintaining traditional responsibilities for providing them with
necessary shelter, clothing,
food and health care. However, it has become
clear that with urbanization,
industrialization and modernization,
this
support system is constantly weakening. Specific impacts include physical
separation of family members when young persons take up employment in distant
plantations, mines or factories, or migrate to cities in senrch of jobs or
education.
The growing size of the vulnerable section of the population is itself a
matter of great concern.
So far, because of an abnormally high young
dependency ratio,
the social-service delivery system has been geared mainly to
the needs of the young population. With the growth in the dependency ratio of
the elderly at the expense of the young, it will ba necessary in the future to
pay greater attention to the development of delivery systems aimed at serving
the elderly.
Health care for the elde~ly is yet another problem.
People are
especially susceptible to health problems when they are very young or when
they are very old. Various studies dealing with the status of the health of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/E>V.40
28
(Mr. Nkomo, Zimbabwe~
the elderly in Zimbabwe have indicated that substantial numbers of the
elderly, in both rural and u~ban areas, suffer from various kinds of ailments
at one time or another, and in some cases the diseases are chronic. Yet the
health-care delivery systems qeared specifically to the :needa of the elderly
are less than comprehensive.
~Ae elderly have to make do with an existing
general hoalth-care system which not only is inadequate for their specific
neefIs but also is not eQsily accessible. There is thus a growing need for
supplementing the resources of the family with external services for taking
car0 of the elderly.
Such supplementary care is especially needed by the
elderly who live alone, either by choice or by force of circumstances.
Elderly women are much rr~re vulnerable than men. Culturally, women are
mostly dependent on men.
In terms of education also,
they lag far behind
men. They are rendered even more vulnerable by the fact that most of them
become widows when the~ a~e old, mainly because women generally live longer.
In Zimbabwe, among the elderly persons living alone,
the percentage of elderly
women is much higher.
AIDS has now added e new dimension to the problem - a reversal of the
traditional system of roles in which the children and grandchildren looked
after and cared for their elderly.
It is now the elderly who are increasingly
faced with the enormous task of caring for orphans. This task falls almost
exclusively on elderly women.
In Zimbabwe the population of perso~s aged 60
and above is currently estimated at 500,000,
roughly 5 per cent of the total
popuh,tion.
Despite this large number,
there is inadequate awareness of the needs of
the elderly, and a consequent neglect of the development of the necessary
support systems.
Such a state of affairs is very unfortunate, especially
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
29-30
(Hl:.... Domo« gimba.mm)
when one considers that the problem of the elderly is tuing on a lSerious
dimension. The present complacent attitude towards the problem has, however,
b~en supported by two major coneiderations of the past, ~~ly, a relatively
low proportion of the elderly in the population and an effective /Support
system traditionally provided to the elderly by their families.
but both of
th~se coneitions are now rapidly changing,
to the detriment of the elderly.
Having eXl!IJDinad the global and local situation, we now turn to the
measures that Zimbabwe has dev~loped to improve ~e life and care of the
elderly during the last d6cade~
Shortly after achieving independence in 1980,
the country announced a
health policy that promoted primal~y health care. This primary-health-care
strategy is designed to enable the greatest number of our people, particularly
the poor and those in inaccess~ble parts of the country, to benefit from
health services. Although these health-care services were not specifically
focused on the elderly,
they nevertheless did not exclude them.
A vigorous nutrition programme has also been launched since
independence. This measure, which has been integrated into prtmary health
care, benefits mostly those under five, but it is also accessible to the
elderly.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.40
31
(Mr. Nkgmo, Zimbabwe)
In 1986 an international workshop was held to develop the Zimbabwe Plan
of Action for the Elderly. One of the most useful recommendaCions to come
from this vorksho~ related to the need to create an intersectoral committee to
work out strategiee and coordinate programmes geared to the well-being of the
elderly. This Committee, which involves representatives from government and
non-governmental organizations, churches and our educational institutions, has
mads remarkable progress in motivating our Government to address the needs of
the elderly in a much more meaningful way.
I~ 1988 a Social Welfare Assistance Act was promulgate~.
Its purpose
was to render public assistance to the disadvantaged groups, which includo the
elderly.
Further, a national social security act was passed to guarantee income
security in old age to workers in both the formal and the non-formal sectors.
These two pieces of legislation offer concrete evidence of the action~ taken
by my GoverJUllent,
in compliance with the Vienna Plan of Actit.,;1,
to provide
income security to the needy elderly.
Generally, governmental and non-governmental policies are focused on
promot.ing the independent living of the elderly in their normal home
environment.
Programmes such as public assistance, drought relief, h~me help,
meals on wheels, community-based rehabilitation and primary ~ealth care are
J
all aimed at strengthening the family support and the well-being of the
elderly.
While our policies and programmes emphasize community-based assistance,
there are exceptional instances where the elderly have to be cared for in
institutions. Zimbabwe has more than 35 homes for the aged run by
non-governmental organizatious and churches. Our Government contributes to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library-------~-----~---------_.-
Al47/PV~40
32
(Mr. NJcomo, Zimbabwe)
the care of the elderly in such institutions through offering per capita,
buildinq and administrat.ive grants.
In 19~1 a workshop was held to review the 1986 Zimbabwe Plan of Action
for the Elderly. The workshop noted some progress in some areas; but it
observed that in the absence of comprehensive legislation to promote the
independent li'vinq of the elderly, accessibility to housing, rehabilitation
and changing community attitudes in favour of reqarding the elderly as
contributing members and guaranteeing them income security and accessibility
to health services,
there would be serious limitations to the Plan of Action.
Accordingly,
the Zimbabwe Government has now resolved to create a
comprehensive piece of legislation that embraces both the 1982 Vienna Plan of
Action and the 1986 Zimbabwe Plan of Action to address the needs of our
elderly in a much more practical and useful manner.
While Zimbabwe may have done well up to now,
I wish to point out that
the uneven implementation of the Vienna Plan of Action may be attributed to
many reasons, among which is the inadequacy of resour~es in developing
countries. Thus, with respect to the future, we believe that community care,
founded upon and sustained by political will and supported by appropriate
legal instruments on the part of governments, will offer the best means of
meeting the needs of the elderly much more effectively, more systematically
and more efficiently.
As demographic ageing is predictable, we are concerned that our social
and economic infrastructures will 1ag behind. Thus, national governments and
the international community have to revise their strategies.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryM471PV.40
33
(Mr. Nkomo. Zimbabwe)
In our view,
the strategies must aim at:
~nabling people to live as
normal a life as possible in their own homes,
in a family environment and in
the local conununity; providing the right level of care and support to help
people achieve the greatest possible degree of independence; and giving people
a greater say in how they live their lives and the services they need.
Indeed,
the first decade of the Plan of Action achieved some degree of
awareness of the challenges of ageing and the potentialities of older persons,
but our vision for the future cannot be fully realized without substantial
resources being channelled into the developing countries.
Zimbabwe is in agreement with the global targets contained in the
Secretary-General's report (A/47/339), which are a practical strategy for
channelling the interest, enthusiasm, expertise and experience of many elderly
people and defining the priorities to the year 2000, as stated in that
document. We are satisfied that the document provides the framework for
activities to be undertaken at the national and the international level.
In this regard, we call for the strengthening of the regional
institutions, particularly the nascent African Gerontological Society, which
is lagging behind in the fulfilment of its mandate, and the Panos Institute,
as well as the appropriate United Nations institutions.
We hope very much that when the Conunittee on Social Development meets
next year in Vienna, as it begins preparing for the 1995 world summit for
social development,
the agenda will include a special section on the elderly.
Mrs. TAVARES de ALVAREZ (Dominican Republic) (interpretation from
Spanish): The delegation of the Dominican Republic wishes, first of all,
to
join in the expression of condolences by the delegation of Zimbabwe to the
Egyptian nation with regard to the disaster that occurred there.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.40
34-35
(Mrs. Tavares de Alyarez,
Dominican Republic)
Ordinarily,
the ~elebration of an anniversary i~ a time for looking
back, but the 1982 World Assembly on Ageing held at Vienna and the
International Plan of Action on Ageing, which was its immediate result,
engendered a creative change. The Plan was forward-looking. The measure of
its success is that today we are not just praising it, we are building upon
it, and reshaping it to fit changing circumstances and our perception of what
the ageing of populations means to our societies. The Plan of Action on
Ageing relates less to what has happened Ulan to what is happening and what is
to come.
One can see this in the report of the Secretary-General on the
Implementation of the Inte~national Plan of Action on Ageing;
celebration,
assessment, planning ahead. This document honours the Plan of Action on
Ag~ing by showing just how live and adaptable it is. As the report states:
u ••• it has been a year of arrival, but more importantly, it is one of
departure."
(A/47/369, para.47)
Attitudes are beginning to change. The world is finally beginning to
see that population ageing involves much more than humanitarian assistance.
The very words we use express this transformation. We hear less and less
about the problems of ageing and more about productive ageing. We are
concerned not only with helping but also with empowering the elderly.
Embedded in this practical, developmental approach to ageing that has come to
the fore,
is the notion that dependence between the generations does not just
90 one way. At
long last we are recognizing the full human potential of the
elderly.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
36
(Mrs. Tayares de Alyarez,
Domipican RQPUblic)
We are learning to adapt our approach to the resources and technology
available. We have finally realized the value of reaching out to
non-governmental organizations and the private sector in cooperative efforts,
in order to be able to do what Governments alone cannot do well or cannot do
at all. We are also becoming more aware of how much we underestimated the
i
abilities of a fundamental human resource -
the elderly themselves. The
obstacle has often been not the creative and produ~tive potential of the
elderly but the boundaries of our own imagination.
One crucial area in which this new kind of partnership has begun to bear
fruit is that of productive ageing.
In the past decade we have seen that
older people, besides having needs that must be met, have much to offer
society.
In our developing nations it is fortunate that we have r~coqnized at
last that with a little assistance many of the elderly are capable of helping
society as they help themselves.
Since zero growth is so often the economic context today,
this is one
kind of solution that is cost-effective. World population ageing is a
consequence of developme~t. But, as the World Council of Churches put it, the
elderly have also become "casualties of development". Why not close the
circle and let those elders who can do so - mostly those from 60 to 75 years
of age - become involved in the process of development and,
in doing so,
promote that process and help themselves?
In many of our countries senior enterprises are an increasingly important
channel
through which productive ageing becomes a reality. With modest
capital investment, developing nations have already launched elders in such
varied businesses as child ~are, bakeries, automobile repair shops and
word-processing.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
37
(Mrs. Tayares de Alyarez,
Dominican Republic)
Non-governmental organizations often sponsor such projects. Private
enterprise too has bequn ~o play an important role; after all, social
stability and keeping a lid on the tax burden are very much in its interest.
The Secretary-Generales report cites the recently created Banyan Fund,
part of the new partnership to provide a little assistance for
productive-ageing initiatives. Based in Paris,
the Fund is a private,
independent organization sponsored by the United Nations. Among other
activities, it raises capital from the private sector and from other
non-governmental organizations to finance projects in which older people
become masters of their oWh economic fate - even agents of economic
development - rather than merely passivf recipients of assistance.
The report also mentions the International Institute on Ageing,
established in Malta under United Nations auspices. That Institute has
fostered vitally needed research, disseminated information and provided
training in the field of ageing.
Similarly encouraging is the recently formed African Gerontology Society,
which has displayad a great spirit of initiative, even in the face of the many
other pressing economic problems troubling that continent.
We should like especially to acknowledge Cbe United Nations Population
Fund's many contriuutions to the United Nations programme on ageing. The
research project "Developmental implications of demographic change:
global
population ageing" ident.ifies the roles" relationships and contributions of
older persons and of their families and communities in our developing
I
countries.
It should help us to formulate programmes and projects that are
particularly relevant to our experience with ageing, which is not always the
same as that of the develo,?ed countries.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
38-40
(Mrs. Tayares de Alyare;,
~mipicap Republic)
The project is financed by the United Nations Population Fund with
co-funding from HelpAqe International,
the American Association of Retired
Persons (AARP) and the SSM Bridges International Center on Aging. The Swedish
Government also made a major contribution.
We are especially proud to add to these successes the announcement that a
centre on ageing at Santiago, Dominican Republic will open officially in
January 1993. Under the sponsorship of the SSM Bridges International Center
on Aging, it will serve as a laboratory for testing and validating new
approaches to empowering the elderly in a third world country. The main
characteristic of those app~oaches is that they could be adaptable to other
countries.
We have learned from experience that a central task in improving the lot
of the elderly, now and in the future,
is to bring them back into the
mainstream of society. Either they are citizens with rights and appropriate
responsibilities or they are not.
If not,
they can be no more than a burden
on society's limited resources at a time when other qroups are competing for
those resources. As citizens,
they can make a contribution, enlarging the
pool of material resources with other,
intangible resources - such as
experience, knowledge and wisdom - that will be sorely needed in the coming
decades.
To set this process in motion, we shall have to convince policy makers of
the strategic importance o£ this sector of the population, for it is
inevitable that some scarc~ public resources will have to be allocated to
ageing-related programmes. This will become more feasible politically when it
is seen as tapping the productive potential of older people, and thus as an
investment, not just another social-welfare expense.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
41
eNta. Tayares de Alyarez,
Dominican Republic)
We believe that we are pointed in the right direction. The report of the
Secretary-General entitled "Global targets on ageing for thQ year 2001:
a
practical strategy", constitutes the most recent undertaking of the United
Nations progranne on agein9.
It outlines what is feasible at this time and
seeks a more effective use of existing structures, procedures and resources.
It is encouraging not only for its specifics but also for its general tone.
The report states ater alia:
"The target strategies comprise core activities, permitting expansion and
adjustment in the course of the decade as experience is gained."
(A/47/339, para,12)
Thus we approach our tQ~ks ~ith an open mind, for we are trying to find out
what works.
The global targets document also makes it clear that we are not dealing
with elderly people as merely subjects of our concern. The report sees the
elderly as "both agents and beneficiaries" of development. The importance of
p~oductive ageing is implicit throughout the entire document.
The report is imbued with the idea that older people belong in the
mainstream of social life.
For example,
target No. 2 sets as a task the
identification of those programmes which have a component on ageing and the
integration of the subject of ageing into relevant United Nations inter-agency
meetings for such issues a3 population, womQn, disabled persons, youth and
I
family and into strategies for the current and next United Nations Development
Decade. The report further emphasizes that issues of ageing are inextricably
tied to virtually every ot~9r issue with which we must contend.
The report also states that the Centre for Social Development and
Humanitarian Affairs is the nucleus of multisectoral cooperation and the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl41/PV.40
42
(Mrs. Tayares de AlyareA,
Dominican RQPubli~)
catalyst of cooperation between the formal and informal sectors, and that it
covers the five world reqionsc All of this it does with a very small staff,
insufficient for the demands of today and far from beinq able to meet the
projected demands of tomorrow.
The Centre is an important tool in our response to population aqeinq.
It
is one of the means by which It!e may take true aim at our qlobal targets. We
can no longer afford to bl'mt its effectiveness. We must take its work
seriously and staff it so chat it may do the serious work that lies ahead of
it.
There is much to be done to raise world consciousness of aqeinq of
populations so that there is the political will to allocate the necessary
resources to accomplish these tasks. Therefore, let us begin with those steps
tlllat are now within our power to take •
.
In the past we have served the world's aqeinq populations through a few
strategic measures, such as the adoption of the International Plan of Action
I
on Aqeinq in 1982 and the adoption of the United Nations Principles for Older
I
Persons in 1991. What better way could there be to celebrate this tenth
anniversary than by endorsinq the qlobal targets on ageing for the year 2001
and adoptinq the proclamation on ageinq of 1992 expressinq hope in humanity's
coming of age?
Such steps will enable us to say in another 10 years that the Plan of
Acti~n on Aqeing 3
too, has aged productively.
Mr. WANG Zhaonua (China) (interpretation from Chinese): The World
Assembly on Ageing in 1982 and the International Plan of Acticn on Ageing have
played a very important role in promoting the work on ageing in China and the
world as well as world pea~e, friendship, snlldarity and cooperation.
In the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.40
43-45
(Mr. Wang Zhaobua, China)
past decade,
thanks to the efforts made by the related bodies and agencies of
the United Nations,
the issue of the ageing of the population has been given
increasing importance and attention by countries of the world.
The special plenary meetings of the United Nations General Assembly on
ageing, which take stock of the work done in the past and look into the
future, will be another important event on ageing with historic significance
and another initiative of vision and wisdom marking a new historical stage in
the evolution of the work on the question of ageing in the world. We believe
that these special meetings will bring new vitality to, and produce a positive
impact on,
the cause of ageing in all countries of the world, and especially
in the developing countries.
It is a Chinese tradition to respect,
love and support the elderly. The
Chinese Government has alw3ys attached great importance to the issue of
ageing. The relevan~ United Nation~ resolutions on ageing and the
International Plan of Action on Agei~g have been implemented in China with
remarkable achievements.
The China National Committee on Ageing was establiRhed in 1982 as a
national mechanism for the implementation of the Plan of Action on Ageing,
followed by the establishment of local committees on ageing as well as related
organizations, such as the Gerontological Society,
the China Fund for the
Elderly,
the Association of the Universities of the Third Age and the Elderly
Sports Association.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
46
(Mr. Hang Zhaohua, China)
In rural areas, associations of the elderly have been set up in 50 per cent of
the villages. Thus, a nationwide network of organizations on ageing has been
formed, with more than 10,000 full-time staff and more than 100,000 part-time
workers and volunteers providing services to senior citizens.
In accordance with China's actual conditions and its cultural and
historical tradition,
the following five goals have been set for addressing
the issue of ageing:
the elderly should be supported, medically cared for,
given the opportunity to contribute to society, engage in life-long learning
and lead interesting and happy lives.
Wide publicity has been given to the issue of ageing throughout the
country with such publications as newspapers, magazines and pictorials on
ageing; various activities have been carried out to celebrate the
International Day for the Elderly and the Chinese Double Ninth Festival - a
day to honour the elderly in China -, model senior citizens have been rewarded
for their contribution to society and exemplary young people have been
honoured for their respect for the elderly.
Academic institutes and associations in the field of ageing huve been set
up to conduct systematic research and study on the ageing of the population.
Twenty-eight provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities have
promulgated local Laws on the Elderly to protect the legal rights of the
elderly, and the drafting of the National Regulations on Protecting the Rights
of Old People has been completed.
The social security system has been improved with the guiding principles
of the combination of support by and contribution to society, basing social
support on the contribution of the elderly, and giving play to the role of the
family and society in supporting the elderly. A family contract on supporting
the elderly has been widely introduced in rural areas.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.40
47
(Mr. Wang Zhaohua. China)
The Government actively encourages the elderly to participate in social
development. Thirty-five per cent of the 100 million elderly in China are
playing a role in various sectors of society.
A number of facilities for the elderly, such as activity centres, special
apartmants, geriatric hospitals and stores devoted to the needs of th6
elderly, have been set up.
Two thousand five hundred schools, more than 70
newspapers and 2,500 factories that manufacture products for the elderly are
dedicated to the service of our senior citizens. More than 30 million elderly
people are participating in various kinds of sports activities.
Links have been established with orqanizations from more than 40
countries in the world.
China's work in the field of ageing in the past 10 years has received
support and assistance from the United Nations,
the United Nations Population
Fund,
the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific and other
international organizations, for which I would like to express, on behalf of
the 100 million elderly Chinese, our cordial thanks.
As a developing country with a rather weak foundation in the work on
ageing, China still faces numerous difficulties in this field. At present,
the elderly population of China has already exceeded 100 million and is
increasing at an annual rate of three per cent. According to projections, by
the year 2000,
the elderly population in China will reach 130 million, or
about 10 per cent of our total population, making China an "aged" society. By
the 2040s,
this number will have peaked to 380 million, accounting for about
25 per cent of the total population. The rapid rate of ageing of the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
48-50
(Mr. Wang Zhaohua, China)
population in China is uniCJUe in the world. With such a fast pace of ageing
and the huge absolute number of elderly, who account for about a CJUarter of
the world's elderly population and about half of the elderly population of.
Asia, we need to continue our efforts. We eagerly look forward to continued
assistance and support from the United Nations and other international
orqanizations.
In order to realize the international tarqets on aqeing, we will try to
accomplish the following tasks:
to improve the social security system and find a Chinese way of
supporting the elderly that will strengthen the role of the family and of
society in a partnership between the State,
the collective,
the community and
the family;
to map out a strategy and plan for the work on ageing tba.t would be
integrated into the national economic and social development plan for
implementation;
to enhance the work on national legislation for the elderly, and
launch a national educational campaign to promote respect,
love and support
for the elderly;
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
51
(Mr. Hang ?baohua, Chipa)
- to formulate policies aimed at mobilizing the wisdom and ezpertise of
the elderly, giving them an opportunity to participate more actively in social
development;
-
to promote social welfare, education, health Gervices and cultural
activities in the service of the elderly;
-
-
to set up a ~ervice network based in the community;
to strengthen scientific research on population ageing with a view to
proposing policy options;
-
to further promote international exchanges and co-operation in this
field.
With the joint efforts of the international community in the last 10
years.. work on ageing has broken D.ew ground, and it ~ill enter a new stage in
the coming decade. Various social problems,
including the issue of ageing,
face the whole world and the developing countries in particular. We believe
that the international community should pay more attention and give effective
assistance in this regard. We are confident that the United Nations has an
important role to play in promoting international co-operation and ezchanges
in the field of ageing.
We sincerely hope that all the elderly people in the world will enjoy
social security and a constantly improving quality of life, and a carefree
ezistence in peace and happiness in their later years.
Finally,
I wish the Assembly complete success at these meetings and all
the elderly people in the world happiness and longevity.
Mr. BQRCUOGLU (Turkey) (interpretation from French): My delegation
takes pleasure in speaking on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the
World Assembly on Ageing and the adoption of the International Plan of Action.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Hr. Burcuoglu, Tnrker)
Today ageing population is a phenomenon that is apparent in all
societies.
It is demographic, social, economic and cultural.
It is more
evident in the developed countries, but it is also growing in the developing
count~ies. According to projections,
the total number of elderly people,
those over 60 yearn of 8ge" viII be 600 million in the year 2001; it viII rise
to 1.2 billion by 2025. This phenomenon has an impact upon the social and
economic structures of societies~ raising complex problems that require the
adaptation of relevant programmes and policies.
Turkey is no exception to this overall pictu~a. Awareness of the ageing
population is becoming ever more clear, catching the attention of relevant
institutions and the media. The latter are contributing to increased public
awareness on the subiect, and health services and rehabilitation centres are
organizing themselves. The elderly benefit from dis~~unts in various sectors,
from transportation to cultural activities. Private-sector initiativ2S for
the provision of services to the elderly are encouraged.
In Turkish society,
the elderly have traditionally been accorded the
highest respect. They have made a valuable contribution to Turkey. That,
togethar with the role played by the Turkish family as the driving force ~vr
social solidarity, constitutes a very important asset for Turkey as it deals
with questions related to its ageing population.
The first International Day for the Elderly was celebrated on
1 October 1991.
It gave us the opportunity to declare our solidarity with the
elderly, and it contributed considerably to increasing international public
awareness in this connection.
Last year vas also m3rkod by the adoption of the United Nations
Principles for Older Persons. Those Principles are intended to permit them to
live better in the additional years they now enjoy.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
53
(Mr, BurcuQglu, Turkey)
This time, we have two new impQrtant dQcuments on our agenda. The first
is the draft prQclamatiQn QD ageing, which expresses the hQpe to see mankind
take a mature apprQach tQ this subject. We suppQrt it. The second is the
repQrt of the Secretary-General on glQbal targets Qn ageing fOJ~ the year
2001. ThQse targets emphasize measures tQ be taken at the national level,
withQut fQrgettinq the need fQr regiQnal and internatiQnal co-operatlQn. My
deleqati~n welcQmes these targets. They will help us meet the challenge
presented by the ageing Qf the wQrld PQPu1atiQn, and they will serve as a
framewQrk fQr the activities to be undertaken.
We wish tQ emphasize that everything pQssib1e must be dQne tQ enable the
generation Qf wisdom to live with the dignity they deserve. We shQuld nQt
allQw ourselves to neglect these humau reSQurc~s and the immense experience
that that generatiQn represents.
In cQnclusiQn,
I express the hQpe that we shall establish our activities
in carrying out the glQbal targets in such a way that they will be a catalyst
fQr international cQ-QperatiQn.
Mr. supENQ (IndQnesia): At the Qutset I wish tQ expr.ess my
delegatiQn's appreciatiQn tQ the Secretary-General fQr his earlier remarks Qn
this QccasiQn of the tenth anniversary Qf the WQrld Assembly Qn Ageing.
I
shQu1d alsQ like tQ welcQme the tWQ repQrts issued by the Secretary-General
related tQ this issue cQntained in dQcuments A/47/339 and Al46/369. The
question Qf ageing is indeed a truly important issue that needs tQ be fully
addressed by the internatiQna1 cQmmunity as the ageing Qf Qur sQcieties has
significant a' " Tir-reaching implicatiQns fQr Qur current and future
sociQ-ecQnQmic and cultural develQpment prQgrammes. These meetings are
particularly impQrtant in that they affQrd us the QccasiQD tQ promQte natiQnal
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl411PV.40
54-55
(Mr. Sypepo, Ipdopesia)
and international understanding of the humanitarian and development issues
related to the question of ageing.
As was noted in the Vienna International Plan of Action on Ageing,
the
progressive ageing of our societies is neither an unexpected, unforeseen event
nor a random result of national and international development efforts.
Rather, it is the r~sult of socio-economic development throughout the world
nnd must be accom2anied by appropriate responses to ensure continued balanced
growth and development.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV,40
56
(Mr. Sypeno, Indonesia)
It was more recently noted, at the Tenth Summit Conference of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, that .. , , ,
the challenges of the 1990s would
be to formulate new policies and to build on current initiatives that would
effectively meet the human needs of present and future generations",
Additionally,
the Movement welcomed the consensus reached on reinforcement of
human and social development by"". enlarging choices and ensuring the
development of the full potential of individuals ••• and improving life
expectancy" •
As we proceed to enhance our national development strategies, as
programmes for family planning gain greater acceptance and success, and as our
health-care services improve,
the changing demographics will require these
strategies to adapt to the changes.
It was noted at the non-aligned summit
that the population question cannot be considered separately from that of
overall development but, rather, should be treated as an integral part.
Ho~sing, health cara and nutrition,
labour and employment, as well as social
security, are examples of areas that will need adjustment to demographic
shifts,
in the light of specific needs and constraints. This will entail the
adoption of policies that are not designed to warehouse the elderly but seek
to include them in the development process of their respective nations,
thus
employing their knowledge and skills and allowing for continued self-worth and
dignity.
Ten years ago,
the World Assembly on Ageing solemnly recognized that the
quality of life is no less important than longevity, and that the elderly
should
"be enabled to enjoy in their own families and communities a life of
fulfilment, health, security and contentment, appreciated as an integral
part of society".
(A/C0NF.113/31, chap. VI A, Preamble, para. 2)
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
57
(Mr. Supeno. Indonesia)
My delegation would like to reaffirm that recoqnition and the importance of
implementing programmes that will facilitate the continuing participation of
the elderly in all aspects of society.
I should like to note that a general
policy recommendation of the Vienna Plan of Action was that policies and
actions should be inspired by a determination to give qualitative content and
meaning to the increased years in life expectancy. The members of our ageing
populations must be afforded a continued opportunity to contribute their
accumulated knowledge and experience in order to maintain a sense of purpose
and accomplishment.
It is, moreover, of benefit to overall national
development when all human resources can be productively utilized.
In this
regard,
the "Global targets on ageing "for the year 2001:
a practical
strategy" offer a useful framework for integrating ageing into development:
We must therefore continue to work towards the objectives of the
International Plan of Action on Ageing, which includes not only attaining
greater awareness of the ageing question, but also translating that awareness
into appropriate responses.
I should like to stress that development
programmes in any society should take into account demographic changes and
offer appropriate responses. Within the developing countries as a whole,
thus
far the institutional infrastructure has not been able adequately to meet the
needs of the increased ageing populations. Resources need to be found to
enhance this capacity, anticipating that as more family members enter the work
force, it will become more difficult to provide traditional family care.
Within Indonesia,
the demographic configuration of the nation will in the
not-too-distant future undergo a considerable transformation. Our total
population is at present 180 million, and as of 1990 11 per cent were over the
age of 50, and nearly 4 per cent over 65. As a result of our national
development programmes, nutrition levels are improving, health care is
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.40
58
(Mr. Sypeno, Indonesia)
becoming more accessible, even in remote areas, and standards of living are
likewise increasing, along with the life expectancy rate, which now stands at
around 60 years of age. The child mortality rate in 1971 was estimated at
142 per 1,000, whereas in 1988 it was approximately 58 per 1,000, a decline of
about 59 per cent. At the same time,
the national family p1auning programme
has been quite successful, with national population growth down to about
2.1 per cent by the mid-1980s. What is particUlarly important for our
national po1icymakers to consider, however, is the fact that our 1980 census
indicated that 42 per cent of the population was then under 15 years of age.
The members of this age group3 forming the largest percentage of the
population, will reach their formative years toge.ther, and eventually we shall
have gone from a predominantly youthful society to an ageing one. It!~
therefore of considerable importance for us to address the question of ageing.
Indonesia is of the view that matters concerning the improvement of the
social welfare of the ageing should be dealt with by a national body, so as to
ensure a uniform course of action,
integrated national programmes and
coordinated activities avoiding either an overlap or a gap. By virtue of a
decision taken by the Coordinating Minister for Social Welfare, a working
group has been established sod given the mandate of assisting the Minister in
formulating a comprehensive and integrated policy on ageing.
It is our view
that,
in principle,
the Government and society share responsibility for
dealing with matters relating to social welfare.
For example, while the
Government has taken steps ~o provide nursing homes for the aged who cannot be
cared for at home, community-basea organizations have played a substantive
role in caring for them.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
59-60
(Mr. Supeno, Indonesia)
The Indonesian delegation would suggest that, in promoting the social
welfare of the ageing, proper attention should be given to:
first, creating
employment opportunities for those who still can and need to work, in
conformity with existing regulations and standards of society; secondly,
providing education and training, both as an activity and as a means of
retraining for different pr~fessions; thirdly, ensuring that social or income
security is available when help is needed, as well as nursing homes; fourthly,
dealing with the decrease in earning power as a result of retirement from
service or living on a pension; and, fifthly, enacting laws and regulations
that support and improve the social welfare of the ageing.
In conclusion, let me say that the Indonesian society has a long and
strong tradition of care and respect for the older members of its society, and
ca~e for older family members has been primarily within the home. We consider
it to be very important that whenever possible the ageing should ba cared for
not in an unfamiliar and institutional setting but within the community, and
within the family whenever possible. However, we also realize that as more
family members begin to enter the work force the role of care-giver, usually
filled by the women of the household, will become more difficult.
It is at
this time that the local community needs to step in to support the family and
to supplement the family's ability to continue care-giving in the traditional
and more comforting fashion. And it is essential that we do not approach
questions of ageing solely on the basis of what care and support need to be
given but, rather, as a source of knowledge, wisdom and experience from which
we can greatly benefit and by which we can be guided. My delegation
anticipates the opportunity to discuss this issue again in greater detail at
the World Summit for Social Development and at the International Conference on
Population and Development, which will be convened in Cairo in 1994.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
61
Ms. FRECBE'lTE (Canada) (interpretation from French):
#
It is a great
privilege for me to be part of this plenary meeting marking the tenth
anniversary of the International Plan of Action on Ageing. Every society and
every individual is confronted with the realities of an ageing population.
The average life expectancy worldwide has increased considerably in the last
forty years, with the result that Governments and individuals are now being
called upon to address new situations and needs.
We have read with interest the Secretary General's report on
"Implementation of the International Plan pf Action on Ageing". The treatment
of the question of ageing has now obviously evolved to a certain maturity. We
welcome the strategy that anticipates the coming decade and the clarity and
practicality with whica the guide was prepared.
In the area of seniors'
issues,
the Canadian experience is built on
active partnership and social responsibility. Canada has since 1982 continued
to endorse fully the principles of the United N~tions International Plan of
Action on Ageing and to work towards its practical application in the
country. As a society, we accord high priority to meeting the entire spectrum
of seniors' needs, ospecially in the area of health and social services.
In the past several years, seniors and other interested individuals
across Canada have formed groups an.d organizations concerned with
ageing-related issues. The Government of Canada,
like all Canadians, realizes
the importance this dynamic sector of the population has for the future of our
~ociety. This is why 20 years ago the Canadian Government created New
Horizons, a programme devoted to offering financial assistance to groups of
older Canadians who plan and manage their own projects.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
62
{Ms. Frechette. Canada)
The appointment of the first Minister of State for Seniors in 1987 qave
further recognition to the status of seniora in Canada. The Minister of
State's mandate was to give voice,
in Parliament,
to the interests and
concerns of seniors.
In the years following that appointment, productive
consultations with seniors and the representatives of their organizations,
self-help groups ~d individuals who work with older Canadians have been
stepped up.
(spoke in English)
Faced with the important changes in the basic needs of our population, we
have set out to design programmes, modify laws and debunk some of the myths
that lead to prejudice and misunderstanding. As is sU9gested in the
Inte~uational Plan of Action,
these programmes can have a dual purpose. On
the one hand,
they can encourage research into how seniors live their lives;
and, on the other,
they can help set standards that promote an enhanced
quality of life and greater autonomy for seniors.
In the fall of 1991, we conducted the first National Survey on Ageing and
Independence,
involving 20,000 individuals representing both tomorrow's
seniors - people between the ages of 45 and 64 - and today's seniors - aged
65 and older. The survey examined a wide range of issues relating to the
quality of life and independence of seniors. The results will assist
Governments, national and local organizations and individuals in developing
innovative programmes and services.
Canadians are sensitive to the needs and concerns of seniors. We are
proud of our social security system, which is our largest
programme-expenditure area.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
63
(MA. Frechette, Canada)
Furthermore, since housing is another concern for older Canadians, we
implemented the Residential Rehabilitation ~ssistance Program to ensure that
health and safety standards are met and homes made more accessible. This
programme, among other things, helps seniors to stay in their homes as long as
possible and responds to their need for independence by allowing them to
remain in their communi.ties •
One cannot ignore the problems faced by older women in our society.
In
1988,
the Minister of State for Seniors a~d her colleaque,
the Minister
Responsible for the Status of Women, hosted a workshop on health and
social-security needs for senior women and supported a series of follow-u~
workshops and research projects addressing this important issue.
The ageing of the population, along with the policy issues it entails,
continues to pose important challenges for Canada. Canadians are deeply'
committed to creating a society in which seniors can realize their potential
to the fullest and lead productive and independent lives.
Mr. KORAN (Czechoslovakia): We constantly hear that youth is
obliged to show consideration and respect for the elderly and to ensure that
they enjoy a dignified retirement. Though this is true, it is not the sole
reason for the interest of those who are still active in those who are
retired.
Some people say that the elderly are in fact persons with disabilities
caused by their age. That is not the case, since on the one hand, handicap
does not necessarily mean disability - quite the contrary - and on the other,
the very age of the elderly, achieved over a lifetime of work and experience,
is an advantage when they are compared with the young.
Therefore,
the young
must take an interest in the world of the elderly not only out of respect for
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
64
(Mr Kukan c Czechoslovakia)
their grey heads but also out of respect for them as the source of knowledge
and experience acquired at a very high price. Let us speak, as we have done
with regard to disabled persons, about the necessity of creating equal
opportunities aimed at harnessing and utili~ing their potential for all of us
and for the fut~re. Let us not retire the most precious values:
knowledge,
wisdom and experience.
The United Nations deserves our appreciation for its efforts in this
field.
The world's more intensive endeavours during the decade that has
passed since the 1982 World Assembly on Ageing are also deserving of
appreciation. This decade has certainly brought much progress in the area of
care for the elderly, even though that progress might have been and in the
future should be greater because, among other considerations,
the world's
population is getting older.
During the lO-year period from 1983 to 1992, when the International Plan
of Action on Ageing was implemented, it was in Europe that the elderly were
one of the fastest-growing social groups. A relative and an absolute increase
in the numbers of old people and the ageing of the elderly population have
been observed.
For those in Northern and Western Europe,
the demographic
pressures are already being felt, whereas in Southern and Eastern Europe they
are only beginning to have a significant impact. We are dealing with
increasing proportions of elderly people and decreasing proportions of young
people, with generational change; and we must deal with these matters in order
to forestall the serious problems that will arise in the future if we are not
able to alter our youth-oriented culture and way of thinking and if we
continue to push the elderly into retirement and dependence.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Hr ltulum, Czechoslovakia)
The Czech and Slovak Federal Republic welcomes the eight global targets
on ageing for the year 2001 as proposed in the United Nations
Secretary-General"s report A/47/339 and considers them a solid basis for
setting up the overall strategy of the United Nations in its approach to the
elderly.
During the decade of the International Plan of Action on Ageing a number
of formal measures were adopted that presented Czechoslovakia as a country
that cared about the position of the elderly in society.
In many respects it
lived up to that image; for eX81liple, in the number of nursing homes for
pensioners,
the then-socialist Czechoslovakia had ond of the best records in
the world. ne reality, however, was more complsx than the image being-
created for the outside world.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.40
66
(Mr. Kukan. Czechoslovakia)
An essential part of the social policy of presen~-day Czechoslovakia is
its concern with ensuring the dignity of life so well deserved by the older
generations, bearing in mind that 'the elderly of today have lived most of
their lives without any chance to build the financial security that would
prevent their being displaced to the periphery of society, and would instead
afford them a full life after retirement.
Immediately after the major changes in Czechoslovakia's orientation, it
became apparent that the ac~omodation of the economy to market conditions
would be demanding and would bring about a number of social problems that the
old social system was not capable of solving. Therefore, alongside the
economic reform scenario, a social reform programme has been developed to
clarify policy in this field, distinguishing it from State paternalism by
restoring citizens' responsibility for their own fate and that of their
families,
implementing equal conditions for all and eliminating unnecessary
preferences in the social c~re system. Our intention is to create a universal
and unified system that, under the conditions of the labour market, will
provide citizens unable to ~ake care of themselves with a distinct level of
social care.
Instead of general protection,
there will be a transformation to
differentiated,
individualized assistance, provided to those who really need
it.
To attain these goals, both the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic
have adopted a set of measures providing for increases and regular adjustments
in the income of pensioners, so that their pensions will not fall behind the
income of the economically active part of the population and will reasonably
follow increases in the cost of living.
To ensure care for older people,
the
Czech Government has adoptej a law providing allowances for persons taking
care of someone who is over 80 years old or who is disabled.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
67
(Mr. Kakan, Czechoslova~ia)
As far as the employment of the elderly is concerned,
there is relatively
high economic activity in the population over retirement age, representing
approximately 10 per cent of the total working population.
For those who lose
their jobs,
the 1991 employment
law considers citizens over 50 years old as a
special category when it comes to finding a new position; exceptionally, a
pension may be awarded in the event of failure to find new employment.
The changed political atmosphere of Europe at the beginning of the 1990s,
with hopes for a more integrated continent of nations sharing experiences and
common ideals yet all dedicated to retaining their individual cultural
inheritance, provides both 3 challenge and an opportunity for developing
innovative systems of health and social care, closer collaboration between
professionals from many varied backgrounds and objective cross-national
research in areas previously considered too politically sensitive.
Attitudes towards caring for the old have long been determined by the
health of the economy,
the general standard of living and the overall state of
morale within. society. Neglect and maltreatment in previous years may be more
easily understood within the context of past history.
In the future there can
be less justification for i;noring the special needs of older peopla or
following a policy of banisning them to institutions when demands come to be
seen as excessive. The growing affluence of many European countries, with
greater understanding of, and a more positive approach to,
those members of
society least able to help themselves, should encourage the development of
readily accessible and inte;rated systems of care and concern.
The elderly in particular have formed the segment of population with the
least ability to defend themselves. With thousands of refugees on the move in
Europe,
those with disabilities have been left with little or no help at all.
Further cat~strophes, such as natural disasters and famine, could cause
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
68
(Mr. Kukan, Czechoslovakia)
devastation to living conditions and interpersonal ties. Again,
those most
affected will be the elderly.
Under these circumstances, special measures are needed to ensure that
adequate help is provided to those most affected. As the elderly have
specific needs, specific approaches must be implemented.
In conformity with its humanitarian traditions, and with the
International Plan of Action on Ageing in mind,
the Czechoslovak delegation is
of the opinion that the time has come for the international community to sta~t
thinking about the elaboration of some kind of international emergency network
for the elderly. The purpose of such a network would be to assist those
populatians where the elderly are affected by an unexpected and acute change
of their situation and where existing political and economic systems are
failing.
The participants in this natwork could be those Member States of the
United Nations that are affected as well as other Member States, along with
diverse local, national, reqion~l '. other international governmental and
non-governmental organizations,
individuals or informal groups.
An
international emergency fund for the elderly could work within the network to
help cover the expenses of such aid.
The international community is obliged to protect the lives of vulnerable
groups in society under specific conditions and to develop an effective
instrument for international cooperation in this field.
The more vulnerable
the group,
the higher shouli be the priority.
Mrs. GILES (Australia):
It gives me great pleasure to represent
Australia at these United Nations General Assembly special meetings on ageing.
In the decade since the Organization's International Plan of Action on
Ageing was adopted,
there have been major developments in many aspects of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
69-70
(Mrs. Giles, Australia)
social policy concerned with older people in Australia. All these initiatives
have been within the framework of the Federal Government's social justice
strategy, whic~ is based on four broad sets of principles:
the equitable
distribution of economic resources; equality of civic,
legal and industrial
rights; fair and equal access to essential services such as housing, health
and education; and opportunity fo~ personal development and participation in
community life and decision-making.
The social justice strategy has special relevance to older people.
Individually and as a group, older Australians are more likely to be
vulnerable to threats to their independence and rights than are many other
members of society.
It is this vulnerability and the consequent needs of
older people, not their age alone,
that is the basis of policy development in
Australia.
The social justice strstegy is in close accord with the principles of the
International Plan of Action on Ageing:
independence, participation, care,
self-fulfilment and dignity. These provide a framework for reviewing the
policies and programmes developed for older people in Australia over the last
10 years. They also provide a foundation for looking to the future.
As Australia is often seen as a young country,
this world Assembly serves
an especially useful function in directing attention to older Australians.
Older Australians are the fastest growing sector of the Australian population.
Since the 1981 World Assembly on Ageing,
the number of Australians aged 65
years and over has increased by more than half a million, an increase of
35 pQr cent.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA147/PV.40
71
(Mrs. G11es, Australia)
Looking ahead for th~ next decade, it is projected that the population aged 65
and aver will grow b~ 22 per cent,
to reach 2.4 million by the year 2001. The
aged will then account for 12 per cent of the total population of Australia.
In demographic terms, Austrblia thus ranks in the middle range of ageing
nations.
Two features of Australia's aged population warrant particular note.
First,
large numbers of those who were born oversees in non-English-speaking
countries and who migrated to Australia in the post-war years are now reaching
old age. They are adding very substantially to the cultural and social
diversi~y of ageing in Australia. Secondly, aboriginal and To~res Strait
islander people are another distinct component of the aged population, whose
societies have traditionally given high esteeern to the role of elders and are
now experiencing many pressures in a changing world.
The last 10 years in Australia have indeed been a decade of action. The
report attached to this statement gives a detailed account of many initiatives
taken by the Federal Government, by State and Territory Governments, by
voluntary organizations and by older people themselves.
I am only able to select some of these many achievements that show how
the principles of the International Plan of Action are being applied,and
developed in Australia.
Independence,
the subject of the first set of principles for older
people, rests on three main conditions:
having adequate incomes, housing that
provides not only shelter but a secure and supportive environment for daily
living and access to the same range of activities as others in the community.
The age pension is the cornerstone of economic independence for older
Australians. The provision of adequate retirement income is a central
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl41/PV,,40
12
(Mrs. Giles, Australia)
objective of AUI,tralia's social security policy and there is a general
expectation i~ the community that the age pension is an entitlement that gives
recognition ~o the years that people have contributed to the development of
the nation and will continue to do so.
To ensure the future viability of retirement income arrangements and
provide for greater choices for older Australians, significant reforms have
been made to several areas of social security provisions.
In order to extend
occupational pensions,
the superannuation guarantee charge was introduced in
1989 in conjunction with the wages accord and industrial relations agreements
with employers and unions.
Together,
these measures will provide more adequate income replacement in
retirement and enable greater choice in planning for retirement life-styles.
In particular,
there have been significant increases in superannuation
coverage for women in recent yeats.
The second set of principles of the International Plan of Action focuses
on participation through involvement of older people in Government policy
making and support for community organizations. The Commonwealth Office for
the Aged,
located within the Commonwealth Department of Health, Housing and
Community Services, was established in 1986 to coordinate consultations with
key cons~er organizations. The principal bodies for consultation are now the
consumer forums for the aged in each State and Territory. These consist of
individuals drawn from a wide range of older people's groups,
including
pensioner and superannuation federations, councils on the ageing, ethnic
organizations, returned services leagues, aboriginal and Torres Strait
islander communities, carers' associations,
the Alzheimer's Association, and
the Country Women's Association.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.40
73
(Mrs. Giles, Australia)
Over the last decade, several State governments have est~Jlished special
units on ageing supported by a variety of consultative committees on which
older people are represented.*
Older people participate widely in voluntary organizations. The role of
voluntary organizations was recognized in the Australian delegation to the
1981 World Assembly, which included representatives of the Australian Council
on the Ageing and the voluntary Association of Gerontology. The participation
of voluntary organizations has made a significant contribution to achieving
the goals ~f the International Plan of Action on Ageing.
Many of these or9ani~ations provide opportunities for sarvic5 totha
community as volunteers, and both Federal and State governments fund eligible
community organizations to support their volunteer activities. Among the
groups that receive support under the Federal Government's community
organizations support programme are the Australian Council on the Ageing,
the
Australian Pensioners' and Superannuants' Federation,
the Alzheimer'S
Association, and the recently formed National Carers' Association.
Governments have been able to draw upon a vigorous and effective older women's
network and the older persons' action centre in community activities such as
the proper use of medication by older people.
The value of participation in organizations extending beyond Australia is
recognized, and several channels have developed for international exchanges
with, for example,
the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
*
Mr. Mongbe (8enin), Vice President,
took the Chair.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
74
(Mrs. Giles, Australia)
(OECD) and the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs
(CSDHA). Older Australians have also represented their organisations at
numerous overseas meetings.
In 1992 these included the International
Federation on Ageing Congress in India and the International Federation of
Associations of Older People, in Spain.
The principles of the International Plan of Action conc6rned with care of
older people are strongly oriented t~ the development of community care, an
orientation shared by Australian policy in this area.
The Federal Government initiated a lO-year care reform strategy in
1984-1985. The reform st~ate9Y is focused on provision of services within the
home so that older people may remain as i~dependent for as long as possible.
This approach is consistent with the expressed needs and desires of older
people themselves and those who';ll~~ for them.
The goals of the reform s~~~~e~ are concerned with providing equitable
access to the most appropriate care to accord with individual assessed needs
and the effective utilization of available resources. To achieve these goals,
policy objectives have been set to bring about changes in the balance of care
between residential and community care and, within residential care, between
nursing homes and hostels.
A mid-term review of tJbe reform ~trategy was unde~taken in 1990-1991.
The review reported that significant progress had been made in transforming
Australia's aged-care system from one that was inequitable, inefficient and
imbalanced to one that is more equitable and efficient and provides a more
appropriate balance of care.
One of the key programme initiatives that have reshaped Australia's aged
care programmes is the establishment of multi-disciplinary aged care
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
75
(Mrs. Giles. Australia)
assessment teams.
In the first five years of the reform strategy, funding of
home and community care services doubled in real terms.
All aged care programmes recognize the special needs of different groups
in the aged population. These groups include older people from
non-English-speaking backgrounds, aboriginal and Torres Strait islanders,
older people in rural and remote areas and people with dementia. Strategies
to promote access to mainstream services include provision of information in
community languages and training of staff to develop awareness of different
cultural practices and values.
The Federal Government has initiated a five-year national action plan for
dementia care to give special assistance to people with dementia and their
carers. The aim of the action plan is to enhance the capacity of all aged
care programmes to meet the needs of this client group. Additional
developments will be supported in assessment, service delivery, community
education, measures to ensure quality of care, research and evaluation and
policy and planning. Copies of this plan have been distributed to the
Assembly.
My focus now shifts from the frail aged to the wider population of active
older people - and this, at age 70, is the vast majority of Australians -
to
considering the fourth set of principles of the International Plan of Action.
Self-fUlfilment for older people comes from much the same range of interests
and activities as for the community as a whole -
from educational, cultural,
spiritual and recreational opportunities.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.40
76
(Mrs. Giles, Australia)
The level of concern about these opportunities in Australia is reflected
by two recent parliamentary inquiries. The report of the first inquiry,
entitled "Is Retirement Working?",
focused on measures that assisted older
people to maintain an active role in community affairs, and it gave access to
advice and options that promoted an active and positive use of leisure time.
Opportunities that provide for maximum participation in continuing voluntary
and/or paid work were also canvassed.
The second report, entitled "Expectations of Life:
Increasing the
Options for the 21st Century", affirmed that much has been achieved i.n
fostering the independence and well-being of older Australians.
It addressed
many of the contemporary structural and philosophic~l changes in life-style
and patterns of time use that are confronting Australian society and are
contributing to the debate about the meaning of successful ageing in Australia.
One specific example of the ways in which older people are taking the
initiative themselves is the growth of the University for the Third Age -
U3A -
in Australia. Established in 1984 in Australia, U3A is entirely a
self-help initiative. By mid-1992, U3A was operating through almost 100
independent campuses, with some 16,000 members.
Another example that I am very pleased to give at this world assembly
is the successful celebration throughout Australia in 1991 and in 1992 of the
United Nations International Day for the Elderly. This has provided a very
special opportunity to demonstrate the contribution of older people to the
community. An International Day for the Elderly calendar has been issued;
it gives det&ils of activities of interest to older people throughout the
coming year and identifies opportunities for participation in a wide range of
activities, many of them with an intergenerational focus.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
77
(Mrs. Gi1es, Australia)
The fifth and final set of principles of the International Plan of Action
are perhaps the most fundamental and underpin all the actions that I have
mentioned so far. These principles are concerned with the dignity of all
older persons,
the protection of their rights and their entitlement to equal
opportunities without discrimination on the grounds of age.
The Australian Government has taken a number of steps to uphold the
dignity of older individuals. User-rights initiatives have ensured that older
people in residential care facilities and those receiving community services
enjoy the same fundamental freedoms as others in the community,
inclUding full
respect for their dignity, beliefs, needs and privacy, and the· right to make
decisions about their care and the quality of their lives. The user-rights
strategy in residential care has five components:
a charter, an agreement
between the operator and resident, complaints units, community visitor schemes
and advocacy services •
. I especially want to highlight the community visitors schemes. These
have been implemented to improve the quality of life for residents of nursing
homes and hostels who do not have regular contact with the community. The
majority of community visitors are older people, but a wide range of age
groups are involved. Community visitors act as volunteers and receive payment
to cover their expenses. This scheme has won acclaim from residents, visitors
and nursing home staff alike.
For older people living in the community,
the main area in which they
seek to address perceived infringements of their dignity is through combating
discrimination on the basis of age. Age-discrimination legislation is
proceeding at both State and Federal levels. An age-discrimination task force
has been established by the federal Attorney General with a view to developing
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
78
(Mrs. Giles. Australia)
anti-discrimination legislation in the areas of commonwealth responsibility.
An Australian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission is also taking an
active part in promoting change in these areas, and to give expression to
Australia's commitments under International Labour Organisation (ILO)
conventions and recommendations. Legislative change in this area will give
formal recognition to changes in community attit~des towards retirement and
other age-based social conventions, and open the way for further changes in
attitudes and practices.
The International Plan of Action on Ageing calls upon the international
community to enhance the lives of older people $0 tnat they can enjoy their
advancing years in peace, health and security. The achievements in realizing
the goals of the Plan of Action in Australia over the past decade are a matter
of some pride to me personally and to the Australian Government and all
Australians who have contributed to the outcome. The efforts of older people
individually and through their many and varied organizations are particularly
recognized.
The achievements of recent years give hope for further progress in the
future.
I am confident that reaffirming Australia's commitment to the
principles of the International Plan of Action on Ageing will bring renewed
interest and energy to our thinking and activity and will achieve continuing
improvements in the well-being of older people.
As I declare here in New York Australia's commitment to the principles of
the Plan of Action,
the same commitment is being made by the Minister for
Aged, Family and Health Seriices, Mr. Pete~ Staples,
in Parliament House in
Canberra, Australia's capital. Mr. Staples is today meeting with the national
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
79
(Mrs. Gilesc Australia)
consumer forums for th9 aged and he will b£ asking them to undertak~ the task
of developing new targets for the year 2001 in accord with the International
Plan of Action on Ageing. Ho group could be better equipped to undertake this
task. The outcome of their deliberations will most certainly ensure the
continuing realization of the principles of the International Plan of Action
on Ageing for the benefit of all.
Ms. BERRY (United States of America):
I have the honour of speaking
at this special ~eries of meetings of the General Assembly on ageing, marking
the tenth anniversary celebration of the World Assembly on Ageing.
As the United States Commissioner on Ageing,
I am responsible for
promoting the independence and dignity of all older persons in our country.
It is the obligation of our Government to assure the positive impact of our
programmes on the lives of older persons,
their families and neighbours, with
the intent of keeping older persons in their own homes and in the community
for as long as possible.
It is my belief that Government and voluntary as
well as private sector organizations and individuals all have a responsibility
and a role to play in ensuring that those older persons who need assistance
receive it.
I want to talk very briefly about the Natio~al Eldercare Campaign,
the
major Ageing initiative that our Government began last year and about which
Secretary Sullivan spoke earlier. The principles upon which the National
Eldercare Campaign have been built are relevant to all of us who are
confronting the impact of global ageing. The Campaign is a call to action to
broaden the base of societal involvement and commitment to assist today's
vulnerable elderly.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library"A/41IPV.40
80
(Ms. Berry, United States)
Our particular focus is on the physically and mentally impaired, socially
isolated,
those living alone,
the rural, and those of low-income and minority
status. We are encouraging all organiaations and individuals,
including those
not traditionally associated with ageing,
to participate actively in
developing solutions to thE pressing needs of today's vulnerable elderly and
to help prepare for the growing number of at-risk older persons in the years
to come.
We have found that in many cases there are untapped resources within
communities.
From collective action, advocacy and coalition building, greater
participation and support from the community at large will result.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.40
81
(Ms. SertY, United States)
We acknowledge that goverJUllent, at all levels, cannot eto it alone. The
need is too great, and ou~ public resources are finite and strained. As the
frail elderly population increases, public resources vill be insufficient to
keep pace vith the demand. That is why we have to attach priority to
broadening the base of support for and commitment to the vulnerable elderly
and why we are encouraging collective societal action and advocacy on their
behalf.
The social movement to promote elder care builds upon our nation's
heritage of care-giving, which is so characteristic of our American families,
and offers hope to the millions of ~nericans who live alone and are without
spouses or relatives. Community coalitions mnde up of private-sector and
voluntary organizations, volunteers, religious leaders, older persons
themselves and others are reaching out to assist seniors at risk throughout
the nation under the National Eldercare Campaign.
The provision of home- and community-based services will continue to
challenge our nation as our older popUlation grows. We believe that the
social movement of elder care strengthens and supports our family care-givers
and serves as a nucleus for the development of public and social policy to
ensure human dignity for all Americans as we age. Through the campaign, we
are beginning a national social movement to build commitment to and support
for the nation's vulnerable elderly.
The National Eldercare Campaign has touched a responsive chord across our
nation as more people become aware of the needs of today's vulnerable seniors,
as well as the challenge that confronts us in the future. More people are
joining the Campaign every day, and there is energy and enthusiasm reflecting
new commitment to and support for our vulnerable older persons.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
82
(MS.
'firtY, United States)
As we bow, all older persons want to feel wanted, secure,
loved and
needed, All older persons want to live with dignity. This is what the
Rational Bldercare Campaign is all about -
to create the environment in which
older persons CaD receive the support they need to help them to maintain their
independence and dignity in old age.
I mincerely appreciate this opportunity to share these thoughts.
It has
been a great honour to address the General Assembly today.
Mr. HIPSUD-BQNNICI (Malta): All of us are avare that one of the
most significant phenomena of the twentieth century has been the dramatic
poses unique challenges to every society, as, unlike other population-grovth
variables, it is neither amenable to change nor easily modified. Consequently
the attention of every Government should focus ~ot on vhether it can change
the basic process of population aging but, rather, on the very issues that
arise from this process.
The process of demographic and social change in Malta has, over time,
manifested itself in an overall change in attitudes, not only of the
individual but also of society at large. The elderly population as an
ever-increasing component of society has already been substantially affected
by repercussions of its own success. As a result of the declining birth rate,
coupled with an increase in life expectancy,
the registered proportion of the
elderly in Malta -
currently 14 per cent - is expected to continue to rise
steadily, so that by the first gl\arter of the next century one person in four
will be over the age of 60.
This projected rise in the absolute numbers and proportion of the old and
very old in the population vill determine the demand on provisions designed to
meet the diverse needs and stages of needs of the elderly indivi~~al.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
83
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici, Malta)
The issue becomes more complex when one takes into consideration the fact
that the traditional role of the family in the daily care of and support for
its elderly members is seriously threatened as this basic social unit is
subjected to various economic, social and ~sychological strains.
MOreover, given the concurrent phenomena of industrialization,
urbanization and modernization, as well as otbr
- demographic and
socio-economic factors that have a direct bearing on the family structure and
its function, it becomes evident that the needs of the frail elderly can no
longer be effectively met by the family alone without the support of
specialized programmes and services of the public sector.
It is important to
note that such services should complement, rather than substitute for or
replace, family care. Governments, while trying to support and strengthen the
family's traditional role of provider of care for the elderly, must at the
same time provide public delivery systems for those elderly who cannot rely on
themselves or on their families.
If Governments were to look at the growing proportions of the elderly
within their populations from the point of view of welfare-state ideology the
situation would become more complex for the State and unbearable for the
elderly, who,
in turn, would be looked upon only as a tolerated burden on
society.
Aware, on one hand, of the structural and functional changes in the
family and, on the other hand, of the challenges and issues generated by a
rapidly growing elderly population, my Government strongly believes that a
solution can be found only if there is a radical transformation from the
welfare-state model of social policy to the welfare-society model or, rather,
the caring-society model, in which every social institution - be it the State,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Librarypt
~
:w,
):
azt
c
A/47/PV.40
84
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici, Malta)
the Church,
the voluntary organisations,
the community,
family members or,
last but not least,
the elderly themselves - has an important role to play by
showing that it actually altruistically cares.
The welfare of our elderly depends heavily on the policy-makers'
potential to conceive effective strategies that may at times vary extensively
from traditional policies, which are basically of a financial or institutional
nature.
The issues related to ageing are multidisciplinary in nature - covering
such sectors as income security, health care, housing and environment, social
;l:
assistance and family protection, educational and cultural activities,
:r. tli
!
11:
r
'w
a
a
recreation and rehabilitation. Care of the elderly is a complex matter, and
the elements of care are highly interdependent.
The health and happiness of
the elderly is dependent upon social, emotional and psychological factors.
Social policy in Malta has dramatically developed from the traditionally
problem-oriented, depersonalized approach to the present-day
community-oriented, personalized approach covering the totality of the
individual's well-being while reflecting the centrality of the human being and
the human family.
Current strategies provide various schemes from which the elderly benefit
either in cash or in services. Pension schemes,
free medical care, community
programmes, home-help services and residential care constitute the core of the
strategy that safeguards the general well-being of our elderly.
The concept of welfare and security is of a multidimensional nature.
Longevity has to be complemented by quality of life. Universal pension
the:,
entitlement does not in itself ensure that the elderly remain active or that
they preserve their relationships with family,
friends and familiar
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
85
(MJj,Mifsud-Bonnici, Malta)
surroundings.
In this context, and in the light of the fact that the elderly
are not a homogeneous group,
there has been a total shift in the nature of
service provision in Malta in the past four years. Particular focus is now
being given to colllftunit,,-based care utrategies that cater for the individual,
thus providing for personal needs, as distinct from fo~er policies that
maintained age aa their criterion for entitlement even though age alone is not
a reliable indicator of needs.
Such services as the Home Care/Help Scheme, Telecare and Meals on Nbeels
are all strategies that were conceived and implemented with the primary aim of
providing the necessary personal care and support to enable an elderly person
to continue living a dignified life in the familiar surroundings and privacy
of his or her own home.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
86
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici. Malta)
As a complementary endeavour to prevent relocation trauma,
the Government
embarked on the costly projects oE building community homes within different
localities so as to satisfy the needs and demands for residential care that
are presented by applicants living in that region. Such a policy is being
adhered to in the belief that by remaining in one's own social surroundings
adjustment should be less disturbing.
An increase in the number of e1gerly is bound to reflect itself in an
increase in the demand for services. Equally true is the fact that
specialized services ask for personnel with correspondingly specialized
training, who should therefore be better able to identify, assess and provide
for the needs of the elderly. The Government,
in collaboration with the
Institute of Gerontology at the University of Malta, is implementing training
courses in gerontology and geriatrics that are designed to give a deeper
understanding of the complexities of old age.
Such education programmes are
not only an invaluable investment but an essential asset for the future
development of the existing network of services.
The formulation and implementation of policies should not be an end in
itself. These have to be reviewed so as to ensure that they are meeting the
widest possible range of needs. Where and when necessary, such strategies
need to be supplemented or complemented by other services. The newly set up
National Council for the Elderly should prove to be an important organ when it
comes to the identification of needs and specification of wants.
With the aim of further expanding community-based care services, serious
consideration is being given to the eventual intrOduction of a handyman
service to carry out minor repair works in the elderly person's own home.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.40
87
(Mr. Mifsud-Boppici, Malta)
This should fill yet another gap in a compendium of services designed to
enhance the quality of life of the individual by attending to his specific
needs in his own home.
It is felt that Malt~'s achievements in the field of ageing can be argued
to be outstanding, from both a national and international perspective. The
service package offered to elderly citizens renders Malta uni~ue among
developing and developed countries, in that it nationally provides for: 100
per cent age-pension entitlements,
payment of allowances for rents;
rebate
on water and electricity meter rent charges;
a 100 per cent entitlement to
bonus;
totally free hospitalization,
complete access to public-funded health
centres;
free prescription of drugs;
non-contributory financial benefits in
the case of chronically ill persons;
non-contributory carers' pensions for
those looking after elderly relatives; heavily subsidized community-based
services such as the Home Help Scheme and the delivery of meals;
the
extensive allocation of technologically advanced apparatus such as the special
telephone service provided under the Telecare Scheme;
free access to the
specialized geriatric and rehabilitative hospital;
heavily subsidized
residence in community homes that have been recently built to modern
standards;
extensive refurbishment of long-standi~g residential
institutions;
upgrading of service through retraini~g of staff, procurement
of modern physical aIds and medical equipment; completely free-of-charge
supply of incontinence pads on the basis of need;
and financial assistance to
carry out adaptations in the home so as to enable a person to cope in spite of
his physical disabilities.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl4.7/PV.4.0
88
Above all, it is noteworthy that such entitlements are universal,
irrespective of sex, so that Maltese women have a direct access to services in
(Mr. Mifsud-Bopnici, M81t~)
their own right.
The Government of Malta's constant efforts to improve where and when
possible the care services that are designed to meet the needs of an
ever-growing number of elderly persons within the community are being
significantly complemented by the sterling services provided by a number of
voluntary organizations, notably the Roman Catholic Church. Religion is a
major factor in the lives of the Maltese. The elderly in particular regard
the Catholic Church as a very important part of their lives and derive great
comfort from its spiritual and material support.
Malta's commitment to issues relating to ageing is not merely a secular
exer~ise restricted to our national conditions and requirements. Malta has
also extended its international concern for the consequences of the ageing of
populations, especially in developing countries, where over three quarters of
the world's elderly will reside in the next 35 years. Lack of planning and
awareness within this heterogeneous region will ensure that the majority of
the world's elderly will become marginalized. Through the fo;esight of
Malta's intervention, and with the backing and support of the United Nations,
the International Instit~te on Ageing (INIA), was established to provide
training to key personnel within developing countries.
But the needs in developing countries were found to be much more
diverse.
INIA, as it is more popularly known,
therefore rose to the challenge
by extending its activities to include the establismnent of a collaborating
network among specialized agencies in both developed and developing countries,
the effective and practical exchange of information through its now
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.40
SS
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici, Malta)
well-established qua~terly bulletin~ ~, and through its publication and
free distributio~ of international monograph~ on ageing.
So far the Institute
has published monographs for Australia, C~ada, China, Finland, Guatemala,
Hungary, and Israel. Preparations are also in hand to publish monographs for
other countries including, Belgium, Cuba, France, Italy, Mexico, Poland,
the
United Kingdom and the United States.
All of these activities are the concrete and practical results of the
Vienna Plan of Action, representing the major expression of the United Nations
resolution to face the challenge of the ageing of populations through
appropriate planning.
The increasing central role that INIA is taking within the international
debate, and the burgeoning of collaborative projects with national
governments, has firmly established the need and utility of this centre of
excellence. The Maltese Government,
in cooperation with the United Nations,
has laid the base for the benefit of future generations.
An increase in the proportion of the elderly within society constitutes a
heavier financial burden on a correspondingly decreasing economically
productive sector.
Such a challenge is not easy to overcome as it is arguable
that economic growth will prosper at the same rate as the increase in demand
that is anticipated for the ageing of the population. This is the reality
that should monitor future developments in the years to come. However, with
the right tuning,
the expansion and effectiveness of services can be
maintained, developed and enriched •
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Mt. Mlfsud-BoDDici, Malta)
The GoverDment of Malta had the foresight to realize the emergence of
such issues more than 20 years ago and it is now approaching the same
eventuality of change with planning, discussion and openness. May our
determination and genuine coX1l'ftitment see us through the challenge that we
shall have to face at the turn of the century, in the best interests of the
elderly.
Mrs. GONDWE (Malawi): On behalf of my delegation may I say that it
is an honour and privi1eqe to address this Assembly once more on an issue
which is so dear to many of us. The Govermnent of Malawi views this occasion
as very special and is therefore lending its support to efforts at the
international level to understand and deal with the issues of population
ageing.
Malawi values ageing mainly because of its positive aspects.
In this
respect the elderly are revered and respected as symbols of our nation's past
and its link with the present and the future. My Life President, His
bcu11ency Nqvazi Dr. H.
lCamuzu Banda, has 1edo the way 011 this front in Malawi
through his speeches and by designating Youth Week, a week in which youth and
adults work together on coX1l'ftUDity projectsa and also Mothers' Day, a day set
aside to honour and respect not only mothers but older people.
In his
speeches my Life President has emphasized that youth must respect their elders.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl4r7/PlJr.40
91
(Mrs. Gondwe' Malawi)
This means that younger people shoulla lOlok after older relatives and consult
them for advice and wise counsel. This is the policy that has been guiding
the Government in dealing with the issue of ageing.
The Government of Malawi has therefore participated in many meetings 9n
ageing and contributed to the ideas on how to handle the problem of ageing
populations.
It is with satisfaction and pride that we look back to 1982,
when Malawi was part of tho process that gave rise to the Internation3l Plan
of Action on Ageing.
Indeed, it is in the same spirit that we have seen i~
fit for the Government of Malawi to participate in this meeting on the tenth
anniversary of the Plan of Action. We view the inclu~ion of the item on the
agenda of the Assembly as an indication that the problem is taken seriously
and therefore needs our support.
We must
look back to the last 10 years and assess the impact of the Plan
of Action. To us in Malawi,
I
the Plan has created an additional level of
awareness of the impact of ageing and of the needs of the elderly in our
societies that was not there before. This is the beginning of progress
towards finding solutions co the problems of ageing, and we feel that we
should not be discouraged because we have been unable to achieve all that we
set ourselves to do. Rather, we should renew our resolve to deal adequately
with the issues involved in ageing and its effects on various aspects of the
human experience. We therefore urge the United Nations and all its Members to
strengthen the existing programme on ageing, because some of us have not fully
benefitted from it.
~ime is not on our side.
Faced with many other problems, we may be
tempted to relegate the question of ageing. But, as everyone knows,
postponement of a problem .s not a solution; it will only come back bigger and
in a worse form. Therefore, we need to act while there is time.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.40
92
(Mrs. Gondve, Malawi)
It is said by the expft=ts that Africa will experience the impact of
ageing in significant proportions after the year 2025. This may give the
false impression that we have time. We do not. Because of problems such as
AIDS, demographic ageing may be realized sooner than later ia our societies.
At the rate AIDS is killing the younger and more economically active persons
in our societies,
the pace of ageing of the population has accelerated,
implying that this too is a priority problem. Rural to urban migration by
young people,
leading to the neglect of the elderly, is also an emerging
problem.
In general,
improvements in health and nutrition will lead to
increased life expectancy and contribute to the ageing phenomenon.
This therefore calls for efforts on our part to prepare ourselves.
I
In
this respect,
the Malawi Government would like to reiterate its support for
I
all efforts made by the United Nations, Governments and i~stitutions designed
to tackle the ageing issue and at the same time to request their assistance in
helping us to plan and develop strategies for dealing with it. Our
achievements so far have been modest and have not really made the required
impact, because we are constrained financially and technically, However, at
the same time, our social and economic structures are changing rapidly, and
their impact on vulnerable groups of society, such as the elderly, is
generally negative.
The sheer size of the population of the aged in Malawi means that we
cannot cope with the problem on our own.
For example,
in 1990 it was
estimated that there were 341,409 people aged 60 years and over in ¥~lawi out
of a total population of 8,288,900. The aged represent 4.11 per cent of the
total population. This varies from 1.7 per cent to 5.9 per cent in certain
districts within the country. Our current dependency ratio is 1:01, because
we have a generally young population.
i~ese people have special needs that
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAI~7/PV.~O
93
(Mrs. GQndwe« Malawi)
must be addressed. These. figures vill increase in the future, and the
relative proportion of the elderly vill be much higher,
thus imposing an even
bigger burden on an already constrained economy and society.
In this vein, we vill be needing help in various ways,
includinq
technical assistance, finance mu! manpower development. My Government
applauds the United Natiollls for taking the lead in this field, and would lite
to support the continuation of the programme on ~~eing and its strengthening
and ezpansion, all the more so a. the goals of the Plan of Action have not all
been achieved. The existence of the onqoing programme is also one way to
ensure that attention to the problem is not overtaken by other priority needs.
I would like to conclude by thantinq you, Sir, for your attention and for
giving priority to the problem of ageing. My Government vholly supports the
United Nations efforts in uplifting the live. of the aged around the world.
AGENDA ITEM 8 (~tiDUI4)
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ORGAHlZATIOIl OF MORI THIRD REPORT OF THE GBHERAL
COMMITTEE (Al47/250/Add.2)
The PRgSID¥e~ (interpret&tlon from FrGnch)a
1 should like to drav
the attention of representatives to the third report 9f the General Committee
(Al47/250/Add.2), which concern. the request made by the Philippines for the
inclusion in the agenda of the current .e••ion of an additional item, entitled
"Emergency assistance to the Philippine....
The General Committee decided to recommend to the General Assembly that
the item should be include-J in the agenda.
May I take it that thR General Assembly decides to include in its Agenda
the additional item, entitled "Emerqency assistance to the Philippines"?
It was so decided.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.40
94
Th& PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): The General Committee
also decided to recommend to the Assembly that this item should be considered
directly in plenary meeting.
May I
take it that the General Assembly adopts this recommendation?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT (iAterpretation from French): May I also take it that
the item should be considered with priority because of its urgent ~haracter?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):
In this connection,
I
should like to inform representatives that this item will be considered next
week at a date to be announced.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library