UNITED 
NATIONS 
A 
General Assembly 
.^H  LIBRARY 
PROVISIONAL 
r':'; I  H -  ill-
A/47/PV.11 
1 October 1992 
U N / SA  COLLECTION
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh session 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 11th MEETING 
Held at Headquarters, New York, 
on Thursday, 24 September 1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
later: 
later: 
Mr. GANEV 
Mr. MOUMIN 
(Vice-President) 
Mr. GANEV 
(President) 
Mr. MOUMIN 
(Vice President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Comoros) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Comoros) 
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the 
United Nations [111] (continued) 
I . .. 
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English 
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages.  The final text will 
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembly. 
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only.  They should 
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within 
one week, to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61231  1352-53V (E) 
A/47/PV.11 
Ka-z) 
Address by Mr. Milan Kucan, President of the presidency of the 
Republic of Slovenia 
General debate [9] (continued) 
Address by Mr. Jules Rattankoemar Ajodhia, Vice-President of 
the Republic of Suriname 
Statements made by 
Sheikh Salem Sabah Al-Salem Al-Sabah (Kuwait) 
Mr. Claes (Belgium) 
Address by Mr. James Brendan Bolger, Prime Minister of New 
Zealand 
Statements made by 
Mr. Papaconstantinou (Greece) 
Mr. Taveras Guzman (Dominican Republic) 
Mr. Lumbi Okongo (Zaire) 
Mr. Kijiner (Marshall Islands) 
Mr. Gassymov  (Azerbaijan) 
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and other 
appointments [17] 
(a)  Appointment of members of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions:  report of the 
Fifth Committee  (Part I) 
A/47/PV.11 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.45  p.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  111  (continued) 
SCALE OF ASSESSMENTS  FOR THE APPORTIONMENT  OF THE EXPENSES OF THE  UNITED 
NATIONS  (A/47/442/Add.3) 
The PRESIDENT:  I should  like to draw the Assembly's  attention  to 
document  A/47/442/Add.3, which  contains  a letter  addressed  to me by  the 
Secretary-General  informing me  that  since  the issuance of his  communications 
dated  15, 18 and  22 September  1992 Chad has made  the necessary  payment  to 
reduce  its  arrears below  the amount  specified  in Article  19 of  the  Charter. 
May  I take  it that  the General Assembly  duly  takes note  of  this 
information? 
It was  so  decided. 
ADDRESS  BY MR. MILAN  KUCAN,  PRESIDENT OF THE  PRESIDENCY  OF THE  REPUBLIC  OF 
SLOVENIA 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will now hear  an address  by  the 
President  of  the presidency  of  the Republic  of  Slovenia. 
Mr. Milan Kucan. President  of  the Presidency  of  the Republic  of  Slovenia-
was escorted  into  the General Assembly  Hall. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General Assembly  I have  the honour 
to welcome  to the United Nations  the President  of  the presidency  of  the 
Republic  of  Slovenia, His Excellency Mr. Milan Kucan, and  to  invite him  to 
address  the  Assembly. 
President  KUCAN  (spoke  in Slovenian;  English text  furnished by  the 
delegation):  Allow me  to congratulate you. Sir, and  the  friendly  nation  of 
Bulgaria on your  election  as President  of  the General  Assembly  at  its 
forty-seventh  session.  We  are convinced  that under your  leadership  the 
General  Assembly  will  be  successful.  I should  also  like to  take  this 
A/47/PV.11 
3, 
(President Kucan) 
opportunity to express my appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Samir Shihabi, 
Ambassador of Saudi Arabia, for the creative and constructive manner in which 
he guided the forty-sixth session. 
A number of newly independent European States, including Slovenia, have 
become new Members of the United Nations and are taking part in this session 
of the General Assembly.  This reality, until recently almost beyond 
imagination in the context of the traditional view of international relations, 
came about through the process of democratization, which dramatically brought 
to a close the period of absolute ideologies that formed the basis of various 
forms of authoritarianism and totalitarianism. 
The far-reaching changes brought about by the end of the cold war have 
confronted the international community and the United Nations with new 
problems.  The futility of attempts to solve the Yugoslav crisis and to stop 
the war against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in all its 
tragic dimensions is taking place in our immediate neighbourhood, is another 
indication of the insufficiency of current institutional arrangements in the 
world.  This applies both to the United Nations and to regional organizations 
that complement the universality of the United Nations. 
Our international institutional arrangements were made in the 
circumstances of a world divided into political and military blocs.  The 
primary function of those arrangements was to palliate the effects of 
ideological, political and military confrontation by maintaining a balance of 
power and a balance of fear and through understandings reached between the 
great Powers.  In the context of such a world order, there was insufficient 
commitment to enhancing cooperation and integration, to facilitating the 
necessary evolution of the modem world as required by the nature of 
A/47VPV.11 
4-5 
(President Kucan) 
technology, to the organization of production, to free markets, to the 
responsibility for coordinated and accelerated economic development, to 
overcoming poverty, to the protection of the human environment and to the 
universalization of communications and information. 
A/47 /PV. 11 
?, 
(President Kucan) 
opportunity to express my appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Samir Shihabi, 
Ambassador of Saudi Arabia, for the creative and constructive manner in which 
he guided the forty-sixth session. 
A number of newly independent European States, including Slovenia, have 
become new Members of the United Nations and are taking part in this session 
of the General Assembly.  This reality, until recently almost beyond 
imagination in the context of the traditional view of international relations, 
came about through the process of democratization, which dramatically brought 
to a close the period of absolute ideologies that formed the basis of various 
forms of authoritarianism and totalitarianism. 
The far-reaching changes brought about by the end of the cold war have 
confronted the international community and the United Nations with new 
problems.  The futility of attempts to solve the Yugoslav crisis and to stop 
the war against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in all its 
tragic dimensions is taking place in our immediate neighbourhood, is another 
indication of the insufficiency of current institutional arrangements in the 
world.  This applies both to the United Nations and to regional organizations 
that complement the universality of the United Nations. 
Our international institutional arrangements were made in the 
circumstances of a world divided into political and military blocs.  The 
primary function of those arrangements was to palliate the effects of 
ideological, political and military confrontation by maintaining a balance of 
power and a balance of fear and through understandings reached between the 
great Powers.  In the context of such a world order, there was insufficient 
commitment to enhancing cooperation and integration, to facilitating the 
necessary evolution of the modem world as required by the nature of 
A/4*7/PV.'ll 
4-5 
(President  Kucan) 
technology,  to the organization  of production,  to  free markets,  to  the 
responsibility  for  coordinated  and  accelerated  economic  development,  to 
overcoming poverty,  to the protection  of  the human environment  and  to  the 
universalization  of  communications  and  information. 
A/47/PV.11 
6 
(President  Kucan) 
The process  of  the  Conference  on  Security  and Cooperation  in  Europe 
(CSCE),  which  on  the  international  scene  in Europe  complements  the  United 
Nations  system  on  a regional  level  and whose  documents  helped  the wave  of 
democratic  changes  in Europe was, to  a large  extent,  created with  the 
objective  of  accelerating  cooperation  and  integration.  The  CSCE was 
constructed  and developed  on  the basic  principles  enshrined  in the  United 
Nations  Charter  and which  constitute  a vital  precondition  for  the  security, 
peace, welfare  and progress  of  all.  All CSCE participating  States  were 
therefore  expected  to agree  voluntarily  to those principles  in  their  own 
interest.  However,  the CSCE was  left without  suitable  means  to  respond  to 
situations  in which  a State violated  and did not  respect  those principles  and 
norms. 
The war  in the Republic  of Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and  all  the  horrors 
which,  thanks  to the media,  are  known  to the whole world,  as well  as  the 
Balkan  crisis,  in which we were  also  involved,  are an  important  experience  for 
the CSCE,  for  the United  Nations  and  for the world  at  large. 
It  teaches  us that  it  is relatively  simple  to plead  for peace.  It  is 
much more  difficult  to guarantee  security  and  to create  the  stable  conditions 
that would  allow urgent  and peaceful  changes  in accordance  with  the  principles 
upholding  peace,  security  and prosperity.  This  is the most  important  function 
of  the United  Nations  and of  all  regional  organizations  and  is the basis  of 
our  support  for  the proposal  that  the United  Nations  should  rapidly  create 
mechanisms  for adjusting  to emerging  changes  in the  world. 
In his  report  "An Agenda  for  Peace", the Secretary-General  has made  an 
exceptionally  cogent  contribution  to efforts  to ensure  the  gradual 
establishment  of  security machinery  that will  enable  the peaceful  settlement 
of  all  disputes, primarily  through  an  insight  into  the  circumstances  and  the 
A/477 PV.il 
7 
(President  Kucan) 
timely mobilization  of  international  institutions, to prevent  or  quickly  cut 
short  armed  conflicts  between States Members  of  the United  Nations  and  between 
sovereign  States.  It is  in the  interest  of the  international  community  that  a 
war,  if  it occurs, does not  spread  to new  regions  and  countries.  The  report 
contains many  useful  ideas  about  the building  of peace  after  the  conflict  has 
been brought  to  an end  and  about when  it becomes  possible  and necessary  to 
create  conditions  for  long-term  security  and  stability  in relations  between 
the participants  in the  conflict. 
The United  Nations may establish machinery which will  enable  it  to 
intervene  speedily  to help  the democratization  of  international  and  internal 
relations  and  implementation  of  self-determination  and  thus prevent  lapsing 
into the kind  of violence  that  is now tragically  escalating  in the Balkans. 
The United  Nations has  in the past been  a forum  for  achieving  the 
self-determination  of many  peoples.  As  such  it was  supported by  Slovenia 
which, through  its active  role  in the Allied  anti-fascist  coalition  as part  of 
former Yugoslavia,  was  among the  Founding Members  of  the Organization.  It is 
therefore  understandable  that we  expect  the United  Nations  to  continue  in  this 
role the  future. 
The world  Organization has ever more Members.  This  is not  the  result  or 
expression  of  some  incomprehensible  process  of  fragmentation:  it  is an 
expression  of  democratization  of  relations within  those  non-traditional  States 
which were built  not  on the principle  of national  equality  and  the  real  common 
interest  of  their nations  but  on  ideologies, on fear of bloc  threats.  In 
these multi-national  States  the  levers of  integration were not  economic 
success  and  respect  for  the welfare  and dignity  of man, but  rather 
A/47/PV.11 
8 
(President  Kucan) 
monopolistic  ideologies  and  a unitary party  and  army.  In these  States  the 
interests  and dignity  of people  and nations were mainly  subordinated  to  the 
interests  of  the  State  and party  or  its  apparatus. 
States  such as Yugoslavia which,  from  a historical  point  of view,  were 
artificial  creations  should have  constantly  re-examined  and demonstrated  their 
raison  d'etre  in the  light  of  changing  historical  circumstances.  Their 
disintegration  is not  a priori  in contradiction with  the  logic  and  needs  of 
integration.  It  is part  of  the  same process.  Individual  nations  enter  the 
process  of  integration  at different  points.  With  the  formation  of  their  own 
States,  they  create  the conditions  necessary  in order  to enter  the process of 
their  own  free will. 
We  cannot  exclude  the possibility  that  new  links  and  cooperation  among 
States will  emerge.  It  is essential  that  such  links must  first  conform  to the 
principles  of  international  law, democracy,  and  respect  for  universally 
recognized  standards  for the protection  of human  rights  and  the  rights  of 
minorities  and nations. 
The  trend  of  the pre-modern world was  towards  the  concentration  of  power 
through  the  conquest  of  territory  and war.  The  trend  of  the modern world  is 
increasingly  economic  through  cooperation  and  association,  through  improvement 
of  the quality  of  life  and  respect  for natural  limitations 
trends  which 
were  at  least  partly  defined  at the  recent world  ecological  summit.  Slovenia 
is  situated  in an  area where  the pre-modern  and modern worlds meet  in both 
perception  and  in practice.  It is  in the  interest  of  the United  Nations  and 
of  all nations  of  the modern world,  so that  the modern world will  border  only 
on  the modern  world. 
A/47/PV.11 
• 9-10 
(President  Kucan) 
Allow me  to  suggest  that  after  the  fall of  the Berlin Wall  and  the 
democratization  of  Eastern Europe,  the democratic world  did  not  respond  with 
as much  commitment  as  it did,  justifiably,  in the  introduction  of  the  values 
of democracy  and  the market  economy.  The world was  insufficiently  prepared 
for  this  epochal  event.  It is only  now  seeking  and  implementing  models  and 
mechanisms  for  overcoming  and preventing  the deterioration  of  relations 
between  some of  the new States.  The London Conference, which  tried  to  pave 
the way  towards  a political  solution of  the Balkan  crisis, was  a  successful 
expression  of  this  common  search. 
The  denial  to  the  so-called  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia 
Serbia  and 
Montenegro  - of participation  in the General  Assembly  of  the United Nations, a 
move  that was  supported by  Slovenia,  is convincing proof  that  the United 
Nations  is  capable  of  showing  the necessary  decisiveness  in order  to  condemn 
the States  that  flagrantly violate  the United  Nations  Charter  and,  above all, 
peace,  security  and human  rights. 
After  the  final defeat  and withdrawal  of  the Yugoslav  army  from  Slovenia 
a year  ago, armed  conflicts  flared  up ever  further  from  Slovenia.  In the 
process  of  seeking  a solution,  Slovenia has worked  as a constructive  and 
objective  participant  in the Peace  Conference  on Yugoslavia,  unselfishly 
presided  over by  Lord  Carrington,  and now  the London Conference,  to which  it 
is currently  committed.  Our most  immediate  and most  direct  interest  is  in the 
solution of humanitarian  problems  and,  in particular,  the  situation  of  the 
more  than  70,000  refugees  in our  country.  Our  other basic  interest  relates  to 
the  settlement  of  all  issues  of State  succession  of  the  former  Socialist 
Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia.  It goes without  saying  that  our  ultimate 
objective  is the establishment  of  a durable peace  in the Balkans. 
A/47/PV.11 
11 
(President Kucan) 
Slovenia is not in dispute with any of the nations of the former 
Yugoslavia.  In accordance with the decisions of the London Conference, we 
support measures against the policies of Serbia and Montenegro and we oppose 
their attempt to usurp the succession of the Socialist Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia.  It is not hard to see that it was the recent policies of these 
two republics, which today go by the name of the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia, that caused the disintegration of Yugoslavia, by enforced 
domination over the others, by  a reinforcement of a centralist and 
undemocratic political system, and by force and seizure; later by war, 
territorial conquest, "ethnic cleansing", concentration camps and other crimes 
which must be the subject of judicial investigation and trial; and finally by 
contempt for all the civilized values that form the basis of the Charter of 
the United Nations and key documents of the Conference on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). 
The Helsinki Final Act is undoubtedly one of those invaluable codes of 
behaviour  a guide to the development of human rights, respect for borders 
and their openness and the protection of minorities  which, through general 
respect, regulate the process of the democratization of relations between 
nations and States in a peaceful framework. 
The authorities of the former Yugoslavia did not really accept the 
Helsinki principles.  They did not believe that signing the document bound 
them to respect them.  The tragedy in the Balkans would not have occurred had 
the Helsinki principles been respected and implemented in the former 
Yugoslavia.  It could have been avoided.  Even once it had started, it could 
have been resolved peacefully precisely by respecting the Helsinki 
principles  with the understanding that this might affect the political map 
of Europe.  Such understanding would have prevented the damage, as well as the 
A/47/PV.11 
12 
(President  Kucan) 
simplifications  and  justifications  that  frequently  attribute  the  crisis  in the 
Balkans,  and  similar  situations  elsewhere, to irrational  nationalist  passion, 
nationalist  animosities,  tribalism  and  the  like. 
Slovenia  chose  independence with  its  implementation  of  the  right  to 
self-determination.  Slovenia proposed  the peaceful  dissolution  of  Yugoslavia 
in the manner  advocated  by Russia at the time of the dissolution  of  the  Soviet 
Union, when  Russia  supported  the  independence  of  all  the  republics  of  the 
former  Soviet  Union. 
Slovenia  does not  oppose modern movements  towards  integration.  It 
supports  them provided  they are based,  like  the European Community,  on  respect 
for  the  interests  of  all  those  involved,  and  on equal  cooperation  and 
agreement.  Slovenia wishes  to  join the European Community  and  is prepared 
voluntarily  to  surrender  such parts of  its  sovereignty  as all members  of  the 
European Community  must  surrender.  Slovenia does not wish  this  only  because 
of  its need  for economic  integration, but  also because  of  its  historical 
affiliation with  that  culture, which was  interrupted  by  catastrophic 
ideological, political  and economic  divisions  after  the Second World  War. 
Ensuring  durable  international  peace  and  security  requires  the  fulfilment 
of certain  conditions,  among which  respect  for human  rights  is of  critical 
significance.  Those  States  that  do not  respect human dignity  and human  rights 
at home will  not  respect  the dignity  and  sovereignty  of other  nations  and 
other  States.  It  is evident  that  threats  to  international  peace very  often 
start with violations  of human  rights within  the boundaries  of  countries  which 
later disturb  the peace. 
The Republic  of  Slovenia  attaches  great  importance  to  concern  for  the 
implementation  of human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  As  a new,  sovereign 
State,  it  is  strongly  committed  to the view  that  in our  times  State 
A/47/PV.11 
. ,13* 
(President  Kucan) 
sovereignty  is primarily  defined  by criteria of  the  legitimacy  of  State 
authority  and  respect  for human  rights.  This  is due  above  all  to  the 
practical  importance  of human  rights  as  a guarantee  of  social  stability  and 
peace  and  thus  as an important  constituent  of  international  peace  and  security. 
At  a time when  the  setting of  international  standards  in  the  field  of 
human  rights  is being  completed,  concern  for  the effectiveness  of  their 
implementation  and of  international  supervision  is of high  priority. 
Experience  has  shown  that  assuring  respect  for human  rights,  including 
especially  the  rights of persons  belonging  to national, ethnic,  religious  and 
linguistic minorities,  is of  critical  importance  for  extinguishing  crises  and 
establishing  peace.  Efforts  at post-conflict  peace-building  will  be 
precarious  and  incomplete  if  that  condition  for  stabilization  is not  fulfilled 
and  supervised.  The  Secretary-General  also  fully  stresses  this  in his 
important  report  "An Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277). 
There  is one  further  question which highlights  the need  to  review  the 
suitability  of  institutional  arrangements.  This  is the problem  of  refugees, 
as demonstrated  in the war  against  Bosnia  and Herzegovina.  It  is clear  that 
an  arrangement  meeting  the need  to protect  the personal  status  and  integrity 
of  an  individual  forced  to abandon his  country  through  fear  of political  and 
physical  violence  is  inadequate  for  a mass  exodus  of  entire  nations  fleeing 
threatened  genocide  as a result  of  a war  of  conquest  and  the  "ethnic 
cleansing"  of  territory  conquered  by  an  aggressor. 
A million Muslim  refugees  from  the Republic  of Bosnia  and Herzegovina  are 
without  adequate  protection  and without  an  internationally  guaranteed  status. 
They  are  ever more widely  scattered  throughout  Europe.  There  are  close  to 
100,000  in my  own country, which  is, with great  difficulty,  providing  them 
with  food  and  shelter.  The  Bosnian Muslims  are becoming  a nation without  a 
A/47/PV. 11 
14 
(President  Kucan) 
land, without  a State, with  all  the  attendant  tragic  consequences,  including 
repercussions  for  the protection  of Europe  against  terrorism.  It  is of  such 
hopelessness  that  terrorism  is born.  It  is tragic  that  in this war  against  a 
State Member  of  the United  Nations, composed  of three  nations, Croats,  Muslims 
and Serbs, the Muslims  should  remain almost  unprotected.  That  is why  they 
seek  refuge  throughout  Europe. 
At  a number  of  international  conferences we have proposed  that  United 
Nations  peace-keeping  forces  create  a safe haven  in Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
itself, where  the  relative  safety of  refugees would be  assured,  since,  after 
the war, when decisions  are made  on the  fate of  that State, the Muslims  must 
be present  and  active, physically  and politically.  The division of  the  State 
would  otherwise  become  a reality.  It would  also be  a reality  that  aggression 
had been  rewarded by the  allocation  of conquered  territory  and  that  the world 
had  recognized  the policy  of  fait  accompli  and  shut  its eyes to violations  of 
the principles  of humanitarian  rights, and to the perpetration  of genocide. 
Of equal  importance  is an effective mechanism  for prompt  action  in the 
resolution  of humanitarian  problems  created by  armed  conflict.  It is 
particularly  important  that  the humanitarian  assistance  - in which  the  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees, Mrs. Sadako  Ogata, the United  Nations  Children's 
Fund  (UNICEF) and  its Executive Director, Mr. James Grant,  and 
Under-Secretary-General  Jan Eliasson have  invested  so much effort  - be 
provided  in a timely manner.  The  importance  of humanitarian measures, even  if 
they  require  overcoming  resistance  and military protection,  has  been 
demonstrated  recently  in some of  the  armed  conflicts  of  the past  year, 
including  the  conflicts  in the Gulf  and  in the Balkans.  Inability  to 
guarantee  humanitarian  assistance  is inexcusable  and  compromises  the 
international  community  and,  unfortunately,  the United  Nations. 
AV47/P*V.ll 
15 
(President  Kucan) 
In a period  of eased  international  relations  and  a search  for  new 
orientations  for development,  there  is an  important  way  in which  the  potential 
role of  the United Nations has been extended:  in preventive  diplomacy  and  the 
creation of measures which  are  a real  contribution  to defusing  conflicts, 
dealing with  their  underlying  causes  and overcoming  their  consequences. 
Preventive  diplomacy  is a task  for the  future;  it will  require  supplementing 
and  reinforcing  the work  of  the United  Nations.  It presupposes  a knowledge of 
history  and  respect  for  the principles  of  the equality  and  self-determination 
of  all peoples,  and  for other principles  contained  in the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  In their own  interests  and  in the common  interest,  the 
Members  of  the United  Nations will have  to  fulfill  those principles.  Only 
thus will  the  authority  of  the United Nations be  enhanced  and protected,  and 
t 
the hope which people,  including  the people of  Slovenia, have  invested  in it 
be  justified. 
The United  Nations has  alleviated,  as  far as it could,  the  negative 
effects  of bloc  rivalries  and  the bipolar  division of  the world.  Now,  the 
world  needs  a United  Nations which  is capable of guiding,  harmonizing  and 
assisting  change.  This  can be  achieved  only  if  the Organization  can 
revitalize,  restructure  and democratize  its own  system.  We  are  firmly 
convinced  that  the United Nations, as a universal  forum  of  multilateralism, 
will  successfully  take  this unique opportunity  to  lay  the  foundations  for  a 
new and more  just world,  in building which  the entire  international  community 
shares  a common  interest. 
A/47/PV-.11 
16 
(President Kucan) 
I have devoted a great deal of attention to the crisis in the Balkans.  I 
should like, however, to stress that the Republic of Slovenia is also well 
aware of other problems that beset the world, and that it has a constructive 
approach to the important aspects of an international world order that will 
not be burdened by war, poverty, illiteracy, intolerance, and injustice; of an 
order in which the Declaration of the World Summit on Children and the 
achievements of the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro will be implemented in 
full; and of an order in which human rights will everywhere be the standard of 
behaviour respected by States.  Constructive and successful dialogue among 
developed and developing countries - as well as peace, international security, 
and disarmament - are among our priority tasks.  I wish the the United Nations 
every success - success the world badly needs. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank 
the President of the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia for the statement 
he has just made. 
Mr. Milan Kucan. President of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia-
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued) 
GENERAL DEBATE 
ADDRESS BY MR. JULES RATTANKOEMAR AJODHIA, VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC 
OF SURINAME 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will now hear a statement by the 
Vice-President of the Republic of Suriname. 
Mr. Jules Rattankoemar Aiodhia. Vice-President of the Republic of 
Suriname. was escorted to the rostrum. 
A/47/PV.11 
17 
The PRESIDENT:  I have great  pleasure  in welcoming  the 
Vice-President  of  the Republic  of  Suriname, His  Excellency 
Mr. Jules Rattankoemar  Ajodhia,  and  inviting  him  to address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr. AJODHIA  (Suriname):  The  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Suriname 
congratulates  you most warmly. Sir, upon your  election  to  the presidency  of 
the  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly.  You bring  to  that  high 
post  a wealth  of experience  and dedication,  qualities  that  augur well  for a 
successful  accomplishment  of  the task before us. 
Allow  us to  thank your predecessor. His Excellency Mr. Samir  Shihabi, for 
the excellent  manner  in which he guided  the  forty-sixth  session of  the  General 
Assembly.  We wish him well  in his  future  endeavours. 
We  should  like  to welcome  and  congratulate  the Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations  on his  assumption  of  that  lofty  and  equally  responsible 
office.  He has  assumed  the  leadership of  the Organization  at  a very  difficult 
and  crucial  time marked  by many political  changes, a time  at which  greater 
involvement  of  the Organization  in international  affairs  is demanded.  We wish 
the  Secretary-General  well  and  assure him  of  our  fullest  cooperation. 
I take  this opportunity  to welcome  into  the United  Nations  the  newly 
independent  States of Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Kazakhstan,  Moldova, 
Tajikistan,  Turkmenistan,  Uzbekistan,  and Georgia.  I should  also  like  to 
welcome  San Marino, Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  Croatia,  and  Slovenia. 
As  reported  to  the General  Assembly  on previous  occasions,  for many  years 
Suriname  experienced  a domestic  armed  struggle  that brought  sorrow  and 
mourning  to our people  and  restricted  our possibilities  for  development.  We 
now wish  to  inform  the Assembly  that,  through patient  negotiations,  our 
A/47/PV.11 
18-20 
(Mr. Aiodhia.  Suriname) 
efforts  have  resulted  in a recently  signed  agreement  for  national 
reconciliation  and  development. 
From  the very beginning, my  Government has  attached  the highest  priority 
to achieving  reconciliation  in the country,  for my Government  wishes  to 
realize  the  full potential  of  the  Surinamese  people  in harmony  with  their 
aspirations  for  lasting  democratic  stability.  Negotiations  were  started  as 
part  of  our  conviction  that peace  should gradually  be  forged, based  on  a 
political  understanding  of  the various  forces  involved.  Moreover, peace  can 
only be  reached  if negotiations  are promoted  and  conducted  in order  to yield 
lasting  results  for  the benefit  of our people. 
We  called  in the assistance  of the Organization  of American  States, 
which, under  the  auspices  of  its  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Joao Clemente  Baena  Soares, provided  support  in the process  of  concluding 
the agreement  and  in demobilization.  Together with his worthy  representative, 
we have  succeeded.  Concrete  results have been  achieved,  followed by  the 
signing of  a substantial  agreement  based  on the  crucial  need  for 
reconstruction  and development  and which guarantees  respect  for human  rights. 
Today, we  rejoice  that  reconciliation  in Suriname  is concrete  and 
feasible.  It has  strengthened  our  determination  to achieve national  harmony 
and national  development.  We  are confident  that  the Organization  of  American 
States will  render  its valuable  support  in verifying  compliance  with  the 
agreement,  so as to ensure  that  the established  peace-agreement  will  be 
observed. 
A/47/PV.11 
21 
(Mr. Aiodhia.  Suriname) 
As  this body has been  informed,  in 1991 democracy was  restored  in my 
country,  true  to the will of  the people.  Yet, we must  not  lose  sight  of  the 
fact  that  newly  restored  democracies  such as ours  are  fragile,  and  depend  to a 
considerable  extent  on  international  understanding  and  support. 
My  Government  has  since  then made progress  in establishing  a degree  of 
much-needed  political  stability,  and  can now  concentrate  on  finding  solutions 
to the  current grave economic  crisis, and  the potential  social  crisis, 
confronting my  country.  Our  socio-economic  problems, which have  resulted  in a 
sharp decline  in production,  increased  unemployment,  sharp price  increases  and 
a deteriorating  standard  of  living  for the majority  of  the population,  have 
now compelled  us  to take  serious  corrective measures  to halt  the  economic 
decline  and boost  economic  growth.  Experiences  throughout  the world  show that 
no government  can successfully  carry out  a programme  for  economic 
reconstruction  and development  without  the  fullest  national  and  international 
support. 
My  Government  has decided  to  implement  a programme  for  adjustment, 
recovery  and growth.  In this  context, we have  secured  valuable  support  from 
the European  Community.  Furthermore, we  can  report  to this Assembly  that 
development  cooperation with  the Netherlands  has been  re-established,  and  that 
the  signing  of  the  framework  treaty  for  friendship  and  closer  cooperation  has 
added  a new dimension  to bilateral  relations  between  the Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands  and  the Republic  of Suriname.  Thus, we  are encouraged  because  our 
national  development  strategy has  found  a ready  response  from  the 
international  community  in this  crucial  aspect  of  our democratic  process. 
A/47/PV.11 
22 
(Mr. Aiodhia.  Suriname) 
I  can  assure  this Assembly,  and with  some emphasis,  that  in  implementing 
the  adjustment  programme  our view  is that  a well-balanced  and  consistent 
approach  to the  social  dimensions  of  the programme  is  indispensable  to  its 
final  outcome. 
In  the past  few years, forces of  change have  transformed  the 
international  political  arena  and profoundly  changed  the major  balance  of 
power  that  emerged  from  the Second World War.  Antagonisms  and  hostility 
between  the  super-Powers  have been  replaced by unprecedented  joint  efforts  and 
partnership.  This  has  facilitated,  through dialogue  and by peaceful means, 
the  solution  of  a number  of  regional  conflicts  and  the  settlement  of others. 
We believe  that  the  new political  climate has had constructive  effects  in the 
world,  and has enabled  us  to define  a broader  and more  fully  integrated  role 
in international  security. 
The  international  community  is experiencing  a rebirth of  the United 
Nations  after  45 years  of  existence,  for  the  fullest use  is being made  of  its 
peacemaking  and peace-keeping  potential  in order  to bring  about  just  and 
lasting peace  in  several  parts of  the world.  As  a result  of  the new  mandate 
of this  reinvigorated  Organization,  our hopes  are being  justified  that  it will 
not be  long before  the unfolding dramas  of human  suffering,  exploitation, 
poverty,  fratricide, hunger  and malnutrition,  and  aggressive  nationalism  will 
finally be  banished  from  the  planet. 
Our  Organization  is  facing  the challenge  and  responsibility  of  bringing 
about  an overall  and  lasting  settlement  of various problems  on the basis  of 
respect  for  the  rights of  all.  It must  encourage  States  to adhere  to  the 
Charter,  the Universal  Declaration  of Human Rights  and other  relevant 
instruments  as the best means  of protecting  and promoting human  rights. 
A/47/PV.11 
23 
(Mr. Ajodhia.  Suriname) 
We  support  a just  and  lasting  settlement  in Central  and Eastern  Europe: 
we  are  concerned  about  the growing  tensions  and  conflicts  in that  region, 
which  endanger  international  peace  and  security.  We  are  keeping  close  track 
of  developments  in former Yugoslavia,  and  take^ this opportunity  to welcome  the 
efforts  of  our  Organization,  the London Conference  and  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  summit. 
A  just  and  lasting  settlement  is necessary  on  the African  continent,  we 
are deeply  concerned  by  the threat  from  the growing  instability  in  the Horn of 
Africa  caused by  the conflict  in Somalia.  We  express  regret  that,  despite  the 
signing  of  a cease-fire  agreement,  the parties  involved  have  not  abided  by 
their  commitments  and have  thus not permitted  the unimpeded  distribution  of 
humanitarian  assistance  to those  in need.  In this  respect, my  delegation  has 
i 
endorsed  the proposal  to convene  a conference  on the national  reconciliation, 
reconstruction  and unity of  Somalia which  should  lead  to  a peaceful  and 
lasting  political  settlement  of  the  conflict. 
My  delegation  strongly  condemns  the  tragic  escalation  of violence  in 
South  Africa, which has halted  the negotiating  process within  the  framework  of 
the Convention  for  a Democratic  South Africa  (CODESA).  We  strongly  urge  the 
South African  regime  to create  a climate  that  is conducive  to  peaceful 
negotiations  aimed  at  an agreement  on the  text  of  a new constitution  based  on 
a non-racial, democratic  and  united  South  Africa. 
An  overall  and  lasting  settlement  is needed  for  the Arab-Israeli  conflict 
and  the Palestine  issue.  My Government  firmly  supports  the ongoing  peace 
process, which  is aimed  at  reaching  a just,  comprehensive  and  durable  solution 
to  the question  of  the Middle  East. 
A/47/PV.11 
24-25 
(Mr. Ajodhia.  Suriname) 
We welcome  the progress made  in reaching overall  settlements  of  the 
conflicts  in Asia, particularly  in Cambodia  and Afghanistan.  The 
establishment  of  the  transitional  Government  in Afghanistan  is a positive 
development  towards  peace, national  reconciliation  and  reconstruction  in  that 
country. 
We  support  the efforts  of  the Secretary-General  to  reach  an  agreement  on 
a  set of  fundamental  principles with  a view to  reaching  an overall  agreement 
on the question  of Cyprus.  With  regard  to Latin America  and  the Caribbean,  we 
are pleased  to note  that  the processes  of democratization,  harmonization, 
reconciliation  and  economic  integration  are gradually  bearing  fruit. 
The  agreements  between  the Government  of El  Salvador  and  the  Farabundo 
Marti  National  Liberation  Front mark  the closing of  a decade  of  fratricidal 
war.  They will  undoubtedly  contribute  to lasting peace  and  stability,  which 
are  imperative  for  the  region's  development. 
We  express  full  support  for  the struggle  of  the people of Haiti  to 
restore  democracy  and  respect  for human  rights  in their  country,  and  for  the 
efforts  of  the  Organization  of American  States  towards  this  end. 
A/47/PV.11 
26 
(Mr. Aiodhia.  Suriname) 
As we  advance  in the decade of  the  '90s, the economic  and  social  problems 
of  developing  countries  continue  to be manifold.  Difficult  decisions  will 
therefore  be needed  to address  the  issue of  international  economic  adjustment 
and development  in order  to eliminate  the  imbalances  between  the North  and the 
South. 
The worsening  of  the economic  situation  and  social  conditions  in many 
developing  countries  has  led  to a decline  in the  standard  of  living  and  to the 
persistence  and  increase  of widespread  poverty.  The  elimination  of hunger  and 
malnutrition,  the  improvement  of health  standards  and  the  eradication  of 
illiteracy  should be  issues of paramount  concern  in the coming  decades.  My 
delegation  therefore  holds  the view that  these  aims  can best  be  achieved  by 
putting  into motion  a people-centered  development  process. 
It is  in this  context  that my delegation warmly  supports  the  convening of 
a Summit  for  Social Development  in order  to enable  the  international  community 
to deal  extensively with  the  complex  but most  important  question  of  human 
development. 
Though no  substantive  commitment  to new  funds was made  during  the 
recently  held  Rio Conference  on Environment  and Development,  it  should  be 
noted  as an  important  achievement  of the  international  community  that a 
programme  of  action. Agenda  21, and  the Rio Declaration  have been  adopted. 
The  Rio  Conference  has  clearly established  the  close  link between  environment, 
growth  and development,  the primary  issues  for  the  international  community. 
It is as a consequence  of  the  results  of  the Rio  summit  that  during  the 
current  General Assembly  special  attention must be paid  to  institutional 
follow-up  of  the Rio Conference.  In this  regard, we  attach great  importance 
to the establishment  of  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  This 
A/47/PV.11 
27 
(Mr. Aiodhia.  Suriname) 
Commission  must  of necessity  become  the primary  and most  important  forum  for 
consultation  and must  set  the trend  for measures  to  implement  Agenda  21 at 
national,  regional  and global  levels. 
Once  again  I should  like to emphasize  that  in the new  international 
environment  the  role and  function of  the United  Nations  has become  universally 
accepted.  We have witnessed  an increased  interest  in multilateralism  and a 
renewal  of  the  relevance  of  the United Nations  and  its main bodies.  The 
peacemaking  and peace-keeping  activities  of this world Organization  in many 
regions have, more  than  at any  time  in the past, opened prospects  for  its 
greatly  enhanced  role  in the maintenance  of world peace  and  security.  These 
activities have proved  to be effective procedures, well-suited  to  present-day 
realities. 
The  opportunities  offered  by  the Charter  in the  fields of  preventive 
diplomacy,  fact-finding  and good-offices  missions  should be  optimally 
explored,  so as  to provide  the Secretary-General  with  a suitable  structure  for 
the prevention  and  timely management  of  crises and conflicts. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General Assembly,  I wish  to  thank 
the Vice-President  of  the Republic  of Suriname  for the  statement  he has  just 
made. 
Mr. Jules  Rattankoemar  Ajodhia. Vice-President  of  the Republic  of 
Suriname. was escorted  from  the  rostrum. 
Sheikh  Salem  Sabah Al-Salem  AL-SABAH  (Kuwait)  (interpretation  from 
Arabic):  On behalf  of  the delegation of the State  of Kuwait,  I wish  to 
congratulate  you,  Sir,  on your election  to the presidency  of  the 
forty-seventh  session of  the United  Nations  General  Assembly.  Your  election. 
Sir, reflects  an appreciation  of your  country,  Bulgaria,  and your  personal 
merits  and  skills, which will  prove  instrumental  in guiding  our  deliberations 
A/47/PV.11 
28 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah  Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
towards  the  attainment  of our  common  goals.  On a bilateral  note,  it  is my 
privilege  to underscore  the close  ties  that exist between our  two  countries, 
as shown  in numerous  concrete  steps. 
In your  current  post, you  succeed  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi, the Permanent  Representative  of  our  sister  country, 
the Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia, who  demonstrated  outstanding  skills  and 
capabilities  in his  stewardship  of  the preceding  session.  His  leadership  was 
effective  indeed  throughout  his  term  of office.  This was  no  surprise  to us, 
especially  as Mr. Shihabi  represented  a sister  country,  the Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia, which has made  and  continues  to make generous  and  sincere 
contributions,  that  are  appreciated  by all, to the promotion  of peace  and 
security  throughout  the world. 
It gives me  special pleasure  to commend  the outstanding  role played  by 
the  Secretary-General  of  the United Nations, His  Excellency 
Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  since his  assumption  of his office  at  the  beginning 
of  this year.  The world  Organization  has now become  the true  focal point of 
international  relations  and  the beacon of hope  for  the peoples  of  the world. 
In less  than one year  in office,  the Secretary-General  has  demonstrated 
an impressive  ability  to  face up  to the evolving  challenges  on the world 
scene,  and has managed  to address  the varying  concerns  in accordance  with  the 
established  principles  of  the Charter  of  the United Nations  and  the  overall 
mission  of  our  organization.  The  Secretary-General's  endeavour  to  redefine 
the  role,  function  and orientation  of the United Nations  is characterized  by 
precise  thinking  and  clear vision,  resolve  and  flexibility,  both  in  concept 
and  in enforcement  plan,  as demonstrated  by  the  set of  important 
recommendations  contained  in his  report  "An Agenda  for  Peace". 
A/47/PV.11 
29-30 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah  Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
In his  approach, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  has proved  that  he  truly 
represents  a symbol  of  the  interface  and  interaction  of various  human 
civilizations, a  role that  his home  country,  Egypt, has played  throughout  its 
long  history. 
In the  same vein, we  should  not  fail  to underscore with  a deep  sense  of 
appreciation  the great  achievements  of  the  former  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Javier  Perez  de Cuellar,  during his  tenure.  Mr. Perez de Cuellar  should 
be recognized  for his  integrity  in fulfilling  his mandate  in accordance  with 
the provisions  of  the Charter  and  for his untiring  efforts  to promote  peace  on 
the basis of  justice  and  to enhance  the  role and effectiveness  of  the United 
Nations.  Kuwait  recognizes with deep appreciation  those  achievements,  salutes 
Mr. Perez  de Cuellar  and wishes  him  success  in all he does. 
The  international  scene has  undergone  fundamental  changes  over  the  past 
two years, the most  significant  of which has been  the disintegration  of  the 
Soviet Union  and  the  spread  of  democratic  orientation  across Eastern  Europe. 
That,  in turn has  led  to  the creation of  States  and entities  that have  joined 
the United Nations membership,  thus  consolidating  further  its  universality. 
Kuwait  takes  this opportunity  to extend  its  sincere  congratulations  to  all 
those States that have been  admitted  recently  to the United  Nations 
membership.  We  trust  that  this  new membership  of  the  international  community 
will  represent  a constructive  addition  to  and  consolidation  of  the edifice  of 
world peace. 
A/47/PV.11 
31 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah  Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
As we draw nearer  to the  twenty-first  century, we  look  forward  to  the 
emergence  of new  roles  for the United  Nations.  The United  Nations  should not 
be  content with peace-keeping,  the ending wars  that  have broken  out,  and the 
defusing  of volatile  situations.  Rather,  the United  Nations must  make  a more 
direct  contribution  to the containment  and defusing  of disputes  in their early 
stages 
before  they erupt  into vicious  conflicts.  It must  also  shoulder  the 
role of  peacemaking. 
The United Nations  should not be  content with  ensuring  stability,  despite 
the vital  importance  of that  role.  It must be  a force  for  ensuring  peoples' 
welfare  and  the  fulfilment  of peoples' aspirations.  In today's  world,  the 
concept  of peace  transcends  the  framework  of peace between  states  and  embraces 
the peace  of whole  societies  and peoples. 
As we work  together  on the formulation  of  the new world  order  and  strive 
to make  it one  of  the principal  stanchions  of  the  stability which we hope will 
reign  in our world  and  imbue  international  relations, we  are  called  upon to 
ensure  the  rule of  international  law through  the  strengthening  of  the United 
Nations  role  and  the  scrupulous  application  of  its Charter.  In our view, this 
will provide  a genuine  framework  for  the new world  order  and  for  the 
achievement  of  its lofty goals. 
Despite  the  fact  that  international  relations  in our world  today  are 
anchored  in the  tenets  of the United Nations  system,  we believe  that  an 
effective  and viable United  Nations  should  be complemented  by  a more 
aggressive  role  for  the  regional  organizations  which would  be  instrumental  in 
addressing many  unresolved  disputes  and  issues.  The  League  of Arab  States and 
the Organization  of African Unity,  for example,  should  be  entrusted  with 
supporting  roles  in dealing with  the problems  of  Somalia;  the  European 
A/47/PV.11 
32 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah  Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
Community  should play  the  leading  role  in the  resolution  of  the  escalating 
problems  in the  Balkan  region;  and  the Organization  of American  States  can 
become  the  leading  player  in dealing with  the problems  of Haiti  and 
El  Salvador. 
In the  context  of  this desired  role for  regional  organizations  the 
Cooperation  Council  for  the Arab  States of  the Gulf  (GCC) stands  out, 
especially  through  its  firm  support  of Kuwait's  struggle  to defeat  the  Iraqi 
aggression.  That  unprecedented  role of  the GCC  could perhaps be  followed  as a 
model  in rallying  a larger  international  effort when  necessary. 
Kuwait believes  that  the Non-Aligned Movement,  especially  in the wake  of 
its recent  summit  in Jakarta,  and the Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference, 
as well  as the Group  of  77, are models  of  regional  organizations  whose 
capabilities  should  be directed  at  facilitating  the evolution  and  maintenance 
of world peace.  In this  sense, they  are natural mini-counterparts  of  the 
United Nations,  and  they  represent major  dynamic  forces  that perform  a 
coordinating  function  among  their members. 
From  this perspective  we believe  that  the efforts  undertaken by  the 
United Nations  in the  liberation  of my  country,  Kuwait,  from  the  Iraqi 
aggression  and  occupation  could perhaps be perceived  as a new approach  in the 
crystallization  and enforcement  of  the concept  of  collective  security,  which 
preoccupied  this world body  since  its  inception,  and was  a hope  in  the minds 
of the authors  of  its Charter.  Thus, the Kuwait  case established  a precedent 
when it demonstrated  that  the  Security  Council's  resolutions  can be 
implemented,  as, indeed,  they must  be  implemented. 
A/47/PV.11 
33 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah  Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
The  Security  Council has  clearly  succeeded  in consolidating  the 
underpinnings  of peace  and  the elimination  of many  hotbeds  of  conflict  in 
several  regions  of  the world,  in the  aftermath  of  its  successful  moves  to 
ensure  the  liberation  of my  country,  Kuwait,  from  an  invasion which,  by  its 
very nature,  represented  a challenge  to the Charter  of  the United  Nations  and 
to  the norms of  international  law that  regulate  relations  between  civilized 
nations. 
However,  certain  residual  results of  the  Iraqi  aggression  still  exist, 
and will  continue  to exist  so long as the  Iraqi  regime persists  in  its  refusal 
to  comply  fully with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  tries to 
circumvent  those  resolutions  and  to  renege  on its previous  formal 
commitments.  For  instance,  there  are  still Kuwaiti  and  third  country 
prisoners held hostage  in Iraqi  jails  despite  the  intensive  efforts  and 
international  pressures  deployed  to secure  their  release. 
Furthermore,  the patently  false  claims  repeatedly made by  Iraq,  in 
contravention  of  international  treaties  and  commitments,  continue  to  shake the 
parameters  of  stability  throughout  the  region.  Iraqi  falsehoods  also 
jeopardize  the main objective  of  the  input of  the United Nations  in providing 
the  technical  framework  for the  Iraq-Kuwait  boundary  demarcation  process. 
This  exercise  is a major  achievement  on the part  of  the United  Nations  in 
regard  to  security  and  stability  in the  region.  The  Security  Council's 
recently  adopted  resolution  773  (1992) welcomed  the decisions  of  the United 
Nations  Iraq-Kuwait  Boundary  Demarcation  Commission  and underlined  the 
Council's  guarantee  of  inviolability  of  the  international  border  between  the 
A/47/PV.11 
34 
(Sheikh Salem Sabah Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah. Kuwait) 
two countries and its decision to take, as appropriate, all necessary measures 
to that end, in accordance with the Charter. 
Furthermore, Iraq continues to refuse to accept legal responsibility for 
its plundering of property owned by the Kuwaiti private sector and by Kuwaiti 
individuals, and continues to refuse to recognize the need to return all 
stolen property.  Iraq also refuses to implement Security Council resolutions 
706 (1991) and 712 (1991) regarding the provision of essential humanitarisn 
needs for the Iraqi civilian population and the payment of its dues to the 
United Nations compensation fund.  In addition, Iraq, under all pretexts, 
shies away from any businesslike cooperation in regard to the fulfilment of 
its obligation to disclose all its stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction 
and in regard to the elimination of such weapons. 
All of this places a new responsibility on the international community in 
general to bring further pressure to bear on Iraq, to remain vigilant to its 
practices and schemes, and to ensure its complete implemention of all the 
relevant United Nations resolutions.  The principle of collective 
responsibility still stands, and the lessons drawn from that painful and 
bitter experience should be fully understood and never forgotten. 
Kuwait believes that security in the Gulf region is part and parcel of 
world security.  This means that it is essential that all of us respect the 
sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all the States in our 
region.  It also means non-interference in the internal affairs of those 
States, as well as the non-use of force or of the threat of force in the 
settlement of any dispute that may arise between them. 
From this premise, we have been following with grave concern the recent 
developments, with all their remifications, in regard to the Abu Mousa island. 
A/47/PV.11 
35 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah  Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
In our view,  these developments will have  a direct  impact  on  regional  peace 
and  stability.  Hence, we  are  all duty-bound  to work  towards  averting  their 
repercussions  so that  the good-neighbourly  relations  that we  already have  with 
the  friendly  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran may be preserved.  While we  declare  our 
full  support  for our  sister  State  of the United Arab  Emirates, we hope  that 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran will  abide by  the  agreement  regarding  the  island 
of Abu Mousa  and will  accept  the  application  of  international  conventions  for 
the peaceful  resolution  of disputes.  We  trust  that,  in the  final  analysis, 
prudence  and wisdom will  reign  supreme  in  regard  to  this  issue. 
As of  late  last year, we have  seen a promising peace process  under way in 
regard  to  the Middle  East problem.  The  new  realities  and momentum  that 
emerged  following  the Madrid  conference  should be maintained,  with  a view to 
securing  the  implementation  of Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967) and 
338  (1973) on the basis of  the exchange  of  land  for peace. 
It has become  clear  that  land and peace  are worth any price.  The 
international  community  has  thus a special  responsibility  to nurture  the 
ongoing  peace  efforts  and  to ensure  that  the  current peace  talks, in all  their 
aspects  and  forms, will bring  to  fruition  the efforts  that  the United  Nations 
has made with  a view  to guaranteeing  the national  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people 
particularly  its  right  to  self-determination  and  statehood  - and the 
complete  withdrawal  of  Israel  from  the West  Bank,  the Gaza  Strip  and  the holy 
city of Al-Quds.  We  call upon  the United Nations  to prompt  Israel  to  abide 
expeditiously  with  its obligations  under  international  law and not  to  squander 
this historic  opportunity. 
A/47/PV.11 
35(a-z) 
(Sheikh Salem Sabah Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah. Kuwait) 
The peace process and the attendant efforts should follow an integrated 
approach in addressing the Arab-Israeli conflict that takes into account the 
United Nations resolutions regarding the question of Palestine and the Middle 
East issue.  In specific terms, this means that Israel must withdraw from 
southern Lebanon in accordance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978), 
and that the Lebanese people must be supported in consolidating their 
national-reconciliation efforts and in rebuilding their national institutions. 
It also means Israeli withdrawal from the Syrian Arab Golan and the 
implementation of the relevant United Nations resolutions in order that a just 
and lasting settlement of this long-running conflict may be reached. 
A/47/PV.11 
36 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
The  ongoing plight  of  the people of Bosnia  and Herzegovina gives  rise to 
deep  fears and  apprehensions  throughout  the  Islamic world  and  in the world at 
large.  We  categorically  reject  all practices  that  aim  at the  liquidation  of 
the  identity  and existence  of  a people, a nation  and  a State  on ethnic  or 
religious grounds.  We  support  the  struggle  of  the people  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  and demand  the  implementation  of  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.  We  call upon  the United Nations, along with  its  specialized 
agencies,  to expand  its  role there, and we hold  that  regional  organizations, 
particularly  the European ones, should play  a more  active  role  in  alleviating 
the  suffering  of  that people.  It is our  collective  responsibility  to  contain 
the  ramifications  of  the situation  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina before  they  spill 
over  into  neighbouring  countries. 
If the United Nations  has been  seized of  this  tragic  issue  since  the very 
beginning,  then we believe  that  there  are other  turbulent  areas  in the world 
that  deserve  active  involvement  on the part  of  the United  Nations  together 
with  the competent  regional  organizations, with  a view  to  containing  and 
resolving  the disputes  afflicting  those  regions.  In our  view,  this  is a sound 
approach  to underlining  and enhancing  the  credibility  of  the United  Nations 
and  to defining  clearly  the parameters  of  the new world  order.  We  are 
duty-bound  to  support both  the United  Nations  and  the  regional  organizations 
in a concrete  fashion  that gives  real meaning  to  the concept  of  common 
security  and  stability  and  the principle  of  common  destiny. 
The  tragedy  of  the Somali people  is cause  for deep  concern  on our  part, 
given  the  common  values we  share with  them.  The  fratricidal  strife  in  Somalia 
is extremely  painful  to us.  Despite  the  slight  improvement  over  the past  few 
weeks  in the delivery  of  food  and medical  supplies  and  in the  control  over  the 
A/47/PV.11 
37 
(Sheikh Salem Sabah Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah. Kuwait) 
distribution thereof, Somalia continues to bleed, and it has now become 
incumbent upon all nations to provide more material assistance to Somalia and 
to strengthen their support for the Secretary-General in his endeavours to 
expedite the attainment of a set of noble goals, namely, the protection of an 
entire people from annihilation and the delivery of adequate supplies of food 
and medical services to that people. 
We in Kuwait, in view of our solidarity with the friendly peoples of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Somalia and in line with our humanitarian 
obligations and our commitment to alleviate human suffering, have shipped 
thousands of tons of food, medical supplies and basic human needs to those two 
countries.  Furthermore, we have made direct financial contributions to the 
relevant specialized agencies in order to ensure their ability to operate in 
those areas.  We shall continue to provide humanitarian relief assistance out 
of our deep belief in social justice. 
We follow with deep concern the persistent instability in Afghanistan and 
the continuing strife among the partners in the coalition Government.  We call 
upon the Muslim people of Afghanistan to put aside their differences and to 
move towards national reconciliation.  National efforts should in fact focus 
on building up national stability and security. 
Any political breakthroughs made by the United Nations will add to its 
growing record of achievements.  But such accomplishments will remain fragile 
unless followed by more efforts to promote social stability and economic 
development, with particular emphasis on health, social services and combating 
ills of epidemic proportions, especially drug abuse. 
A/47/PV.11 
38 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah  Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
Moreover,  the United  Nations  should  explore  new  avenues  to ease  the 
foreign debt burden  on the developing  countries  and  to try  to bridge  the  gap 
between wealthy  and poor  nations by means  of  a more  earnest  and  constructive 
dialogue  between North  and South, with  a. view  to ensuring  economic  equity 
anchored  in social  justice.  One of  the aims  of  such dialogue  should  be 
confidence-building  between  donor  and  recipient  nations.  Such  confidence  will 
lead  to  joint  efforts  in a bid  to stimulate  the  inflow of  investments  with a 
better  economic  and  social  return  for both  sides.  This will  indeed  be  yet 
another  manifestation  of  an  interdependent  world  community  of  nations. 
It  is against  this conceptual backdrop  that we view  the  outcome  of  the 
United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED),  known  as the 
"Earth  Summit",  held  recently  in Rio  de Janiero.  The  focus  of  the  Rio 
Conference  brought  to the  fore  the growing world-wide  interest  in gaining a 
better  understanding  of  the political, economic,  and  social  aspects  of  human 
life.  Despite  the  fact that  the UNCED did  not  achieve  all  its expected goals, 
one  of  its major  contributions  was  that  it highlighted  for  the whole world, in 
an unprecedented manner,  the  importance  of  the  issue  of environment  and made 
it abundantly  clear  that  ecological  concerns  do  indeed  transcend  both  national 
and  regional  disputes.  It has deepened  our  sense  of belonging  to  a  single 
"global  village". 
The  current  changes  and new challenges  on the  international  scene  are 
bound  to  cause  dramatic  transformations  in many  established  concepts  and 
assumptions  that  still  dominate  international  relations.  A  case  in point  is 
the growing  interest  in the  issue  of human  rights.  In an evolving  world,  not 
only  should  human  rights be defined  in  instruments  but  the  concept  of  human 
rights  should  be expanded  to  include  the genuine guarantee  of  the  exercise  of 
A/47/PV.11 
39 
(Sheikh  Salem  Sabah  Al-Salem 
Al-Sabah.  Kuwait) 
those  rights  to  freedoms  and human  dignity,  in addition  to  the  satisfaction  of 
basic human needs  and  the  liberation  of man  from  fear  and want.  Guaranteeing 
human  rights has become  a major  demand  of  today's world  and  the  international 
community  continues  to make  it clear,  time  and  again,  that  it will  not  condone 
any breech or violation  thereof.  Respect  for  State  sovereignty  should  be  in 
consonance  with  the guaranteeing  of human  rights. 
In conclusion,  we  note  that  the  recent  radical,  international  changes 
have placed  before  the United  Nations  enormous  challenges  and 
responsibilities.  The growing  confidence  in its  role  and  in the need  for  it 
to perform  its  functions make  it imperative  for  all  of us  to  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  the world  Organization.  It would  be both  unfair  and 
inappropriate  for  us  to keep  adding  to  its  responsibilities  without  providing 
it with  sufficient material  and political  support  to enable  it to  fulfil  its 
mandates  effectively.  This means  that  the  international  community  should  put 
at the United Nations  disposal  adequate  resources  and powers,  commensurate 
with its  responsibilities. 
The  Secretary-General  has  shown  that while  the United  Nations  is prepared 
to discharge  its  functions,  the Member  States  are  in turn expected  to honour 
their obligations  in full.  This  complementarity  between  the United  Nations 
system  and  its Members  will  straighten  out  the  relationship  between  mandates 
and resources.  Thus we  can eliminate  the  imbalance  between what  is  required 
and what  is available  and  the potential  causes  of  friction  that go with  that 
disequilibrium.  Under  such circumstances,  the world  body would  be  able  to 
live up  to the expectations  of  the  international  community  in the  areas  of 
peacemaking  and peace-keeping,  along with  all  the  attendant  profits  in  terms 
of stability,  security,  development,  progress  and  welfare. 
A/47/PV.11 
40 
Mr. CLAES (Belgium) (interpretation from French):  Allow me first of 
all to congratulate you warmly. Sir, on your election to the presidency of the 
General Assembly.  Through your person, an entire region of the world affirms 
in this forum its political renewal. 
The body of Members of our Organization is growing continually.  Over the 
last year, 21 new States have come to join our ranks and have subscribed to 
the commitments of the Charter.  We bid them welcome.  Belgium has always held 
the view that our Organization should be open to all States.  Equally strong, 
however, is our conviction that expansion should not come to mean shattering 
and dispersal.  National aspirations must remain subordinate to the essential 
prerequisites of multilateral cooperation, which is becoming more necessary 
every day. 
A/47/PV.11 
41 
(Mr. Claes. Belgium) 
In this respect, the confidence Belgium placed in the new 
Secretary-General even before his election has turned out to be fully 
justified.  As proof of this, I would refer to his actions in the former 
Yugoslavia and in Somalia.  I have also in mind his analyses at the Rio 
Conference, his report on preventive diplomacy and his report to the General 
Assembly. 
My colleague, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, has 
already spoken on behalf of the member States of the European Community.  This 
allows me to concentrate my statement on a few issues of particular concern to 
us. 
The end of the cold war made strengthened international cooperation both 
possible and necessary.  For combined reasons of history, size and 
geographical location, Belgium has always been predisposed to cooperation. 
Without a credible international order, we will all sooner or later be faced 
with an upsurge of unilateral demands containing the seeds of inevitable 
threats to peace.  Our membership of the Security Council has enabled us to 
witness this first hand.  A United Nations which functions effectively 
constitutes the best guarantee against such dangers. 
The end of the cold war has produced a variety of results.  A wall has 
fallen but new trenches have been dug.  The elimination of global ideological 
confrontation has led to the easing of regional conflicts that were fuelled by 
that confrontation.  But it has also released frustrations, which have often 
degenerated into parodies of the right to self-determination and into new 
conflicts.  We must react to this. 
A/47/PV.11 
42 
(Mr. Claes.  Belgium) 
Fortunately,  the United Nations  is no  longer paralysed  by  the  automatic 
ideological  antagonisms  of  the past.  The  Security  Council  in particular  has 
regained  its means  of  action  and  its authority,  which  is now  broadly 
recognized.  Failure  to comply with  its decisions  now equals  isolation  from 
the  international  community. 
But precisely because our  Organization  is experiencing  something  of  a 
revival, we have  to ensure  that  it does not  fall victim  to  its own  success. 
The  summit  meeting  of  the  Security  Council members, held  last  January, 
recognized  the extent  of  this challenge.  The Heads  of  State  or  Government 
requested  the Secretary-General  to develop  concrete  proposals  to  respond  to 
it. 
The  Secretary  General's  report,  "An Agenda  for  Peace", has given us  ample 
food  for thought  on  the  future  role of  the Organization.  The  report  confirms 
that  our  central  objective  should be peace  first  and  foremost,  for  without 
peace,  neither  normal  society  nor  faith  in the  future  of  individuals  is 
possible. 
The  General  Assembly  will  debate preventive  diplomacy  in depth.  We hold 
this  concept  to be based  on the  following  elements:  full use of  the  powers 
vested  in the  Secretary-General;  a United  Nations  presence  in the  initial 
stages  of  a potential  conflict;  the  specific  role of  regional  organizations; 
commissions  of  inquiry  and  temporary  observer  missions; an enlarged  role for 
United  Nations  staff  already  present  in potential  conflict  zones;  and 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation. 
Disarmament  and non-proliferation  continue  to merit  special  attention in 
their  own  right.  The  end of  the  cold war has made  the  control  and  monitoring 
of  conventional  weapons more  difficult.  The nightmare  of global  nuclear 
A/47/PV.11 
43 
(Mr. Claes.  Belgium) 
confrontation  has given way  to the  threat  of  the unchecked  proliferation  and 
dissemination  of  nuclear  arms  and  technology.  During  the  forty-sixth  session 
of the General  Assembly,  the  12 countries  of  the European Community,  together 
with Japan,  took  an  initiative which has  led to the  creation  of  a register  for 
multilateral  control  of  the transfer  of  conventional  weapons.  That,  however, 
is but  a first  step. 
The  case of  Iraq has  demonstrated  the extent  of  the problems  caused  by a 
lack of  transparency  in commercial  transactions  involving both  conventional 
and nuclear weaponry.  The  International  Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA)  should 
therefore  continue  to  improve  its system  of  safeguards, preventive  detection 
and monitoring  of  the transfer  of  dual-use  items. 
I would  like  to pay  a tribute here  to  the  steadfast  efforts  of  the 
Conference  on Disarmament.  Belgium  currently  chairs  that  Conference  and will 
present  to  the General Assembly  the draft  Convention  on a ban  on 
chemical-weapons.  On behalf  of  a country  victimized  by these weapons  during 
the First World War,  I want  to  launch  a solemn  appeal  in favour  of  the 
universal  acceptance  of  the draft  Convention,  resulting  in the  final 
elimination  of  these particularly  barbaric  weapons  from  all  arsenals.* 
A more  systematic  use of preventive  diplomacy would,  no doubt,  enable  us 
to limit  at  least  the human  cost of  conflicts.  However,  it  is clear  that  when 
prevention  reaches  its  limits, the Organization must be  able  to  resort  to 
other peace-keeping  measures. 
Mr. Moumin  (Comoros), Vice-President,  took  the Chair. 
A/47/PV.11 
44 
(Mr. Claes. Belgium) 
In response to the appeals of the Secretary-General, Belgium, for its 
part, has dispatched a battalion to Croatia and units to Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, and is preparing a battalion for deployment in Somalia. 
The financial difficulties of our Organization have led us recently to 
seek alternative financing systems.  However, I must take this opportunity to 
recall the obligation of solidarity that applies to all Member States.  All 
Members must fulfil their budgetary obligations.  The system for financing 
peace-keeping operations should be uniform and predictable, and should resolve 
the problems of financing the initial phases of urgent operations.  The United 
Nations would obviously lose both operational capacity and credibility if the 
Organization were denied the budgetary resources corresponding to its 
responsibilities. 
However, all the combined tools of preventive diplomacy, disarmament, 
non-proliferation and peace-keeping operations are not sufficient to ensure 
real peace.  Most conflicts are more deeply rooted.  I wholeheartedly agree 
with the Secretary-General's broad interpretation of the elements which 
contribute to ensuring peace.  Like him, I believe that the role of the 
Organization extends to the prevention of tensions of any kind, be they 
economic disparities, infringements of human rights, the absence of democracy 
or environmental degradation. 
For the first generations of the post-colonial era, the term "North-South 
dialogue" kept alive the hope of attaining a more equitable distribution of 
wealth and opportunities.  The situation today is far from meeting those 
expectations.  This is the combined result of the cold war and military 
A/47/PV.11 
45 
(Mr. Claes.  Belgium) 
expenditure,  of  a degree  of  selfishness  in the North, of  corruption  and bad 
governance,  and of  a wrong  choice of priorities  both  in the  South  and  the 
North. 
For  these  reasons, major  bilateral  and multilateral  aid efforts  have 
sometimes  failed  and have  also maintained  a culture  of dependency which  now 
demands  a process  of  emancipation.  The  contrasts  between North  and  South 
demand our  attention more  than ever.  We  are witnessing,  on the one hand,  a 
race to  satisfy material  cravings, and on the other,  abject  poverty.  This  is 
the greatest  challenge  facing us.  We not only have  to maintain  important 
resource  and technology  transfers, but we  also need  to make  a frank  analysis 
of past  errors  and  to  identify  the  real priorities. 
A/47/PV.11 
46 
(Mr. Claes.  Belgium) 
In this  context  two factors have,  in my  view,  become  of  key  importance: 
first,  the  concept  of global  interdependence  and,  secondly,  the  growing 
emphasis  on  the close  links between population,  environment  and  development. 
Useful  lessons may be drawn  from past  disappointments  concerning 
donor-recipient  relationships.  The Assembly  will  also  discuss  the  triennial 
policy  review of  the operational  acitivities  of  the United Nations  system.  We 
hope  that  this will be  a thorough debate  leading  to a genuine  reassessment of 
multilateral  aid mechanisms. 
For our part, we have  launched  a number  of  innovations  in our  bilateral 
aid during  recent  years.  These  include,  in particular,  the  creation  of  joint 
management  systems  for our  development  projects, designed  to  reinforce  the 
decision-making  capacity  of our partners. 
Nevertheless, a real  economic  take-off will  be possible  only  if 
investments  follow government  efforts.  We note with  satisfaction  that  a 
number  of developing  countries have  taken  steps  to offer greater  legal 
security  to  foreign  investors with  respect  to  freedom  of  enterprise,  fiscal 
matters  and mobility  of  capital  and profits.  Such measures  contribute  to the 
creation of  a beter  investment  climate. 
We  have  to concern ourselves  now more  than ever with  the  social  aspects 
of development.  Profit  is not  a goal  in itself.  Income  redistribution  must 
allow for  the  full personal  development  of every  individual within  a  society 
based  on  solidarity.  This  solidarity must  extend  to  future  generations.  The 
rights of workers,  as well  as their  families, their  cultural  heritage  and 
their  environment,  must  therefore  be protected.  The World  Conference  on 
Social  Development,  to be held  in 1995, will provide  us an opportunity  to give 
these goals  and principles  the high priority  they  deserve. 
A/47/PV.11 
47 
(Mr. Claes. Belgium) 
International economic cooperation can flourish only on the basis of 
political will and effective mechanisms.  This explains the vital importance 
of several international negotiating processes, either in progress or already 
being finalized, being brought to a successful conclusion. 
I should like to stress Belgium's attachment to the liberalization of 
world trade as a driving force for economic growth and development.  The 
success of the Uruguay Round is the essential precondition for this. 
Finally, the Rio de Janeiro Conference was a milestone in the process of 
increasing collective awareness of the future of our planet, and Belgium will 
attach the greatest importance to its follow-up.  One of the crucial aspects 
here concerns the financial mechanisms.  We earnestly wish for a strengthening 
of the structure of the global environment facility to adapt it better to the 
various needs.  This should also contribute to a greater convergence between 
the international financial institutions of the Bretton Woods system and the 
operational mechanisms of the United Nations family. 
I could not possibly close this part of my statement without mentioning 
the economic problems of a region to which we feel particularly close, namely 
Africa.  Current events are continually giving us cause for concern.  Belgium, 
however, refuses to give in to visions of catastrophe or what a fashionable 
phrase defines as "Afro-pessimism". 
In recent years Belgium has redefined its attitude and its commitments 
towards Africa, first in areas where we could have to assume special 
responsibilities.  We warmly welcome the fact that the link between democracy, 
human rights and development is now widely recognized and applied.  We hope 
that democratization will be understood at its true value, namely, for the 
benefit of the people.  The spirit which inspires us is not that of a new 
paternalism:  we wish to enter into cooperation as equal partners.  In order 
A/47/PV.11 
48 
(Mr. Claes. Belgium) 
to support political renewal in Africa, my Government has just created a fund 
to assist in the financing of democratic elections, the main beneficiary of 
which will be the African continent.  Furthermore, Belgium is actively using 
its influence with its partners and in relevant international institutions to 
ensure that the dawning of democracy is accompanied by an upturn in economic 
activity.  In the meantime, we have intensified our emergency aid in several 
areas affected by conflict or natural diasters.  My Government also welcomes 
the fact that, as regards aid to Africa, it has established a fruitful working 
relationship with Belgian and international non-governmental organizations. 
Failure to respect the rights of the individual is another source of 
tension and violence, as well as an impediment to economic and social progress. 
We must clearly reaffirm the principle of the universality of basic 
rights and freedoms which are inherent in human dignity.  These rights cannot 
be subject to various intepretations. 
Respect for and the protection of human rights require stronger 
monitoring mechanisms.  An extraordinary session of the Human Rights 
Commission took place last month in Geneva.  The Commission strongly condemned 
the serious and intolerable human rights abuses taking places in the former 
Yugoslavia.  Belgium warmly welcomes this rapid reaction and 
would like to see it serve as an example in the future. 
Belgium would also like to see the coming World Conference on Human 
Rights lead to a reaffirmation of the international commitments by States and 
a strengthening of cooperation in the world community.  We appeal to all 
countries to strive in a constructive spirit for the success of this 
Conference. 
We are already in favour of a role for the Security Council in certain 
cases of particularly flagrant or large-scale violations of human rights. 
A/47/PV.11 
49-50 
(Mr. Claes.  Belgium) 
This  is why  Belgium  insisted  on having  the Council  hear Mr. van der  Stoel  on 
the human  rights  situation  in  Iraq. 
This  is a delicate  subject,  as we  are well  aware.  But  international  law 
is evolving,  and  since  information  has virtually  lost  its borders,  frontiers 
are fading  for  injustice  as well.  Ultimately,  States  simply  have  to  respect 
the international  comitments  they have  undertaken  as  sovereign Powers. 
The  unbreakable  link between  democracy  and  respect  for human  rights  is 
also put  in concrete  terms  in the United Nations  system  through  the  question 
of electoral  assistance.  Numerous  requests  for  such assistance  are  currently 
being  addressed  to  the Secretariat.  In order  to give  an adequate  response, 
precise  standards must  be established.  The existing mechanisms which  allow 
for  some  forms  of  electoral  asssistance must be  fully used.  This  session of 
the General  Assembly  should  enable us to clarify matters where  necessary. 
The growing  number  of  ethnic  conflicts poses  a special  problem,  half-way 
between  the traditional  questions  of human  rights  and  the exercise  of  the 
right  to  self-determination.  Consequently,  the protection  of  ethnic 
minorities  deserves  special  attention  at this  time. 
In Europe, we  continue  to believe,  in spite  of  recent  disappointments, 
that the  rules  developed  by  the Conference  on Security  and Cooperation  in 
Europe  (CSCE) remain valid.  The  right  to  self-determination must  in no  case 
be put  forward  to  justify  excesses  and  cruelties  committed  in  its name. 
Besides,  the protection  of minorities  should  not  necessarily  or  indeed 
exclusively be placed  under  the banner  of  self-determination.  I wish  to 
repeat what  I said  in the early part  of my  statement  - for  this  seems  to me  to 
be a fundamental  truth: excessive  invocation  of  the principle  of 
self-determination  leads  straight  to  a caricature  of national  sovereignty. 
A/47/PV.11 
51 
(Mr. Claes. Belgium) 
It is necessary therefore to explore viable alternatives:  real 
administrative decentralization, cultural autonomy, federal or confederate 
systems.  The claims of minorities are above all the collective expression of 
a specific dignity and of human rights which cannot be trodden underfoot or 
ignored.  Once this truth has been admitted, approaches more conciliatory than 
blind nationalism become possible.  This is my hope for the future of the 
minorities issue. 
The current world situation has prompted me to concentrate my reflections 
around the role of the United Nations in maintaining international peace and 
security, in the fight against underdevelopment and in the protection of human 
rights.  In none of these fields can we hope to achieve lasting improvements 
without strengthened regional cooperation. 
As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the United 
Nations Charter, in a world very different from the one its authors knew, the 
need for complementarity between the regional and global spheres has become 
obvious.  We must work to define its modalities.  At a time when Belgium is 
close to the end of its term of membership in the Security Council, I am 
pleased to note that this debate is taking place  above all as regards the 
establishment and maintenance of peace.* 
The President returned to the Chair. 
A/47/PV.11 
52 
ADDRESS BY MR. JAMES BRENDAN BOLGER, PRIME MINISTER OF NEW ZEALAND 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will now hear an address by the Prime 
Minister of New Zealand. 
Mr. James Brendan Bolger. Prime Minister of New Zealand, was escorted to 
the rostrum. 
The PRESIDENT:  I have great pleasure in welcoming the Prime 
Minister of New Zealand, His Excellency The Right Honourable James Brendan 
Bolger, and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. BOLGER (New Zealand):  Mr. President, New Zealand congratulates 
you on your election to lead the Assembly and offers you its support in your 
task. 
One year ago I stood on this rostrum and spoke about the Gulf crisis and 
the way in which the United Nations, with strong leadership from the Security 
Council, had shown a firmness of judgement and a commitment to the ideals of 
the founders of the United Nations that reinforced the status and authority of 
the Organization. 
I spoke of my own country. New Zealand, a small nation in the south-west 
Pacific, which supported the United Nations, in keeping with our tradition of 
opposing tyranny and supporting freedom. 
This year I have returned to this Organization even more confident of the 
vital role of the United Nations in today's world, of the important 
contribution each nation, be it large or small, can make to the achievement of 
its ideals.  Most important, however, I want to affirm the commitmert of New 
Zealand, a founder member of the United Nations, to ensuring that this 
Organization adapts to meet the challenge of a world that has changed, is 
changing and will continue to change in the years ahead.  To do that, the 
A/47/PV.11 
53 
(Mr. Bolger. New  Zealand) 
United  Nations  requires  a vibrant,  active  General  Assembly  and  a  Security 
Council  that  truly  reflects  the different  regions  and  the  different  peoples of 
the world. 
The  Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali,, has made his views  clear  in 
putting  before  this Assembly  his  report,  "An Agenda  for Peace".  His  message 
is summed  up  in paragraphs  75 and  76, where he  says: 
"With the cold war ended we have  drawn back  from  the brink  of  a 
confrontation  that  threatened  the world  and,  too often, paralysed  our 
Organization. 
"Even as we  celebrate  our  restored  possibilities,  there  is a need to 
ensure  that  the  lessons  of  the past  ... are  learned  and  that  the 
errors  ... are not  repeated.  For  there may not be  a third  opportunity 
for our planet  ...  ."  (A/47/277, paras.  75-76) 
New  Zealand  endorses  that  conclusion. 
We  can also  take hope  from  the  fact  that  at  last both  the  Security 
Council  and  the Assembly  have  the  chance  to work  as  they were  originally 
intended,  free  from  crippling  ideological  competition.  Through  the  Security 
Council, and with  the  support  of  all  the Members  of  the United  Nations, we 
have  seen decisive  action  to  implement  collective  security  measures  on a scale 
never  before  possible. 
There  is much  still  to be done, but  no  longer  need  the people  of  the 
world  despair  about  impotence  and  inaction  on  the part  of  the United  Nations. 
In Cambodia,  in Somalia,  in the Balkans,  in the Middle  East,  the  United 
Nations  has moved  to assist  in the vital  battle  for human  survival  where 
before  there was only  the prospect  of  continued  death  and  destruction. 
A/47/PV.11 
54 
(Mr. Bolger. New  Zealand) 
In our view,  the Agenda  for Peace will  succeed  only  if we  support  an 
agenda  for  action.  This  is no time  for complacency.  The heavy  cloud  of  the 
cold war has  lifted.  But  over  the years  that  cloud  concealed many  smaller 
conflicts  and  tensions 
regional, national  and  ethnic.  Freed  from  being 
bottled  up by  the cold war, a growing  and  frightening  tendency  is exposed  to 
settle ancient  differences  by  the use of force. 
The Agenda  for Peace  also  reminds  us that  there  are other  critical  issues 
which  threaten  not  only  the  security  of Member  States but  also  the  future  of 
the planet  itself. 
Poverty,  disease, malnutrition,  crippling  levels of  debt  and  negligible 
economic growth  are  scourges  in themselves.  They  can unleash despair  and 
anger  that will  destabilize  political  and  social  institutions. 
Environmental  degradation  does not  threaten only our  immediate 
surroundings  and  livelihoods; problems  such as the depletion  of  the ozone 
layer, the  spread  of  toxic  chemicals,  climate  change  and  the overfishing  of 
the seas put  at risk  the well-being  of whole  communities,  and even  the very 
survival  of  certain  small  island  countries. 
Weapons  of mass  destruction  continue  to proliferate.  We must  take  a 
stand against  those who  are blind  to the  lessons  of  the past  and  remain 
determined  to acquire  or expand  their  stocks  of nuclear  or other weapons  of 
mass  destruction. 
The  Secretary-General  reminds us, too,  that 
"social peace  is as  important  as  strategic  or political  peace". 
(A/47/277, para.  59) 
A/47/PV.11 
55 
(Mr. Boloer. New  Zealand) 
It is clear  that  a root  cause of  insecurity  and  conflict  at the  international 
level  is the existence  of  social  structures, policies  and  systems  within 
States which marginalize minorities  or other groups.  Such  tension will  be 
resolved  only when  the  social  needs of  the underprivileged  are  addressed.  The 
proposed United Nations  social  Summit  could have  a catalytic  role  to play in 
this  area.  I suggest  that  it  is only  through  tolerance  and  through  talking to 
one another  that we  can all encourage  and achieve  full  respect  for  human 
rights  and  implement  the  international  standards  as they were  intended. 
A/47/PV.11 
56 
(Mr. Bolger. New  Zealand) 
The other  very  important  issues  raised by  the Secretary-General  must  be 
considered  thoroughly.  This  session  of  the Assembly  provides  the  first 
opportunity  to debate  them  and  I wish to outline New Zealand's  views. 
First,  let me  refer  to peace  and  security.  New Zealand  stands  very 
firmly behind  the United Nations  as an instrument  for  collective  action when 
security  is threatened.  The  situations which  the world wants  the  United 
Nations  to  respond  to today  are not  the  same as those  of  the  cold-war  era. 
New Zealand  supports  concepts  such  as preventive  diplomacy,  peace-keeping  and 
peace-building.  As  a world body we  know that  consensus  is  important  but 
collectively we must  be bold, we must be  innovative. 
New Zealand believes  it  is vital  that  the United Nations  respond  to 
situations which  threaten  the peace  or  cry out  for global  action, wherever  in 
the world  they may  occur.  We  cannot, we must  not,  allow parts  of  the world  to 
be marginalized  or  thought  less  important  than others.  The  tragedy  in Somalia 
is different  from, but  of equal horror  to, that  in what was  Yugoslavia. 
Secondly,  I want  to endorse  strongly  the  conclusion  that  there  is  an 
inextricable  link between  security  and  economic  development.  This  is not  a 
new or  radical  idea.  Every political  leader  knows  from domestic  experience 
that a nation  feels more  secure when  its economy  is performing  strongly. 
People  in every  country have  rapidly growing  expectations, but with  the  global 
economy  very  sluggish  leaders  are  finding  it difficult  to  satisfy  these 
ambitions. 
Further, we  need major  sustainable  growth  in the global  economy  if the 
development  concerns  identified  at  the Earth  summit  at Rio  are  to be  achieved. 
One  fact,  though  self-evident, must be  repeated:  sustainable  and 
equitable economic  growth  and development  will be possible  only  if  there  is an 
open and  fair  international  trading  system. 
A/47/PV.11 
57 
(Mr. Boloer. New Zealand) 
As a world community we need the courage to pull down the artificial 
barriers to economic growth.  The solution is in our hands.  We need leaders 
to say "Yes" to fair trade and "No" to their protectionist lobbies.  If we 
knock out the selfish and inward-looking tendencies to protectionism and 
subsidization, we will create a surge in global trade and real growth in the 
global economy.  It will provide the opportunities we all want - so let's do 
it. 
The alternative is bleak.  History shows only too clearly what can happen 
if there is a deep and prolonged global recession.  Political extremists come 
to the fore and begin to manipulate desperate people.  Disintegrating 
economies fall into the hands of dictators, and international peace and 
security are quickly put at risk. 
But this need not be so.  It is not inevitable.  A breakthrough in the 
multilateral trade negotiations, the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade (GATT), is achievable, given the right degree of political 
will.  There is a risk that the political will may ebb away, that the focus 
may be lost, that excuses for delay may become more important than reasons to 
press on.  Should that prove true, then the bold reform set out in the Dunkel 
text will go down as one more lost opportunity.  We cannot afford that so we 
New Zealand - continue to urge the European Community and the United States to 
resolve their differences and to put the GATT talks back on track for a 
successful conclusion.  For world economic growth, it is not an optional 
extra; it is essential. 
Just as economics and security are closely linked, the world seems to 
have accepted, just in time, that there is a third element to this equation. 
It is the environment.  Everything we do has an impact on the environment.  If 
A/47/PV.11 
57-a 
(Mr. Bolger. New  Zealand) 
we  cripple  the  environment,  it will  affect  our economies, our  societies  and 
our  security.  Moreover,  these  impacts will not  respect  national  boundaries. 
Before  the  Earth  summit,  some  important  first  steps were  taken.  The 
Montreal  Protocol  proved  that  the world  had  the political  will  to deal  with 
the problem  of  ozone  depletion.  The  General  Assembly  itself  responded  to  the 
challenge  of  drift-net  fishing  and has  secured  a moratorium  on  that 
ecologically-destructive  technique  of  fishing. 
The  Earth  summit,  under  the auspices  of  the United Nations, has given  us 
a challenging work  programme,  "Agenda  21", to match  the  Secretary-General's 
proposals,  "An Agenda  for Peace".  But  international  agendas  only work  if 
nations  are  committed  to their  success. 
New  Zealand went  to the Earth  summit  committed  to working  for  consensus 
solutions  to  the problems  of environment  and development  which  ultimately 
threaten us  all. 
New  Zealand  is a country  endowed with  a rich environmental  inheritance. 
But we understand  that  our good  fortune  does not give us  the moral  right  to 
point  the  finger  at other  countries which  are  struggling  for  their  very 
survival.  At  the  same  time, our  considerable  experience  in  sustainable 
resource management  - for  example,  in the development  of  new  forests 
can be 
helpful  in the  search  for practical  solutions  to problems  of  resource 
depletion. 
As part  of New  Zealand's  commitment  to environmental  protection  and  to 
providing  sustainable  resources, we have  just  agreed  to go  ahead with  the 
planting  of  another  200,000 hectares  of  forest. 
At  the Earth  summit,  we  accepted  a commitment  to  augment  our  aid 
programme  as  soon  as possible  in order  to  assist  in the prompt  and  effective 
A/47/PV.11 
58 
(Mr. Boloer. New  Zealand) 
implementation  of Agenda  21.  Our  development  assistance  projects, based  on 
consultation with our partner  countries, particularly  in the  South  Pacific, 
have  always had  a strong  focus on  the environment  and  on  sustainable 
development. 
But  aid  alone  is not  enough.  New  Zealand,  like many  countries  which 
depend  on agricultural  exports, has been  severely  disadvantaged  by  a world 
trading  system which handicaps  non-subsidized  and  efficient  producers.  We 
therefore  strongly  support  the  call  in Agenda  21 for  an open,  transparent  and 
non-discriminatory  trading  system  that  reveals  the  real  environmental  costs of 
unsustainable  production  and  enables  all  countries  to pursue  truly  sustainable 
development  on a secure  and equitable  basis. 
To  achieve  that would  be to  achieve  a real  foundation  for peace  and 
progress.  I am not making  these  observations  from  an  ivory  tower.  For its 
part. New  Zealand  already  has  one of  the most  open economies  in the world. 
Yes,  there was  a short-term  cost  in achieving  that, but  now we  are  reaping 
rewards  through higher  productivity  and  international  competitiveness. 
Despite  the progress made  from  the ending  of  the  cold war, we have not 
yet  removed  the threat  from weapons  of mass  destruction. 
New  Zealand warmly welcomed  the  agreement  reached  by President  Bush and 
President  Yeltsin  in June.  The  two  largest  nuclear  arsenals  are  to be  reduced 
by  some 70 per  cent.  That  is  remarkable  progress  and both  leaders  deserve and 
have  our  thanks.  They have made historic  progress  but we must  keep  the 
momentum  up.  Unless we  take decisive  action,  the dangers  from  nuclear 
proliferation will  increase. 
A/47/PV.11 
59-60 
(Mr. Bolaer. New  Zealand) 
Therefore  we must  build  on the  leadership  shown by  two  nuclear-weapon 
States  in declaring moratoriums.  We must  advance  the goal, which New  Zealand 
has  unwaveringly  pursued,  of  a comprehensive  test-ban  treaty.  We  must 
strengthen  the  International  Atomic  Energy Agency's  safeguards  regime.  And we 
must  secure  an  indefinite  extension  of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  in 1995. 
A/47/PV.11 
61 
(Mr. Bolger. New  Zealand) 
France's  decision  to  suspend  testing has been widely welcomed  by  New 
Zealand  and Pacific  island  countries  in the  South Pacific  Forum  region.  It 
has opened  the way  for  significantly  more positive  relations  between  France 
and  the  region, which  I welcome.  We hope  the moratorium  will  be  maintained, 
and  copied by others. 
Another milestone  approaches, with  the presentation  to this  session of 
the General Assembly  of  a treaty banning  another  class of weapons  of mass 
destruction:  chemical weapons.  Patient  and persistent  efforts  over  20 years 
will have  their  reward.  New Zealand has  strongly  supported  those  efforts and 
intends  to be an original  signatory  to the  treaty.  We  urge  other  countries to 
take the  same  step. 
And we must  not  ignore  the continued proliferation  of  conventional 
armaments.  There  are  legitimate  concerns  about  the  levels  and  availability of 
highly  destructive  conventional weapons.  The  implementation  of  the United 
Nations  Register  of Conventional  Arms would be  a useful  first  step on the way 
to greater  accountability  in this  area. 
Finally,  I want  to touch  on the  institutional  issues  the 
Secretary-General  has  raised.  We  strongly  endorse  the  role  that  is  envisaged 
for  the United  Nations  to work with,  and on occasions  through,  regional 
organizations  that have  some  special  contribution  they  can make.  Already in 
South Africa we  see cooperation between the United  Nations  and  the 
Commonwealth  beginning  to bear positive  fruit.  In Somalia  the Organization of 
African Unity  (OAU),  the League  of Arab States  and  the Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference  have  contributed  positively  to the United Nations  mission. 
In the Americas  the Organization  of American  States  (OAS) has played  an 
increasingly  effective  role. 
A/47/PV.11 
62 
(Mr. Boloer. New  Zealand) 
The United  Nations  role  in Cambodia  is of particular  importance  in  this 
regard.  The  operation  is unique  and deserves  the highest  praise.  But  the 
countries  of  the  region  - which  include  New  Zealand,  with  100 men  and women  in 
the United Nations  force 
have  also played  a major  part  in bringing  about  the 
conditions  necessary  for  a successful  United  Nations  involvement.  Regional 
organizations  such  as  the Association  of  South-East  Asian Nations  (ASEAN) have 
been  indispensable  in this process. 
The  fact  of  the matter  is that  the United  Nations  cannot  do  everything. 
Neither  do  I expect  it to do everything  - but  free  from  the  shackles  of  the 
past  it now has  a new authority which  it must  exercise wisely.  To  maintain 
its authority we must  ensure  that democratic  principles  are  applied  to  the 
workings  of  the United Nations  itself.  That means  that  the small must  be 
represented  in major United Nations  decision-making  as well  as  the  large. 
It means  that  there must be  fair  and  regular  rotation  among  Member 
States.  And  it means we must  evolve processes  that will  allow  constructive 
communication  between  the Security  Council  and  the wider United  Nations 
membership  so that broad  coalitions  in support  of  Security  Council  action  can 
be forged while preserving  room  for quick  and  decisive  actions where  necessary. 
New Zealand's  commitment  to a strong, effective  and democratic  United 
Nations has never wavered.  At  the beginning,  at the  San Francisco  Conference 
in 1945, New  Zealand  championed  the broadest  possible  participation  in 
decision-making.  Over  the years we have backed  up our words with  a real 
commitment  to United Nations peace-keeping  efforts.  We have participated  thus 
far  in 15 such operations:  New Zealanders have worn  the blue beret  in Croatia 
and Bosnia,  Lebanon,  Cyprus,  India, Pakistan,  Iraq,  Iran, Namibia,  Angola, 
Cambodia,  the  Congo  and Yemen.  In addition. New  Zealand  supplied  personnel  to 
assist  the United  Nations with mine  removal  in Afghanistan. 
A/47/PV.11 
63 
(Mr. Bolger. New  Zealand) 
In conclusion,  I want  to  return  to  the two  agendas which  are before  this 
Assembly  and which  seek  to achieve  a new partnership  of  nations.  Nothing  is 
more  important  than  the Agenda  for Peace  and  the Agenda  for  the  Environment 
and Sustainable  Development.  The United  Nations  Secretary-General  and  the 
United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  have both  identified 
monumental  challenges  for  the General  Assembly  for  several  years  to come. 
They  also highlight  the  reality  of global  interdependence.  The way  ahead has 
to lie  in cooperation  rather  than confrontation,  in a recognition  that  the 
future  of each of  us  is tied  up with  the  future  of us all  and  that  no agenda, 
no matter  how noble  its goals, will  succeed  unless  first  and  foremost we are 
prepared  to work  for  them.  New Zealand  is. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly,  I wish  to thank 
the Prime Minister  of New  Zealand  for  the  statement  he has  just made. 
Mr. James Brendan  Boloer. Prime Minister  of New  Zealand,  was  escorted 
from  the  rostrum. 
Mr. PAPACONSTANTINOU  (Greece):  Allow me,  first  of  all,  to extend to 
you. Sir,  the warmest  congratulations  of  the Greek  Government  on your  election 
to the presidency.  Your personal  qualities  and  diplomatic  skill  augur  well 
for progress  on the work of  this  session.  Moreover, we  are especially  pleased 
to  salute  in your person  the  representative  of  a neighbouring  country  with 
which Greece maintains  long-standing  relations  of  close  friendship.  I also 
wish  to pay  tribute  to your predecessor. Ambassador  Shihabi,  for  the  effective 
manner  in which he  discharged  his  functions  as President  of  the Assembly  last 
year. 
Allow me  also  to point  out how  impressed  the Greek  Government  is by  the 
way the  Secretary-General  of our  Organization,  Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali, has 
A/47/PV.11 
64 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
been discharging  his duties  since he took office  at the beginning  of  the 
year.  We  are  absolutely  certain  that he will  continue his work with  the  same 
dynamism  and  diplomatic  dexterity,  for  the benefit  of both  the  international 
community  and  this  Organization,  which has grown  since  the General  Assembly 
last met  a year  ago. 
Let me  also  join other  representatives  in welcoming  the new Members  that 
have been  admitted  to the United Nations  as  independent  States, namely 
Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  Croatia,  Georgia,  Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan, Moldova,  San Marino, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan  and 
Uzbekistan. 
The  admission  of  these new Members  is a renewed  expression  of  the  desire 
of our  Organization  to welcome  in its midst  all  those  States  that  undertake 
the commitment  to  adhere  to the purposes  and principles  set out  in the  United 
Nations  Charter. 
Earlier  this week  the  Foreign Minister  of the United  Kingdom,  in his 
capacity  as President  of  the Council  of the European Community,  delivered  a 
statement  on behalf  of  its  12 Member  States.  My Government  fully  subscribes 
to the contents  of  that  statement. 
Greece  is  firmly  committed  to, and  fully  supports, the process  of 
European  integration.  We believe  that  the economic  and political  union we 
agreed  on when we  adopted  the Maastricht  Treaty  last year will  strengthen 
progress  and  enhance prosperity  not only on the European  continent,  but  also 
in all  the  countries  the Community  is trading with.  Greece was  among  the 
first European  countries  to  ratify  the Maastricht  Treaty,  and we  are  happy 
that the  French people  as well  ratified  the Treaty  at  the  referendum  of  last 
Sunday.  Allow me  to note  that  the  "yes" vote  in the Greek  Parliament  was 
A/47/PV.11 
65 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou. Greece) 
overwhelming  286 positive votes out of a total of 300 deputies voting - and 
is indicative of the extraordinary degree of unanimity of the Greek people 
concerning the position of our country for a united Europe. 
A/47/PV.11 
66 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
I have  the honour  to  stand before  this Assembly  as  the  representative  of 
a nation  that  is now completing  a year-long  celebration marking  2,500  years 
since  our  ancestors  first  invented  a form of government  called  in Greek 
demokratia. which  in rough  translation means  "rule by  the people":  democracy, 
which was destined  to become one  of  the most  outstanding  contributions  of 
Greece  to the  collective  heritage  of mankind  and  a cornerstone  of world 
civilization.  We  Greeks  felt happy  and,  allow me  to  say, proud  a year  ago, as 
we  saw democracy  and  its twin principle,  freedom,  gaining ground  throughout 
the world  and  consolidating  its presence  in countries where  totalitarianism 
had  long held  sway.  In welcoming new members  to the community  of  free 
nations,  the Greek  Government  expressed  the hope  that the post-cold-war  world 
would be based  on  the principles  of democracy  and  freedom,  on  respect  for 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms, and on the  rule of  law. 
That  hope was expressed  a year  ago.  Can we  now,  a year  later,  ascertain 
the extent  to which  it has been met?  Admittedly,  a year's  time  is too  short 
to allow  a conclusive  judgement, but  the events  of  the  last  12 months  offer 
some evidence  of  the direction  in which  the world  is moving.  And,  I must  say, 
the evidence  available  is not  as encouraging  as our expectations  were.  In 
fact, we have witnessed  developments  that  threaten  the  fragile positive  trends 
we had begun  to  see.  We have  seen peoples  that gained  their  freedom  and 
independence  taking  the path of nationalism.  Signs  abound  that we  are 
entering  a dangerous  and unpredictable  world  situation, where  conflicts, 
extreme  nationalism  and  tensions  of  a new nature  are erupting,  and where  the 
clash of  interests  could  take the place of  the  ideological  confrontations  of 
which we have  had bitter  experience  in the past. 
In spite  of  the  comfort  of being  safe  at last  from  the threat  of  nuclear 
annihilation  since  the  recent  enormous  strides  in disarmament,  in some  areas 
A/47/PV.11 
67 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
the world  seems  to be moving  into a state  of uncontrolled  proliferation  of 
conventional  arms  and  civil  strife.  In some  cases, that  civil  strife  seems to 
be on the brink of  spilling over  and becoming  a threat  to  regional  and 
international  peace  and  security.  To make matters  worse,  the weak  economies 
of many developing  countries  remain  in the grip  of  a deepening  crisis, while 
growing  poverty,  and  in certain  cases  even hunger,  is becoming  a menace to 
recent gains  in democracy.  And  the environment  continues  to  deteriorate  at an 
alarming pace. 
Faced with  such a situation,  the world  community  has  to  react 
collectively.  And  as  it  is the United Nations  that  embodies  the  collegiality 
of the world  community,  it  is incumbent  upon  it to devise ways  and means to 
help humanity  deal with  the  situation.  In this  respect,  the nations  and the 
peoples  of  the world  are  fortunate  in that, with  the  cold war  behind  us, the 
paralysis  that had  for a long time plagued  our  Organization  has  now 
disappeared.  The United Nations  is now  indeed  showing  signs  that  it is 
willing  to  live up  to the expectations  placed  in it. 
A  series of  actions  is being undertaken  to deal with  the major  problems 
confronting  humanity  now.  In this  context,  earlier  this year,  the United 
Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development,  the  largest  summit  ever 
held, met  at Rio de Janeiro.  Next year we will  see  the  Second  World 
Conference  on Human Rights.  In 1994, population  and  development  will  be dealt 
with.  In 1995, the World  Conference  on Women will  take place.  Finally, a 
world  summit  for  social  development  has been  proposed. 
But  the  first  in this  series  of  actions was  taken  last  January  and 
directly  concerned  international  peace  and  security.  The  Greek  Government 
welcomed  the convening  of  the Security  Council  at the  summit  level  to  reaffirm 
the world  community's  devotion  to  the principle  of  collective  security  and to 
A/47/PV.11 
68 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
the  settlement  of disputes  in accordance with  the principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  and  to consider  anew the means by which  collective  security 
can be upheld  through  the  Organization. 
Greece has  also welcomed  the document  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace",  on 
preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and peace-keeping,  issued by  the 
Secretary-General  in  response  to a request made by  the members  of  the  Security 
Council  at  their  January  summit  meeting.  I take  this opportunity  to  express 
our appreciation  to  the Secretary-General  for a document  of vision,  lucidity 
and challenging  ideas.  We  in the Greek Government  have  studied  it with  great 
interest  and  are  looking  forward  to participating  in the  fruitful  debates  that 
are bound  to  follow  in the various  bodies of our  Organization. 
We  are pleased  that  the Secretary-General  sees the concepts  of  preventive 
diplomacy, peacemaking  and peace-keeping  in their proper  perspective  within 
the larger  concept  of peace  and  security  that goes beyond  the military  sphere 
and encompasses  social  and economic  factors, primary  among which  is the 
enjoyment  of human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms. 
We  are also  encouraged  that  the Secretary-General  has not  failed  to 
emphasize  the  importance  of  democracy  not only within nations  but  also  among 
the family of  nations. 
The perception  of  selectivity  in the application  of  the principles  of  the 
Charter must be  avoided  if the moral  authority  of  the United Nations  is to be 
maintained.  This  is particularly  urgent  now that  the enforcement  capability 
of the Organization  is being  enhanced  and put  to use.  Enforcement  without 
moral authority  is coercion  and  tyranny.  Smaller  nations  need  to be  reassured 
that no Power will  succeed  in usurping  the moral  authority  of  the United 
Nations  and using  it  for  the advancement  of  its own  interests. 
A/47/PV.11 
69-70 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou. Greece) 
It is the fervent hope of the Greek Government that the current turbulent 
situation will prove to be only a brief transition and will soon be replaced 
by a spirit of international cooperation and solidarity.  The deployment of 
common efforts for the maintenance of international peace and security through 
preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping are an indispensable 
manifestation of such international solidarity.  The other two foundations on 
which this solidarity must be based are respect for human rights and 
fundamental freedoms and a common concern for the protection of the 
environment. 
The subject of human rights is, of course, not new.  We rejoice that the 
European Community has time and again emphasized that respect for, and 
promotion and safeguarding of human rights is an essential element in 
international relations and, therefore, one of the cornerstones of cooperation 
and of relations between the Community and its member States and other 
countries. 
The expression of concern about human rights violations can no longer be 
considered mere interference in a State's internal affairs.  Established 
principles governing relations among States - such as non-interference in the 
internal affairs of other States and respect for the national sovereignty of 
States  must accommodate efforts by the United Nations and by regional 
organizations to protect the human rights of individuals and social groups 
that are threatened in particular States. 
A/47/PV.11 
71 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou. Greece) 
A few words about Greece's relations with its neighbours and the state of 
affairs in our region. 
We have repeatedly and officially stated that Greece has no territorial 
claims whatsoever against any of the countries neighbouring ours.  We offer 
our friendship to all of them and we hope, indeed we are certain, they will 
reciprocate.  We maintain the best possible relations with our Balkan as well 
as our Mediterranean neighbours. 
Regarding our relations with Turkey, we consider that it is of primary 
importance for Greece and our neighbour Turkey that our two countries display 
the necessary will and imagination to create a climate of mutual confidence, 
security and stability which will redound to the benefit of the Eastern 
Mediterranean in general and our two peoples in particular. 
Greece believes that it is high time for our two neighbouring States to 
find the way, on the basis of international law and international conventions 
and treaties, to establish closer relations, compatible with the requirements 
of the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter 
of Paris, as well as with the espectations of our peoples, dictated by 
geographical proximity and by common interests.  This intention, our political 
will and our sincere desire have been repeatedly stressed by our Prime 
Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, who has already met with the Prime Minister of 
Turkey, Mr. Demirel, four times this year, while I have had the opportunity to 
speak in the same spirit to my Turkish counterpart, Mr. Hikmet Cetin, with 
whom I have already met three or four times.  We, for our part, laid emphasis 
on the fact that the problem of Cyprus, which exercises a negative influence 
on our bilateral relations, should at last find a proper solution on the basis 
of all relevant United Nations resolutions. 
A/47/PV.11 
72 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
I  should  like  to remind  the Assembly  that  despite  coordinated  efforts the 
problem  remains unresolved.  Cyprus  continues  to be  divided  and  a large part 
of  its territory  is still  under Turkish occupation.  The  other  consequences of 
the  1974  invasion,  such as those of  the  refugees, the missing persons, and the 
continuing  efforts  to  change  the demographic  structure  of  the  island  and to 
plunder  of Cyprus' cultural  heritage,  still exist  and  constitute  the main 
elements  of the  tragic  reality  of  this Mediterranean  island,  an  integral part 
of the European  family  and  a State Member  of  this Organization.  In this 
respect,  the  report  of  the European  Commission  of Human Rights  published on 
2 April  1992  sets out  the violations  of human  rights  in Cyprus,  concerning 
missing  and displaced  persons, separation  of  families, deprivation  of 
possessions  and  so on. 
Despite  the present  status quo  in Cyprus which  the most  recent  Security 
Council  resolution  explicitly  characterizes  as not  acceptable we,  together 
with  the  international  community,  look  forward  to  the  systematic  efforts of 
the Secretary-General 
with  the  active  support  of  the  five permanent  members 
of the  Security  Council 
to bring  about  a just,  a viable  and  a  functional 
solution  to the Cyprus  problem. 
In this  respect, we note  that  the  Secretary-General's  set  of  ideas, 
including  the map  attached  thereto, which was  initially  discussed  last July 
and August, with  special  emphasis  on  the  territorial,  refugee  and  property 
issues,  should  form  the basis of  negotiations  during  the  follow-on  talks 
scheduled  to be  resumed  in New York  in late  October. 
We urge Turkey  to use  all  its decisive  influence  on  the  Turkish-Cypriot 
side  to ensure  that  it approaches  the talks  in a constructive  manner which may 
well  contribute  to the  solution  of  the problem  and  the elimination  of  a real 
anachronism  in today's  Europe. 
A/47/PV.11 
73 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
In conclusion  on this  subject,  I wish  to stress once  again  that  the  just 
settlement  of  this problem  would greatly  benefit  relations  between our  two 
peoples  and our  two  countries.  Moreover,  it would  also  constitute  an 
important  element  of Turkey's  aspirations  to  its European orientation.  We 
have been  trying, most  emphatically,  to make  it clear  that  it is our will  to 
establish  the most  friendly  relations with  our  neighbour  Turkey.  I do not 
think that  the  international  community  would be proud  if  it were  to  leave  this 
problem,  which has been  dragging  on for over  18 years,  unresolved. 
The  situation  in the Balkans  remains  a cause  of major  concern  to all. 
The Yugoslav  crisis  continues  to constitute  a potential  danger  for 
destabilization  of  the whole  Balkans  and  a danger  for peace  and  security  in 
the wider  area.  Greece,  as  a Balkan  country,  naturally  is directly  concerned 
and, therefore,  from  the very beginning  of  the  crisis has not  spared  any 
effort  to achieve  a speedy  and negotiated  solution.  The  convening  of  the 
London Conference  under  the  co-chairmanship  of  the European Community  and  the 
United Nations  represents  our  only hope  for  a lasting  settlement.  We wish  to 
reiterate here  our  full  support  to the chairmanship  of  the Conference,  to 
which we  are  ready  to offer  all our  assistance. 
The Assembly  should  send  a clear message  to all  former Yugoslav  parties 
that  there  can be  no alternative  to a negotiated  solution of  the crisis  and 
that  the international  community  is determined  not  to  recognize  any 
fait accompli  created  by  force.  We believe  that  no  single party  is to blame 
for the current  crisis  and  its horrors  and  that  all  share part  of  the blame. 
In any event, we must  act  swiftly to  stop  the war  before  it is too  late,  for 
the dangers  of  spill-over  of  the  crisis  are real. 
A/47/PV.11 
74-75 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
Any  form of military  intervention  in the  former Yugoslavia  is  highly 
inadvisable.  We have  cautioned  against  it because we  consider  the  staging of 
a war  to  stop  another war  absurd  and  self-defeating.  Indeed,  if  a majority of 
other  States were  to decide  on some form of military  intervention  in 
Yugoslavia,  Greece would  in no way participate.  All  States  - and  mainly 
Balkan  States  - that  neighbour  the  former Yugoslavia,  and  all  States with a 
special  interest  in the area,  should  in any  case be excluded  from  such 
action.  Otherwise, the enmities, the mistrust  and  the  rekindling  of bitter 
memories  of  the past will be  a source  of persistent  bitterness  and  instability 
for generations  to come. 
We want  the Balkans  to be  an area of peace  and we wish  to  avoid  a return 
to the time when  they were  known  as the powder-keg  of  Europe.  We want good 
relations with  all our  Balkan neighbours.  We  are  ready  to  support  them 
economically  and  also  to  facilitate  the development  of  their  relations with 
the European Community.  We have  no claims  against  anybody  and we  expect them 
to have  similar motivations  toward  us.  It is  for  this  reason  that,  as regards 
the  former  "Yugoslav  Federal  Socialist  Republic  of Macedonia",  we  have 
actively  and consistently  advocated  full  compliance  with  the  Lisbon 
Declaration  of the European  Community,  according  to which  that  Republic should 
be  recognized  under  a name which does  not  include  the  term  "Macedonia". 
A/47/PV.11 
76 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
Otherwise, we will  surely have  sown the  seeds of  future  tensions  and 
conflicts  in the  area  and we will have  jeopardized  the ability  of  the  peoples 
of the Balkans  to  live  and  coexist peacefully  together.  Our  insistence  on 
this point  is not  only  an emotional  or  sentimental  matter,  now is  it only  a 
matter of historical  accuracy.  It  is, more  than anything,  a matter  of 
political  realism.  The  usurping  of  a Greek name  and of  ancient Greek  emblems, 
combined  with  constitutional  provisions  insinuating  territorial  expansion,  is 
nothing  if not  a clear  indication of  territorial  claims.  If we  allow  this 
policy to be pursued we  shall  condemn  future generations  for we  shall  be 
forming  the nucleus  of  friction  for  some  time  to come. 
Having  said  that,  I wish  to make  it quite  clear  that we have  never 
harboured  any enmity  towards  this nascent  republic.  Even when,  recently,  we 
reluctantly  had  to discontinue  fuel exports  there, in order  to  counter 
unjustified,  unfounded  accusations  that Greece was  circumventing  Security 
Council  resolutions  713  (1991) and 757  (1992), we  never  interfered with  the 
supply of  food  and humanitarian  aid.  As a matter  of  fact, exports  of  fuel 
supplies have  already been  resumed  now that  the European Community  has  adopted 
new regulations  to ensure  the movement  of goods towards  the  former  Yugoslavia 
that safeguard  the effectiveness  of  the United Nations  embargo. 
The  arms embargo  should  also be  reinforced  with  respect  to all  sides  and 
an effective mechanism  for  its control  should be put  in place. 
Concerning  Kossovo, which  is a particularly  sensitive,  potentially 
dangerous  area, we  should  encourage  the  Serbian Government  and  the  ethnic 
Albanians  to pursue  a  serious  and open  dialogue within  the  framework  of  the 
London Conference with  a view  to  reaching  an early  solution  to  the problems  of 
this area.  We maintain  that  a status  of  autonomy,  without  any change  of 
frontiers, would  satisfy  all  concerned. 
A/47/PV.11 
77 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
The  international  community  must  also be  alerted  to the various  reports 
from many parts of  the  former Yugoslavia  concerning  atrocities.  It  should be 
made  clear  to all  those who  are  responsible  for  such  acts  that  they will be 
held personally  responsible.  This  is a point  about which my  Government  feels 
particularly  strongly. 
The  easing of  international  tensions with  the end  of  the  cold  war 
provides  new possibilities  and  resources  for development.  Our  immediate 
objective  should be to  restore  growth  that would  not  irreparably  destroy the 
air,  the  rivers, the  forests, the oceans  or  any other  part  of  nature.  The 
United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  held  at Rio  de 
Janeiro  last June has  raised high hopes  that  the consensus  which has  emerged 
and which  strikes  a balance between  environment  and development  will  be 
sustained.  At  the  same time, we note with great  satisfaction  that  a political 
consensus  is growing  concerning  the  fundamental  relationship  between 
pluralistic  democracy,  respect  for human  rights, and development  as  an 
equitable  and  sustainable  process. 
Now  that  the end of the cold war has  raised  the hopes  of millions, a 
system  of  collective  security  is envisaged  to preserve  world peace  and 
stability  and  to provide  a new vision  of development  very much  along  the lines 
of the Charter  of  the United Nations.  Economic  and  social  development  is not 
possible without  peace  and  stability, which  are prerequisites  and  not 
substitutes  for development.  The  last  18 months  have witnessed  profound 
historic  changes  in the world  economy.  A  large part  of  the world  remains  in a 
state of  transition  and uncertainty while  it  is being  transformed 
fundamentally.  The  Secretary-General  has  offered  us  a new  concept  of 
integrated  development  no  longer based  on the  traditional  strict 
differentiation  among political, economic  and  social  issues.  In his 
A/47/PV.11 
78 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
introductory  remarks  to the high-level  segment  of  the Economic  and  Social 
Council, he  argued  in favour  of  an  integrated  approach  to global  issues  under 
which the United  Nations  system,  through preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and 
peace-keeping  will bring  its political  influence  to bear  on the  solution  of 
economic  and  social  issues.  This  approach  is best  suited  to the  Organization 
because  it will  secure  "a unit  thrust"  in all  the  activities  of  the United 
nations  system  through enhanced  coordination  of agencies. 
The  recently  concluded  Conference  on Environment  and Development  held  at 
Rio de Janeiro  is a first  example  of  this approach.  A conceptual  bridge was 
crossed  there.  We hope  that  fundamental  principles  agreed  on at Rio  de 
Janeiro will be  translated  into concrete  action. 
The world  economic  situation presents  an uneven  and variegated  picture. 
In countries where  there  is a movement  towards  a market  system,  economic 
difficulties  are  increasing,  exacerbated  by new assertions  of nationalism,  as 
well as by ethnic  and  religious  challenges, which  threaten  social peace  and 
the cohesion of States. 
In the developing  countries  growth  remains  on the whole  sluggish, while 
there has been great  diversity  in performance  among them.  Moreover,  the 
problems which plagued  the developing world  in the  1980s  still persist.  As 
pointed out  in the World  Economic  Survey.  1992. world  production  fell  in  1991 
for the  first  time  since  the Second World War, and the  recovery  that  was 
beginning  to take  shape  appeared  to be exceptionally  weak.  The Uruguay  Round 
of trade negotiations  under  the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade  (GATT) 
remains stalled.  Financial  assistance  for development  purposes  is still  hard 
to come by, while  developing  and other  countries must  complete  painful 
adjustment  programmes.  High  inflation,  large-scale  deficits,  debt  burdens  and 
A/47/PV.11 
79-80 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou. Greece) 
lack of adequate investments have not yet shown signs of improvement. 
Furthermore, economic hardship has given rise to fanaticism, unchecked 
migratory movements, civil strife and criminal acts.  Development continues to 
be the most serious challenge of all countries. 
The world economic situation provides an opportunity for a strengthening 
of the role of the United Nations system as regards enhancing international 
cooperation for development.  The important political changes of the last two 
years and the integrated nature of political, economic and social issues call 
for the United Nations to play a major role in shaping the directions of 
social and economic development. 
Progress in the regional conflicts that have been on the agenda of our 
Organization has again been uneven.  Peace in the Middle East remains 
elusive.  The most important element of the Middle East problem is the 
Arab-Israeli conflict.  Two of the most ancient peoples in the world, each of 
which has made outstanding contributions to the common heritage of mankind, 
have for decades confronted each other, seemingly unwilling to accept for the 
other what each demands for itself, that is, the right to exist within safe 
and recognized borders, the right to a homeland, and the right to take charge 
of its own destiny.  However, the events of the last 12 months seem to 
indicate that each side may now be prepared to accept for the other at least 
part of what it demands for itself.  And this development, although in itself 
not sufficient for the solution to the conflict, does seem to justify the 
judgement that the chances for peace are better now than they were a year ago. 
A/47/PV.11 
81 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
I wish  in this  connection  to pay  tribute  to the  commitment  and 
perseverance  of  the  sponsors  of  the peace process  launched  in Madrid  in 
October  1991, as well  as to  the wisdom  and  courage  displayed  by  the  parties 
directly  involved.  It  is the  fervent hope  of  the Greek Government  that  the 
new Israeli  Government,  as well  as the Arab parties  involved, will  seize  the 
opportunity  to work  together  towards  a comprehensive  peace. 
No one  can dispute  today  that  apartheid  is an unacceptable  political 
system that has  to be eradicated  in all  its  forms  and practical  consequences. 
Furthermore,  the  international  community  and the main political  leaders  in 
South Africa  are  committed  to  the  creation of  a united,  non-racial  and 
democratic  South African  society  through peaceful means  and  through 
negotiations  involving  all parties  concerned. 
However,  the  recent wave  of violence  in South Africa, which  claimed  many 
innocent  lives,  seemed  to pose  a serious  threat  to the negotiating process, 
and to undermine  the  results  achieved  so far.  Greece  firmly believes  that  no 
effort  should be  spared  to help  South African  society  keep  the momentum  and to 
continue building  upon what has been  achieved.  Let us bear  in mind  that,  now 
more than ever,  the new  reality of  intensified  subregional,  regional  and 
international  cooperation  in the political  and economic  fields points  to  an 
important  role  for  a new,  democratic,  united  and non-racial  South  Africa. 
In the Horn  of Africa,  in Somalia,  a human  tragedy  of  almost 
unprecedented  scale  is unfolding.  War, drought  and  the collapse  of  civil 
authority threaten  the very existence  of  the country:  the  physical 
existence 
the  lives 
of  its people.  Starvation  has  already  claimed 
thousands of  lives. 
We know, however,  that  the difficulties  of  the  two  regions  I have  just 
referred  to are only part  of a more  complicated,  multifaceted  structural  p 
A/47/PV.11 
82 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
roblem  faced by  the whole  continent  of Africa  in all  fields  of  human 
activity.  We have  to give  all possible  help  to  the  countries  of Africa to 
solve  their  present  problems  and  to undertake  new efforts  of  cooperation and 
integration which will  foster development,  peace  and  stability. 
The  Greek Government  welcomes  the positive  results  of  the Helsinki  summit 
of  1992  in the  framework  of the Conference  on Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  (CSCE) and  attaches particular  importance  to the  comprehensive  nature 
of  the CSCE process, which brings  together  the Governments  and  the peoples of 
Europe  and  those  of  the United  States  and  Canada.  The Helsinki  follow-up 
meeting provided  an  important  opportunity  for discussions  on  the  future  role 
of  the CSCE.  In particular,  the  strengthening  of  its  institutions  is expected 
to  increase  the effectiveness  of  the CSCE  in the prevention,  management  and 
peaceful  settlement  of disputes.  The  Concluding Document  adopted  at the 
summit  characterizes  the CSCE  as a regional  arrangement  in  the  sense of the 
provisions  of Chapter VIII  of  the United Nation Charter.  In  that way,  the 
CSCE process  contributes  substantially  to  the collegiality  of  the world 
community  and  is therefore  supported wholeheartedly  by  the Greek  Government. 
Although  the  international  community  has  increased  its cooperation in 
combating  drug  abuse  and  the  illicit production  of  and  trafficking  in 
narcotics,  this  scourge  continues  to plague  and  undermine  our  societies. 
Consequently,  further  intensified  and more  effective  international  cooperation 
is  required within  the existing  international  and  regional mechanisms  provided 
for by  the United  Nations  and  regional  organizations. 
My  country,  which  lies  at  the  crossroads  of  the world,  continues  to be 
actively  engaged  in the  fight  against  drugs.  It  is  in the process  of  adopting 
new  legislation  and policies  to enhance  its effectiveness  in combating  the 
problem.  Furthermore, we have  increased  our  cooperation with  all  States of 
A/47/PV.11 
83-85 
(Mr. Papaconstantinou.  Greece) 
our  region with  a view  to  adopting  and  implementing  effective  practical 
measures  against  drug  trafficking. 
In conclusion,  I should  like to  reaffirm  my  country's  commitment  to the 
United Nations  and  to  the  spirit  of  international  cooperation  and  solidarity 
it embodies.  We  join  forces with  the other  nations  of  the world  and pledge  to 
make every possible  effort  for world  peace  and  stability  and  for  a humane 
international  community,  on  an enduringly beautiful  planet. 
Mr. TAVERAS  GUZMAN  (Dominican  Republic)  (interpretation  from 
Spanish):  Permit me  to begin.  Sir, by taking  this opportunity  to  convey  to 
you the  congratulations  of  the delegation  of  the Dominican  Republic  on your 
election  to the presidency  of  the General Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh 
session.  Coming  from  a region that  is taking on a new dimension  in the 
international  community,  you will  no doubt  take  a realistic  view of  the major 
challenges  posed by  the world  situation.  You have  first-hand  experience  of 
the transformations  taking place  in the world.  You  are thus  superbly 
qualified  to guide with  composure  the deliberations  of  the  Assembly. 
We wish  also  to pay  a warm  tribute  to the distinguished  Saudi  diplomat. 
His Excellency Mr. Samir  S. Shihabi,  the outgoing  President,  for his  skill  and 
for the  fruitful  results he  achieved  in his work. 
On the new  international  landscape, with the dissolution  of  the  Soviet 
Union and  the collapse  of  communism,  the  likelihood  of  a world war  has 
vanished.  But  in many  regions  it  remains possible  that  conflicts  of  an 
unpredictable  nature  could  take place.* 
* 
Mr. Moumin  (Comoros), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.11 
86 
(Mr. Taveras  Guzman. 
Dominican  Republic) 
Hence  the  international  community  should  remain vigilant,  because  though 
it is true that  the danger  of nuclear war  has disappeared,  it  is no  less true 
that  another menace  is still with us, that  of  the  continued  quest,  on the part 
of  some  countries,  for technology  for  the production  of  nuclear  weaponry, 
behind  the back  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy Agency.  The  Agency 
deserves  to be  revitalized  so that  it will be  able  to work  effectively  in its 
efforts  to prevent  the proliferation  of  those  terrible weapons. 
Mankind  is still burdened  with problems  arising  out  of  the  so-called 
conventional  weapons, which  are becoming more  and more  destructive,  and what 
is needed  is a degree  of  international  control  to  limit  them.  That would make 
available  resources  that,  if properly  used,  could  contribute  to  the 
development  of  the countries  of  the  third world,  which  are  already  suffering 
because of heavy public  debt  and  restrictive  and protectionist  measures 
impeding  international  trade. 
That  is the most  important  challenge  facing mankind,  and  this  forum is 
the  right place  to discuss  those  issues  and  create  conditions  and  lay down 
guidelines  to  improve  the  lot of  the two  thirds  of mankind  that  today  finds 
itself  threatened,  not only by  the economic  crisis  and  the  inequalities 
between North  and  South but  also by the  continued  deterioration  of  the 
environment,  which has been degraded by our  own deliberate  or  unwitting  use 
and  abuse  of  it. 
I have  expressed  these  thoughts  because  I come  from  a country,  the 
Dominican  Republic,  that  is  small  in  size, with  an  area of  only  48,400  square 
kilometres  and  a population  of  7,500,000,  and we  feel  the  ill  effects  of the 
problems  I have mentioned:  burdensome  external  debt  and  declining  trade 
because  of  restrictive  and protectionist  practices  in the  countries 
A/47/PV.11 
87 
(Mr. Taveras Guzman. 
Dominican Republic) 
to which we export our agricultural products, whose prices are constantly 
falling in world markets.  Our adverse trade situation means that we are 
losing significant resources that could be devoted to our development. 
Nevertheless, over the last two years the Dominican economy has undergone 
a successful process of adjustment that has made it possible to eliminate 
inflation, stabilize the national currency and bring the budgetary deficit 
under control, all as a result of the adoption of a restrictive monetary 
policy.  This has helped to rebuild confidence in the production sectors.  We 
believe that confidence in our country's business sector in the immediate 
future is indispensable for the achievement of an accelerated and sustained 
recovery of the Dominican economy.  Even more important in that regard is the 
country's ability in the short term to increase the foreign-exchange income 
that it needs for its development, at a time when the export of raw materials 
is being replaced by service-sector products. 
The Dominican Republic is now pursuing closer ties with the States 
members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), with a view to bringing about 
our definitive entrance into CARICOM, on the basis of the great significance 
that the Dominican Government attaches at this time to the achievement of a 
more advantageous position vis-a-vis the European Economic Community as a 
State member of the Lome Convention, and the Dominican Republic is thus aiming 
to bring about greater openness in markets when it comes to selling its 
products internationally. 
The achievements of the Dominican Republic, despite the grave economic 
crisis suffered in recent years by Latin American and Caribbean countries, 
have been the result of good government, presided over by 
Dr. Joaquin Balaguer, a champion of democracy who gives us an example of what 
A/47/PV.11 
88-90 
(Mr. Taveras  Guzman. 
Dominican  Republic) 
a  leader  can do with  the  scant  resources  of  a poor  State when  they  are used 
judiciously  to  create  conditions  favourable  to the people.  Those  achievements 
include,  among other  things, the construction  of  thousands  of  dwellings, 
hundreds  of  kilometres  of highways  and  local  roads, as well  as  schools and 
hospitals  to provide vital  social  services  to  a constantly  growing  population. 
Let me now turn to  the  situation  of our  fraternal  neighbour, Haiti. 
Unfortunately,  throughout  its existence  as an  independent  country  Haiti has 
endured  a chronic  situation  of economic  penury  and  the  impoverishment  of its 
soil.  This has  forced  its population  to emigrate  in waves  across  our borders 
and by  sea  in search of  a better  life.  Today  that  situation  is made even more 
tragic by  the political  crisis our Haitian brothers  are going  through. 
The Dominican  authorities  and people  are not  indifferent  to  that 
situation, which  stems  from  the  C O UP  d'etat  that  cut  short 
President  Aristide's  experiment  in  democracy. 
A/47/PV.11 
91 
(Mr. Taveras  Guzman. 
Dominican  Republic) 
That development  was  condemned  by  the Organization  of American  States  (OAS), 
which  imposed  a trade embargo  to compel  the  current  authorities  to  restore 
legality.  So  far  as the Dominican  Government,  presided  over  by 
Mr. Joaquin  Balaguer,  is concerned,  negotiation  and dialogue within  the 
context  of  absolute  respect  for  the norms of  international  law are  the most 
appropriate  instruments  in the quest  for peace.  Accordingly,  we have been  and 
continue  to be providing  disinterested  support  to all  the parties  to  the 
conflict,  in the hope  that  a solution  that would  resolve  existing  differences 
can be  found  and  that  all  institutions  in the Republic  of Haiti  can  again 
function  normally. 
Our  Government  is deeply  democratic,  respects  human  rights  and  jealously 
guards  its prerogative  of guaranteeing  the  liberties  of  those  inhabiting  the 
Republic. 
We deplore  the  fragmentation  of  the former Yugoslavia  as well  as the 
tragedy  that has befallen  its people.  Bereft  of  any guarantee  of  their 
rights,  they are  suffering  the onslaught  of  a tragic  fratricidal  war  that  is 
taking a heavy  toll  in human  lives, particularly  those  of women  and  children, 
who are subjected  to constant  air  attacks  and  shellings  and  are deprived  of 
the food and medicine  they need  in order  to  subsist  and  treat  their wounds  and 
illnesses.  We  support  the measures  adopted by  the United Nations with  regard 
to the former Yugoslavia,  measures  that urge  the parties  to  respect  human 
rights  and  forcefully  condemn  the  loathsome  practice  of  "ethnic  cleansing". 
It  is a source of  satisfaction  to my  delegation  to  see  the  communication 
that is developing between  the Republic  of Korea  and  the Democratic  People's 
A/47/PV.11 
92 
(Mr. Taveras  Guzman. 
Dominican  Republic) 
Republic  of  Korea,  aimed  at  reuniting  the Korean  family.  We  regret, however, 
that  the Democratic  People's  Republic  of Korea  is persisting  in  its  nuclear 
research with  the aim of building  nuclear  weapons. 
By the  same token, we  are optimistic  about  the  situation  developing among 
the Arab peoples  and  the people of  Israel, and we hope  that  this  atmosphere of 
dialogue  and negotiation will gain even greater  momentum  so that  those 
concerned may  live  in peace  and harmony  on their  lands while moving  towards a 
future  of prosperity  and progress. 
Though  the cold war  is a thing of  the past,  the danger  and  the tragedy of 
regional  conflicts  are  still with us.  Settling  those  conflicts  requires 
international  cooperation  and the good will of  the parties  involved.  However, 
another  serious  threat  to peace  and  to the well-being  of  our  peoples  still 
faces  the Americas  and other parts of  the world.  We  refer here  to  drug 
trafficking  and  the destruction  and  social  and moral harm which  that  scourge 
entails  for all  our  communities.  Our  country  supports  every  single  measure 
taken by the United Nations  to cope with  this  serious problem,  and calls for 
continued  efforts  to resolve  and  do away with  this global  scourge. 
In this vein,  the Dominican  Republic  has been  taking  forceful  steps to 
confront  this evil, pursuing  a dynamic  drug-abuse-prevention  drive  and at the 
same time  launching major  administrative,  legislative  and  judicial 
initiatives, not only  against  drug production,  but  also  against  the marketing 
of  and  the  trafficking  in drugs.  Moreover, we have  signed  bilateral  accords 
along  these  lines with  countries  in our  region  and  are  in  the  final phase of 
preparations  leading  to our  accession  to  the  1988 United  Nations  Convention 
Against  Illicit Traffic  in Narcotic  Drugs and Psychotropic  Substances. 
A/47/PV.11 
93-95 
(Mr. Taveras Guzman, 
Dominican Republic) 
The facts in terms of the state of the environment the world over are 
growing ever more alarming and must be a source of concern to, and a reason 
for solidarity among, all States Members of the Organization. 
Because of interdependence, damage done to the environment anywhere in 
the world has an impact upon us all.  Accordingly, international cooperation 
is necessary so that the States of the third world as well as the 
industrialized nations can strive together to ensure that present and future 
generations will be able to enjoy a clean planet Earth, where life will be 
easier and happier.  The Dominican Goverment, aware of these facts, has 
embarked on a process of reforesting our country and of conserving our natural 
resources.  We support whatever steps the international community may take 
along these lines, and, to demonstrate this, we are submitting to the Congress 
of our Republic, with a view to accession, the 1985 Vienna Convention for the 
Protection of the Ozone Layer, along with its Protocol on Substances that 
Deplete the Ozone Layer. 
At this point, we should like to refer to the matter of racial 
discrimination, yet another major problem that still shocks the conscience of 
humankind and continues to represent a major challenge to and violation of the 
most elementary norms of human rights. 
A/47/PV.11 
96 
(Mr. Taveras Guzman. 
Dominican Republic) 
In this sense, our country has repeatedly, in this very forum, stated its 
rejection and repudiation of the apartheid system.  Two years ago, right here, 
we expressed satisfaction at the announcement by the President of South 
Africa, Frederick de Klerk, of the recognition of the rights of other races in 
that country to ensure that an end would be put to the system of apartheid. 
However, today racial tensions continue to escalate, and it is not possible to 
discern any rapid progress in the process of change in South Africa.  The 
policy of apartheid constitutes a crime against the conscience and the dignity 
of human beings and, therefore, it must be totally eliminated, so that a 
genuine democracy, based on a multi-ethnic and pluralist system, may be 
established in South Africa. 
The 1990s have begun with great frustration, but also with great hope 
frustration because of the stagnation or backsliding in terms of social 
progress, which the 1980s left as a legacy to the majority of developing 
countries; hope because what is taking place is a real revolution in thinking, 
which makes imperative a review and a revision of proposals for the promotion 
of development. 
In the economic arena, there is a constant search for ways and means of 
fostering the resumption of growth and modernization, as well as the more 
active participation of those countries in the world economy.  The data on the 
social condition of the majority of the world's population, and the 
possibility that those data may worsen as a result of economic measures that 
have been adopted, have made it necessary to place the issue of the social 
dimension in the world at the heart of our debate. 
The concept that social issues are a secondary matter, in contrast with 
the primary process taking place in political forums, is a grave and extremely 
A/47/PV.11 
97 
(Mr. Taveras  Guzman, 
Dominican  Republic) 
costly mistake.  In fact,  if we do not deal with  the  social problems  they  turn 
very quickly  into political  problems.  The groan of hunger  does more  than 
break the  silence; eventually  it rends peace  asunder.  That  is why  the 
Dominican  Republic  backs  unreservedly  the convening  of  a world  summit  for 
social development.  We  take  the view  that  the concept  of human  security, 
which  that proposal  reflects, refers directly  to the  important  - indeed,  the 
overriding 
task  facing  all  societies:  the provision  of  food,  clothing  and 
housing  in quantities  sufficient  for all, while promoting  social progress  in 
harmony with  the environment,  and  supporting  those  institutions  that  respond 
to the noblest  aspirations  that human beings  cherish  throughout  their  lives. 
Even if only  in terms  strictly  of  a cost-benefit  analysis,  it is cheaper  to 
deal with  social problems  now.  Dealing with them  later  involves paying  the 
price of  social upheaval.  We  literally  cannot  afford  to  ignore  that  truth. 
We have great  pleasure  in taking  advantage  of this opportunity  to 
reaffirm  our  resolute  support  for  the International  Research and  Training 
Institute  for the Advancement  of Women.  The Dominican  Republic  is  profoundly 
committed  to  the  success of  that  body. 
Today,  the United Nations  constitutes  that  ecumenical,  common  forum  where 
we set  forth our  ideas  as we  seek  solutions  intended  to bring  about  a better 
life  in the world  in which we  live 
a world  free  from  discrimination  and 
waste.  It is our  desire  to  see the work  of this Organization  revitalized  so 
that  it may be  able more effectively  to do its  job and  live up  to  its 
obligations.  We give  it our  fullest  support,  and we  express  our  faith and 
hope in universal  peace  and  harmony. 
A/47/PV.11 
98-100 
Mr. LUMBI OKONGO (Zaire) (interpretation from French):  In 
addressing this Assembly for the first time, I should like, first, on behalf 
of my delegation and on my own behalf, to carry out the pleasant duty of 
conveying to Mr. Ganev of Bulgaria our most earnest and warmest 
congratulations on his election to the presidency of the Generaly Assembly at 
its forty-seventh session, and to assure him of our cooperation with a view to 
achieving a successful outcome. 
We should like also to take this opportunity to pay a well-deserved 
tribute to Mr. Samir Shihabi of Saudi Arabia for the deft and skilful manner 
in which he led the work of the last session. 
A/47/PV.11 
101 
(Mr. Lumbi  Okonoo.  Zaire) 
To  the  Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali, we  reiterate  our 
most earnest  congratulations  on  the outstanding manner  in which he has  been 
discharging his  difficult  responsibilities  since he was elected head  of  our 
Organization. 
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to welcome  the positive  and  beneficial 
influence of  the  activities  of  our  former  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Javier  Perez  de Cuellar, who was  able to give our Organization  a new 
dynamism  and brought  it closer  to the goals  assigned  to  it by  its  founding 
fathers. 
On behalf  of  Zaire,  I welcome  the new Member  States  that have  joined  the 
Organization,  thereby bringing  us closer  to  its much-desired  goal  of 
universality. 
But we  are bound  to note  that  the purposes  of our Organization  laid  down 
in its Charter  are  far  from being  achieved,  because  in many places  throughout 
the world  the universal peace  that we  so earnestly  seek  is still  just  an 
ambition.  Indeed, hotbeds  of  tension have been  rekindled,  thereby 
jeopardizing  international  peace  and  security, which our Organization has a 
duty to guarantee.  We  earnestly  appeal  to all parties  in conflict,  wherever 
they may be, to  lay down  their  arms  and exclude  the word  "force" from  their 
vocabulary. 
In this vein, we  find  a great  deal of merit  in the  Secretary-General's 
report,  "An Agenda  for  Peace"  (A/47/277),  to the  international  community,  in 
which we  find valuable  recommendations  on preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking 
and peace-keeping. 
We believe  that  the Assembly  should give  the greatest  attention  to  this 
analysis.  Zaire pledges  its help  in studying  these  ideas,  so useful  to our 
Organization. 
A/47/PV.11 
102 
(Mr. Lumbi  Okonoo.  Zaire) 
The  Secretary-General's  recommendations  lead us  to  focus  on  a few of the 
many  areas of  tension. 
The  Security  Council meeting  on violence  in South Africa made  it possible 
to avoid  a break  in the dialogue  established  within  the  Convention  for a 
Democratic  South Africa  (CODESA).  We  reiterate  our  appeal  to  all  political 
forces  to put  an end  to their  antagonism  so that negotiations  for  the 
establishment  of  a representative  government may  resume.  To  this  end, we 
strongly  urge  the  South African Government  to use  all  necessary ways  and means 
to put  an end  to extremist  acts of  all  kinds  that  lead  to  violence. 
In the Middle East,  since  the establishment  of  the  Government  resulting 
from  the  latest elections  in Israel  and  the  resumption  of negotiations  between 
the parties  concerned, we have  reason  for  some hope.  We Therefore  urge all 
parties  committed  to the quest  for an overall  political  solution  that would 
lead  to  lasting peace  in that  region  to continue  along  the path  of dialogue. 
For  some years now we have witnessed  considerable  efforts  by  the United 
States  of America  and  the Russian Federation 
the Powers  with  the most 
sophisticated  and most  destructive  weapons, whether  nuclear,  conventional, 
biological  or  chemical 
drastically  to  reduce  the number  of  such weapons, 
thereby  helping  to establish  a new era  in international  politics  and  in peace 
and  security  for  States  and peoples.  Zaire welcomes  this most  sincerely, and 
we hope  that  other military  Powers will  follow  their  example.  If  they do, the 
second millennium,  for which we  are preparing  so busily, will  open up new 
prospects  for humankind  as a whole. 
A/47/PV.11 
103 
(Mr. Lumbi  Okongo.  Zaire) 
Today,  in a surge of world-wide  solidarity,  the developed  countries 
living  in prosperity  should help,  in a spirit  of  true partnership,  the 
countries  of  the  South  to  solve  the problems  related  to  underdevelopment, 
which have many  complex  causes.  It  is true  that underdevelopment  will  not  go 
away overnight  simply  because  the prosperous  countries  of  the North decide  to 
make available  to third world  countries  financial  resources  resulting  from 
cutbacks  they may make  in their military  budgets; rather  it will  be ended  by 
strategies  to do  away with  the  dire poverty  of  the nations  of Africa  and  other 
underdeveloped  countries. 
That  is why  Zaire  is convinced  that  a harmonious  future  for our  planet 
depends on peace,  security  and prosperity  shared by all  nations, both of  the 
North and of  the  South.  And  that  is why  Zaire  also believes  that  the  Final 
Document  of  the  International  Conference  on  the Relationship  between 
Disarmament  and Development  should  now be  implemented  in order  to  find  the 
necessary  resources  to  solve  the daunting  problems  our  peoples  face. 
It is clear  that  the collective  security  aspects  likely  to create  tension 
and conflict  in the world  are not only military,  but  also  spring  from  the 
extreme  impoverishment  of our peoples, linked  to high population growth  rates 
and the debt  burden. 
Looking  at our  ravaged  economies, we believe  that  debt  servicing must  in 
no way hamstring  our  development  efforts.  Our  countries' total external  debt 
is constantly  increasing,  and has  now  reached more  than $1.5 billion.  Without 
any real readiness  to  cooperate  on the part  of  the  industrialized  countries, 
and without  considerable  efforts  devoted  to the planning  and  establishment  of 
appropriate  ad hoc  structures,  there will be no hope  of  recovery  for  our 
economies. 
A/47/PV.11 
104 
(Mr. Lumbi Okonoo. Zaire! 
We strongly hope that those devising strategic development policies for 
the fourth decade will take into account the recommendations of the Economic 
Commission for Africa (ECA) resulting from the Conference of Ministers 
responsible for economic development and planning, held in Addis Ababa from 
20 to 24 April of this year, which drew up guidelines for the years ahead. 
We also hope that, in accordance with the New International Development 
Strategy for the 1990s, the United Nations and the international community 
will support efforts aimed at the economic recovery of Africa, for the common 
good of all humankind. 
Zaire hails the effective measures to protect and improve the environment 
envisaged in the Rio Conventions.  Indeed, as we have vast areas of protected 
forests, we would appreciate acceptance by the international community of the 
idea of recompensing countries that set aside major forested areas with a view 
to protecting them from the ravages of humankind. 
Zaire, whose vast expanses of tropical rainforest have given it the 
status of the planet's "second lung", after Amazonia, has for long been in the 
vanguard of environmental conservation.  Our country has a major network of 
linked national parks and reserves covering 8 per cent of our national 
territory.  Some of these nature reserves  the oldest of which were 
established more than 75 years ago - protect the rarest of species, including 
the okapi, the white rhinoceros and the gorilla.  In the context of the 
Conventions adopted in Rio de Janeiro, Zaire offers all these natural 
resources to the international community as a contribution to the common 
heritage of humankind. 
A/47/PV.11 
105 
(Mr. Lumbi  Okonoo,  Zaire) 
Therefore, my  country  calls  upon  the  international  community, 
particularly  the developed  countries, to ensure  that  additional  resources  are 
made available  for  the effective  implementation  of Agenda  21 and  the  new 
Conventions  dealing with biodiversity  and  climate  change.  My  delegation 
appeals  to all  countries  to give massive  support  to Agenda  21 and  its 
accompanying  Conventions;  it asks  that  they  sign them  and take  all  the 
necessary  steps  to  ratify them.  We  invite  countries  of  the North that might 
still be hesitant  about  adapting  their  future behaviour  to the requirements  of 
environmental  conservation  and protection  to respond  positively. 
A/47/PV.11 
106 
(Mr. Lumbi  Okongo. Zaire) 
It  is no  secret  to  anyone  that  Zaire  is today experiencing  a deep 
multisectoral  crisis essentially  attributable  to  the disastrous  management of 
its human,  financial  and material  resources.  The  readiness  for  change 
expressed  by our  people  as  a whole  triumphed  on  24 April  1990 with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the President  of  the Republic, which  finally  recognized 
the need  for  democratic  political  reform. 
Following  the example  of other African  countries, Zairians  claimed  and 
obtained  the holding  of  a national  sovereign  conference.  Opened  in 
August  1991, that  conference  is taking place  in an  atmosphere  whose  tone was 
set,  on the one  hand, by  the troubles  of  September  1991, which  ruined  the 
country's  already  reeling economy,  and,  on the other, by  a  succession  of 
political  crises  spawned  in the climate  of distrust  that  existed  between the 
established  powers  and  the opposition.  Suspended  a number  of  times, the work 
of  the national  sovereign  conference  none  the  less has managed  to continue to 
this day because  our  people has  spared  no  sacrifice  to  lend  its  full  support 
to this  forum.  Because of  this, the date of  16 February will  live  in our 
memory.  Thus, as I speak, the meetings  of  the national  sovereign  conference 
are  about  to culminate, more  than  a year  after  its opening,  in the  adoption of 
committee  reports  following  the election of  a Prime Minister  and  the 
establishment  of  a transition  Government. 
The  transition  period will be managed  by  three  institutions:  the 
Presidency  of  the Republic,  the Supreme Council  of  the Republic,  and  the 
transition  Government.  As  regards  the  transition  Government,  the  national 
sovereign  conference  elected Mr. Etienne Tshisekedi  Wa Mulumba  as  Prime 
Minister  in the vote held  last August.  The  transition  Government  pledges 
before  international  opinion  to guide  this period  of  transition  in the calmest 
and most  peaceful  manner  possible. 
A/47/PV.11 
107 
(Mr. Lumbi  Okongo.  Zaire) 
The  essential,  indeed  overriding,  goal of  the transition  remains  the 
establishment  of  a state based  upon the  rule of  law.  Welcoming  the  role 
played by  the  free press  in the evolution  of democracy  in our  country,  the 
Government  is determined  to encourage  and  support  the media  so that  they  can 
play their  full  role  in all  freedom.  Moreover,  the transition  Government  and 
the Supreme Council  of  the Republic will  establish  the High Council  for 
Audio-Visual  Media, which will manage  the official press  agencies  in the  same 
spirit.  The Government  is also  committed  to  fighting  censorhip  and  to 
promoting  freedom  of  the press  in all  its forms. 
The establishment  of  a State based  on the  rule of  law necessarily  entails 
respect  for  the  rights  of  the  individual.  That  is why  the Government  will 
work in concert with  the  associations  responsible  for human  rights  issues.  To 
that end,  they will be granted  the civil  status  that has been hitherto  denied 
them,  as well  as being guaranteed  access  to the media  and  freedom  of  action 
throughout  our  national  territory. 
A top priority  for  the transition  Government  is laying the best  possible 
groundwork  for  the  advent  of  a State based  on the  rule of  law.  To  this  end, 
Zaire  intends to hold  free and democratic  elections  shortly.  We  therefore 
urgently  appeal  to the  international  community  to help us organize  these 
elections  in the greatest  possible  transparency. 
In conclusion,  I should  like to draw attention  once  again  to  the most 
alarming  situation  of  our planet,  a situation on which  the  entire 
international  community  is  focused.  My delegation  is convinced  that  the 
United Nations  is and will  remain  the  ideal  framework  for  the quest  for 
peaceful  solutions  likely  to defuse  the hotbeds  of  tension  that have  developed 
in Africa, Asia  and  Europe. 
A/47/PV.11 
108 
(Mr. Lumbi Okongo. Zaire) 
As for Zaire, I have just recalled the great choices made by the national 
sovereign conference to provide the Zairian people with a new era of peace, 
democracy and economic development.  In accordance with the United Nations 
Charter, Zaire announces its faith in the basic rights of the individual.  To 
that end, my country will spare no effort to ensure the victory of legality, 
justice, equity and equality. 
I wish the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly the fullest 
measure of success. 
Mr. KIJINER (Marshall Islands):  I take this opportunity warmly to 
congratulate you. Sir, on your election to the presidency of the forty-seventh 
session of the General Assembly.  We know that we are in capable hand as we 
face the important tasks ahead of us.  I should also like to express my 
appreciation to your predecessor. Ambassador Samir Shihabi of Saudi Arabia, 
for the distinguished manner in which he guided the General Assembly during 
the last session. 
It was one year ago that the General Assembly honoured the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands by granting it membership in the United Nations.  On this 
anniversary, as we reflect on our times, we note that a central feature of the 
international political landscape of the past several years has been the 
emergence or the re-emergence of the nationalities. 
It is our grave responsibility to serve our nations during this 
challenging period of transition and development.  Throughout the world we are 
seeing the advent of self-government by nations.  The sovereignty and dignity 
of indigenous peoples are coming to be recognized as the basis for effective 
government.  In the Marshall Islands, as in other developing countries 
throughout the world, we have set high aspirations for our nation and we seek 
expanded opportunities for our people.  Our children will no longer be denied 
A/47/PV.11 
109-110 
(Mr. Kiiiner. Marshall  Islands) 
achievement  of  their  potential  because of  the  time  and place  into which  they 
were born.  They will  be  the hope  and  the pride  of our  nation,  and  our  future. 
We  are grateful  to the United  Nations  for  its  steadfast  commitment  to 
fostering  the  self-government  and  self-determination  of peoples.  For  many 
peoples,  it has been  a long  time  coming. 
Like  so many  countries,  large  and  small, the Marshall  Islands was  for 
four  and a half  decades  relegated  to one  camp  of  the great  cold-war  struggle. 
In the immediate  aftermath  of  the  Second World War, the  residents  of  Bikini 
and Enewetak  Atolls  in the Northern Marshall  Islands were  relocated  from  their 
ancestral  homes  so that  the United  States Government  could  conduct  an 
extensive  and widely publicized  programme  of  testing  atomic  and  nuclear 
weapons.  Even  though  the testing programme  was discontinued  in the  late 
1950s, our  Government  and people  are  still  coming  to terms with  its effects  on 
our health  and way of  life.  We have many good  reasons  to applaud  the end of 
the cold war. 
A/47/PV.11 
111 
(Mr. Kiiiner. Marshall  Island.) 
The breakdown  of  the two  contending  camps has  left  a world  in which we 
can no  longer  conveniently  apply  the  simple  classification  of  nations  into the 
Eastern bloc  or  the Western block.  It is a time  fraught with  uncertainty and 
risk, but  it is also  a time  for  rethinking  our  concepts  of government  and its 
relation  to  individual  citizens.  And with  this  rethinking we must  see that 
greater  responsibilities  are opened  to mankind. 
We  are  finding  that  the  expediencies  that  once worked  in the  cold war 
centres  of power  are too broad,  too  large  in  scale,  too  impersonal,  for the 
smaller  nations.  Development  is now taking place  on a more  human  scale.  The 
growth of nations  is providing  the  context  for human  ingenuity  to  assert 
itself with  fewer  restraints.  The progress  of  the past  decade has  resulted in 
a greater  portion of mankind  than ever before  living  in situations  of 
political  and  economic  freedom.  Increasingly,  the human  spirit  has been able 
to soar  unfettered  by  restraints  and  regulations  imposed  by  authorities too 
distant  from  individuals'  circumstances. 
In a setting of  liberty,  the  individual  is empowered  to  advance  to the 
extent  of his  ability.  For many years  teachers  in  the Marshall  Islands have 
sought  to  implement  the wise  insight  of Marcus  Aurelius: 
"Give  a man  a fish and you have  fed him  for  a day.  Teach  a man  to fish 
and you have  fed him  for  ever." 
Some of our  teachers  have  even  convinced  themselves  that  this  is Marshallese 
folk wisdom!  But  at  least  they  recognize  that  the most  effective  help is 
self-help. 
The  exchange  of  ideas  and  the  reduction  of  trade  barriers  have  served to 
draw mankind  together.  People  throughout  the world  are  now  cooperating  in the 
developmental  process.  In no nation do people  live  in the  isolation  that our 
A/47/PV.11 
112 
(Mr. Kiiiner. Marshall  Islands) 
ancestors  did only  a century  ago 
and  that  some people  endured  until  the end 
of the cold war.  But,  in the  face of modernization,  the people  and places  of 
the world have  retained  their particular  attributes,  and  these  are now  giving 
force and  cohesion  to their  national  characters. 
The past year has  seen the Earth  Summit  in Rio de Janeiro.  At  this 
historic  gathering  the nations  of  the world  agreed  to pursue  their 
developmental  goals  in a manner  that will  sustain  the ecological  diversity  of 
our planet.  We  in the Marshall  Islands, living on  low-lying  coral  atolls  and 
islands, have been  following with great  interest  the  scientific  debate  over 
global warming.  The  same careful  approach  that we have  applied  to  evaluating 
the impact  of nuclear  testing  in our  islands  is also being  applied  to  the 
possible dangers  of  a rise  in sea  level.  In this  regard,  I am pleased  to 
reiterate  the  call  that President  Amata  Kabua of  the Marshall  Islands made  at 
the Rio Summit  for  the United Nations  to convene  a follow-up  Earth  Summit  in 
1995, coinciding with  the  fiftieth  anniversary of  the United Nations. 
If global warming  endangers  certain  regions  and certain modes  of  life, we 
have to confirm  the  risks  and  inform  our  citizens  about  them.  An  environment 
at risk will be  a significant  constraint  for the developing  nations  in the 
late twentieth  century.  Nevertheless, our  concern  for environmental  quality 
need not put  a halt  to the developmental  process.  Instead,  it will be part  of 
the overall  situation  to which  individuals will  respond with  creativity  and 
productivity. 
With  the assistance  of  the United Nations, the people  of our  countries 
will  continue  to benefit  from  the  international  structure  of  trade,  cultural 
exchanges, environmental  studies  and the  resolution  of  disputes. 
A/47/PV.11 
113 
(Mr. Kiiiner. Marshall  Islands) 
The heart  of  the United  Nations  consists  of  the many  Member 
nation-States.  The  rich mix of nationalities  is certainly  complicating  the 
map of  the world.  Our  challenge  is to  find  collective  benefit  in this 
diversity. 
As a primary obligation,  of  course, we must meet  basic  human needs that 
are beyond  local  capabilities:  collectively,  we  can help  feed  the  starving 
refugees  of  Somalia; we  can commit  our manpower  and  financial  resources to 
help bring peace  to the Middle  East  and  in the Balkan  States; we  can provide 
emergency  assistance  to the victims  of natural  disasters; we  can continue to 
work  towards  the eradication  of  the great  plagues.  In  these  situations, where 
the human need  is greatest,  the United Nations  is admirably  serving  its 
purposes.  In addition,  the techniques  and processes  made  available by the 
agencies  of  the United  Nations have helped provide  our  citizens with security 
and basic public  services. 
On the other hand,  the preservation  of  cultural  diversity,  and probably 
the preservation  of environmental  diversity, will  require  the  direct 
commitment  of  nations  and  individuals.  In an era of  national  consciousness, 
most matters  of public  policy,  even  those with  international  consequences, are 
going  to be worked  out  at the national  level  - and  frequently  locally and 
individually. 
Let  us celebrate  the diverse  nationalities,  and do everything  in our 
power  to nurture  our peoples  and enable  them  to  lead  lives  that  are  full and 
contented  and peaceful. 
A/47/PV.11 
114-115 
Mr. GASSYMOV  (Azerbaijan)  (interpretation  from  Russian):  Anyone  who 
has spoken  from  this  rostrum will probably  understand what my  feelings  are  at 
this moment:  there  is both  a feeling of pride  in my people  and my  country, 
which have  now  set  out  along  the  road of  independent  development 
a  right 
that does not  come  so easily 
and  a sense  of enormous  responsibility  for 
every word  I say,  for my words will be  addressed  to the whole world.  And I 
hope they will be  heard! 
All of  us who have gathered here  in this highly  respected  international 
forum, whatever  our natural  objective  differences may be, have  in common  a 
single goal, that  of  achieving  peace  and  security,  and  a single desire, to 
solve existing problems  and prevent  new ones  from arising.  Through  our 
understanding  that  the world  is interdependent  in all  its aspects, we  have 
come to realize  our  necessary  interest  in overcoming  difficulties,  and  that 
common  interest  has become  the  foundation  of this  transitional  stage  on the 
road towards  the establishment  of  a new world  order. 
All of us, I think, have  already  got over  the euphoria of expecting  rapid 
changes  that were  about  to take possession  of  a world  liberated  from  the 
chains of  the cold war,  and we have  come to understand  the depth of  the 
problems  confronting  a human  race which has gone  to the  limit  in its  search 
for new paths  to development.  Nobody  is expecting  easy victories. 
A/47/PV.11 
116 
(Mr. Gassymov.  Azerbaijan 
The  situation  in the world  is undergoing  fundamental  and  sometimes 
drastic  changes.  The military,  political  and economic  confrontation  between 
the two  systems which had  for  a long  time  determined  the balance  of power in 
the world  has  come  to an end with  the collapse  of  one of  them.  What  this has 
actually  done  is to destroy  the  foundation  of  international  security, which 
had until  then been  intimidation  and  deterrence  through parity  of forces. 
A new  system  of world  security must be  created,  one  oriented  on the new 
poles of power, the new  roles of  the super-Powers,  new  threats, new ways of 
waging war  and  new  types  of  forces.  The probability  of  a nuclear  war has been 
reduced  almost  to  zero, but  the element  of  chance has  increased;  there are no 
safeguards  against  the occurrence  of  regional wars  or  against  the unforeseen 
actions  of  State  leaders or  the  consequences  of  those  actions.  These are all 
matters  of  serious  concern  to  the Azerbaijani  Republic,  for  no  State  can be 
secure  on  its own. 
Azerbaijan has  no nuclear weapons  on  its  soil  and  is not  participating 
directly  in the process  of nuclear  disarmament.  Nevertheless,  the Azerbaijani 
Republic  is making  its contribution by  acceding  to the Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of Nuclear  Weapons.  We  are optimistic  as a result of the 
implementation  of  the Treaty  on Conventional  Armed  Forces  in Europe, to which 
Azerbaijan,  along with other  European  States, has become  a party.  However, 
despite  the  achievements  and  successes  of  the  disarmament  process, military 
expenditures  are, as before,  absorbing  a significant  portion  of  State budgets 
at a time when  such  funds  could  be directed  towards  economic  development. 
Arms  stockpiling  is, as before,  a threat  to  security. 
A/47/PV.11 
117 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
One of  the most  important  elements  in military  security  is the  openness 
or transparency  of military programmes  and activities.  As  a member  of  the 
Conference  on  Security  and Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE), my  country  is 
participating  in the development  of  this process. 
The move  towards  direct  cooperation  in the  form of wide-ranging  and 
intensive multilateral  exchanges  of  information  on military budgets  and 
numbers,  production  levels,  research,  development  and modernization  programmes 
and weapons  deployment  and delivery  plans  seems  to be  a desirable  one.  Such 
openness will  create  an atmosphere  of  trust, make  it easier  to  predict 
developments  in the overall  security  situation, bolster  stability  and  reduce 
the risk of war. 
During  the  long years  of  the East-West  conflict  it was usual  for one  side 
to arm the other's  enemies.  Today, when  the threat  of  confrontation  along 
East-West  lines has gone,  this  so-called  foreign-policy wisdom  is likely  to 
prove a significant  danger  to us  all.  Weapons proliferation  is a  serious 
challenge  to  international  security  and  requires  the world  community  to  take 
active steps  in order  to ensure  that  it  is limited  and effectively  controlled. 
Arms  shipments, which  are  fraught with  a fundamental  potential  for 
danger, are becoming  a real  factor  capable of producing  destructive  effects  on 
the situation  in  so-called hot  spots.  I hardly  need explain how much  trouble 
Azerbaijan has been caused by the weapons,  including  foreign-made weapons, 
being supplied, within Azerbaijani  territory,  by Armenian  forces.  We  must 
encourage  restraint  on the part  of  arms  suppliers; this will, of  course, 
entail political  difficulties.  Limits  could be placed  on exports  of  arms  to a 
particular  country  or  region. 
A/47/PV.11 
118 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
It should be  normal  practice  to declare  arms  transfers  and  to  observe 
established  limits, and the political  complexion  of  the  recipient  must  also be 
taken  into account.  The United Nations  Register  of  conventional  arms 
transfers will undoubtedly  also play  an important  role  in this  regard. 
Given  the attempts  by certain  countries  to obtain weapons  covertly, I 
would  like  to emphasize  the extreme  importance  of having  access  to 
intelligence  data on weapons  proliferation  and of  observing  suspicious  regions 
and  carrying  out unannounced  inspections  there.  In addition  to  the direct 
effects, these would  increase  States' confidence  in the  weapons 
non-proliferation  regime.  I believe  that  it would  be  appropriate  to make 
efforts  to establish  subregional  restraint  regimes; this  is  particularly 
urgent  for  the multiplicity  of hot  spots which  are  appearing  against  the 
background  of  a minimal military  threat  on  a Europe-wide  scale.  Subregional 
restraint  could  include  reducing military  force  levels  in  limited 
geographically  remote  areas.  Thereafter  such regimes  could  lay the groundwork 
for  the demilitarization  of whole  regions.  Azerbaijan  has  already proposed 
this  concept  for  the Transcaucasian  region. 
The vacuum  left by the disappearance  of  the  Soviet Union  from  the 
military  and political map  of  the world  threatened  to bring global  disaster. 
However, we have  survived  that difficult  period.  In  its death  throes, the 
Soviet Union  fortunately  disintegrated;  new  sovereign  States  arose  from its 
ruins  and declared  for  all  to hear  that  they were  determined  to  join the 
community  of democratic  States based  on  law and with market  economies.  The 
United  States  of America  and Russia,  the  two  super-Powers,  as they  are still 
being  called,  have  started  to cooperate  in the name  of  their  common interests. 
A/47/PV.11 
119 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
World  developments  of  the  last  few years  do  indeed  show that  the 
democratic  sphere  is expanding.  More  and more countries  want  to be 
democratic,  and  regimes  of other  kinds  are  facing more  and more  difficulties. 
Of course, the development  of  democracy  is a very difficult  process  whose 
ultimate goal, the  establishment  of  an ideal  system,  is difficult  to achieve; 
however, we  can and must move  forward  towards  that goal, by  consolidating 
democratic  values  and  institutions.  And  the core of  the  issue here  is not 
merely adherence  to  ideals but  the political  and  socio-economic  rightness  of 
the democratic  system,  whose  effectiveness will  very  soon,  I hope, become 
apparent  in my  country  as well. 
There  is in science  a principle  called  dynamic  evolutionary  stability, 
according to which  the elements  of  a system  obey  the  same  laws  and move  in the 
same direction.  Any member  of  the  system which  tries  to move  in a direction 
different  from  the general  trend  is thrown  out.  And  so it  is in life.  One 
cannot enter  the world  system  and then  follow a different  programme  and not 
observe the  same  rules  as everybody  else.  Of  course,  the euphoria of  national 
independence may prompt  its own  "special" path, but we  know from history  how 
such experiments  end. 
What  is the  substance  of  the Azerbaijani  Republic's  national 
independence?  Today  new people have  taken  the helm,  people  free of  the  dogmas 
of the communist  past, prepared  to  see the world  as  it is, without  ideological 
masks, and  striving  for  cooperation  on the basis of  common  human values. 
These people have  inherited  the burdensome  legacy of  a repressive  State  which 
governed an obedient  society, but  that has only made  their  resolve  to  overcome 
it that much  stronger.  Our  need  for capable  authorities which would  see as 
their principal  purpose  the creation of  the conditions  for  stimulating 
A/47/PV.11 
120 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
initiative  and  independence, which would  act  in the  interests  of  the 
individual  and would be  rooted  in the  institution  of  citizenship, was  forged 
in suffering.  Our  State policy  is based  on the  interrelationship  between the 
freedom  and well-being  of  the  individual  and  the  security  and prosperity of 
the State.  Today  the Government  of  the Azerbaijani  Republic  is  facing the 
complex  task of establishing  legislative, political  and  socio-economic 
safeguards  for  the  irreversibility  of  the democratic  process. 
Newly  independent  States encounter  a multitude  of political, economic and 
social problems  on their way  to establishing  themselves.  They must  face the 
difficult  task of overcoming  those problems within  a cruelly  short  time-limit 
set by  life  itself.  However,  even  that punishing  pace  at which  the democratic 
authorities  chosen by  the people must  act  is intensified  by  threats  and 
challenges  of  a different  order which undermine  States  that  are not yet 
standing  on their own  feet.  I have  in mind here what  are  called  inter-ethnic 
conflicts, which are more political  than ethnic  in nature. 
There  are no  limits  to the energy of  a nation, which has become  one of 
the driving  forces of  the development  of mankind  in the  twentieth  century. 
The  explosive  power  of  the energy  of  a national  ego  released  from  the fetters 
of many years of  repression  destroys  the apparently  unshakeable  citadels of 
totalitarian  regimes  and opens up new prospects  for people. 
A/47/PV.11 
121 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
However  if  that  same power  is placed  at the  service  of  an ugly,  overblown 
nationalistic  idea,  it  turns  a people  onto  the path of war  and drives  it to 
aggression  and expansion  against  another  people  chosen  as  its  victim. 
An example  of  the  first  kind of national  idea  is the disintegration  of 
that conglomeration  of  nations  known  as the USSR.  An example  of  the 
second 
and  a most  accurate  one  - is the  agression  of Armenia  against 
Azerbaijan. 
To any  action  there  is an opposite  reaction.  An aggressor  dooms  himself 
from the outset  to  failure,  for he arouses  against himself  a people's  natural 
reaction of  self-defence,  a force many  times greater  than  the irrational  force 
of aggression.  Prosperity  gained  at another's  expense  cannot be  long-lasting, 
even if it sometimes  seems  so. 
What  is the  result?  Death  and destruction,  masses  of destitute people  on 
both sides, relations between  States made difficult  or broken off 
these  are 
reflected many  times  in all  spheres of human  activity  and  threaten  to  escalate 
to new and more  dangerous  levels, involving  other  States  and  altering  the 
regional or even  the world  balance.  There  is only one  alternative:  to end 
the aggression,  if not voluntarily,  then under  the pressure  of  counter-force. 
Aggression must  not go  unpunished.  Aggressors must be  stopped. 
The  importance  of  the  international  community's  position on this  issue 
cannot be overestimated.  A  timely, principled  reaction by  the  international 
organizations,  first  and  foremost  by the United Nations  and CSCE,  is one of 
the guarantees  that  the  required  result will be achieved  - that  the  aggression 
will be eliminated  and  therefore  thousands  of  lives  saved  and  that  the 
conditions  for  States  to develop peacefully will be established.  The  key  idea 
that breaches  of  the peace  are  inadmissible  is based  on the  fact  that  each 
A/47/PV.11 
122 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
State bears  a high  responsibility  to the world  community,  and  it presupposes a 
harmonization  of  national  interests with  the  interests  of  all  mankind. 
No one can dispute  the  right  of  a nation  to  the  free  choice of  its path 
of  development,  but  there  are no  rights without  duties,  and  this  is also true 
of nations, whose  freedom  of  choice  is controlled  by  their  interrelationships 
with  the world,  as parts of  the whole.  Freedom  does not mean  irresponsibility. 
Violence  of  any  kind, whatever  its motivation  or  justification,  is 
inadmissible.  In our  time the  kind  of nationalism  that  has  nothing  in common 
with national  self-awareness  has  come close  to being  the greatest  wellspring 
of violence.  Sooner  or  later,  that  kind  of nationalism  finds  the  framework 
imposed  on it by history  constricting,  and  it  starts  to break  out, violating 
other  peoples' borders  and  infringing  upon other  peoples'  interests. 
Today,  having  emerged  from  an  ideologically  divided world,  we  are facing 
the danger  of  dismemberment  based  on nationalistic  grounds  which  feed the 
politics  of  separatism.  The  fact  that  the  legal  norms governing  the right of 
peoples  to  self-determination,  and even  the meaning  of  the  term,  have not been 
fully worked  out, either  in domestic  or  in international  law, has opened the 
door  to widespread  speculation  on the  subject  on pseudo-democratic  grounds, 
which  are essentially  a cover  for  forces harbouring  plans  to  seize  territory. 
We must make  it clear,  first  of  all, that  the  right  of peoples  to 
self-determination  can be exercised  solely by peaceful means;  secondly, that 
the possessor  of  that  right  can be only  a nation,  not  a national minority or 
an ethnic group;  thirdly,  that  a people  exercising  its  right  to 
self-determination  must  not violate  another  people's  right,  its  sovereignty or 
the  integrity  of  its State. 
A/47/PV.11 
123 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
Making  the discussion  of  the  foregoing more  concrete  by projecting  these 
conclusions  onto  the Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict,  I am  compelled  to  say  the 
following. 
The  Republic  of  Armenia, having  set  the dismemberment  of  the  Azerbaijani 
State and  the  seizure  of  its territories  as the goal of  its State  policy, 
initiated  the  conflict  in Nagorno-Karabakh,  an inseparable  part  of  Azerbaijan, 
under cover of  a demand  for the  right  to self-determination  for  the  Armenian 
population of  that  Azerbaijani  region, whose borders, incidentally,  have  not 
been defined.  There  are no  internal borders  in the unitary  Azerbaijani 
State.  The  region was  split off  administratively  during  the  Stalin era, and 
it is the Armenian  side  that  is so fervently  demanding  the elimination  of  the 
legacy of that  time. 
I think there  is no need  to comment  on the  ill-intentioned  substitution 
of the concept  of  "people" for  that  of  "national minority".  The  Armenian 
people has  already  exercised  its historic  right  to self-determination  within 
the borders of  the Republic  of Armenia.  With  regard  to the Armenian  national 
minority which  lives  in Azerbaijan  and has  autonomy,  the Azerbaijani  Republic 
has repeatedly  stated  its  readiness  to guarantee  that minority's  rights  in 
accordance with  international  norms, while  justifiably  expecting  the  Republic 
of Armenia  to take  suitable  steps  in respect of  the Azerbaijani  community 
which has  lived  for  centuries  in the  territory  of  the present-day  Republic  of 
Armenia but has had  no  rights whatsoever  and which,  alas, has  now been  forced 
out of Armenia  into  Azerbaijan. 
The conflict, which  is now a matter  of  concern  to  the world  community, 
began with  a blatant  violation  of  the Azerbaijani  Republic's  sovereignty  by 
Armenian separatists  who, without  holding  any discussions  with  the  Government 
of Azerbaijan,  proclaimed  their  secession  from  the Azerbaijani  Republic. 
A/47/PV.11 
124 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
They were  supported by  the Republic  of Armenia, whose  Parliament,  in 1989, 
issued  decrees  on the unification  of Nagorno-Karabakh  with Armenia,  on 
including  the budget  of Nagorno-Karabakh  in the Armenian budget  and on the 
election  of deputies  from Nagorno-Karabakh  to the Parliament  of  Armenia. 
Those  decrees  have  not been annulled  to  this day  and  are  in violation  of the 
norms of  international  law.  Such political  infringements  by  the Republic of 
Armenia on Azerbaijan's  sovereignty  have  since been backed  up with practical 
measures  aimed  at  implementing  Armenia's  declared plans  to  annex  Azerbaijani 
territory. 
The use  of  force  is, of  course, unacceptable  in settling  disputes.  Yet 
the  actions  of  the Republic  of Armenia, which  initially  took  the  form of 
covert  aggression  through  the  infiltration  of  separatists  and  terrorist gangs 
and  delivering  arms  into Azerbaijan  and which  later  turned  into  open 
aggression  in the  form of  a direct  armed  incursion  into Azerbaijan,  the 
seizure  of  the  city of  Shusha  and  the Lachin district  and  the  establishment of 
a land  corridor  joining occupied  Nagorno-Karabakh  to Armenia, have  naturally 
prompted  a response  from  the armed  forces of  the Azerbaijani  Government, which 
has  the  right  and  the duty  to defend  the  interests  of  its  citizens  and its 
State, over  10 per  cent  of whose  territory  is now under  Armenian  occupation. 
Renouncing  the use of  force under  these  conditions  could  not  prevent 
bloodshed.  Inaction on the part of  the Government  would have provoked a 
movement  from below, with  the  formation of  self-defence  forces whose  actions 
would be  spontaneous  and  therefore might have become  uncontrollable.  The 
Azerbaijani  Republic, which has used military  force  only within  its own 
frontiers  and  at  a controlled  level, the miminum  level  necessary  to protect 
its  sovereignty,  has,  from  the very beginning  of  the  conflict,  called on the 
A/47/PV.11 
125 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
opposing  side to cease hostilities  and  to  settle  existing problems  at  the 
negotiating  table.  It  is continuing  today  to confirm  its  readiness  for 
peaceful  dialogue  by  taking  specific measures  aimed  at  reaching  a  compromise. 
However, Azerbaijan's  efforts were met  each time with  silence  on the part  of 
the Republic  of Armenia, which  continues  to make  demands  that  are  contrary  to 
international  law.  One  can hardly  expect political  leaders who  rose  to power 
on a wave of  ideas of  nationalism  and  the establishment  of  a Greater  Armenia 
to abandon  those positions, because  it would mean  their political  death.  But 
holding that  line will  lead  to a catastrophe  incomparably  greater  than  the 
disappearance  of  the politicians  from  the  arena. 
The present  leadership of  the Republic  of Armenia  should  realize  that  the 
path they have  chosen  is a deadly one; Armenia will  never be  a democratic 
State while  it carries  the burden of  this  conflict.  Democracy  cannot  be built 
on a foundation  of nationalism,  on  flouting  laws, on bloodshed  and  suffering. 
This whole  train of events gives  us  solid grounds  for viewing  Armenia's 
position with  regard  to peaceful  settlement  and  international  mediation  merely 
as an attempt  to gain time  for consolidation  in the Azerbaijani  territories 
Armenia has  forcibly  seized,  so that  it can  subsequently  obtain  agreement  on a 
political  solution  from  a position  of  fait  accompli. 
But there  is no alternative  to a peaceful  settlement.  Decisive  steps 
must be taken to clear  the obstacles  from  the  road  to peace.  A  necessary 
condition  for this  is the withdrawal  of Armenian  armed  formations  from 
Azerbaijan,  since  that would  establish  a real  foundation  for  a  stable 
cease-fire under  international  supervision,  for  the  return  of  refugees  to 
their homes  and  the normalization  of  life  in the war-torn  areas,  including 
safeguards  for  the  rights of  the Armenian national minority  living  in 
Azerbaijan. 
A/47/PV.11 
125(a-z) 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
Despite  all  the  complications  and obstacles,  the peaceful  settlement 
process  initiated  by CSCE  and  followed up by CSCE's Minsk  Group  under  the 
chairmanship  of Mr. Rafaelli,  for whose  efforts  I am  sincerely grateful, both 
to him personally  and  to the Government  of  Italy, must  achieve  the  desired 
result:  an end  to the aggression  and  the  senseless  bloodshed,  the  liberation 
of occupied Azerbaijani  areas, the development  of  a peaceful  dialogue  between 
the two  States  and  the  solution of  existing  internal  problems  on  a  reciprocal 
basis.  The  national minorities  in Armenia  and Azerbaijan must  become not 
pawns  in a dispute but guarantees  of each other's  security  and  of  respect for 
each other's  interests,  and,  in the  future,  a bridge  for  cooperation. 
A/47/PV.11 
126 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
I hold  this  optimic  view because  I have  faith  in the  reasonableness  of 
two peoples  and  two  States  that have  lived  side by  side  for  centuries  and 
whose history  has earned  them  the  right  to peace, prosperity  and 
good-neighbourly  relations.  I hope  that  the Republic  of Armenia will  come  to 
realize  the  importance  of  such concepts  as good  neighbours,  friendship  and 
mutual  assistance, which have deep  roots  in our  region. 
The  concrete  example  of  the Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict  enables  us  to 
draw certain  conclusions  that  are  related  and  applicable  to other  regional 
conflicts  similar  in nature  to the one  I have mentioned.  The world we  live  in 
is very  fragile;  thus our  approach  to the principles  governing  global 
coexistence, hammered  out by  the experience  of human  civilization,  should  be 
very cautious.  Those principles  include,  first  of  all, the  sovereignty  of 
States, their  territorial  integrity  and the  inviolability  of  their borders; 
they also  include  the  inadmissibility  of  securing  one's  interests  at  the 
expense of  those  of  others.  Such a course  cannot bring  independence, 
democracy or prosperity  to any  State.  Everything  in the world  is  interrelated. 
The words  spoken  and  the actions  taken by  some politicians  in defence  of 
human rights, national minorities,  and nationhood  can  sometimes  threaten  the 
most fundamental  right  - the  right  to  life.  When blood  is being  shed,  it  is 
pointless  to talk  about  the  rights of  national minorities.  I have  said  it 
before and now  say  it again:  The  sovereignty  of  the  State begins with  the 
sovereignty  of  the  individual.  Respect  for human  rights  is not part  of a 
State's  internal  affairs but  its obligation.  The  safeguarding  of  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  is  the main guarantee  of  a State's  prosperous 
development.  Returning  to the Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict,  I must  point  out 
that our  approach  is based precisely  on this understanding  and  that  Armenians 
living in Azerbaijan  are  just  as much  citizens  of  this  State  as Azerbaijanis, 
A/47/PV.11 
127 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
Russians, Jews, Kurds, Lezghians, Talishes  or  Poles.  But  there  are no rights 
without  obligations.  The  State  is the guarantor  of  individual  freedom; the 
individual  is the guarantor  of  the  State's  security. 
The  defence  of human  rights  - and of  the  rights  of national minorities as 
part  of  those  rights 
cannot be  implemented  to  the detriment  of  State 
sovereignty.  External  influence  and  interference  are  sometimes  hard to 
distinguish,  and  crossing  the  fine  line  that  separates  them  can  lead to 
disaster.  Sometimes  the non-use of  external  force  can have great benefits. 
Problems  of  this  kind have various political,  social, and  economic  causes, and 
sometimes  a State  trying to  solve  the problem  cannot  instantly  unravel the 
tangle of  causes  and  effects.  It is a lengthy process  requiring  a delicate 
approach  in which  the underlying principle must  be:  "Do no harm".  In such 
circumstances  a State has  the  right  to  count  on  the  assistance  and experience 
of  the world  community.  Working  to  improve  the  State  from within will have 
more  effect  than pressure  from  without. 
Every  State has  its share  of  responsibility  to  the outside  world, 
expressed  as  its duty  to observe  accepted  norms  and obligations.  A question 
of practical  interest  today  is that  of  the  further  elaboration  in 
international  law of  the principle  of  sovereignty,  with  due  regard  for the 
increased  international  responsibility  of  States.  Bringing  national 
legislation  into  conformity with  international  law,  a process which creates 
the necessary  regimes of  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  individual,  is of the 
greatest  importance  in this  context.  Such  a process  has  already  been 
initiated  in Azerbaijan.  The priority  of  international  legal  norms over 
national  ones  is enshrined  in the constitutional  act of  State  independence of 
18 October  1991.  To  conclude  this  subject,  I should  like  to point out that 
A/47/PV.11 
128 
(Mr. Gassyraov.  Azerbaijan) 
our common progress  in that direction must  emphasize  the harmonization  of  the 
interests  of mankind  and national  interests. 
One of  the main  factors  for  stability  in society, particularly  during  a 
transitional  period,  serving  in a sense  as a guarantee  of  the  irreversibility 
of democratic  reforms, is a healthy  and developed  economy.  Unfortunately,  I 
must  state  that  today  the economy  of Azerbaijan  has  fallen  on hard  times.  The 
legacy of  the Soviet  past  and  the Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict  are  taking 
their toll. 
The  failure of  the centralized  planning  system  further  strengthened  our 
confidence  in the viability  of  the market  economy.  The Parliament  and 
Government  of  the Republic,  committed  to  rapid  reform,  are working hard  for 
the legislative  and programmed  introduction  of economic  changes  that  should 
accelerate  the process  of market  formation  and  integrating  Azerbaijan  into  the 
world economy  on an equitable  and mutually  beneficial  footing. 
The world  economy has not yet  succeeded  in surmounting  a number  of 
obstacles, foremost  among which,  to my mind,  is the disproportion  in economic 
development.  It  is believed  that,  in spite of  all  the problems  of  the world 
economy, whose number  increased  sharply with  the collapse of  the  Soviet 
system,  the end of  the  ideological  confrontation between  the two poles  of 
power has given  a positive  impetus  to the  formulation  of new approaches  in the 
developed world  towards  the problems  of developing  countries. 
Participation  in international  economic organizations  and United  Nations 
economic  agencies, with the  concomitant  opening  of  a wide  range of 
possibilities  for multilateral  economic  cooperation,  is a matter  of  high 
priority  for Azerbaijan.  Definite hopes  for  instituting economic  reforms  in 
Azerbaijan are being placed  in  financial  assistance  and  consultative  technical 
A/47/PV.11 
129 
(Mr. Gassymov.  Azerbaijan) 
assistance  that  could be provided  under  special  programmes.  The  United 
Nations,  an office  of which  is to be opened  at Baku  in the  near  future, should 
play  an active  role  in this. 
However,  I should  like  to express my  regret  concerning  the position of 
certain  States  in whose policy  the provision  of  assistance  to young democratic 
States  is  linked  to particular  political  objectives  that  are,  in our view, of 
a subjective  nature.  Refusal  to provide  assistance may  not  only  fail to 
promote  the development  of  the  reform process but  also  create  new problems for 
the establishment  of democracy  in young  States.  The  consequences  of  such 
ill-considered  steps  could be  far more  serious  than  the  reasons  that motivated 
the  refusal. 
The warfare  initiated by  the Republic  of Armenia  against  Azerbaijan has 
created  a social  tragedy  in my  country.  About  500,000 Azerbaijanis  have been 
deprived  of  the basic  necessities  of  life; 230,000 of  them were expelled from 
the  areas of Armenia  in which  they had historically  resided,  and  the rest have 
become  refugees  as  a result  of Armenia's  direct  aggression  against 
Azerbaijan.  Our  Government  has encountered  enormous  difficulties  in meeting 
their  needs.  I should  like  to express my hope  that  the United  Nations will 
not  leave Azerbaijan  to deal with  this disaster  alone  and  that  it will provide 
all possible  assistance. 
The  ecological  situation, which has been gradually  deteriorating 
throughout  the world,  is becoming  the greatest  threat  of  all.  Nature is 
calling  attention  to  its problems with  increasing  urgency  through  new 
environmental  disasters  and  tragedies.  The problem  of  structural  reform of 
the global  economy  on a basis  that  is environmentally  sound  still  remains 
unsolved.  The  contribution  of  the United Nations  in this  field  - demonstrated 
A/47/PV.11 
130 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
inter alia  in the  convening  of  the Conference  on Environment  and  Development 
deserves particular  mention here.  That  Conference was  a valuable  example  of 
collective  efforts  to  solve humanity's  problems. 
My  country  cannot boast  of  a favourable  ecological  situation.  The 
condition of  the Caspian  Sea  is tragic,  showing  the effect  of  all  the  ills of 
a planned  economy  and of  its consumption-oriented  attitude  towards  nature.  We 
firmly  intend  to make  every effort  to  save this unique natural  ecosystem,  and 
we hope  that our  efforts will  be  supported by  assistance  from  the world 
community. 
The primary mechanism  of world  development  at present  is  international 
cooperation.  I believe  that we  can  solve  our problems  only  in that  context. 
I am also convinced  that  the process  of  strengthening  cooperation will 
continue to evolve.  Naturally,  such evolution  is directly  related  to the 
growing  importance  and prestige  of  the United Nations.  Our  Organization  has a 
special  role  in  international  relations, which  are undergoing  radical 
changes.  The United  Nations has been,  is and  always will be  the world  forum 
in matters of  justice  and  law,  the  stronghold  of  the civilized  norms of  life 
and the highest  authority  in the  settlement  of  international  disputes.  The 
growing effectiveness  of  the Organization  as a factor  for  security,  stability 
and cooperation  illustrates  that  fact. 
A/47/PV.11 
131 
(Mr. Gassymov.  Azerbaijan) 
New  conditions  and  changes  in the world  situation  require  readjustments, 
including  structural  ones.  Special  attention  should  be given  to  the 
development  of  structures  and means  for preventive  diplomacy,  early warning of 
crisis  situations  and  the  improvement  of means  for  averting  acts  of 
aggression.  The United Nations  should have  the capacity  to protect  its Member 
States more decisively  and effectively  from violations  of  their  sovereignty, 
taking  action up  to and  including  enforcement  measures  against  the  aggressor. 
Cooperation with  regional  organizations  on the basis  of mutual  support will, I 
believe, promote  greater  effectiveness  of United  Nations  peace-keeping  and 
peacemaking  activities.  United Nations  structures  should be brought  as close 
as possible  to the problems which  the Organization  intends  to  resolve. 
Everything  should  serve  to  increase  the efficiency  of United  Nations 
activities  as a mechanism  for  security  and  cooperation. 
I  am  firmly  convinced  that  the  ship of  the United  Nations, guided by the 
strong hand  of  its captain, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  a man of wisdom  and 
decisiveness  as befits  a true captain, will  keep to the necessary  course, the 
only  true course,  and,  as the  flagship  of  the world  community,  carry it to the 
shores of peace  and  prosperity. 
The  forty-sixth  session of the General  Assembly  was  significant  for the 
Azerbaijani  Republic, when  it was  admitted  as a Member  of  the United Nations. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to express my  sincere gratitude  to  the  President of 
the Assembly  at  its  forty-sixth  session, Mr. Samir  Shihabi,  for  his 
contribution  to our  common  cause  and  especially  for his  sensitivity  and warmth 
towards  the new Members  of  the  Organization. 
I hope  that  the  current,  forty-seventh  session,  under  the presidency of 
Mr.  Stoyan Ganev, will bring  us closer  to our  common  goals.  I wish Mr. Ganev 
success  in that position  of  responsibility.  May  every  day  of  this  session be 
A/47/PV.11 
132 
(Mr. Gassvmov.  Azerbaijan) 
a day of  constructive  solutions  of our  common problems.  May new  difficulties 
which, alas,  life will  always  throw  in our way 
not weaken  our  faith,  nor 
discourage  us on our  long  and  thorny path.  We  conquer  the  road  as we  walk 
along it. 
The  PRESIDENT  (interpretation  from  French):  I shall  now call  on 
those representatives  who wish  to  speak  in exercise  of  the  right  of  reply. 
May  I remind members  that,  in accordance with  General  Assembly  decision 
34/401, statements  in exercise  of  the  right of  reply  are  limited  to  10 minutes 
for the first  intervention  and  to  five minutes  for  the  second,  and  should be 
made by delegations  from  their  seats. 
Mr. MALIK  (Iraq)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  I should  like to 
extend my  apologies  to you. Sir,  and  to members  for  speaking  at this  late 
hour. 
A short while  ago, the Foreign Minister  of Kuwait  spoke of  certain 
•elements  of Security  Council  resolution  687  (1991),  claiming  that  Iraq has  not 
, implemented  them.  I should  like to  refute  all his  charges one by one  in order 
t to put the  facts before  the General  Assembly. 
First,  Iraq has  fully  cooperated with  the  International  Committee  of  the 
, Red Cross  (ICRC),  the United Nations,  and  the League of Arab States  in making 
j available  all  information  necessary  to establish  the  facts with  regard  to  the 
,, issue of missing persons  that has been exploited  against  Iraq  for  political 
and inhuman purposes.  Iraq has  completely  discharged  its obligations  under 
paragraphs  30 and  31 of  resolution  687  (1991).  We have  allowed  the Red  Cross 
to visit  all prisons  and places  of  detention  in order  to  investigate  the 
situation with  regard  to  the  so-called missing  persons, without  any 
restrictions  or hindrance.  We have  also published,  several  times, in our 
il 
A/47/PV.11 
133 
(Mr. Malik.  Irag) 
local  newspapers  lists of  the names of  those missing  persons.  I should  like 
to mention  here  that  the Kuwaiti  authorities have presented  seven 
contradictory  lists  of  those missing  persons, each  of which gave  a different 
number  of missing persons.  Any  fair  observer  of  this whole  issue will  easily 
understand  that  Kuwait  and  its allies are exploiting  the  issue  without 
justification. 
Secondly,  the  representative  of  Iraq has participated  in the meetings of 
the  first  five  sessions  of  the Boundary  Commission  during  the period  from 
May  1991 through April  1992.  He did not participate  in the  sixth  session held 
in July  1992  for very  important  and  substantive  reasons, among which was the 
fact that  the Commission's  decisions  have  consistently  shown  a  strong 
political bias harmful  to Iraq's  interests, namely  depriving  Iraq  of  its 
rights, damaging  its vital  interests  and creating  a situation  of  instability 
in the  region,  in addition  to the procedural  excesses  of  that  Commission.  It 
is to be noted, however,  that non-participation  of  Iraq's  representative has 
not  obstructed  the Commission's  work. 
Thirdly,  the process  of  restoring property has been proceeding  normally 
with  the participation  of the Secretary-General's  assistant,  Mr.  Foran, who 
has  repeatedly  commended  the cooperation  of  the  Iraqi  authorities  in that 
regard. 
Fourthly,  from the outset,  Iraqi  cooperation with  the United  Nations 
delegation  in the  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  706  (1991) 
and  712  (1991) has been evident.  Yet, whenever  the  two parties  are  on the 
verge  of  reaching  an agreement,  the  representatives  of Western  States  in the 
Security  Council  have  set up obstacles  and  imposed  unjust  political  conditions 
that  threaten  Iraq's  sovereignty. 
A/47/PV.11 
134-135 
(Mr. Malik.  Iraq) 
Fifthly,  quite obviously,  Iraq  is cooperating with  the Special  Commission 
on the destruction  of weapons  of mass destruction.  Ballistic missiles  have 
been destroyed,  and Mr. Ziffero, the Chairman of  the  investigation  and 
inspection  team  that visited  Iraq  in July, has declared  that  the  Iraqi  nuclear 
programme  has been brought  to nought.  The  team  responsible  for  destroying 
chemical weapons  in Baghdad  is currently doing  the same with  regard  to 
chemical weapons. 
Finally,  I should  like  to point out  that  it  is shameful  for  Kuwait  and 
its allies  to make  such allegations  for  the sole purpose of perpetuating  the 
inhuman siege  against  Iraq  and  the starving  of  its people. 
Miss  AL-MULLA  (Kuwait):  Like the  regime he  represents,  the  Iraqi 
representative's  remarks  are devoid of truth and  sincerity.  Deeds  rather  than 
words attest  to a country's  record.  Let  it not be misunderstood;  there  is no 
lack of public  pronouncements  by  Iraq  attesting  to a continued  belligerent 
stance towards  Kuwait  and the  international  community. 
I shall  take  the points  that  the  representative  of  Iraq made  in  response 
to the speech of my Deputy  Prime Minister  and Foreign Minister  this  afternoon. 
A/47/PV.11 
136 
(Miss Al-Mulla. Kuwait;) 
On the question  of prisoners  of war  and detainees,  I should  like to make 
the  following points.  Iraq  to date  refuses  to accept  the  standard  of 
procedure  of the  International  Committee  of  the Red Cross  (ICRC) to visit 
prisoners  of war  and detainees.  Visits  by the  ICRC  to places  of detention in 
Iraq  are  restricted.  Norms  for  these visits  are based  on  Iraqi  laws and 
regulations, which  the  ICRC deems  to be below  the  international  standard set 
by  the  Committee. 
As  to the  lists mentioned  by  the  representative  of  Iraq,  it  is normal 
that  Kuwait  should  review  the  list periodically.  It is abnormal  for a list to 
be  submitted  containing  the  same number  as was  submitted  earlier.  A review of 
the  list  is necessitated  due to the  return of prisoners  of war  who  come 
through other parties  or  through  the  ICRC.  That  is why Kuwait  is keen to 
update  these  lists periodically.  Kuwait has  submitted  two  contradictory lists 
at  the  same time. 
As  to the  second point,  concerning  the demarcation  of  the border, Iraq 
chose  not  to participate  in the work  of  the demarcation  Commission  during its 
session  in July.  Iraq  is on record  as saying that  it would  abide by Security 
Council  resolution  687  (1991), which  set up the Commission.  However,  Iraq has 
chosen not only not  to participate  in the work  of  the Commission,  but to 
repeat  its claims over  all of Kuwait.  Taha Yassin Ramadhan,  the 
Vice-President  of  Iraq,  said publicly  in Jakarta, during  the  last Non-Aligned 
Movement meeting,  that he  reiterated  Iraq's  claims on  Kuwait. 
It is true  that Kuwait's property  is being  returned,  but  the process is 
very  slow and .tedious.  Iraq  chooses  the  list  that  it  submits  to  the 
co-ordinator  for  the  return of property  for  submission.  To date,  Iraq refuses 
A/47/PV.11 
137 
(Miss Al-Mulla.  Kuwait) 
to take  responsibility  for  returning  any of  the private property  that was 
looted under  the  command  and  the order  of officials  of  the  Iraqi  occupation 
force in Kuwait. 
On the question  of  resolutions  706  (1991) and 712  (1991), perhaps  I am 
stating no secret when  I say that  it is Iraq's  lack of  compliance  with  those 
resolutions  that  is prompting  the  international  community,  and  the  Security 
Council in particular,  to explore  other  avenues  to  facilitate  some  kind  of 
assistance  to the  Iraqi population  itself.  Other  aspects  are being  looked 
into due to Iraq's  refusal  to abide by  resolutions  706  (1991) and  712  (1991). 
Iraq's  record  of  compliance  is attested  to today by  the decision of  the 
Security Council  to the effect  that  there  is no reason  for the Council  to 
review the sanctions  upon  Iraq  during  the 16-day period.  I think  that  speaks 
sufficiently on  Iraq's  record  of  compliance. 
AGENDA  ITEM  17 
APPOINTMENTS TO  FILL VACANCIES  IN SUBSIDIARY  ORGANS AND OTHER  APPOINTMENTS 
(a)  APPOINTMENT  OF MEMBERS  OF THE ADVISORY  COMMITTEE  ON ADMINISTRATIVE  AND 
BUDGETARY  QUESTIONS:  REPORT OF THE  FIFTH COMMITTEE  (PART  I)  (A/47/464) 
The PRESIDENT  (interpretation  from  French):  The  Fifth  Committee 
recommends  in paragraph 4 of  its  report  (A/47/464) that  the General  Assembly 
appoint Mr. Ranjit  Rae  as a member  of  the Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative 
and Budgetary  Questions  for  a term  of office beginning  on  24 September  1992 
and ending on 31 December  1992. 
May I take  it  that  the Assembly  appoints Mr. Ranjit  Rae? 
It was  so  decided. 
The meeting  rose at  8.15  p.m. 
