ITED 
TIONS 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.34 
23 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  34th MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Monday,  12 October  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
later: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
( P r e s i d e n t) 
Mr. DAYARATNE 
(Vice-President) 
Mrs. ESCALER 
(Vice-President) 
Mr. GHAFOORZAI 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Sri Lanka) 
(Philippines) 
(Afghanistan) 
Social development:  (a) Questions  relating  to the world  social 
situation  and  to youth,  ageing, disabled  persons  and the  family  [93] 
(continued) 
/... 
This record  contains  the original  text  of  speeches  delivered  in English 
md interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
'• printed in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
e sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
B£_weejt, to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office of  Conference 
ervices, room DC2-750,  2 United Nations  Plaza, and  incorporated  in a copy of 
he record. 
2-61424  1803V  (E) 
A/47/PV.34 
l(a-z) 
Conclusion of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons 
(i)  Report of the Secretary-General 
(ii)  Draft resolution 
A/47/PV.34 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.25  p.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  93  (continued) 
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT:  (a)  QUESTIONS RELATING  TO THE WORLD  SOCIAL  SITUATION  AND 
TO YOUTH, AGEING,  DISABLED  PERSONS AND THE  FAMILY 
CONCLUSION OF THE UNITED NATIONS  DECADE OF DISABLED  PERSONS: 
(i)  REPORT OF THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/415) 
(ii)  DRAFT RESOLUTION  (A/47/L.4) 
The  PRESIDENT:  This  afternoon  the General  Assembly,  in  accordance 
with the decision  taken  at  its 3rd plenary meeting,  is holding  the  second  of 
the plenary meetings  to mark  the conclusion  of the United Nations  Decade of 
Disabled Persons, under  sub-item  (a) of  agenda  item 93. 
I have  the honour  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/47/L.4,  "International 
Day of Disabled  Persons".  The  text before  the Assembly  is the  result  of 
informal consultations  that  took place  in an open-ended  working group  and 
reflects the broad  consensus  reached by Member  States. 
The preambular  paragraphs  of  the draft  resolution  deal with  the  efforts 
of the international  community  taken during  the United Nations Decade  of 
Disabled Persons  aimed  at the  improvement  of  the  situation of persons  with 
disabilities.  The emphasis  is placed  on the need  for broader  and more 
energetic action  at all  levels 
global, regional  and national 
to fulfil  the 
objectives of  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled  Persons, 
adopted by the Assembly  10 years  ago. 
In operative  paragraph  2 of  the draft  resolution  the General  Assembly 
proclaims 3 December  as  the  International  Day of Disabled  Persons.  On  that 
date in 1982  the Assembly  adopted  resolution  37/53, in which  it announced  the 
beginning of  the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons, the  conclusion  of 
which we are observing  in our meetings  today  and  tomorrow.  On  the  same date, 
3 December  1982, the General  Assembly,  in resolution  37/52,  adopted  the World 
A/47/PV.34 
3-5 
(The  President) 
Programme  of Action concerning Disabled  Persons, which became  the  cornerstone 
of  international  activities  in this  sphere.  I should  like  to express  the hope 
that  the General Assembly  will  support  the proclamation  of  the  International 
Day  of Disabled  Persons  and  that  international,  regional  and  national 
organizations  and  agencies  will extend  their  full  cooperation  in observing 
that  Day. 
Mr.  SCOTT  (United  Kingdom):  I am  truly honoured  to address you 
today on behalf  of  the European Community  and  its member  States  at this 
meeting  of  the  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly,  which marks the 
end of the United Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons  and  the  tenth anniversary 
of the World  Programme  of Action.  We  supported  the  setting  aside of four 
plenary meetings  to discuss  the  important  subject  of  disability,  and we are 
grateful  to the Secretary-General  and  the President  of  the General Assembly 
for their  opening  statements  this morning.  I should  also  like  to thank the 
Secretary-General  for his  report,  in document  A/47/415.  There  is no doubt 
that  it contains helpful  recommendations  to move  the disability programme from 
awareness-raising  to action  and to  implement  the many  guidelines  and policy 
documents  developed  over  the Decade.  The European Community  and its member 
States welcome  this opportunity  to mark  a turning-point  in the  international 
community's  awareness  of  the  situation of persons with  disabilities. 
Mr. de Cotret,  Canadian Minister  responsible  for  the  status of persons 
with disabilities, has  already  outlined  the outcome  of  the  international 
meeting  of ministers  for persons with disabilities  in Montreal  last week, ana 
we would  like to thank Mr. de Cotret  for  acting  as host  to the meeting, which 
was  the  largest-ever  gathering  of ministers  responsible  for persons with 
disabilities. 
A/47/PV.34 
6 
(Mr. Scott. United  Kingdom) 
In April  1992  in Vancouver  the Canadian Government  hosted  a conference  on 
J independent  living entitled  "Independence  92" to mark  the end of the United 
"Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons which over  3,000  persons with  disabilities 
attended.  The Secretary-General's  message  to the Conference  outlined  the 
"' principles of the World  Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled  Persons which, 
throughout the Decade, have guided both the work of the United Nations  on 
s:behalf of disabled  persons  and that  of its Member  States.  A good  example  of 
""the United Nations  commitment  to these principles  is the Disabled  Persons  Unit 
'"•at the Centre  for Social Development  and Humanitarian  Affairs  in Vienna.  We 
;-think also of the painstaking work of Mr. Leandro Despouy,  the  Special 
'"'Rapporteur, who  last year produced  his Final Report  on Human Rights  and 
•'"Disability, which was well  received by persons with disabilities  around  the 
EWorld because  it so accurately  reflected  their own experiences  and ideas. 
toW 
In adopting  the World Programme  of Action concerning Disabled  Persons  in 
is[i/1982 the General Assembly  expressed  its renewed  commitment  to promoting 
. Ineffective measures.  These  included  the prevention of  disability, 
);^{rehabilitation and  the  realization of the goals of equality  and  full 
^participation of persons with disabilities  in economic  and  social  life  and 
j|t(jlevelopment.  Although much progress has been made, the essential  objectives 
..jln'f the World Programme  of Action have yet  to be  realized.  There  are  still 
ipny persons with disabilities who do not  enjoy basic human  rights  and equal 
jtlli"1' 
jjPPortunities.  The primary goal  of all nations  is to establish  a  society  for 
iiil'1*  **? t he  v e ar  2000»  a society  in which persons with disabilities  are  fully 
integrated.  For this to be  achieved  it must  be  recognized  that obstacles  to 
/dependent living and full equality  do not  result  so much  from  an 
A/47/PV.34 
7 
(Mr.  Scott. United Kingdom) 
individual's  functional  differences  but  from an environment  that has not been 
designed  to meet  the needs  of  all citizens.  In this  respect we  should like to 
underline  the  role played by organizations  of persons with  disabilities as 
representatives  of  their members. 
The  suggested priorities  for  the global  strategy  for disability  in the 
year  2000 and beyond, are equal participation, access  to opportunity and 
recognition of equalization of opportunities  for persons with disabilities. 
In this respect we  should note  the work of  the working group, established by 
Economic  and Social  Council  (ECOSOC) resolution  1990/26, on  standard  rules on 
the equalization  of opportunities  for disabled  persons  and  look  forward to its 
report to be  considered  next year.  We welcome  the  adoption by  the General 
Assembly  of  resolution  46/119, which endorsed  the principles  on the protection 
of persons with mental  illness  and the  improvement of mental health care. 
We have witnessed  in the  last decade  the development  of many new 
voluntary organizations which have been  set up, and are  run, by persons with 
disabilities.  Some Governments have enacted new  legislation  to uphold the 
equalization  of opportunities  for persons with disabilities, while other 
countries have  set up national  committees  of disabled  people which advise 
Governments  and statutory bodies of the  special  needs  and aspirations of 
persons with disabilities.  The European Coim unity has  also developed close 
links with  representative  European organizations  of persons with disabilities 
so that they  can express  their  views  on the Community's  actions  in favour of 
persons with disabilities. 
The European Community  itself has  run a number  of disability  action 
programmes, notably  its programme  for Handicapped  People  in the European 
Community  Living  Independently  in an Open Society  (HELIOS) and  its precursor, 
which was  directly  inspired by  the United Nations Decade.  Aimed  at the ful1 
A/47/PV.34 
8 
(Mr. Scott. United  Kingdom) 
integration of people with disabilities  into an open  society,  the  European 
Community  and  its member  States  set up networks  of  rehabilitation  centres, 
centres  for vocational  training  and  economic  integration  as well  as  social 
integration projects  and projects  for  the  integration  of  children  with 
disabilities  into  normal  schools with participants  in all  12 member  States. 
Many useful  lessons  have been  learned by those  responsible  for  providing 
training and other  services  for persons with disabilities,  and  there have  been 
several instances  of  ideas being  transferred  in their  entirety.  For  example, 
a project  in the United  Kingdom  created  a sensory  stimulation,  entertainment 
: and therapy  centre  for people with profound  learning difficulties  using  ideas 
£ from a study visit  to the Netherlands.  In another  instance,  the  methodology 
- used by several projects  for  the  social  integration  of persons with mental 
-handicaps and mental  illness using  transitional,  supervised  homes  and 
„ supportive  staff has been progressively  transferred  to others  in Greece  and 
Italy.  This programme  is about  to end but  the European Commision  has made a 
,, proposal to continue  to work  in this area through  a  second HELIOS  programme. 
This will extend  and  amplify  the  activities  undertaken  under HELIOS  I at the 
eP 
.local,  regional,  national  and  European  l e v e l,  particularly  by  comparing 
:H'' 
experience and exchanging  information  concerning  innovative  integration 
ti*1 
measures. 
«<• 
The European  Community  and  its member  States have  long been  aware  of  the 
importance of providing  specialist  information  to people with  disabilities  and 
,11* 
has set about the  ambitious  task of  constructing  a multinational,  multilingual 
database called  "Handynet".  This  is a mammoth  task,  involving  twelve 
it!"' 
countries and nine  languages.  At  the end of  last year  the European  Commission 
produced its  first  information  technology package  containing  information  on 
A/47/PV.34 
9 
(Mr. Scott. United  Kingdom) 
technical  aids  and  equipment  for people with  all  types of  disability  and this 
service, which  is now operational, will  substantially  improve  the  amount of 
information  available  to persons with disabilities,  and  their  carers  and 
advisers, within  the European  Community. 
The  European  Community  and  its member  States  support  the employment and 
training  of persons with disabilities  and has  initiated  an exchange of 
experiences  and  information  through  the Horizon  Initiative, which was launched 
last year.  Horizon  aims particularly  for  the  introduction  of good  practices 
into  the  less well-developed  areas of  the European  Community  by  inviting 
proposals  for  joint projects  from more  than one member  State,  and  the 
overwhelming  response  to  this  idea has been  seen  to be very  encouraging. 
The  Council  of Europe's Ministerial  Conference, held  in Paris  in November 
1991,  took  as its  theme  "Independent  Living  for Disabled  People".  First, we 
looked  at  "access", which  is necessary  to enable people with mobility problems 
to get  about  and  to attend places  of work  and entertainment  and  to exercise 
their  rights  as citizens  - for example, by entering  a polling  station  in order 
to vote  at elections.  Then  there was  the question  of  "support" 
people with 
disabilities  who  are unable  to work  and who may  require  career  or personal 
advice.  They may  also  require  assistance  from  local  social  services 
for 
example,  in obtaining  necessary  aids  and equipment.  And  the  third  aspect we 
looked  at was  "information".  Getting  the  right  information  at  the right time 
is the heart  of  the matter.  Indeed  all persons with  disabilities  need the 
same  information  as  their  able-bodied  neighbour  plus  the  specialist 
information  they  require  to enable  a full  and  satisfying  life.  It is 
essential  for professionals  and  other  information  providers  to  consider how 
best  to deliver  the  information  to persons  with  disabilities  in a readily 
A/47/PV.34 
10 
(Mr. Scott. United  Kingdom) 
available  form.  There  is also  the problem  of  targeting  information  to  those 
persons with disabilities  who  are  isolated  from  their  local  community  and to 
those who  are not  aware  that  they have  needs  or  indeed  do not  necessarily 
consider  themselves  to be  disabled. 
At  the end  of  the Paris  Conference  a Declaration  was  issued  part  of  which 
was to announce  a proposal  to  set up a pan-European  network  of projects  on 
independent  living  and equality  of opportunities  for persons  with 
disabilities.  As  a fundamental  principle, projects would be  run with  the  full 
and active participation  of persons with disabilities.  The  aim of  the  network 
would be to exchange  good  practice  on  independent  living  across  national 
frontiers. 
An estimated  250 million people  in developing  countries  experience  some 
form of disability.  One of  the main barriers  to  living with  disability 
continues to be  social  attitudes.  Attitudes  towards  disability have  in 
general encouraged  dependency.  Expertise  and experience  are  some of  the most 
valuable commodities  in the world  today,  and those  of us  living  in the more 
developed parts of  the world  should bear  this  in mind when  considering  best 
how to help those, particularly  children with  disabilities,  in less  developed 
countries. 
A/47/PV.34 
11 
(Mr. Scott. United Kingifon 
I am now thinking  especially  of  another  theme  in the World  Programme of 
Action 
the prevention  of disability.  This was  and  is one of  the main 
objectives  of  the Programme.  Technical  advances  over  the Decade mean that 
more  can now be done  to  limit  the extent  of  avoidable  disability, whether the 
cause be malnutrition,  disease,  injury or hereditary  condition.  There is 
today an  immense  fund of  experience  and  technical  know-how,  which can and 
should be used  to help developing  countries  prevent  avoidable  disabilities. 
Disability-related  aid  should  encourage  persons with  disabilities to 
participate  in development  through  a process  that  creates  economic 
independence  and  self-help  and  in which  they  are  themselves  involved  in the 
decisions  and planning  that most  closely  affect  them.  Outreach  services for 
community  and  community-based  rehabilitation  provide  cost-effective 
alternatives  to  institution-based  rehabilitation.  We  need  to be careful that 
we give  the kind of help  that will enable  them  to establish  solutions  to their 
problems.  What  really matters  is how we help  countries  to  set up mechanisms 
by which  the new technology  can be  delivered. 
The past Decade has  taught  us a number  of  lessons  from which we need to 
learn when  thinking  about  the  future.  What we need,  above  all, is a realistic 
policy  that  takes  account  of, and  seeks  to meet,  the needs  and  aspirations of 
persons  with  disabilities  throughout  the world.  It  is  important  that these 
policies  be developed  in consultation with persons  with disabilities  and with 
organizations  working  for  them  and  that  they  include  demands  for  justice and 
equal  rights  and  opportunities  to enable  those people  to achieve  their 
potential  and  to enjoy  life  in the company  of  friends  and  colleagues, some of 
whom  just happen  to be  able-bodied. 
A/47/PV.34 
12 
Mr. JUNG  (Germany):  The  Federal  Republic  of Germany  is a member 
State of  the European  Community;  therefore we  fully  support  the words  of 
appreciation  of  the Decade  of Disabled  Persons  and  the World  Programme  of 
Action that have  just been uttered  by our British  colleague  on behalf  of  the 
European  Community. 
We too would  like  to thank  the United  Nations  for  the  future-oriented 
activities  in favour  of disabled  persons 
activities  that were  initiated  at 
the thirty-seventh  session  of  the General  Assembly  in 1982 by  the World 
Programme  of Action.  Earlier 
in 1976 
1981 was proclaimed  as the 
International Year  of Disabled  Persons. 
These activities have  opened  up  a new dimension  of  international  policy 
for disabled persons  and have  triggered  a world-wide  chain  reaction  in  favour 
of a segment  of  the population  that  continues  to be disadvantaged.  Millions 
of people are  still  living  in the  shadow of  society,  as Willy  Brandt,  the 
former Chancellor  of  the Federal  Republic  of Germany,  said  in his  first 
governmental  declaration  in 1969. 
This declaration was  the beginning  of  the German Government's  programme 
of action  for  rehabilitation  and  integration, which was  initiated  in 1970. 
The objectives  of  this programme  were: to open up and take  advantage  of 
chances for disabled persons; to  integrate  them  into  the  labour  force  and  into 
society; and to  afford  them  full participation  in the  life of  the  community. 
The results  of  the  action programme 
which has existed  for more  than 
20 years and has been updated  regularly 
are encouraging.  We have  enacted  a 
number of special  laws  aimed  at  the  integration  of disabled persons; we  have 
services and benefits  for  the medical, occupational  and  social  rehabilitation 
A/47/PV.34 
13 
(Mr. Jung.  Germany) 
as  integration  elements  of our general  social-security  system;  we have 
specialized  and  efficient  centres  for  the various  fields of  rehabilitation, 
especially medical  and occupational  integration;  and  organizations  for the 
disabled  participate  actively  in setting  the goals  and  in  implementing the 
programme  of  action.  In my  country,  the Decade's motto  was  "Understanding 
each other,  living  together". 
In the  framework  of  the World  Programme  of Action, we  too have made 
progress  over  the  last  10 years  towards  "full participation  and equality" and 
have been  able to  improve  further  the  already-high  standard  of prevention and 
rehabilitation  in our  country. 
Of particular  importance  in this  context  is the mandate  to submit a 
report  on the  situation  of disabled persons  and on developments  in the field 
of  rehabilitation  in each  legislative  period 
that  is, at  four-year 
intervals 
that was given  to the Federal  Government  by  our  Parliament 
in 1982.  The  first  two  reports were  submitted  in  1984 and  1989; the third 
will be  available  early  in 1993. 
I believe  that  the  control  function  served by the  discussion  of these 
reports  in Parliament  is at the  same  time a constant  incentive  for Governments 
not  to accept  a  standstill  in the efforts  to  integrate  disabled persons. 
When  taking  stock we  can  say, without  sounding  presumptuous,  that we have 
come much  closer  to  the goal  of  integrating  disabled  persons  in our society. 
In many  areas  notable progress  has  been  achieved.  An example  is to be found 
in the  field  of prevention 
that  is,  in the early  detection,  early treatment 
and early encouragement  of  disabled  children by means  of  an  increase in the 
A/47/PV.34 
14 
(Mr. Jung.  Germany) 
numbers of genetic  counselling  services, socio-pediatric  institutions  and 
early-intervention  centres. 
For decades  Germany has had  statutory provisions designed  to  facilitate 
in particular  the vocational  integration  of disabled persons.  During  those 
decades this body  of  instruments  has been  further  developed.  It covers  all 
severely disabled  persons,  irrespective  of  the cause of  their  disability;  it 
assures them  of  special  protection  against dismissal  and  stipulates  an 
employment  obligation  for  all employers with  a work-force  of more  than  15.  It 
:. also offers major  financial  incentives  and  relief  to employers  who  are willing 
to take on persons with  severe  disabilities. 
i: 
The successful  integration  of  the disabled person  into  the workforce 
6 hinges on the avoidance  of  the double handicap  of  functional  impairment  and 
s lack of occupational  qualifications.  Our  concept  and philosophy  of  vocational 
a: rehabilitation  is therefore  geared  to compensating  - even over-compensating  -
d: for physical handicap by means  of particularly  good  job qualifications.  In 
the past four years, therefore, we have not only  improved  the prospects  of 
,;;on-the-job training  for  disabled  persons but  also  created  a nationwide  network 
,[i:of vocational-training  institutions  to cater  for  those who, because  of  the 
....nature or severity  of  their  disabilities, cannot be  trained or  retrained  in a 
^commercial  enterprise. 
.,: 
We want, by  the year  1994, to achieve  two additional goals: 
.long-term-care  insurance, and  a code  for disabled persons.  We want  to expand 
our system of  social  security  in order  to render  necessary  assistance  also  to 
»«' 
those who, because of  illness  or disability,  require  long-term  care.  We  have 
id'" 
separate  social-insurance  systems  for  the  major  risks  of  l i f e,  such  as 
A/47/PV.34 
15 
(Mr. Jung.  Germany) 
sickness, old age, occupational  accidents  and unemployment.  These  systems 
have worked very  successfully  for more  than  100 years.  Now we  need  a fifth 
pillar  in the  form of  social  long-term-care  insurance.  Benefits  are envisaged 
both  for patients being  taken  care of  at home by  their  families  and  for 
patients being  cared  for  in nursing homes. 
A/47/PV.34 
16 
(Mr. Jung.  Germany) 
Medical  rehabilitation  measures  will be  integrated  into  care-delivery 
services.  We  also plan  to combine  the  rights  of  the disabled  in a  separate 
book of our  social  law.  At present,  the  rights of  the disabled,  the  benefits 
and the assistance  provided  to  them,  are distributed  over  numerous  separate 
laws.  It is very  time-consuming  to  find  one's way  through  them.  We want  to 
change this  state  of  affairs  and make  the rights of  the disabled  more 
transparent  in order  to  facilitate  their  access  to them.  We  are planning  a 
separate code
a Magna Carta of  rights, as it were 
for  the  rights  of 
disabled persons. 
As a result  of  the  restoration  of German unity  in the  fall  of  1990, the 
Federal Republic  of  Germany  faces  tasks  that  can only be dealt  with over  a 
longer period  of  time.  In the  territory  of the  former German  Democratic 
Republic, injustice,  inhumanity  and oppression were eliminated  without  delay, 
as the people  living  there were guaranteed  the enjoyment  of  such basic  rights 
as freedom to travel,  freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  the press  and  freedom  of 
association.  While  all  this has  led  to considerable  improvements  also  for 
disabled persons  living  in that  part of Germany 
the  free  access  to  technical 
aids and the participation  in a free  international  exchange  of goods  having 
proved to be particularly  beneficial  - further  reconstruction work  is  required 
there to establish  services  and  centres  that  correspond,  in terms of  quality 
and quantity,  to those  in West  Germany.  The  Federal  Government  will  pursue 
the efforts already begun  in order  soon  to  remand  to  the past  the  East-West 
divide in the  field  of  assistance  to disabled  persons, which  also  placed 
?eople with mental  disabilities  at a particular  disadvantage. 
Despite these great  efforts  on behalf  of  the Eastern part  of  unified 
>ern>any, we cannot,  and must  not,  forget  the disabled  persons  in Eastern 
iurope.  For that  reason, we  have  for  two years,  since  the  lifting  of  the  Iron 
A/47/PV.34 
17 
(Mr. Jung. Germany) 
Curtain, been helping the various countries of Eastern Europe and the 
successor States of the Soviet Union.  The goal is to convert the State 
systems of social security into an insurance system financed by 
contributions.  We are also assisting in building modern medical and 
occupational rehabilitation centres.  The cooperation thus achieved by way of 
bilateral relations is considered very useful and effective by both sides. 
The purpose of these special plenary meetings of the General Assembly is 
to take stock after 10 years and to present the results achieved 
internationally by the Programme of Action. 
This is certainly justified and also useful, since we should be glad 
about the progress achieved for the benefit of the 500 million disabled 
persons all over the world. 
But looking back can only be one side of the coin.  The General Assembly 
must not limit itself to looking back; it must also look to the future. 
Our British colleague explicitly said in his statement that 
"the essential objectives of the World Programme of Action have yet to be 
realized." (supra, p. 6) 
He will certainly not be contradicted, since the big task of rehabilitating 
disabled persons and of achieving their full participation in social life is a 
never-ending process.  It is a permanent challenge for society. 
Therefore, it is necessary today to look ahead and to discuss further 
steps to be taken by the United Nations towards the full, or at least partial, 
implementation of the lofty aims of the World Programme of Action. 
And that was also the consensus of the 70 Ministers responsible for 
questions of the disabled who assembled last week in Montreal at the 
A/47/PV.34 
18 
(Mr. Jung,  Germany) 
invitation of  the Canadian  Government.  The Ministers  were of  one mind  as to 
the need to  tackle  the  implementation  of the Programme  of Action more 
forcefully  and more  effectively. 
This morning,  Mr. de Cotret  reported  on the  results  of  this  first 
Conference  of Ministers  responsible  for questions  of  the disabled,  elaborated 
on the Declaration  of Montreal,  and  announced  the establishment  of  an  ongoing 
mechanism.  It  is of paramount  importance  that  this new  instrument  established 
by the Conference  of Montreal  be  applied  in close  cooperation  and  coordination 
with the United Nations  and  its various  institutions  and  activities. 
Allow me  to make  a few  remarks  for the  future based  on our  experience  in 
the field of  rehabilitation  in Germany. 
First,  I believe  we do not need  any new  resolutions  or decisions,  nor do 
we need any new suggestions  as to  the goals  of  rehabilitation,  as they  have 
already been brilliantly  defined  in numerous  documents  over  the past  few 
years.  We do not need more papers, we  now need  action. 
We need  the willingness  and determination  of  the General  Assembly  to make 
sure that  in the years  to come  the United  Nations will  continue  to  steer  the 
course set by  the Programme  of Action by taking  concrete measures. 
As a first  step,  this  requires more  specific  information  on  the  500 
million disabled  persons  all over  the world.  We need  specific  information  on 
the state of  rehabilitation  in individual  countries. 
The Ministers  of War  or of Defence  are much better  off.  They want  to 
disarm, and they have  detailed  information  about  the military  situation  in 
their neighbouring  countries.  They  know exactly  how many  airplanes, tanks, 
submarines, missiles  and bombs  their  neighhbours  have. 
A/47/PV.34 
19 
(Mr. Jung.  Germany) 
In contrast,  the Ministers  responsible  for  the concerns  of  disabled 
persons  are  called  upon  to  "rearm"  in order  to  improve  the  lot of  the 
disabled.  Yet,  they  know very  little  about  the  situation  of  these persons, 
their  numbers,  the nature of their disabilities  and  their  special  concerns and 
needs.  We have  to change  that  state  of affairs. 
Secondly,  to  that  end, we need  as objective  a yardstick  as possible to 
identify  the  situation  of disabled  persons.  We  need  internationally 
harmonized  and uniform  evaluation  criteria  to enable  individual  Governments to 
compare  their own  situation with that  in other  countries.  We  need  an 
international  questionnaire  to investigate  the  situation  of  disabled persons 
and  the  standard  of  rehabilitation  and  integration  in each  country.  Let the 
United  Nations  draw up  such a questionnaire  and  let  the Governments  answer 
it.  But  also  let  the organizations  of disabled persons  answer  it. 
Thirdly,  Governments  play  a crucial  role and  are  responsible  for the 
further  development  of  rehabilitation  in the  individual  countries. 
While it 
is possible  to provide  external  support,  the main  impetus  must  come  from 
Governments  themselves.  The  standard of  rehabilitation  varies, but  in spite 
of  the differences  - the  standard may be  low, medium  or high  - all  countries 
have  to make  further  efforts, taking  into  account  their  special problems.  I 
submit  that  it would be helpful  if every  country  drew up  its own  list of 
priorities. 
Fourthly,  the necessary  assistance must  be  available  to Governments in 
concrete  form,  tailored  to the  respective  needs  of  the  individual  country, 
that  is, in the  form of  information,  counselling,  technical  assistance, 
partnerships,  training measures  and  the  services  of  all  types  of specialists. 
Models  of  rehabilitation  units would be helpful  for medical, educational or 
A/47/PV.34 
20 
(Mr. Jung.  Germany) 
vocational  rehabilitation.  Such models  could  act  as  incentives  by  showing 
what could be done by effective  rehabilitation measures  and by  demonstrating 
the need  for  rehabilitation. 
Fifthly,  the organization  of  assistance  must  be optimal  and must  be 
accessible without major  obstacles.  The United  Nations has  a suitable 
instrument  for  this purpose  in the  form of  the Centre  for  Social  Development 
and Humanitarian Affairs, which could  effectively  deal with  this  task,  and 
should be entrusted with  it by  the General  Assembly. 
Sixthly,  in  future,  the General  Assembly  should periodically  request 
information on  the progress  achieved  in the  integration  of disabled  persons 
whether yearly  or  at  longer  intervals  is open to  discussion. 
A/47/PV.34 
21 
(Mr. Jung.  Germany) 
Paragraphs  194 to  202 of  the World  Programme  of Action provide  for 
constant  monitoring  and  evaluation.  This  task has been entrusted  to the 
Centre  in Vienna.  It would be  interesting  to  learn  the  results  obtained so 
far  for  the  individual  countries. 
Those  are  a few  specific  suggestions  for  future  activities  of  the 
United  Nations  that  could  help  to  further  implement  the World  Programme of 
Action  in the years  to come. 
The  Government  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany will  continue  its 
efforts  to  integrate  disabled  persons  in our  country  as  fully  as possible.  We 
are  also prepared  to contribute  our experience  and knowledge  to  the activities 
of  the United  Nations  and  to  support  them  in their necessary  future work. 
This year,  the Decade  of Disabled  Persons  draws  to an end,  but  the World 
Programme  of Action  and  its  implementation  must  go on. 
The  current  session of  the General Assembly  should  send  a clear  signal in 
this  respect.  It  should  not  reject  the outstretched  hand  of  the Montreal 
Conference  of Ministers but gladly  take  it and embark  on  a  future  course 
jointly with  the Conference. 
Mr. DENG  (China)  (interpretation  from  Chinese):  This  special 
meeting  of  the United  Nations  General  Assembly,  the  first  of  its kind in the 
nearly half-century  history  of  the United  Nations,  is of  far-reaching 
significance  for  the protection  of human  rights  and  the building  of  a society 
for  all.  It  is a great pleasure  for me  today  to have  this opportunity to 
speak before  this  forum  on  the  issue  of disabled  persons, who  account  for one 
tenth of  the world  population. 
Disabled  persons  are entitled  to enjoy  equal  rights with  their  fellow 
citizens  in all  aspects  of human  life, whether  political, economic, cultural 
A/47/PV.34 
22 
(Mr. Deno.  China) 
or social.  Facts demonstrate  their  ability  to  fully participate  in  society, 
and they are  contributors  to human wealth  as well.  To protect  their  rights, 
respect  their value  and give play  to their potentiality  symbolizes 
civilization  and progress.  Our planet  is home  to over  500 million  disabled 
persons.  They  and  their  families  amount  to  a quarter  of  the  population. 
Impaired by  their own disabilities  and hindered by  the external  environment, 
they are the most  disadvangaged  and underprivileged  group  in society.  Today 
human society has progressed  to  such a stage  that,  like the emancipation  of 
the nation and of women,  the emancipation  of disabled  persons  has become  an 
urgent and arduous  task  facing  the  international  community. 
In keeping with  the needs of  the  times, at its thirty-seventh  session  the 
General Assembly  proclaimed  the United Nations Decade of Disabled  Persons  and 
adopted the World  Programme  of Action concerning  Disabled  Persons.  That 
important  decision of historic  significance marked  a new chapter  for  a global 
solution to the disability  issue.  It has  raised public  awareness  and  helped 
push forward  efforts  in this  field,  though  to various  extents,  in different 
countries.  The goals  embodied  in the World  Programme  of Action, which  aim  at 
enabling disabled persons  to enjoy equal  rights  and opportunities,  to 
participate  fully  in  social  life and  share  the  social material  and  cultural 
achievements, and  the basic  principles  for  their  realization  have  served  and 
will continue  to serve  as valuable guidance  for the  future. 
Despite  the achievements  made  in the past  decade  due  to the  joint  efforts 
of the Governments  of  all  countries,  relevant United  Nations  agencies  and 
disabled persons' organizations, we  are  still  far  from  reaching  our goals. 
Disabled persons  still  find  themselves  in a situation where  education  and 
employment  opportunities  are  few and medical  care  and  rehabilitation  services 
A/47/PV.34 
23 
(Mr. Deng. China) 
are inadequate.  Their life is very difficult, trailing behind mainstream 
socio-economic development.  The international community should have a full 
awareness of such a situation.  Disability is a social issue of a kind that no 
countries can neglect or avoid.  It is the responsibility of the international 
community and the Governments of all countries to find a solution to this 
issue.  As the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons is drawing to its 
conclusion, we wish to put forward the following suggestions to renew the 
dynamism of the World Programme of Action under implementation and to further 
promote our endeavours for disabled persons.* 
In the course of establishing a just and rational new international order 
characterized by peace and stability, attention should be paid to social 
issues in order to achieve economic development in harmony with social 
progress.  In international economic and technical co-operation, the needs of 
disabled persons, especially those in developing countries, should be taken 
into full consideration for the rational distribution of resources.  United 
Nations agencies in the field of social development and disabled persons 
should be strengthened and solutons found to their problems in terms of human 
and financial resources. 
Disability should be listed as a major item on the agenda of the proposed 
World Summit for Social Development. 
United Nations agencies and the Governments of all countries should work 
out new plans and adopt more pragmatic measures for full implementation of the 
basic principles of the World Programme of Action in order to give disabled 
persons more access to education, employment and rehebilitation services and 
Mr. Dayaratne (Sri Lanka), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV. 34 
24-25 
(Mr. Deng.  China) 
improve  the environment  and  conditions  for their equal  participation  in  social 
life. 
A permanent  high-level  national  co-ordinating  body on disability  issues 
should be established  and  strengthened  in all  countries  in order  to  organize 
and co-ordinate more  effectively work  for disabled persons  of 
multi-disciplinary  and  inter-departmental  nature. 
The  forty-eighth  session  of  the Economic  and  Social Commission  for  Asia 
and the Pacific, held  in Beijing  earlier  this year, unanimously  adopted  a 
draft resolution  sponsored  by  33 member  States  to proclaim  the years  1993  to 
2002 the Asian  and Pacific  Decade of Disabled  Persons.  It was endorsed  at the 
session of  the Economic  and Social  Council  this year.  We  call  upon United 
Nations agendies  and other  regions of  the world  to give effective  support  to 
this action, which  aims  at consolidating  and expanding  the achievements  of  the 
United Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons, and  to take appropriate measures  to 
promote efforts  in this  field  in various  regions. 
A/47/PV.34 
26 
(Mr. Deng.  China) 
China  is a developing  country now undergoing  rapid  economic  growth and 
profound  social  changes.  In this historical  process,  in  response  to the calls 
of  the World  Programme  of Action,  during  the United  Nations Decade  of Disabled 
Persons, China has  taken effective measures  to  improve  the  situation of 
disabled  persons  in the  light of  national  conditions  in China.  We have 
promulgated  the Law on the Protection  of Disabled  Persons,  set up mechanisms 
to coordinate  efforts  in this  area,  formulated  and begun  implementation of two 
national  five-year work programmes  for disabled  persons,  established  the China 
Disabled  Persons' Federation, with  local branches,  adopted  preferential and 
supportive  policies  for disabled  persons, and carried  out  international 
exchange  and  cooperation  in this  field. 
As  an example  of what  has been done,  in the  last  four  years 
700,000 people who were blind  as a result  of  cataracts  regained  their sight 
through  operations,  250,000 polio victims  underwent  orthopaedic  surgery, and 
more  than  20,000 deaf  children  received hearing-  and  speech-training. 
The  number  of  special  education  institutions  has been growing  at an 
annual  rate of  20 per  cent;  special  classes  affiliated  to  regular  schools have 
grown  in number  by  100 per  cent;  and  the number  of visually  impaired, hearing 
impaired  and mentally  retarded  children  in school  has  increased  by 
30 per  cent.  Welfare  enterprises  to provide  sheltered  employment  for disabled 
persons  have  increased  to more  than 40,000; 650,000  disabled  persons are 
employed  in those  enterprises.  Disabled  persons  employed  in  regular 
enterprises  make  up  1 per  cent  of  the  total work  force.  The  overall 
employment  rate of disabled  persons  has  risen  to more  than  60 per  cent,  la 
addition, more  and more  disabled  persons  are  taking  an active part  in 
cultural,  sports  and  recreational  activities. 
A/47/PV.34 
27 
(Mr. Deng.  China) 
Our  achievements  are  remarkable,  but many problems  still  exist.  China 
accounts  for  a considerable  number  of  the world's  disabled  persons.  We  are 
keenly aware of our  responsibilities  and  the  role we  can play.  In the  course 
of furthering  reform  and opening  up and  speeding up the modernization  drive, 
China will  strive  to meet  the needs of  its disabled  persons  and bear  its  share 
of international  responsibilities  and obligations, commensurate  with  its  level 
of development. 
It is our hope  that  this meeting will have  a positive  impact  globally  on 
improving  the  situation  of disabled persons, thereby  contributing  to human 
civilization  and  social  progress. 
Mr. NKOMO  (Zimbabwe):  Zimbabwe,  a  country  striving  to be an 
important  collaborator  with  disabled persons, considers  the  special  plenary 
meetings on issues  relating  to the disabled  to be  among  the most  important 
events held by  the United Nations  this year.  We  should  like  to express  our 
appreciation  to the Government  of Canada  for  the successful Montreal  meeting, 
held from  8 to  9 October  1992, which mapped  out  the  strategies  for the way 
forward after  the Decade  and beyond  the year  2000.  Zimbabwe  had  the honour  of 
participating  in that  Conference  of Ministers  responsible  for the  status  of 
persons with  disabilities. 
Regarding  the  achievements  of  the United  Nations  Decade  of  Disabled 
Persons, the  reviews  and  recommendations  of  the United Nations  Experts  meeting 
in Finland  in 1990  and  in Stockholm  in 1987  indicate  that one  of  the  major 
successes of  the Decade  has been  the  international  development  of  the 
disability movement.  One  organization  that  deserves  special  recognition  is 
Disabled People's  International, which  in the period  in question  has  spread 
the call for  full participation  and equalization  of  opportunities  throughout 
the world,  as envisaged  in  the United  Nations  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
A/47/PV.34 
28-30 
(Mr. Nkomo.  Zimbabwe) 
Rights.  This  organization's  success  in building  a democratic  and  unified 
cross-disability  movement  of disabled  persons  can be  regarded  as a success of 
the United  Nations  Decade. 
We have  also  observed  achievements  in the areas of  primary health care, 
prevention  and  rehabilitation  and public  awareness.  In his  report  (A/47/415), 
the Secretary-General  further  observes  that  Governments,  in  close 
collaboration with  the United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies, 
particularly  the United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF) and  the World Health 
Organization  (WHO),  and other  non-governmental  organizations,  have played an 
important  role  in developing  and  coordinating  policies  on prevention and 
rehabilitation.  Thus during  the Decade  the campaign  for  immunization of 
children,  initiated  by WHO,  in collaboration with UNICEF,  has gained great 
momentum,  particularly  in Africa  and other  developing  regions.  Success has 
also been  recorded  by United Nations  agencies  in dealing with  traumatized 
children  in  situations  of war  and others  in especially  difficult  circumstances 
However,  the major  components  of  the World  Programme  of Action were not 
addressed,  particularly  in the developing  countries, where  there are no 
adequate  resources.  The  Secretary-General's  report  rightly points out: 
"The United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons was  proclaimed 
without  provision  of  additional  resources.  Existing  resources  in this 
area were  disproportionate  to  the magnitude  of  the  tasks  and restrained 
the  ability  of  the United  Nations  to carry  out  its  assigned  functions 
effectively  and  efficiently."  (A/47/415, para.  25) 
Another  major  failure  of  the Decade,  in my  delegation's  view, is that, 
even with  the degree  of public  awareness  that  the Decade  engendered, there is 
still  a lack  of participation  by disabled people  themselves  in the 
decision-making  process. 
A/47/PV.34 
31 
(Mr. Nkomo.  Zimbabwe) 
If the United  Nations were not  able  to have  adequate  resources, one would 
not feel the need  to elaborate  on the plight  of developing  countries, 
particulary  those  in Africa, where  a major  cause  of disability  is poverty.  As 
a consequence,  as the economic  and  social  situation of many  developing 
countries deteriorated  so did  that of  the disabled  communities.  There  has 
been no adequate  response  from  the United Nations  or  the  international 
community  regarding  the much-needed  resources, especially  as most  developing 
countries were embarked  on economic  structural  adjustment programmes  at  the 
same time that  they  tackled  famine, disease, hunger  and poverty.  To  add to 
the burden, outdated  and  sometimes  even dangerous machines, pesticides  and 
medicines, banned  in developed  countries but  exported  to the developing  world, 
have caused major  injuries, illnesses  and  disabilities. 
In spite of  a lack of  resources,  the Government  of  Zimbabwe  was able  to 
create, before  and during  the Decade,  a positive political  climate  for 
disability  issues, which  encouraged  the formation  and  free operation  of 
disabled-persons  associations  to enable  the greater participation  of  disabled 
persons, such as  the  Zimbabwe  Federation  of Disabled  Persons  (ZIFOD). 
Legislative measures  such as  the War Victims  Compensation  Act,  the  State 
Services Disability Act,  the Social Welfare Assistance Act,  the  National 
Social Security  Act  and, most  recently,  the Disabled  Persons  Act  of  1992  are 
but a few indicators  of my  Government's  desire  to  improve  the lot of  disabled 
persons in Zimbabwe. 
Indeed,  the political  goal  of  Zimbabwe's  measures  for disabled  people  is 
jthat the disabled  should be part  of  the community  and  live  like others.  They 
should have the  same opportunities  to earn  their  living, have  a good home, 
move about and have meaningful  jobs  and  leisure  activities.  That  could  only 
be guaranteed by  the  introduction  of  appropriate  disability  legislation  and 
A/47/PV.34 
32 
( Mr. Nkomo. Z imbabwe) 
the empowerment  of  the disabled.  How often  the  able-bodied  have  taken 
advantage  of privilege  for  their  own  convenience,  and yet  they  cite a thousand 
reasons  for  not  allocating  resources  to  fund programmes  for  the  disabled. 
A major  component  of  the  1992 Disability  Act  in Zimbabwe  is the 
establishment  of  the National  Disability  Board.  The majority  of  its members 
will  come  from  disabled-persons  organizations  and  the Board will  be chaired by 
a disabled  person.  As one  of  its major  functions,  the Board will work out 
appropriate  programmes  to equalize  opportunities  for  the disabled.  The Board 
will  also be  the  focal point  for the  further  development  of policy measures in 
this  regard.  Indeed,  it has  a  broad  mandate. 
My  delegation  is very  concerned  about  the plight  of  disabled  children and 
women, whose  number  is on  the  rise because  of  situations  of war.  The 
1990 World  Summit  for Children, which was  attended  by  71 Heads  of State and 
Government,  including my  own President, Mr. Robert  G. Mugabe,  committed itself 
to  improving  the protection  and development  of  children,  including disabled 
children,  especially  those  in difficult  circumstances. 
The United  Nations  General  Assembly's  1989  Convention  on the Rights of 
the Child,  which over  100 countries  have  signed  or  ratified,  sets  standards 
for  child  survival, health  and  education,  as well  as  specific  goals for 
protecting  all  children  in difficult  circumstances  throughout  the world. 
A  review of  a United Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF)  study  reveals that 
for every  child  killed,  three more  are wounded,  permanently  disabled or 
psychologically  scarred  for  life by  the  trauma of war.  One  finds  such 
children  in every  area of  conflict,  including,  of  course,  in Africa, in 
Angola, Mozambique,  South Africa,  Sudan  and  Somalia. 
A/47/PV.34 
33 
(Mr. Nkomo.  Zimbabwe) 
In keeping with  the promises  of  the  above-mentioned  Summit,  African 
leaders have  called  for  an  international  conference  of  the Organization  of 
African Unity  (OAU) on  assistance  for African  children to be held  in Dakar, 
Senegal, from  25 to 28 November  1992.  Africa  is appealing  to  the 
international  community  to  support  that  conference. 
The hardships  of  disabled women and children, whose burden  is twice  as 
heavy because  of  their  disabilities, become more pronounced when  Governments 
are forced  to cut down on  their  national budgets.  The barriers  to  development 
are still greater  for disabled  children and women.  Women are also  faced with 
gender prejudice  and  reproductive  oppression. 
We hope  that  the United  Nations  Commission  on the Status of Women,  as it 
prepares for  the World  Conference  on Women,  to take place  in Beijing  in 1995, 
will come up with  a comprehensive  agenda  that will have been drawn up with  the 
participation of  disabled people  themselves. 
In Southern Africa, we  are experiencing  not only  the hardships  of 
economic structural  adjustment programmes  but  also  the worst drought  in  living 
memory.  It  is not difficult  to  imagine  the suffering  of disabled women  and 
'" children under  such  conditions. 
My Government  expresses  appreciation  to the United  Nations  and  the 
'* international  community,  particularly  those  countries  and  non-governmental 
'organizations  that  responded  to the consolidated  United  Nations/Southern 
:#African Development  Community  (SADC) appeal  launched  in July of  this year. 
#Despite the hardships,  shortcomings  and experiences  of  the Decade, we  strongly 
liilbelieve that  the United Nations World  Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled 
iii'Persons is still  the most  comprehensive  document  providing  direction  for 
Policy development  nationally  and  internationally. 
A/47/PV.34 
34 
(Mr. Nkomo.  Zimbabwe) 
Much needs  to be  done  to  further  the  implementation  of  the Programme of 
Action,  and we  should  therefore  like to propose  the  following measures  and 
strategies  to bring  about  lasting  equality,  security,  solidarity  and 
democracy:  first,  that  the United  Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons  and its 
Programme  be proclaimed  to extend  beyond  the year  2000  in order  to  allow 
further  intensification  of  activities  in the  field  of disability;  secondly, 
that  an international  coordinating  committee  have  the mandate  to plan 
activities with  the United  Nations  system  to  improve  the  status  of disabled 
persons  and  to coordinate  the activities  of  the national  coordinating 
committees,  and  that  such a mechanism  involve  representatives  of  organizations 
of  disabled  people  and  that  it be  funded  from  the United  Nations  regular 
budget;  thirdly,  that disability be  considered  a priority  for  international 
cooperation  and  technical  assistance  both  in multilateral  and  in bilateral 
assistance  programmes;  fourthly,  that  the Vienna disability  unit be upgraded 
and  strengthened;  and  fifthly,  that  adequate  support be  given  to the United 
Nations  Task  Force  on Disabled  Children  and Women, which  is being coordinated 
by  UNICEF. 
Mr. BREITENSTEIN  (Finland):  Allow me  to offer  you.  Sir, and the 
Assembly  the  apologies  of my Minister  for Social  Affairs  and Health, Mr. Jorma 
Huuhtanen, who  indeed had  arrived  in New York  over  the weekend  but  then was 
recalled  to Helsinki  by  the Prime Minister  for urgent  cabinet  negotiations 
this  afternoon.  He  asked me  to  read out  on his behalf  the  statement  that he 
had prepared-to  deliver  to the Assembly,  and  I shall  now proceed  to do so. 
A/47/PV.34 
35 
(Mr. Breitenstein.  Finland) 
"The overall  goal of  Finnish disability policy  is to  integrate 
disabled persons  into  society  and  its various  activities.  In our 
legislation  and  in our  society  in general,  the  target  is to  take  into 
account  the needs of  all  citizens.  As we have  not been  able  to  include 
all the  services  needed  by disabled  citizens  in the system  of  general 
services, my  Government  has decided  to  complement  its general  legislation 
by enacting  special  legislation  that  takes  into  account  the needs of 
disabled persons.* 
* 
Mrs. Escaler  (Philippines), Vice-President,  took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.34 
36 
(Mr. Breitenstein,  Finland) 
"Thus  the Services  and Assistance  for  the Disabled  Act  entered  into 
force  in Finland  in 1988.  Certainly  this enactment was  to  a great degree 
due  to the  supportive  and positive  atmosphere  created  by  the Decade of 
Disabled  Persons. 
"The purpose  of  the Act  is to promote  improved  conditions  for 
disabled  persons  so that  they  can live  and participate  in  society  in 
equality with  others  and to prevent  and eliminate  the disadvantages and 
obstacles  caused  by disability.  Various  forms  of  support  and  services 
are  rendered  to the disabled  to make  their participation  and  independent 
living  possible. 
"In Finland municipalities  are  responsible  for providing  services 
for  their  citizens.  According  to the Services  and Assistance  for the 
Disabled  Act, municipalities  have  the  responsibility  to promote  the 
living  conditions  of  the disabled  and  to provide  the  services  and support 
measures  they  need.  The Act  supports  their  opportunities  for  independent 
living,  for example  by  securing  the  right  to  service housing  and 
transport  services  for  severely  disabled  persons.  Also by virtue of the 
Act,  compensation  for  the expenses  of employing  a personal  assistant can 
be paid.  Furthermore,  the Act  aims  at  improving  disabled  persons' 
opportunities  to  influence  society by promoting  cooperation  between the 
authorities  and  organizations  of disabled  persons. 
"The permanent  cooperation bodies  in Finland  are  the  National 
Council  on Disability  and,  in most municipalities,  councils  for disabled 
persons.  One half  of  their members  represent  the  authorities, and the 
other  the disabled  citizens.  The  councils  act  as experts  on  disability 
and  convey  information  about  the needs  of  disabled  persons.  They follow 
A/47/PV.34 
37 
(Mr. Breitenstein.  Finland) 
up decision-making,  issue  statements, take the  initiative  in  improving 
services  and  transmit  information  about  disability. 
"Economic  support  to organizations  of disabled  persons  has  a long 
tradition  in my  country.  The  organizations  in turn have been  the 
initiators  of many  services; they have experimented  with  and  also 
implemented  services.  Services  that have proved  to be  successful  have 
then often become part  of general  services.  The work  of  these 
organizations  continues  to be  supported,  and  their  impact  on  the 
development  of our  society  in general  is highly valued.  The  development 
of the disabled  persons' own organizations  is indeed one of  the most 
positive  achievements  during  this Decade of Disabled  Persons. 
"Education  can be mentioned  as an example  of  a successful  form  of 
integration  during  the Decade  in Finland.  Compulsory  education,  which 
can also be  called  the  right  to education,  includes  all  children.  The 
educational  authorities  are  responsible  for the  school  attendance  of 
disabled  children,  and  a large part  of disabled  schoolchildren  attend 
school  in their  own district  or municipality  together with  other 
children.  Some  of  the disabled  children  are educated  in special  groups 
or special  schools. 
"The United Nations has played  an  important  part  in highlighting  the 
rights of various  special groups  such as disabled  persons  and  in 
increasing  awareness  about  them.  Until  now  it has been  considered  in 
Finland  that  separate  legislation  prohibiting  discrimination  against 
disabled  people would  not be needed.  However,  this has  unfortunately  not 
proved  to be  the  case  in practice.  For  that  reason  a  Government 
committee  charged  with  considering  amendments  to  the Constitution  has 
suggested  that  disability  should  also be mentioned  as a ground  for 
A/47/PV.34 
38 
(Mr. Breitenstein.  Finland) 
prohibiting  discrimination.  We hope  that  this view  of  the  committee will 
lead  to a corresponding  amendment  of our  Constitution.  We  expect  that a 
prohibition  on discrimination  against disabled  persons will  also 
influence  legislation  at a lower  level  and practices  in general  that may 
contain  indirectly  discriminatory  conditions. 
"I have been  speaking  about  the  integration  of disabled  persons and 
equal  rights  for  them  in society.  Situations  do not, however, develop in 
the way  one would  hope  in all  respects.  As  economic  depression  and 
unemployment  increase,  the disabled  are  the  first  group whose  status is 
at  risk.  Being  left outside working  life  and  not  earning  an  income also 
mean  limitations  on many  other  spheres  in human  life.  Exclusion  from 
working  life  is  an especially great problem  for  a disabled  person.  We 
regard  it  as very  important  that  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
emphasizes  the participation  of disabled persons  in working  life and its 
significance  for  economic  independence  and  integration. 
"In order  to secure  further  integration we  support  the 
Secretary-General's  proposal  of  a comprehensive  and  coherent  policy to 
further  the  integration  of disabled  persons  into ordinary  life and 
society.  We  hope  that  these  targets  can be  implemented  as  extensively 
and  as  speedily  as possible  throughout  the  world. 
"The  recommendations  of  the  report  (A/47/415) also  include national 
affirmative-action  plans  extending  to  the year  2002.  My  Government gives 
its  full  support  to this proposal  and  intends  to develop  such a plan for 
itself.  Such  a plan would  include  the most  important  principles  in the 
World  Programme  of Action,  namely,  prevention,  rehabilitation  and 
equalization  of  opportunities. 
A/47/PV.34 
39 
(Mr. Breitenstein.  Finland) 
"The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  also emphasizes  the need  to 
take the  disability  issue  into  account  in multilateral  and  bilateral 
cooperation between  the Members  of  the United  Nations.  We have  a long 
experience  of  cooperation with Central  and Eastern  European  countries. 
Disability  issues  and  cooperation  between  the  relevant  organizations  will 
play  an  important  part  in this cooperation  in the  future. 
"In our  view,  emphasizing  disability  issues  is especially  important 
where  the  developing  countries  are  concerned.  In these  countries, more 
and more people become  disabled because  of  famine, wars  and  disasters. 
Furthermore,  disabled persons  are the  first  to be threatened  by 
increasing  poverty.  That  is why we  all have  a special  responsibility  for 
disabled  persons  in the poorest  countries  of the world. 
"The United  Nations  Disabled  Persons Unit has had very  scarce 
resources  at  its disposal  during  the Decade of Disabled  Persons.  Finland 
has for  its part  tried  to ease  this  situation by  financing  the work  of 
one person  in the Unit. We  are concerned  about  the  future of  this Unit 
and its  resource  base.  In our opinion  it is most  important  that  the work 
of this Unit  receive  full  support  from  all of us.  We believe  that  the 
share of  social  and humanitarian  affairs  in  the activities  of  the United 
Nations  in general  should be  strengthened,  and  that emphasis  on 
disability  issues  should be  increased.  The  status of  the Economic  and 
Social  Council  and  its Committees  should be enhanced  and  disability 
issues  should  thus be  further  integrated  into other United  Nations 
activities. 
"As  the Decade  of Disabled  Persons  cornel to an end, we  can on  the 
whole be proud  of  the positive  achievements  of  the United  Nations, which, 
above all,  include  the World  Programme  of Action,  the Long-term  Strategy, 
A/47/PV.34 
40 
(Mr. Breitenstein. Finland) 
the newly  created  Standard  Rules on  the Equalization  of Opportunities for 
Persons with Disabilities,  and the work  and  resolutions  of  the  Commission 
on Human  Rights  in the  field of disability.  These decisions  and 
instruments  constitute  the  fulfilment  of many  expectations,  and  their 
implementation  and  follow-up will  require  determined  work  and many 
resources  in the  future.  In this  respect  I believe  it necessary  that the 
follow-up work be  as  fully  coordinated  as possible  so that  scarce 
resources  can be  used most  effectively. 
"A  recent  step  forward  is the generous  offer made by the Government 
of  Canada  to  strengthen  cooperation  between  the Ministers  responsible for 
disability  affairs  and  to convene  regular ministerial  meetings  on the 
subject.  My  Government's  stand  on this proposal  is positive.  In this 
connection we  feel  that  consideration  should  also be given  to how the 
views  of  organizations  of disabled  persons  could be  sufficiently  taken 
into  account  in such ministerial  meetings  and how  such meetings  could 
best be  interlinked  into  the broader  network of  existing  forums, and 
especially  into  the work  of  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.34 
41 
(Mr. Breitenstein.  Finland) 
"As the  successful Decade  of Disabled  Persons  is coming  to an end 
the Finnish Government  sincerely hopes  that  the  future will bring  a 
further  equalization  of opportunities  for disabled  persons  and  that  the 
end of  the Decade may be  considered  as a springboard  for  a new era." 
Mr. VRIETHOFF  (Netherlands):  It is my honour  to address  the 
Assembly  today,  in my  capacity  as Chairman of  the Netherlands  Council  of  the 
Disabled  and  as a member  of  the Netherlands  delegation  to the  forty-seventh 
session of  the United Nations, on the occasion of  the conclusion  of  the United 
Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons.  I should  like to dwell briefly  on United 
Nations policies with  regard  to persons with disabilities  as well  as on 
national policies. 
The United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons has been of major 
importance  in raising global  awareness  of  the  issue of persons  with 
disabilities.  The  focus of  the United Nations  should  now  shift  from 
awareness-raising  to action.  A more  concentrated,  coordinated  approach  to 
action will enhance progress  towards  the  realization  of  the objectives  of  the 
World Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled  Persons. 
Action-oriented  projects  aimed  at  improving  living  conditions  for  persons 
with disabilities  or  at preventing  avoidable  disability have  to be  initiated. 
In particular, projects  in developing  countries, preferably  at the  grass-roots 
level, should be  implemented.  The World Health Organization  (WHO) estimates 
that 60 per  cent  of  the  causes of disability  in people  residing  in the 
developing  countries  could  be eliminated  or  averted  through  effective, 
low-cost measures.  Millions  of  children with disabilities  are unable  to gain 
access to or  receive  even  a basic  education because  of  the  lack of  appropriate 
technical devices  and  equipment. 
A/47/PV.34 
42 
(Mr. Vriethoff.  Netherlands) 
Positive  results of  action-oriented  projects  should  be  widely 
disseminated  and  should  serve  as an example  for  future  activities.  The same 
goes  for  the standard  rules  on the equalization  of  opportunities  for persons 
with disabilities, which will  be under  consideration  at  the  thirty-third 
session  of the Commission  for  Social Development,  to be held  in February 1993 
in Vienna.  Furthermore,  in order  to make  effective  use of  the  scarce 
resources  which  are being  assigned  to disability  issues, a much  greater 
coordination  of  efforts  and programme  activity  among  implementing  groups, such 
as United  Nations  agencies  and  the non-governmental  organizations, needs to be 
undertaken. 
In the Netherlands  policy with  respect  to persons with  disabilities 
emphasis  is placed  on the  individual  needs  of persons with disabilities, on 
their  full  acceptance by  and participation  in the community  and on cooperation 
with non-governmental  organizations  in this  respect.  The  Netherlands 
Government  thus  endeavours  to comply with  one of  the most  important 
recommendations  of  the United  Nations World  Programme  of Action  concerning 
Disabled  Persons, which  states: 
"Member  States  should  encourage  the provision  of  support  services to 
enable disabled  persons  to  live  as  independently  as possible  in the 
community.  In so doing,  they  should  ensure  that  persons with a 
disability have  the opportunity  to develop  and manage  these  services for 
themselves  ..."  (A/37/351/Add.l.  annex, p. 43. para.  115) 
The  role of non-governmental  organizations  in the Netherlands with  respect to 
disabled persons  includes  direct  involvement  in  the organization  and 
management  of  all  kinds of  services  for persons with disabilities.  For the 
implementation  of  these  activities  they  receive  financial  support  from the 
Netherlands  Government.  To  ensure  the  fine-tuning  of policy-making  and 
A/47/PV.34 
43-45 
(Mr. Vriethoff.  Netherlands) 
implementation,  a consultative  structure has been created  through which  the 
Government  and  the  non-governmental  organizations  can confer, with  the 
participation  at  these management-level  consultations  of  the  national 
organizations  acting  on behalf  of persons with mental  and  physical 
disabilities  and  the organizations  representing  the  facilities  serving  them. 
The Netherlands  has  a host  of  facilities  for persons with disabilities. 
Many of  these were  conceived  and  realized  in response  to Government  plans  and 
instructions  or  on the  initiative  of  the non-governmental  organizations 
themselves.  Unfortunately,  too  little  account was  taken of  the  individual 
needs of  those  for whom  the  facilities were  intended.  It was  not until  the 
1980s that  small-scale  housing projects  catering  for greater  self-sufficiency 
and privacy were  realized.  Hence  the main criticism  of  the  service  system  is 
that, despite  the high quality of professional  help available, too much  is 
predetermined  and not enough  is tailored  to  individual  needs.  Facilities  must 
be brought  as close  as possible  to the people  they are  intended  to help,  so 
that persons with disabilities  can live as independently  as possible  in our 
community. 
The attitude  of  the community  to persons with disabilities  constitutes  an 
important  subject.  If they  are  to lead  a normal  life, social  conditions  must 
be favourable.  Practical  factors  such as the accessibility  of  public 
buildings and means  of public  transport  are of  importance  here.  But  the 
ultimate  factor  is the willingness  of  the  community  to accept persons  with 
disabilities  as valuable  and  full members  of  society.  A greater  degree  of 
understanding  and  awareness  that persons with disabilities  share 
proportionately  the  same desires, skills, capabilities  and potential  to be 
active, participating  contributors  to the  socio-economic  growth of  their 
community must  be  encouraged. 
A/47/PV.34 
46 
(Mr. Vriethoff.  Netherlands 
The Netherlands  Government  is endeavouring  to give people  with 
disabilities  a more equal position  in society by  implementing  in national 
legislation Article  26 of  the United Nations  International  Covenant  on Civil 
and  Political  Rights, the Declaration  on  the Rights  of Disabled  Persons and 
the World Programme  of Action Concerning  Disabled  Persons. 
Also  in the Netherlands  a concerted  effort has been made  in recent years 
to improve  the public  image  of  the handicapped  via  the media.  The videotape 
which has been distributed  among  all Member  States  is an example  of this 
effort.  The  efforts  and  achievements  of  the United Nations  in  its work for 
persons with disabilities  have had  a positive  effect  on our  internal policy in 
this  field,  and we  are  looking  forward  to a continued  interaction. 
Mr. WESTERBERG  (Sweden):  May  I first  of  all  congratulate 
Ambassador  Ganev  and his  colleagues  in the Bureau  on their  election.  I feel 
confident  that we will have  a constructive  and  fruitful  Assembly  discussion. 
Certainly  the  statements  that have  already been made  do not  disappoint this 
hope. 
The United  Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons  has  led  to  increasing 
international  awareness  of  the needs  and  capacities  of persons  with 
disabilities.  It has  stimulated  activities  throughout  the  world. 
To a very high degree  they  are  the product  of  the  longstanding, 
persistent  ana arduous work  of  the people with disabilities  themselves and 
their  organizations. 
Sweden was one  of  the  countries  that played  a very  active  role in the 
preparation  of  the Decade.  We were most  satisfied  to  see  important 
A/47/PV.34 
47 
(Mr. Westerberg.  Sweden) 
elements of our  own outlook  on policies  for people with disabilities  reflected 
in the World  Programme  of Action,  in particular  the notion of equalization  of 
opportunity.  Our  societies  have  to be planned  and  adapted  to  respond  to the 
special  needs  of people with disabilities.  This  is a tremendous  challenge 
since it  involves  such  a wide  range  of policies:  education,  employment, 
social services, city planning  and  transportation,  just to mention  a few.  It 
requires  resources, but  it has  to be done. 
To read  the  Secretary-General's  report  is sobering.  Much of  the World 
Programme  still  awaits  its  realization.  We have  to use  this  opportunity  to 
move forward,  and  the  time  is right.  We meet  just  a few months  after  the 
Rio de Janeiro  Conference, which  focused  attention on environment  and 
development 
two notions which have  a clear  link to policies  on people  with 
disabilities.  In Rio  de Janeiro,  there was  also emphasis  on the needs  for 
special attention  in favour  of vulnerable  groups  in society.  People  with 
disabilities  everywhere  are  certainly  among  them;  but particular  attention  has 
to be given  to women  and  children with disabilities  and  to the  increasing 
number of old people. 
More than  1 billion people  on this planet  live in conditions  of  absolute 
poverty.  Every  day  the number  of people with disabilities  in the  developing 
countries increases, owing  to malnutrition,  bad  sanitary  conditions  and a 
generally unhealthy  environment.  Governments with  inadequate  resources  for 
development  face enormous  difficulties  in conceiving  specific  policies  for 
people with disabilities.  No  doubt  the developed  countries  have  great 
economic problems  today; but  this does  not  absolve  us  from  transferring 
increased  financial  and  technical  resources  and working  out  efficient 
A/47/PV.34 
48 
(Mr. Westerberg.  Sweden) 
programmes  for  supporting  action  in  favour  of people with disabilities  in the 
developing  countries.  This meeting  is a good  opportunity  for  the 
international  community  to  reflect  on  its responsibility  in this  regard and to 
consider  carefully  the proposals  in the Secretary-General's  report. 
Therefore,  the uneven  result of  the Decade must  lead us not  to 
pessimistic  passivity,  but  to new  action.  The world  is now much more willing 
than  10 years  ago  to tackle  disability  issues  - not  in the  least owing to the 
enormously  important  work  of  the organizations  of people with disabilities. 
It  is the considered  view of  the  Swedish Government  that  the progress made 
towards  attaining  the objectives  of  the World  Programme  results  in fact from 
the vigilance  and persistence  of  the organizations  of people  with 
disabilities.  They have given  concrete  substance  to one  of  the catch-phrases 
of  the Year  of Disabled  People, more  than  10 years  ago:  "Don't  look for 
disability;  look  for  ability". 
Our  deliberations  here  should  result  in the establishment  of a realistic 
basis  for  a long-term  strategy  for  action  in the  field  of disability by the 
international  community.  Anything  less than  that would mean  letting people 
with  disabilities  down  at  the very moment when  they have  their highest hopes 
pinned  on us.  It  is certainly  incumbent  upon us  to move beyond  the rhetoric 
which has  so often beclouded  our vision  to a plan  for  concrete  and practical 
action. 
In  several  countries,  national programmes  of  action have been formulated 
on the basis  of  the World  Programme  to promote  their  implementation. 
A/47/PV.34 
49 
Thus,  there  is no  lack of  recommendations  and declarations  regarding  the 
(Mr. Westerberg.  Sweden) 
rights and needs  of various  groups  of people with disabilities.  But 
unfortunately many  share 
at  least  in my opinion 
a basic  shortcoming, 
namely a virtual  absence of  effective mechanisms  for monitoring  their 
implementation  by  the  international  community  and by Member  States. 
Therefore, Member  States have been prone  to look upon  the precepts  they 
contain in a somewhat  non-committal  fashion,  rather  than  seeing  them  as a set 
of rules to guide  conduct. 
Precisely  to  improve  upon  the  implementation  of  the World  Programme  and 
its monitoring,  and  following  a Swedish  initiative  taken at the  first  regular 
session in 1990 of  the Economic  and  Social Council,  the Commission  for  Social 
Development  in  1991 established  an ad hoc open-ended  working group  to 
elaborate standard  rules on the equalization  of opportunities  for people  with 
disabilities. 
A large number  of member  States have  taken part  in the work  of  the group, 
and the international  organizations  of people with disabilities  have 
contributed  actively  to  its deliberations  and  to the  successful  outcome of  its 
efforts. 
The Standard  Rules, in our view,  form  an  integral  and  central part of  a 
long-term  strategy  of  international  action.  Although  they  are not  legally 
binding they will  provide  an  important  yardstick by which each of  us may 
measure progress. 
I should  like  to underline  the  fact  that we view  the  integration  of 
disability matters  in the general  context of  social planning  as fundamental  to 
the process of  realizing  the human  rights of people with  disabilities. 
A/47/PV.34 
50 
(Mr. Westerberg.  Sweden) 
I  should  now  like to turn  to what  I believe  should be  some of  the basic 
tenets underlying  our  long-term  strategy  for  international  action. 
First, we need  to be  clear  in our minds  as to what we  regard  as the very 
concept  of disability.  What  constitutes  disability,  and how does  it manifest 
itself  socially,  economically,  culturally  and  politically? 
Secondly,  do we have  the  requisite  tools  for getting  our  facts  straight, 
so as to be  reasonably  assured  that  the various measures we undertake reflect 
real  conditions  and  problems? 
As  regards  the  first  item,  I share  the view  that  disability  ought to be 
looked upon  as one of  several  natural  and  inevitable  differences  between 
people.  Society must  be designed  for  and adapted  to all of us.  Or, expressed 
in different words, a disability  is not  a characteristic  of  the  individual but 
a relationship between  the  individual  and her or his  environment.  This 
attitude  to disabilities  entails  political  consequences  as  regards  social 
planning.  It challenges  us to design  society  so that we may  all participate 
in it. My basic  assumption  is that people with disabilities  should  not be 
regarded  as a problem  but  that  society  should be  adapted  to  suit  everybody. 
A/47/PV.34 
51 
(Mr. Westerberg.  Sweden) 
Let me  now come  to my  second point.  This emphasizes  that  our views  and 
jur measures must  reflect  actual  conditions  and  thorough  comprehension  of  the 
facts.  Sweden has  recently  completed  a major  governmental  survey  of 
conditions  for people with disabilities.  It  indicates  clearly  that,  in spite 
of general  improvements  in their  living conditions, people with  disabilities 
still lag behind  others  in a number  of  respects.  This  is especially  true of 
people with  severe or multiple  disabilities. 
Without doubt,  the  right  to decide  for ourselves  in matters  concerning 
our own situation  is central  to the quality  of  life.  The  Swedish  survey 
shows, however,  that  dependency  on others  is a frequent  fact of  life for many 
persons with disabilities.  In  fact, only a very  small proportion  of 
interviewees with  severe disabilities  consider  themselves  to be  in a position 
to determine who  should provide  them with  requisite  support  services. 
The survey  forms  the basis  for very  far-reaching  reforms.  I am  pleased 
to have this opportunity  to  say  something  about  the Swedish  Government's 
disability policy.  I should  like  to point  out  that, despite  the  severest  and 
longest recession  that  Sweden has experienced  in the  last  60 years, we  are not 
only implementing  costly  reforms but we  are also doing  so on the basis  of a 
fundamental  approach  to disabilities  that  is very much  inspired  and  supported 
by the organizations  of people with  disabilities. 
About  two weeks  ago  the  Swedish  Government  decided  to propose  new 
legislation to Parliament.  The  legislation will  apply to  about  100,000 
Swedes, in particular, people with mental  retardation  and autism;  people  with 
considerable brain  injuries,  and people who, owing to other  serious  and 
permanent  functional  disabilities, encounter  substantial  difficulty  in  their 
daily lives and  are  in need of  extensive  support.  These people will  have a 
A/47/PV.34 
52 
(Mr. Westerberg,  Sweden) 
statutory  right  to personal  assistance,  counselling  and expert  help,  a contact 
person, various  kinds of  respite  care, apartments  with  special  services or 
group homes, and  an  individual  support  plan. 
The most  important  of  these  rights  is the  right  to personal  assistance. 
Personal  assistance will  enable  the  individual  to decide  in what way and in 
what  situations  assistance  is given.  In  some  cases  this may make  all the 
difference  as far  as  job or  study opportunities  are concerned.  Others need a 
small  number  of  attendants whom  they  know well  so as  to make  themselves 
understood  and be  able  to obtain  information.  For many,  this provision of 
flexible  assistance  will help  them  avoid  isolation  and passivity by limiting 
their  dependence  on pre-planned  activities:  to help  them  live  as 
independently  as possible,  as Mr. Vriethoff  just put  it. 
I have  outlined here  the broad  lines  of  the  far-reaching  reforms we are 
now undertaking.  It illustrates  the commitment  of  the  Swedish  Government to 
pursue policies  that  are  in line with  the objectives  of  the United Nations 
Decade.  But we  certainly  realize  that  conditions  and opportunities  vary from 
country  to  country. 
In designing  and  implementing  strategies  and programmes  for  international 
cooperation we must  understand  and  respect  national  differences  with regard to 
cultural,  social  and economic background.  Rather  than  just  assessing country 
positions we must  seek  to build  our policies  upon  the  common  understanding 
that  all people  are  fundamentally  equal  and  are  all  entitled  to the same 
rights. 
Mr. MOGULTAY  (Turkey)  (spoke  in Turkish;  English  text  furnished by 
the  delegation):  In  its welfare  policies, Turkey  has been  laying particular 
emphasis  on  the  achievement  of physical, psychological  and  social well-being. 
A/47/PV.34 
53 
(Mr. Mogultay.  Turkey) 
By including  the psychological  and  social  dimensions  in our definition  of 
health we have gone beyond  the traditional  definitions. 
At present, war  is the cause of  disability  in millions  of  individuals. 
It is to be hoped  that  in the new world  order,  this particular  cause of 
disability will  be  largely  eliminated.  The quest  for domestic  and  universal 
peace, which was one of  the objectives  sought by Ataturk,  constitutes  a  sound 
basis for establishing  a peaceful  and healthy  environment. 
In this  age,  it  is unacceptable  to put  the handicapped  in  a  separate 
category from  those who  are physically  fit.  Since  it  is difficult  to define 
the concept of  "fit",  it would  not be proper  to  insulate  from  the mainstream 
those individuals who have physical  or psychological  limitations. 
We must be guided by  the principle  that  the handicapped  should  enjoy 
equality of opportunity,  be given  a chance  to develop  their  abilities  and be 
given priority  in training, employment  and  the provision  of  social  security. 
Turkey  is a social  State, and  its Constitution  carries provisions  for  the 
protection of  the disabled  and  for their  integration  into the  life of  the 
community.  The current  five-year  development  plan  includes measures  to  assist 
the disabled and give  them priority.  Our Government  has  also  set  itself  the 
objective of providing  equal  opportunity  to disabled persons. 
During the past  10 years, Turkey has established,  within the Ministry of 
Labour and Social  Security,  the National  Coordination  Committee  for  the 
Protection of the Disabled  to  serve  as a permanent  national mechanism.  This 
Committee develops  national policies  through  an  interdisciplinary  and 
intersectoral  approach. 
With participation  at national  and  local  levels, the  structure  of  the 
i 
Coordination Committee  is of  an advisory  and  coordinating  nature  in all 
A/47/PV.34 
54-55 
(Mr. Mogrultav. Turkey) 
activities  connected with  the disabled.  Within  the past  10 years, Turkey has 
reviewed  its basic  legislation  in order  to encourage  disabled  persons  to lead 
an  independent  life, to  secure  their  cooperation with  the  decision-making 
organs  and  to  facilitate  their  access  to  information made  available  by 
removing  all  legislative  constraints. 
Turkey has  also  adopted  new  laws.  On  9 January  1992  a  special  committee 
was established  in our  country's  Grand  National  Assembly  for  the purpose of 
identifying  the problems  of  the disabled,  the measures  to be  taken  and the new 
policies  to be  adopted. 
Turkey  supports  the  resolutions  on disabled  persons  adopted  by the 
General  Assembly  and other United  Nations  bodies, the Universal  Declaration of 
Human  Rights,  the Convention  on the Rights  of  the Child,  the Declaration on 
the Rights of Disabled  Persons, the European  Social  Charter,  the decisions of 
the Council  of Europe  and  Convention  No.  159 of  the  International  Labour 
Organisation.  Particular  attention  has been given  to the widest  possible 
implementation  of  these  instruments. 
The National  Coordination  Committee  for  the Protection  of  the Disabled 
has published:  a Document  on Policies  for  the Disabled,  prepared  in line with 
the objectives  of  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons; a Report on 
Services  Rendered  for the Disabled,  containing  evaluations  pertaining  to the 
implementation  of  relevant  programmes;  a Guide  to  the Legal  Rights of the 
Disabled;  and  a Directory  of Equal  Opportunities  for  the Disabled.  The same 
Committee  has prepared  a document  setting  out  the views  of  all  the provincial 
Governors  and  the voluntary  associations  working  in this  field  in Turkey. 
A/47/PV.34 
56 
(Mr. Mogultay.  Turkey) 
As a social  State, Turkey  considers  it a duty  to ensure  that  its  disabled 
citizens  live  their  lives  in dignity  and  that  they be  able to  look  to  the 
future with  confidence.  It  is through  this  approach  that we  fulfil  our 
responsibility  to  see  to  it that our disabled  citizens  prepare  themselves  for 
life within  the  community  and actively  contribute  to it.  This  responsibility 
is one that  all  States must  assume. 
We have  started working  on the  issue  of  the disabled  in  five  different 
special-expert  committees.  The work  is being  carried  out with  the 
participation  of  the  local  administrations,  the confederations  established  by 
the four groups  of  the disabled,  the members  of  the mass media  and  the 
representatives  of banks  and  the  relevant voluntary  associations.  The 
analysis and  research  carried  out on the  socio-cultural  factors  influencing 
the different  groups  of disabled  in various  countries will help  us to  identify 
priorities when  offering  our  services.  We believe  in the need  for  the 
disabled to participate  intensively  in all  aspects of our work. 
Turkey has  a relatively young population.  For  this  reason,  the  problems 
of disabled  children  and young people  enjoy  a  higher  priority.  The  training 
of trainers, the manufacture  of prostheses 
particularly  for children  and  the 
young 
the  improvement  of  facilities  for  the health and  safety of workers, 
and the development  of  special work places have gradually become  basic 
requisites.  The  overall  strategy we  shall develop  in Turkey will  consist  of 
the principles  of  integration,  mainstreaming,  and  normalization  in all phases 
of life. 
Before concluding,  I should  like to  state  that  it  is our  aim  to  create  an 
integral society  for  all people  throughout  the world by  the year of  2010, a 
world in which  the disabled will be  fully  integrated  with the  able.  I wish 
the meeting  success  in advancing  towards  this goal.  Finally,  I should  like to 
A/47/PV.34 
57 
(Mr. Mooultay.  Turkey) 
state  that Turkey  supports  the designation  of  3 December  as  International Day 
of Disabled  Persons. 
Mr. DAYARATNE  (Sri  Lanka):  As  the Minister  in charge  of  social 
welfare  in Sri Lanka,  it is my particular  privilege  to participate  in this 
special  plenary meeting of  the General  Assembly marking  the  conclusion  of the 
United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons.  May  I take  this  opportunity to 
thank  the Government  of Canada  for  sponsoring  the  International  Meeting of 
Ministers  in Montreal  on this  important  subject.  That  forum  facilitated a 
very useful  exchange  of views  and experiences.  These  inputs will  help in 
further  advancing  our  collective  efforts  towards  achieving  the goals we set 
ourselves  here  at  the United Nations. 
The Decade  of Disabled  Persons  declared by the General  Assembly  in 1982 
proved  an important  catalyst.  It sensitized  the world  community  to a wide 
spectrum  of  issues  relating  to disability.  Activities  undertaken  during the 
decade have brought  to the  fore both  the plight  and  the potential  of nearly 
500 million disabled people.  Despite  the public  awareness  generated  and the 
commendable  efforts made  at the national,  regional,  and  international levels, 
much  remains  to be done  to harness  the potential  of disabled  persons  as full 
partners  in  society.  At  a time when  the United  Nations  seeks  to  assume the 
leadership  in shaping  a more equitable  and more humane world  order, it is most 
appropriate  that  it should  renew attention  on vulnerable groups  such as the 
disabled.  Taking  stock  at  this  juncture  is  therefore  timely.  The United 
Nations must build  upon  the experience  of  the Decade  to  sustain  the momen 
In this  context, my  delegation  would  like  to thank  the  Secretary-Gen 
for his  comprehensive  report  and  forward-looking  recommendations  contains 
therein.  The  report  correctly points  to the economic  and  technical 
disparities  among  countries  and  the debilitating  economic  constraints as 
A/47/PV.34 
58 
(Mr. Dayaratne. Sri  Lanka) 
major  factors militating  against  the welfare  of  the disabled.  The  experiences 
of the Member  States  in  implementing  the programme  of  action have  highlighted 
the need  for  overall  economic  development  in general  and  the provision  of 
basic needs  and  sustainable  income generation  in particular.  These  remain  the 
basic prerequisites  for  achieving  the goals of  the Programme  of Action.  This 
need is acutely  felt  in the most vulnerable  of  the disabled groups  - the 
disabled  poor. 
It  is evident  from our  experience  during  the Decade  that more  focussed 
and more goal-oriented  action  at all  levels  and  in all  relevant  sectors  needs 
to be formulated  and  implemented.  Good  legislation  and good  institutions 
alone will not  be  sufficient.  We  agree  that  action at  the national  level 
constitutes  the most  important  element  and  that  the emphasis  should  continue 
to be on prevention,  rehabilitation,  and equalization of  opportunities. 
However, action  at the national  level needs  to be  supported with  the  necessary 
resources  and  complemented  by  regional  and  international  programmes.  The 
enthusiasm  and  support of  the non-governmental  sector will  continue  to be 
vital. 
In our  own  region, we were pleased  to support  the proclamation  by  the 
member States of  the Economic  and Social  Commission  for Asia  and  the  Pacific 
of a regional  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  for  the years  1993  to  2002.  We  hope 
that other  regions will  take  similar  initiatives  to pursue  this  international 
effort into the  twenty-first  century.  My delegation  supports  the 
Secretary-General's  recommendation  to  this  effect. 
Despite our  own economic  difficulties  and  the adverse  international 
economic environment,  Sri  Lanka has  continued  its endeavours  for  the 
advancement of  the  disabled.  Activities  in Sri  Lanka  are based  on the  themes 
of prevention,  rehabilitation,  and equalization,  and  involve  multisectoral 
A/47/PV.34 
59 
(Mr. Dayaratne. Sri LanVa) 
inputs.  The  legislative  authority  for  activities  undertaken  in Sri  Lanka 
derives  from  the  constitutional  obligation  that: 
"legislative  and executive  action will  be undertaken  for  the  advancement 
of women,  children  and  disabled persons". 
While  the disabled  are given every opportunity  to enjoy  and  realize  their 
fundamental  rights  and  civil  liberties,  the Government  is considering  further 
improvements  to  the existing  legal  framework  to  facilitate  the more effective 
participation  of  the disabled  in  society. 
In order  to give more  focussed  attention  to  the welfare  of  the disabled, 
in 1989  the Government  took  a major  policy  decision  to create  a  separate 
Cabinet Ministry  for Reconstruction,  Rehabilitation  and  Social Welfare.  This 
Ministry  is mandated  to provide policy  framework  and programme  facilities in 
respect  of  the needy  disadvantaged  groups  in general,  and  to  relate national 
social welfare programmes  and  interventions  to the disabled  and  deprived 
segments  of  society  in particular.  The  Government  felt  it necessary to 
provide  this  specialized  institutional  framework  to coordinate  policies and 
programmes  in this  area  in view of  an average  increase  of  disability amounting 
to 1.86  per  cent  per  annum  for  the period  1981  to  1992.  The  uneven nature of 
the distribution  of  the disabled  population  in various  regions  necessitated 
the  close  coordination  of preventive  and  response  strategies.  It was also 
necessary  that programmes  be  implemented  at provincial  levels  responding to 
the particular  trends  and  characteristics  of  the distribution  of disability at 
the  regional  level. 
Adverse  socio-economic  factors  aggravate  the plight  of  the disabled amon< 
the poor.  A major  national programme  for poverty  alleviation has been 
launched  to enhance  the productive  potential  and  income-generating  capacity ol 
the  low-income  groups.  The  objective  is for  the  disabled  also  to receive the 
A/47/PV.34 
60 
(Mr. Dayaratne. Sri  Lanka) 
advantage  of overall  national programmes  through  the  family unit.  In Sri 
Lanka's value  system,  the  family unit  represents  a key  socio-economic 
institution  at the micro-level.  It is thus  in a unique position  to provide  a 
more humane  and more  cost-effective  social  security  network  compared  with  the 
expensive  and  independently-managed  support programmes  that exist  in some 
other countries.  This  poverty  alleviation programme 
the Janasaviya.  as it 
is known  in Sri Lanka  - seeks to provide both  consumption  and  sustainable 
investment  support  for  the poor.  It aims  at harnessing  the  productive 
potential  of poor  families  through which  the social  security  of  the  disabled 
is also ensured.  The programme  implementation  is well under  way. 
A/47/PV.34 
61 
(Mr. Dayaratne. Sri Lanka' 
A school midday meal programme initiated in 1989 is designed to improve 
the nutritional standards of some 3.5 million school children.  This will 
continue as an important preventive strategy.  In addition, the Government has 
committed nearly half a billion rupees in the form of public assistance to the 
needy, the elderly and the socially handicapped.  That support also covers the 
disabled who suffer from chronic diseases. 
In the area of education the Government policies and programmes have long 
advocated the guidelines laid down by the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).  The Parliament enacted 
legislation in 1971 by which a Special Education Branch was established to 
introduce education of the disabled.  This is being implemented through 
curriculum development, special teacher-training programmes and a monitoring 
system.  We have established 641 schools with facilities for education of the 
disabled.  The distribution of schools responds to the incidence of disability 
in various parts of the country.  There is, however, a need for further 
improvement to enable disabled children to continue their education up to the 
level of university or technical college.  A sizeable number of disabled 
children are unable to continue their education owing to the short supply of 
equipment and textbooks.  Action should be taken to mobilize both private and 
governmental resources to meet these requirements. 
Health care for the disabled is provided free of charge through an 
island-wide system of health facilities.  Special care units for the disabled 
have been established in provincial and base hospitals.  An advanced 
primary-health-care system already available in Sri Lanka complements th< 
special facilities through the provision of home-based health care.  Howl 
further support and improvement are necessary to upgrade the existing 
A/47/PV.34 
62 
(Mr. Dayaratne. Sri  Lanka) 
facilities.  More  equipment  and  technical  know-how  are needed  to enhance  the 
quantity  and quality  of  the  services  provided. 
The Department  of  Social  Services  has  established  a network  of  vocational 
training  institutions  to enable  the disabled  to acquire  socially  and 
economically  usable  skills.  Specially designed  skills-training  courses  are 
being given  to the  trainees  according  to their  aptitude  and  needs.  On 
completion  of  their  training  the trainees  are provided with  tools  and 
equipment  to start  self-employment  projects  so that  they may  productively 
integrate  themselves  into  society. 
The efforts  of both  the governmental  and  the non-governmental  sectors  in 
educating  and  training  the disabled would be  frustrated  if such persons  failed 
to find  social  recognition  through  income-generating  employment.  The 
Government  is therefore  considering  the  feasibility  of  affording  special 
treatment  to disabled persons  seeking employment  in the public  sector. 
Another  social  issue  that  is being  addressed  is the  reluctance  of  some to 
expose the disabled  to society because of  the mistaken perception  that 
disability  represents  an element  of  social backwardness.  The neglect  of  the 
disabled as a result  of  social  factors has diminished  considerably.  We  should 
commend  the non-governmental  organizations  for the work  done  in this  difficult 
area.  The  Government  has pursued  action through the community-based  detection 
of handicaps  and home-based  rehabilitation  by volunteers.  However,  there  are 
residual problems.  The Government  will  continue  this effort by  assisting, 
inter alia,  a project  supported by  the United Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF). 
A national  sports body has been established  with the  support  of  the 
Department  of  Social  Services  to encourage  disabled persons  to  demonstrate 
their potential  in  sports  activities.  This programme  is being  implemented 
A/47/PV.34 
63 
(Mr. Dayaratne. Sri Lanka) 
with  a view  to enhancing  confidence  among  the disabled  and  as a part of the 
overall  socio-economic  programme  to  integrate  the disabled  fully  into active 
society. 
A national  committee  has  recently been  established  to  coordinate work 
pertaining  to the disabled  sector.  This  forum  is  representative  of State and 
non-State  agencies, resource  personnel  and various  organizations  of 
handicapped  persons.  It is expected  that  this  institutional  arrangement will 
focus on the  issues  and problems  of  the disabled  on  a continuing basis and 
seek  appropriate  solutions. 
Looking  ahead, my  delegation broadly  concurs with  the  recommendations 
contained  in the  Secretary-General's  report  (A/47/415, chap.  II).  The main 
thrust  of  the  recommendations  is that we  should move  from  awareness  to 
action.  My  Government  has  already  commenced  a process  of  formulating a 
macro-policy  perspective  and an action plan  for the disabled  sector  for the 
coming years.  We have  also  taken  action  to  identify  the  needs of this sector 
in the public  investment  programme  for  the period  1991-1995.  We  are pleased 
to note  that  the broad  policy objectives  considered  by  Sri Lanka are 
consistent  with  a number  of  recommendations  being  discussed  here, namely, to 
make  the disabled population  an economically  active  and  socially  recognized 
segment  of  society.  Our  aim  is to sustain  and  improve  on  the  specific 
programmes  for  the disabled,  to make  them productive  to  society  and 
themselves,  to mobilize  the  support  of  the non-governmental  sector, and to 
expand  research  and  training  of  social workers.  We have  already  identified 
sectoral  policies,  institutional  improvements,  resource mobilization, areas 
for  research  and  cost-effective  interventions. 
A/47/PV.34 
64 
(Mr. Dayaratne. Sri  Lanka) 
A key  factor  to success, however, will be  the  availability  of  resources 
in such  relevant  sectors  as education, health  care, vocational  training  and 
other  institutional  facilities.  Subject  to the availability  of  resources, 
further  improvements  would  be hastened.  The  crucial  role of  the  family  unit 
as a social  and economic  cushion  for  the disabled  needs  to  receive 
complementary  support  of  sectoral  activities, particularly  when  specialized 
attention  is needed  in such areas  as health,  education  and  vocational 
training.  For  this, it  is essential  that national  action be  augmented  by 
bilateral  and multilateral  assistance  in resources  and expertise.  As  the 
United Nations moves  into  an era of  international  cooperation  to ensure  social 
justice, equity  and  the  full  realization  of the potential  of  the  individual, 
we hope that  necessary  support will be  forthcoming  to ensure  the  required 
socio-economic  infrastructure,  appropriate  technological  development  and 
transfers, training  and  financial-resource  mobilization  supportive  of 
disadvantaged  groups  such as the disabled  and  other  socially  handicapped. 
Before  concluding,  let me pay a special  tribute  to the  non-governmental 
organizations  that  have  rendered yeoman  service  to the  cause of  the  disabled 
and other vulnerable  groups.  Their  endeavours  have  not been confined  to 
public-awareness  campaigns.  The  commitment  and dedication  of  the 
non-governmental  organizations  have been  instrumental  in translating  the 
public's consciousness  into  concrete  action even  in the  remotest  areas of 
various countries.  Equally,  if not more  important,  the enthusiasm  and 
perseverance  of  the  field worker  have been both  a tremendous  support  and  an 
inspiration to open  societies  like my  own to implement  various  programmes 
designed to support  the  cause  of  the disabled.  We  in Sri Lanka have had  an 
extremely rewarding  experience  in coordinating  governmental  and 
A/47/PV.34 
65 
(Mr. Dayaratne. Sri Lank?) 
non-governmental  activities  in this  field.  We hope  to continue  this mutually 
supportive  endeavour. 
Mrs. MEZHOUD  (Tunisia)(interpretation  from  Arabic):  Allow me, at 
the outset,  to express my pleasure  at participating  in this  important  and 
significant  commemoration  organized  by the United  Nations.  It  reflects the 
importance  we  all  attach  to the  advancement  of  the disabled  as an  integral 
part  of  our  societies  and as a group with an effective  role  to play  in the 
process  of  development. 
I  should  like to extend my  thanks  to the Organization  and  to the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  for having  organized  this 
meeting  to take  stock of  the  results of  the United  Nations Decade  of Disabled 
Persons  and  to sharpen our  focus on questions  that  require  special awareness. 
A/47/PV.34 
66 
(Mrs. Mezhoud.  Tunisia) 
I also  take pleasure  in reviewing  the important  steps we  in Tunisia  have 
taken and  the valuable  achievements  we have  accomplished  since  7 November  1987 
when the President,  Mr. Zein El-Abideen  Ali,  initiated  a social policy  whose 
aim is to  strike  a balance  between  the  requirements  of development  as well  as 
the needs of vulnerable groups  and the need  to  lay the  foundations  of  a united 
well-balanced  society  of  solidarity,  justice,  freedom,  democracy  and  respect 
for human  rights. 
This policy  of  the Tunisian  Government  has  restored  to Tunisia  its high 
standing  and  to  the citizens  of Tunisia  their pride  in belonging  to  it.  This 
has created  a climate  of  trust,  tranquility  and  clear vision, which has 
motivated  the  citizenry  to  redouble  their  efforts  towards  the promotion of  the 
process of  development  in our  country.  Here we must  state  that  the  pursuance 
of development  in Tunisia  takes  its point  of departure  from  focusing on the 
needs of all groups, particularly  the most vulnerable,  so that  they may,  in 
their turn, contribute  to the development  of efforts.  In the context of  this 
policy, Tunisia's  efforts  towards  the  advancement  of disabled  persons  have 
become part  and parcel  of  the comprehensive  national  plan  for the  general 
advancement of man. 
The achievement  of  our  development  goals  is linked  to the  consideration 
of social peace  and  to  respect  for  the values  of a civil, enlightened  and 
united society.  Therefore, we  in Tunisia have worked  for  the promotion  of 
social dialogue  and have  developed  the means by which  such dialogue may  be 
conducted with  a view  to  sparing  society  the  causes of  tension.  All  these 
efforts have had  a positive  effect  in creating  a healthy  social  climate  that 
has contributed  to  increasing productivity  and  invigorating  the economy,  and 
has enabled us  to  realize  a significant  rate of growth,  notwithstanding  the 
many challenges  and  the  rapid  changes  in the  international  scene. 
A/47/PV.34 
67 
(Mrs. Mezhoud. Tunisia) 
We have  also  developed  a social  security  system  in the  conviction that 
social  security  is an embodiment  of  the  solidarity between  the various groups 
and generations  of  society.  This  coverage  has been  expanded  to  include most 
social groups.  It has  risen  from  52.1 per  cent  in  1987, to  62 per  cent in 
1991  in addition  to  the  improvement  in services  and  the development  of 
socially-oriented  legislation. 
Proceeding  from  our belief  that  the  safety  and prosperity  of  any society 
stem  from  the  social health of  the well-balanced  family unit  and  its 
contribution  to the development  process,  the Tunisian  Government  has provided 
all  the necessary  fundamental  requirements, namely  the  laws  and decrees that 
promote  the  status  of women  and  the  family  so  that  they may  face up to and 
deal with  the many  social  challenges  and overcome  all  the  deviations and 
negative  phenomena  that may  impede  the process  of development.  By so doing, 
we have  ensured  for women many gains  that must  place Tunisia  in the forefront 
of nations  in the  area of promoting  the  rights of women  and  family. 
Solidarity  between  all  social groups, in the words  of  President  Zein 
El-Abideen  Ali,  is an essential prerequisite  of progress  and  of a 
well-balanced  political  system.  And  solidarity  and  stability  cannot be 
achieved without  social  justice which  is one  of  the major  pillars of our 
liberation  movement. 
Proceeding  from  this, the Tunisian Government  has  accorded  high priority 
to  the  advancement  of  the disabled  and  to combating  the  causes  of disability, 
since  the prevention  of  such causes  is essential  for  reducing  this phenomenon. 
We have  promulgated  legislation  related  to  the  advancement  of disabled 
persons  in addition  to urging  institutions  to employ  them  and  to allocate 
1 per  cent  of  job opportunities  to  them.  We have  established  a supreme 
council  for  the disabled  in addition  to developing  and  retraining  social 
A/47/PV.34 
68 
(Mrs. Mezhoud.  Tunisia) 
educators  and  trainers  in a manner  that  is commensurate  with developments  in 
this field  and with  the  aspirations  of  the disabled  themselves. 
In order  to enhance  the efforts  exerted  in the  field of  employment 
opportunities  for disabled  persons, Tunisia has developed  a national  programme 
to create  sources  of  livelihood  for  the disabled  so that  they may be  able  to 
engage  in productive  activites  that would  ensure  for them  a steady  income  from 
the financial  assistance  allocated  to individual  or collective  enterprises. 
Since 1987, the programme  has benefited  some 2,900  disabled persons  by 
providing gross  allocations  estimated  at US$  2.8  million. 
We have  also  tried  to mobilize  financial  resources  for  funding  the 
programme  for  the  advancement  of disabled persons.  These  resources  have 
improved  significantly,  particularly  since  1989, following  the earmarking  of a 
special account  in the budget  through which  society  contributes  to  financing 
the enterprises  of  disabled  persons.  The  account  is funded  from  taxes  on 
production  and  from  the  sale of postal  stamps. 
We have made  sure  that  every  family and every  society  shoulders  the 
responsibility  of  caring  for  the disabled.  We have encouraged  the  setting  up 
of societies by developing  the  appropriate  legislative  framework  for  donations 
as well as by  tapping  the potential  of goodness  in members  of  society.  We 
have also earmarked  significant  allocations which  are advanced,  in the  form  of 
grants, to those  societies.  Those grants  have enabled  the societies  to 
develop and  implement  programmes  that have become  a valuable  tributary  to  the 
Government's work  in the  area of  caring  for the  disabled. 
Recognizing  the  importance  of  the  role of  rehabilitation  in the drive  to 
integrate the disabled  into  society, we have  focused  special  attention  on  the 
areas of education  and vocational  training.  This has  resulted  in the  setting 
up of 120 special  centres  that  train  approximately  4,000 disabled  persons. 
A/47/PV.34 
69-70 
(Mrs. Mezhoud.  Tunisia) 
However,  these efforts, which  stem  from  the  concern of  the  Tunisian 
Government  over  the problems  of  the disabled  and  from  the  solidarity  of all 
parties,  are  inadequate,  in our  view.  Therefore, we have  initiated  the 
formulation, within  the  framework  of  the eighth plan  of  development,  of a 
number  of projects  to  strengthen  preventive  efforts  and  to make possible early 
identification  and diagnosis  by  the network of  regional  units.  We have set 
up,  for  that purpose,  20 new units.  In addition, we have  focused  on enhancing 
care,  rehabilitation  and education  activities  by  increasing  the number of 
special  centres, from  80, in 1987  to  120, in 1992.  At  the  same  time we have 
expanded  social  services  so that  they may  cover  as many  disabled  persons as 
possible. 
A/47/PV.34 
71 
(Mrs. Mezhoud.  Tunisia) 
We believe  that  every  effort on the national  level  is closely  linked  to 
the international  support  it may  receive.  We believe  that  the exchange  of 
expertise  and experience  on  the  international  level  is essential.  It is  also 
essential  to make  use  of  the existing  international  capabilities  in the 
service of  noble goals.  This would provide  the best motive  for  further 
efforts  and  for  the  attainment  of  the well-balanced  socities we  all desire. 
Hopefully,  the  results  of  the meeting  of Ministers  responsible  for  the 
advancement  of  the disabled,  which was held  in Canada on  8 and  9 October, will 
be of help  in this  context.  I hope  that  consultations  will mark  a new 
beginning  towards putting  into effect  the Special  Programme  for  Disabled 
Persons.  We  hope  that  the  international  community  will continue  to  focus 
attention on the prevailing  social  situation  in the world  in the context  of 
the efforts  aimed  at  restructuring  the United Nations, and hope  that  the 
summit on social  development  to be held  in 1995 
the convening  of which 
Tunisia supported  - will  be  the culmination  of the unremitting  efforts by  the 
United Nations  in its new era. 
Mr. DAVILA  (United  States of America):  I am pleased  to be here 
today to represent  the United  States  as we  celebrate  the close of  the  Decade 
of Disabled  Persons. 
We are proud  of America's  accomplishments  in the  last decade  on behalf  of 
people with disabilities.  We have  continued  to move  away  from  paternalistic 
attitudes and  segregated  programmes  and  towards  respectful  attitudes  and 
inclusive programmes.  As  a nation, we have  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to a 
fundamental principle  upon which  our  nation  is founded:  equal  opportunity  for 
all citizens.  We have proclaimed  this principle  very explicitly  for  people 
with disabilities  by enacting  landmark  civil-rights  legislation  - the 
Americans with Disabilities  Act. 
A/47/PV.34 
72 
(Mr. Davila. United St-at-e.) 
But we  are mindful  of  the  fact  that  enactment  of  a law, great  as that law 
may be, does not  instantly  create  a society of  equal  opportunity.  People with 
disabilities  must have  the  skills  and  the  resources  to exercise  their hard-won 
rights under  the  law.  Civil-rights  protections  do not  entitle people with 
disabilities  to  jobs.  Our  laws protect people with  disabilities  who  are 
"qualified"  to compete  in the workforce. 
So,  in order  to be  successful  in the workforce, people  with  disabilities 
must  come  to the workforce  as  "qualified"  competitors.  A  "qualified" 
competitor  is an educated  competitor,  a trained  competitor,  a  competent 
competitor.  Our  country has developed  comprehensive  systems  of education and 
rehabilitation  for people with  disabilities  to ensure  that  they  can attain the 
label  "qualified". 
This year we  serve nearly  1 million people  in our  nation's  comprehensive 
vocational-rehabilitation  programmes.  Operating  in all  50  states, we provide 
rehabilitation  services  to people with  a wide  range  of  disabilities, including 
physical,  sensory  and mental  impairment.  We provide  services  ranging from 
college  tuition  to  retraining  for a new  profession. 
We  are especially proud  of our  "supported  employment"  services, which 
offer  support  for  integrated  work  to  severely  disabled  persons who were 
previously  thought  to be unable  to work  in  integrated  settings.  We now know 
that  there  is virtually  no one with  a disability who  cannot work  in an 
integrated  setting  if the proper  supports  are  provided. 
Our vocational-rehabilitation  services  are most  effective  when  they work 
directly with  the private  sector.  We have  established  numerous  partnerships 
with businesses.  By this means we  assist businesses  to  find workers with 
disabilities  who  are qualified  for  the particular  jobs  that  are open.  In this 
A/47/PV.34 
73 
(Mr. Davila. United  States) 
way we make  life easy  for  employers.  We  learn about  their  openings, and 
through appropriate  education  and  training  programmes  we help  them  to  find 
qualified people with  disabilities. 
The  fastest-growing  segment  of  those  that we  serve  comprises  people  with 
psychiatric  disabilities.  Of  all people with disabilities  in our  country, 
those with psychiatric  disabilities  face the greatest  discrimination  and  often 
present the greatest  challenge  to employers.  Much of our work during  this 
decade and  the  next will be  in discovering better ways of providing  training 
and support  for workers with psychiatric  disabilities. 
Our  nation  is proud  to have  a right-to-education  law 
the Education  for 
All Handicapped  Children  Act.  This  law, which was enacted  in 1975, has been 
critical  in enabling people with disabilities  to become  "qualified".  It 
entitles every  child with  a disability,  no matter  how severe,  to be  educated. 
This education  takes place  in what we  call  the  least  restrictive  environment. 
This means  that  children  are educated  to the maximum  possible  extent  alongside 
their non-disabled  peers. 
Before  the enactment  of  this  law many of our  children were  not  permitted 
to attend public  schools.  Their parents were  often  told  that  they must  keep 
them at home  or  send  them  to  institutions.  We have  come  a long way  since 
those days.  Today  no  child,  no matter  how  severe his or her  disability,  can 
be denied  an education.  This  is a critical  cornerstone  in our  efforts  to 
ensure that people with  disabilities  are  "qualified". 
Our country  is also proud  to support  centres  that  are dedicated  to the 
enhancement  of  independent  living  for people with disabilities.  We  have 
hundreds of  these  centres  across  the  country,  and  they  are  invaluable 
A/47/PV.34 
74-75 
(Mr. Davila. United  Statffs) 
community  resources  for people with disabilities.  Controlled  and managed 
entirely by people with disabilities,  they offer  a wide  range  of  support 
services,  including personal-assistance  services, training  in money 
management,  and  information-referral  services. 
A/47/PV.34 
76 
(Mr. Davila. United  States) 
These centres  serve people  with  all  kinds of disabilities,  including  learning 
disabilities, physical  disabilities,  and  sensory  and mental  impairments.  They 
provide technical  assistance  to businesses  that  are  learning how  to make  their 
workplace  environments  and  their  jobs  accessible  to people with  disabilities. 
Today Americans  with disabilities  enjoy more  opportunities  than ever 
before.  My being  here before  the General Assembly,  having been deaf  since  the 
age of eight,  is evidence  of  that  fact.  In America people with  disabilities 
are achievers  at  the highest  levels.  We  study  for  advanced  degrees; we  become 
doctors and  lawyers; we  are actors; and, yes, we  are Government  officials. 
Our institutions  and  the  individuals  at the highest  levels of Government  -
President  Bush,  the Congress  of  the United  States  and  senior  Government 
officials 
are  committed  to a policy  of maximum  independence  and 
participation  for people with  disabilities. 
We are pleased  to  share  the  results of our efforts  in America with our 
partners throughout  the world  as we work  towards the goal of  increased 
participation  of people with disabilities  in every  aspect  of  life.  I am 
pleased to announce  today  that my own Department 
the Department  of 
Education 
will  host  a western hemispheric  conference  on persons  with 
disabilities  in December  in order  to develop  an action plan  continuing  the 
United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  into the next  decade  and the  next 
century.  I am proud  to  invite  the nations  of  the western hemisphere  to  this 
conference  in order  to work  in partnership  with us  so as  to assess  our  mutual 
concerns and  the  status of  rehabilitation  cooperation between  our  diverse 
nations. 
One area of  special  pride  for us  in America  is the  scope  of  our  services 
for families.  As  I travel  throughout  the  country,  I am  struck  by  the  fact 
A/47/PV.34 
77 
(Mr. Davila. United  States) 
that  all parents want  the  same thing  for  their  children:  a quality education, 
giving  them  the  skills and  ability  to  achieve  their  full potential.  Our 
Government  continues  to be  committed  to parental  and  family empowerment, in 
order  that we may maintain  a strong  role  for parents  and  families  as part of 
America  2000  - President  Bush's education  reform programme  for  this nation. 
Empowerment  of  families  and  adults with disabilities  becomes  even more 
important  as time goes by, and our nation  takes  it very  seriously. 
These  are challenging  times  for people with disabilities  in America and 
around  the world,  and  I truly believe  that  the  future  is really very bright. 
Never  has  there been  so much  activity  on  so many  different  fronts designed to 
further  the  full participation  of  disabled  individuals  in every  aspect of 
society.  Every  sound piece  of  research,  every well-structured  and  implemented 
programme,  every piece of  legislation based  upon the philosophy  of equality 
and  every  international  partnership will bring  new opportunities  for further 
activity,  growth  and  success. 
Our  laws  recognize  the value  of  international  exchange  as a means of 
increasing  the  levels of  skill  and  rehabilitation personnel  world wide.  As 
part  of  our mandate  through my own Department,  some  25  special  education, 
rehabilitation  and  independent-living  researchers  and  consultants  are 
exchanged  with  foreign nations  each year.  The  data  from  these visits form a 
large, accessible  library  for all  international  scholars  and practitioners to 
incorporate  the best  approaches  from  all over  the  world. 
Our  nation now has  comprehensive  systems  of  education  and  rehabilitation 
in place  to ensure  that  citizens  with  disabilities  can be qualified  to compet 
for  jobs.  During  this  decade we have  enacted  a non-discrimination  law to 
A/47/PV.34 
78-80 
(Mr. Davila. United  States) 
ensure that places  of  employment  are accessible  and  inclusive  of persons  with 
disabilities.  The work  of  our next  decade will  require  fine-tuning  to be  sure 
that the  systems  are working  and to ensure  that  the  non-discrimination 
mandate  is being  followed.  We  also need  to ensure  access  to adequate  health 
insurance  for  all persons with disabilities,  access  to comprehensive  personal 
assistance  services  and  access  to needed  assistive  technology. 
We are proud  of  our  accomplishments  and  look  forward  to the challenges  of 
the next decade  and  the next  century with optimism.  We have  witnessed 
remarkable  accomplishments  in this decade,  and we  are  confident  that we will 
witness more  in the years  to come. 
Mrs.  KELT0S0VA  (Czechoslovakia):  As the extent  of  democratization 
of a society  can be measured  by the  rights  and  freedoms  exercised  by  the most 
simple citizens,  so the  level of  care that  that  society provides  to  its 
citizens can be  assessed by the  care  it gives  to the most  vulnerable  of  them. 
In 1982 the  Government  of what was  then the Czechoslovak  Socialist 
Republic adopted  relevant  resolutions  on the conclusion  of  the  International 
Year for Disabled  Persons, which were  formally  in compliance  with  the 
recommendations  of  the General  Assembly  as contained  in the World  Programme  of 
Action concerning  Disabled  Persons.  It also  adopted  a 10-year  plan of 
measures for carrying  out  the tasks  contained  in the  relevant  documents,  and 
established  a working  group  consisting  of  representatives  of  individual 
jurisdictions, of  the United  Organization of Disabled  Persons  and of  experts 
for the coordination  of  tasks  related  to the care  of disabled  persons. 
A/47/PV.34 
81 
(Mrs. Keltosova.  Czechoslovakia) 
Implementation  of  those measures was, however,  negatively  influenced by 
the  socio-political  situation  in the country,  as well  as by  the  fact  that 
individual  items  of  that plan were built  upon  a centrally  directed  and 
strictly planned  State economy  and  upon  some practices  of  the  totalitarian 
system  in the  field of  social  care  for  the handicapped.  It was  thus joined 
with  the  tendency  to  isolate  and  segregate  disabled persons  into homes, while 
assuring  their elementary  conditions  of  life. 
Changes  in the political  system  after  1989 brought  more  favourable 
conditions  for putting  forward  the  justified  requirements  of  all handicapped 
persons who  claimed  not only  the possibility  of placing  themselves  among the 
healthy population but  also participation  in the decision-making  processes and 
all other  areas of  life  in harmony with  the  International  Bill  of Human Rights 
and  other  international  human-rights  instruments. 
The  elimination  of  discrimination  against  disabled persons  requires not 
only  the gradual  removal  of  architectonic,  transport  and  communication 
barriers, but  also  intensive public  education  to bring  about  understanding of 
the  rights  and dignity  of every human being.  Therefore  disabled  persons 
should  not  just  receive  care or even be  condemned  to  substandard  services and 
dues  and have  a minimal  standard  of  living;  rather,  they  should  be allowed 
improved  access  to education  and  increased  knowledge  of  disability.  The fact 
that one's health  is affected  should  not be  reason  for  discrimination or 
reduced  living  standards  for a family with  a handicapped  member. 
Disabled  persons  can be  treated  in accordance  with  their  individual 
abilities  and qualifications  and  can have  equal  opportunities  through their 
remaining,  to  the extent  possible,  in the most human  environment,  the one mosi 
beneficial  for  them:  the  family. 
A/47/PV.34 
82 
(Mrs. Keltosova.  Czechoslovakia) 
Because  these objectives  call  for a complex  multi-disciplinary  approach, 
closer collaboration  among professionals  from many varied backgrounds,  and 
co-operation  among  the disabled  themselves  and non-governmental  humanitarian 
organizations,  the Government  of  the Czechoslovak  Federal  Republic  has 
adopted 
in accordance with  General  Assembly  resolution  46/96, on the 
implementation  of  the Programme  of Action  and  the United Nations Decade  of 
Disabled Persons 
a  set of  steps  to create  legal guarantees  for  full-value 
self-realization  and  integration  of  disabled  persons  into  society. 
Governmental  committees  for handicapped  persons were established  in both 
Republics  in 1991.  They  are headed  by a member  of  the Government,  and 
co-operate with  the Ministry  of Health,  the Ministry of Labour  and  Social 
Affairs, and organizations  of  the handicapped.  The committees  are mandated  to 
prepare and coordinate  legislative  arrangements  concerning  the  handicapped, 
links of medical,  labour  and  social  rehabilitation,  and the constitution of  a 
new model of care  for disabled  children and youth. 
A lot of work has been done  in both Republics.  At the beginning  of  1991 
the Department  of Health  and Social  Care  for the Handicapped was  founded  under 
the Czech Ministry  of Health.  It is the Ministry's  endeavour  to create  a 
network of centres  for medical  rehabilitation  that would  enable  complex  care 
for the handicapped.  In July of  this year, the Czech Government  approved  a 
national plan  for help  to disabled persons,  including  a number  of  ministerial 
and departmental  commissions  so that  the  situation of this vulnerable group of 
our society could  improve. 
In the Slovak  Republic,  "Precautions  for Actual  Problem-Solution  in Care 
for the Handicapped  during  1991-1992" has been elaborated  to ensure  the 
functioning of  an advisory  and  initiative  body with  the  simultaneous  provision 
of direct coordination  of  the work  of governmental  and  non-governmental 
A/47/PV.34 
83 
(Mrs. Keltosova.  Czechoslovakia) 
organizations  in the area of  living-standard  development  for persons with 
disabilities  in order  to integrate  them  into everyday  life.  The  acquisition 
of  information  on  legal  claims by  the handicapped  arising  from  effects upon 
their  health has been  improved 
for example, by  the establishment  of the 
Centre  of Technical  and  Information  Services  for  the Blind  and  Partially 
Blind,  and  the Audio Centre  for  the  Hearing-impaired. 
Legislative work  on the establishment  of both  a new  social-welfare  system 
and  an  insurance  system  based  on market-economy  principles  and  taking  into 
account  existing  socio-economic  conditions,  including  the establishment  of the 
Institute  of Ombudsmen,  is under way.  Significant  legislation  to be enacted 
will be  represented  by  a law on disabled persons.  Its major  objective  is to 
protect  them  from discrimination,  to  remove  the monopoly  of  the  State from 
this  field,  and  to transfer  responsibility  for  the procurement  of equal 
conditions  in all  fields  of  life to the respective  institutions.  As in the 
new welfare  system,  a number  of  specific  issues  related  to disability will be 
handled  by disabled  persons  themselves,  as well  as by  their  organizations.* 
My  delegation has  carefully  studied  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
on  the  implementation  of  the World  Programme  of Action  and  the United Nations 
Decade  for Disabled  persons  (A/47/415).  Unfortunately  I cannot but express 
our  agreement  concerning  his  evaluation  of  the  situation  and  implementation of 
the Decade's  targets.  Despite multiple  activities  at  the  national  and 
international  levels, progress  in attaining  the main goals  of  the Programme of 
Action has been  slow.  If  the present  negative  trends  continue,  there is a 
risk  that disabled  persons  may  increasingly  be  relegated  to  the margins of 
Mr. Ghafoorzai  (Afghanistan), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.34 
84-85 
(Mrs. Keltosova.  Czechoslovakia) 
society.  Despite  the many  repeated  resolutions  of  the United  Nations  and 
related bodies, most  Governments  did  not  adopt decisive measures  that would 
effectively  improve  the  situation. 
While much yet  remains  to be done, we are optimistic  because  three major 
United Nations  documents  in this  sphere 
the Programme  of Action,  the 
long-term  strategy  and  the standard  rules on the equalization  of 
opportunities 
will  cover  comprehensive  policy making  and  implementation 
efforts.  They will  serve  as guidelines  for all nations  to convert  them  into 
daily practice.  Therefore my  delegation  supports  the  Secretary-General's 
recommendations  contained  in his  report. 
My delegation  also welcomes  the working  course  and the  results of  the 
first meeting  of  the  International  Conference  of Ministers  Responsible  for  the 
Status of Persons with Disabilities, held  last week  in Montreal, Canada,  in 
which we participated  actively. 
Our  representative  took part  in the Ad Hoc Working  Group  to  Elaborate 
Standard Rules on  the Equalization  of Opportunities  for Disabled  Persons, 
which has  just  fulfilled  its mandate by  approving  a set of  22 draft  rules 
along with  the proposed mechanisms  to monitor  their  implementation.  We 
welcome the  successful  outcome of  the Working  Group  - achieved  in  record 
time  which will  constitute  guidelines  for  the welfare of  disabled persons  on 
a national  level. 
In this  respect, given my  own experience,  I appreciate  the  role played  in 
the further  development  of  international  co-operation  in the  social  field by 
the United Nations  in Vienna, particularly  its Centre  for Social  Development 
and Humanitarian  Assistance. 
A/47/PV.34 
86 
(Mrs. Keltosova.  Czechoslovakia) 
I  avail myself  of  this opportunity  to mention  a decision  taken  in my 
country  to seek  affiliation with  the  International  Centre  for  Family  Studies 
in Bratislava.  Such  an affiliation would  represent  a very  concrete  follow-up 
to  the  International  Year  of  the Family.  My  delegation,  in  its  statement on 
item  93  in the Third  Committee,  will  inform  that  forum  about  this matter  in a 
more  concrete  manner. 
My  delegation  attaches  great  importance  to convening  the Conference of 
European Ministers  responsible  for  social  affairs, to be held  in Bratislava 
in 1993.  Regardless  of whether  changes  are made  in the  constitutional  set-up 
of the Czech  and  Slovak  Federal  Republic,  as we have  already  stated  on other 
occasions, both  succeeding  States  consider  it their  incumbent  duty to abide by 
all their obligations  to the  international  community,  and  they  are ready to 
cooperate  in the organization  of  that  conference.  This  should  be  an 
opportunity  for  all  European  countries  to exchange  opinions  on  further 
activities  in all  fields of  social policy  and  should  also be  a source of 
inspiration  for  Governments  in the  implementation  of  their  social policies. 
Mr. MAIER  (Austria):  At  the outset,  I should  like to  thank the 
United  Nations  for providing  a full  sign-language  interpretation  during these 
special meetings  of  the General  Assembly.  It  is the  first  time,  in my 
experience,  that  a complete  sign-language  interpretation  has been  available at 
a United  Nations meeting.  I am particularly  grateful  to the  Special 
Representatives  of  the  Secretary-General  on the United  Nations  Decade of 
Disabled  Persons, Mr. Hans Hoegh  and Mr. John  Strome  of  the United  Nations 
Office  in Vienna, who have been  instrumental  in bringing  about  this type of 
interpretation,  so necessary  for  all  those who  otherwise  could  not  follow this 
important  debate  on the  issue  of  disability. 
A/47/PV.34 
87 
(Mr. Maier.  Austria) 
The Austrian  Federal Minister  for Labour  and  Social Affairs, 
Mr. Josef Hesoun, who  is responsible  for persons with disabilities  in my 
country, was  forced,  because  of  important  political meetings  in Vienna,  to 
cancel his planned  participation  in these meetings  of  the General  Assembly. 
On his behalf,  I ask members  to accept his apologies. 
Austria welcomes  the decision of  the  Secretary-General  to mark  the 
conclusion of  the United Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons with  special 
meetings of  the General  Assembly.  My  country  attaches great  importance  to  all 
measures  aimed  at  improving  substantially  the situation of disabled persons. 
The Austrian  Federal Minister  for Labour  and  Social Affairs will present,  at 
the end of  the United  Nations Decade of Disabled  Persons, a national  plan  for 
disabled persons  that will  constitute  the guidelines  of  the policy  of  the 
Federal Government  of  Austria on disabled  persons.  Those guidelines  are based 
on the United  Nations  World  Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons. 
Disabled  persons  face  special problems  and  are  also  affected by  difficult 
situations  in our  society,  such as unemployment  and  sometimes  unsatisfactory 
social integration.  We  consider  it an important  function of  an  advanced 
social policy  to guarantee  to all disabled persons  an  independent  life and 
unlimited participation  in economic  and  social  development.  During  the United 
Nations decade  of Disabled  Persons, it was possible  to achieve  in Austria  many 
of the aims  set by  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons. 
Austrian policy  concerning  disabled  persons  is based  on  an  integral 
vision of the human being, whose  physical,  spiritual, psychological  and  social 
needs must  equally  be  taken  into  consideration.  Medical  and  professional 
rehabilitation  as  a measure  of  integration  has  reached  a very high  standard  in 
A/47/PV.34 
88 
(Mr. Maier.  Austria) 
Austria.  Two  examples  illustrate  that  standard:  medical  health  care  at home, 
paid  for by  social health  insurance, was  recently  included  in the  catalogue of 
services  of public  health  insurance.  With  respect  to  professional 
rehabilitation,  the numerous  options  for  supporting  the  employment  of 
seriously  disabled  persons  in the workforce  have been  increased  by giving 
additional  subsidies  to employers  for  creating  additional  training  and working 
possibilities  for disabled persons  in specific  areas. 
In many  cases  the cause  of  the disability  determines  which  rehabilitation 
methods  will be used.  Thus, persons born with a disability  or who were 
disabled  prior  to their  entry  into professional  life  are  discriminated 
against,  as  rehabilitation  is often  closely  connected  with  professional 
activities.  Social  rehabilitation  should  be given  additional  importance. 
Finally,  the  combination  of medical, professional  and  social means  of 
rehabilitation  still need  to be  improved. 
In order  to  improve  further  the  situation  of disabled  persons  in Austria, 
the objectives  of Austrian  policy on disabled persons  in the  future will be 
the  following: 
First,  the  utmost  realization  of  the principle  of  universality  in the 
integration  and  rehabilitation  of disabled  persons.  This means  that treatment 
would  not  differ  depending  on the cause  of disability  and  represent  a further 
step  towards  equal  access  to means  of  rehabilitation. 
Secondly,  better  cooperation  by different  rehabilitation  institutions to 
ensure  a nationwide  unified  source  of  treatment. 
The  Federal  Ministry  for  Labour  and  Social  Affairs  has, therefore, with 
the help  of  the work  done  during  the United  Nations Decade  of  Disabled 
Persons,  created  the basis  for  reforming  care provisions.  In the  near future. 
A/47/PV. 34 
89-90 
(Mr. Maier.  Austria) 
a draft bill will be presented  to the Austrian  Parliament  providing  for  all 
persons  in need  of  care,  independently  of the  cause of  their need,  consistent 
financial  support  and payment  commensurate  with their need.  The  Austrian 
Federal Ministry  for Labour  and Social Affairs  intends  to continue  and  if 
possible  intensify  international  cooperation, mostly  implemented  on a 
bilateral basis,  in order  to qualify  trainers or  through transfer  of 
technology  in connection with  technical  aid. 
A/47/PV.34 
91 
(Mr. Maier.  Austria) 
The  Federal  Government will  continue  to  support  international  activities 
leading  to  a better  attainment  of  the  rights of  disabled  persons.  These 
include  the pertinent  activities  of  the United  Nations,  in particular  those of 
the Centre  for  Social Development  and Humanitarian Affairs  at Vienna,  and the 
activities  of  the Council  of Europe  and  the  International  Labour  Organisation 
with  regard  to disabled  persons. 
Last week,  at the  invitation  of the Government  of  Canada,  the 
International  Conference  of Ministers  responsible  for  the  status  of persons 
with disabilities  took place  in Montreal, with  no  fewer  than  70  Governments 
participating.  The Austrian  delegation  at that  Conference  found  it highly 
encouraging  that  a great  number  of States Members  of  the United  Nations, by 
participating  at  the ministerial  level, demonstrated  their  political will to 
attach  the greatest  importance  to the multilateral  social  activities of the 
United  Nations,  in particular  in the  field  of disability.  The  Ministers 
assembled  in Montreal  furthermore  expressed  their  serious  concern  about the 
inadequate  resources  allocated  for  social questions  in general  and  for United 
Nations  activities  on disability  in particular. 
The  Centre  for  Social Development  and Humanitarian  Affairs  of  the United 
Nations  Office  at Vienna was established  as the  focal point  for all 
multidisciplinary  activities  concerning  social questions within  the United 
Nations  system,  including  the Disabled  Persons Unit.  In that  context, it 
should be mentioned  that  in paragraph  156 of  the World  Programme  of Action, 
the Centre was  also designated  as the  focal point  for  coordinating  and 
monitoring  the  implementation  of  the World  Programme  of Action,  including its 
review  and  appraisal.  In line with  that, my  delegation  is pleased  to note 
that  at the  seat  of  the Centre  a few days  ago  standard  rules on  the 
A/47/PV.34 
92 
(Mr. Maier.  Austria) 
equalization  of opportunites  for persons with disabilities  were  finalized by a 
working group  set up  at the  last  session of  the Commission  for  Social 
Development. 
This  special meeting  of  the General  Assembly  is putting  emphasis  on  the 
activities  of  the United  Nations  in the field of  social development  and 
humanitarian  affairs.  We hope  that  this emphasis  is shared by  all  Member 
States  and  that  it can be transformed  into a better  awareness  of  the  personnel 
and financial  needs of  the units  concerned.  We  cannot  expect  the units  of  the 
Centre  for Social Development  and Humanitarian Affairs  at Vienna  to be able  to 
take on enlarged  functions  entrusted  to them by Member  States without  being 
given adequate  resources. 
Mrs. NAPSIAH  (Malaysia):  Let me begin by congratulating  the 
President  on his election  to preside over  the United  Nations  General  Assembly 
at its forty-seventh  session.  I am confident  that  under his wise guidance  the 
Assembly will  achieve  satisfactory  results. 
May  I also  thank  the  Secretary-General  for his  statement  and his 
comprehensive  report  entitled  "Implementation  of the World  Programme  of Action 
concerning Disabled  Persons  and  the United Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons" 
(A/47/415).  The  report  is a valuable  document  that  contributes  to our  efforts 
to assist  the  disabled. 
I should  also  like to thank  the Government  of Canada  for organizing  the 
International  Conference  of Ministers  responsible  for persons  with 
disabilities  in Montreal  from  8 to 10 October  1992. 
We have now  reached  the end  of  the United Nations Decade  of  Disabled 
Persons.  However,  as  indicated  in the conclusions  of  the  Secretary-General's 
report, the objectives  established  in the Programme  of Action  contained  in 
A/47/PV.34 
93 
(Mrs. Nap si ah. Malaysia) 
General Assembly  resolution  37/52 of  1982 have  not been  fully  achieved. 
Although many  reasons  contributed  to  that disappointing  result,  the basic 
contributory  factor has been  identified  as  lack of  resources.  There  is a real 
danger,  therefore,  that  the needs of  the disabled,  especially  in the 
developing  countries, will  be neglected  by Governments  in  favour  of  the more 
urgent  and desperate  needs  of other  sectors of  society.  We have  to appreciate 
this  fact, as it  is a real problem  in poor developing  countries. 
Nevertheless, efforts must be made  through  long-term  planning  to make a 
contribution,  no matter  how  small, to  care  for  and  rehabilitate  the disabled, 
because  disability  is a an enduring  problem,  and  all  the  signs  are that the 
problem  of disability will  keep on  increasing  consonant with  the expansion of 
population  and  the association  of many  types of  disabilities  with old age. 
For  these  reasons, national  and both multilateral  and bilateral  efforts must 
be made  to  find  the resources  needed  to  assist  in the planning  for, and 
achievement  of, the goals  set  in the World  Programme  of Action  concerning 
Disabled  Persons.  The  recommendations  in the  Secretary-General's  report 
therefore merit our  fullest  consideration. 
As mentioned  in the Secretary-General's  report,  in the planning of 
national policies  and programmes  for  the disabled we  need  to  focus our 
attention  on three basic  aspects:  prevention,  rehabilitation  and equalization 
of opportunities  for the disabled.  Perhaps much  could  be done  in the area of 
prevention,  as over  the years millions  of people have been  left disabled as a 
result  of war.  Today we have entered  a new era of  international  relations in 
which, hopefully,  differences  between  nations may  never  again have  to be 
settled by violence.  This, however,  is contingent  on our  ability  to create 
the kind of  cooperation  in the management  of  international  peace  and security 
A/47/PV.34 
94-95 
(Mrs. Napsiah.  Malaysia) 
envisaged when  the Charter  of  the United Nations was drafted.  It can  clearly 
be seen from  recent  and  current  events that we  are still  far  from  achieving 
that objective,  and  there  is a necessity  at  least  to modify  the  existing 
system.  We  need  to establish effective  and peaceful means of  conducting 
international  and domestic  relations  to avoid violent  confrontations.  In this 
sense, the Secretary  General's  report entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace" has  given 
us a good basis  from which  to  start. 
A/47/PV.34 
96 
(Mrs. Napsiah. Malaysia) 
Emphasis  on public health  is another  effective way of  reducing  the risk 
of disabilities.  Overcoming  the problem  of malnutrition  and 
institutionalizing  the effective  control  and  treatment  of  diseases  that can 
cause disabilities,  such as hypertension,  diabetes,  leprosy  and poliomyelitis, 
will go  a long way  towards preventing  disabilities.  At  the  same time, 
research  into debilitating  diseases  such as arthritis,  rheumatism, 
Parkinson's, Alzheimer's  and  schizophrenia must  be  intensified  to understand 
their  causes  and  the most  effective  treatments  of patients  afflicted by them, 
Proper pre-natal  and post-natal  care  is also vital  to ensure  healthy children, 
and  immunization  must be emphasized  in caring  for  the  young. 
Governments  can contribute  to changing people's  attitudes  towards, and 
beliefs  about,  the  importance  of medical  care  through emphasis  in education 
and by enacting  legislation.  However,  unless  Governments  can provide those 
services  cheaply  or gratis, the population will be  less  than  inclined to pay 
any  attention.  There  is therefore  a need  for  this body  and  its agencies, such 
as the United Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF),  the United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO),  the  International 
Labour  Organisation  (ILO),  the World  Health Organization  (WHO),  the United 
Nations Development  Programme  (UNDP) and  the various United Nations regional 
Commissions,  with  the  cooperation  of donor  countries,  to  intensify efforts 
made  in assisting  developing  countries  to provide medical  care  for their 
citizens.  Care must  also be  taken  to  avoid  any duplication  of  function 
between  those  agencies  that  could  result  in the waste  of precious resources. 
The  technological  and  industrial  age we  live  in today  is not without its 
hazards.  Modern modes  of  transportation  also mean  increased  risks of road 
accidents.  Modern machinery  increases  the  risks of  industrial  accidents, 
A/47/PV.34 
97 
(Mrs. Napsiah.  Malaysia) 
contributing  to greater  numbers  of disabled people.  These  are  two of  the 
common causes of  disabilities.  They  can be  reduced by a number  of means, 
including  legislation.  At the  same time, people  should be given  proper 
insurance coverage,  so that  in the event  of disability by  accident  their 
future can be guaranteed  and  they do not become  a liability  to  society. 
After  the United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development,  we 
should also be  fully  aware  that many  things  that we do have  negative  impacts 
on the environment  and,  indirectly,  on us.  We  read  reports of  children  born 
mentally retarded,  with damaged  eyes  and deformed  limbs,  disabilities 
attributed to their mothers' having been exposed  to a polluted  environment. 
Obviously, there  is a need  for us to reduce  these  risks  through  coordinated 
efforts of education,  incentives  and  legislation.  The United Nations  could 
contribute by  a study of how Governments may cost-effectively  plan  and 
implement  such  coordination. 
The rehabilitation  of  the disabled must  also be given  serious 
consideration.  I personally  do not believe  that people with disabilities  wish 
to be a burden  to  society.  Even  if  some of them do, we  cannot  encourage  it, 
as the economic  cost  to  society will be astronomical.  Programmes  must 
therefore be drawn  up  to build  their  self-esteem,  confidence  and dignity  to 
enable them  to participate  fully and equally with other members  of  society. 
Serious measures  must be  taken  to provide disabled persons with  education  at 
all levels and  training  in vocational  skills  according  to their  potential. 
Education and  training  in this  age  is the key to  survival, especially  in 
industrialized  societies; everyone,  including  the disabled,  must  therefore 
have equal opportunity  to acquire  education  and vocational  training.  To  this 
end, special classes  and  schools  should be  established  to meet  the  educational 
A/47/PV.34 
98 
(Mrs. Napsiah. Malaysia) 
needs of  the various  categories  of disabled persons  and  at  the  same time to 
assist  them  in  securing gainful  employment. 
One of  the drawbacks  of modern market-oriented  society  is  the  lack of 
compassion,  by virtue of which  the chances  of  the disabled  securing  jobs in 
the business  sector  are not bright.  Governments  could  therefore  enact 
legislation  to establish  affirmative  action  for  the employment  of  the 
disabled.  Governments  can also  contribute  by  reserving places  in a certain 
percentage  of  their workforces  for disabled persons; by encouraging positive 
perceptions  of  the disabled  through  campaigns  to make  the public  aware of the 
abilities  of disabled  persons; and by encouraging  the private  sector to employ 
them.  As  an  incentive, employers  of disabled  persons  should  be given tax 
deductions. 
Caring  for disabled  children  can be  trying  and expensive.  Therefore, 
parents  of  children with  disabilities  should be provided with  tax relief to 
encourage  caring  for their  children and  to ease  their  financial burden.  In 
addition,  further  tax  relief  should be given  for  the purchase  of equipment 
used  to compensate  for handicaps. 
Community-based  rehabilitation programmes  should  be given greater 
emphasis  to enable  rehabilitation  facilities  to be provided  at the community 
level,  and  the Government  should be  fully  committed  to  increasing,  improving, 
financing  and  sustaining  these programmes.  At  the  same  time, other 
alternatives-to  institutional  care,  such as group  homes, home help and 
fostering,  should  also be explored.  In this  area,  the  role of voluntary 
organizations  and non-governmental  organizations  should be given emphasis and 
encouragement,  for  their  contributions  can go  a long way  in  stretching budgets. 
In planning  for programmes,  we have  experienced  a serious  drawback in the 
availability  of data.  To  establish well-thought-out,  comprehensive and 
A/47/PV.34 
99-100 
(Mrs. Napsiah.  Malaysia) 
effective programmes,  each  country  should  conduct  a sort of epidemiology  study 
to collect  and  collate  data on  all  types of human disabilities  and  design 
their programmes  around  observations  and  conclusions  resulting  from  those  data. 
Apart  from providing  education  and training  in living and  vocational 
skills and  assisting  the disabled  to  find employment.  Governments  should  also 
introduce programmes  of benefits  and  incentives  for destitute  disabled 
persons.  Examples  include  a disabled person's  incentive  allowance;  launching 
grants to start off  small businesses  or  cottage  industries  to  encourage 
self-reliance; and the provision  of  artificial  aids  and  orthopaedic 
appliances.  With  regard  to the  last benefit,  I agree with  the 
Secretary-General's  report  that  artificial  aids  and orthopaedic  appliances 
developed and produced  in developed  countries  are often  inappropriate  for 
local use and  are expensive.  I therefore  support his  suggestion  that  this 
equipment  should  be produced  in developing  countries with  technical help  and 
investment  from developed  countries. 
To enable  the disabled  to participate  fully  in society, physical  barriers 
to the disabled  that we  take  for granted must be  removed.  Because of  lack of 
resources, developing  countries may never be able to  implement  certain  actions 
mentioned  in the  Secretary-General's  report.  Deciding  to provide  special 
buses and modify vehicles  to cater  for  the needs of  the disabled may  require 
the revamping  of  an entire  transportation  and  traffic  system,  which can be 
very expensive.  Other measures, however,  can be  implemented  slowly,  in 
stages, until  the whole process  is completed.  Governments  should be  able  to 
implement measures  such  as  removing barriers  to access  to buildings  and 
pavements through  legislation  and  incentives  to participants. 
A/47/PV.34 
101 
(Mrs. Napsiah. Malaysia) 
In this  regard  and  consonant with  the objectives  of  the Decade  of the 
Disabled,  over  the years Malaysian  society, which has become  increasingly 
aware  of  the needs and  constraints  of disabled members  of  society  in regard to 
barrier-free  access, has, of  its own volition,  provided  amenities  and 
facilities  in  its buildings.  As the extent  of  such  facilities was  limited, 
the Government  has  established  A Code  of Practice  for  Access  and  Facilities 
for Disabled  People  to Public  Buildings, whereby  an amendment  to the Uniform 
Building  By-Laws  has been effected.  This makes  it mandatory  for all public 
buildings  to  comply with  the  requirements  of  the Code.  Another  regulation, 
called  the Code of  Practice  for Access  for Disabled  People  Outside Buildings, 
is currently being prepared  and  is expected  to be  ready  in due  course.  When 
both Codes  are  implemented  disabled  persons  are expected  to have better access 
and mobility  so that  their  earning  capacity  and quality  of  life will be 
enhanced. 
The  disabled  should  also be  assisted  and encouraged  to participate in 
various  sporting  activities whether  at the national,  the  regional  or the 
international  level.  Malaysia has established  a biennial  sporting meet or 
"paralympics"  for  the disabled  in which  other  disabled people  in Association 
of  South-East  Asian Nations  (ASEAN) countries have  also participated.  Those 
who have excelled have been given  the  same  financial  support  for training and 
coaching  as that given  to our  sportsmen  and  sportswomen who have brought 
honour  to our  country. 
On behalf  of Malaysia,  I am proud  to announce  that  our  programme of 
action with  respect  to the disabled  is on  a par with what has been suggested 
by  the  Secretary-General.  We may  not yet  have  achieved  all  targets but our 
efforts  are making  steady  progress.  The Malaysian  Government  is committed to 
A/47/PV.34 
102 
(Mrs. Napsiah.  Malaysia) 
the welfare  and well-being  of  its disabled  citizens, young  and old, male  and 
female.  Over  the years, the Government  has  introduced  various policies  and 
programmes  to ensure  that  disabled  citizens  of our  country  enjoy  a meaningful 
life.  In fact most  of  the  suggestions  that  I have made  in this  statement  have 
already been  implemented  in Malaysia. 
The International  Year  of Disabled  Persons  followed by  the United  Nations 
Decade of Disabled  Persons with  its World Programme  of Action  saw Malaysia 
moving ahead with  the various policies  and programmes  designed  to  improve  the 
quality of  life of disabled  persons.  One of  the  important  milestones  in the 
development of  social welfare  in Malaysia  is the promulgation  of  a policy 
called the National Welfare  Policy with the aims of  creating  a society  that 
upholds the  spirit  of  self-reliance, equalizing  opportunities  for  the  less 
fortunate and  fostering  a caring  culture. 
Even though the Government  has provided  every  assistance  to the  disabled 
through its various policies  and programmes,  these  still have  to be  reviewed 
from time to time to meet  the needs  and  challenges  of  changing  times.  To  this 
end the Government  has established  a National Advisory  Committee  comprising 
experts from various  Government  departments  and  individuals  to  look into  the 
various needs of  the  disabled  and make  recommendations  to the  Government, 
taking into consideration  the provisions  contained  in the United Nations World 
Programme of Action concerning  the Disabled.  This Committee's  recommendations 
coupled with the Government's  commitment  through  its caring-society  concept 
and programmes will  ensure  a better quality of  life for  the disabled  in 
Malaysia. 
The United  Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons has now come  to  a close but 
that should not mean  the end of  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning 
Disabled Persons, because  the quest  to help  the disabled,  I feel, is only 
A/47/PV.34 
103 
(Mrs. Napsiah. Malaysia) 
beginning.  Instead, we should redouble our efforts to achieve those targets 
politically, economically and socially, covering all aspects of disability. 
In the political field, we must work towards a better order of management 
of international security and crisis management through preventive diplomacy, 
peace-keeping and peacemaking, which, if successful, will indirectly reduce 
the incidence of disabilities. 
Economically, there must be concerted efforts bilaterally through, for 
example, the provision of technical assistance by one country to another on 
caring and training of the disabled^, and multilaterally at the regional and 
international levels.  In this regard I take this opportunity to congratulate 
fellow member countries of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the 
Pacific on the proclamation of 1993 to 2003 as the regional Decade for the 
Disabled.  I am also happy to note that the United Nations is already working 
on a long-term strategy with specific targets to be achieved within a definite 
time-frame and the establishment of standard rules on the equalization of 
opportunities for disabled persons to augment the Programme of Action that we 
established in 1982.  The United Nations is certainly the most suitable agency 
to take the lead in this field given its human resources and experience. 
However, there is need for the United Nations and its agencies to 
coordinate its work properly to avoid duplication of functions and waste. In 
this regard, the United Nations Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian 
Affairs, in Vienna, should look into ways of heightening its efficiency in 
coordinating the activities of the United Nations in this field.  In this 
respect, I should like to draw attention to paragraph 20 of the 
Secretary-General's report, which indicates that various United Nations 
agencies have produced guidelines and manuals on key disability issues.  I a"1 
inclined to believe that those manuals could be provided more cheaply if those 
A/47/PV.34 
104-105 
(Mrs. Napsiah.  Malaysia) 
agencies worked  together  to produce  one  comprehensive  set of guidelines  or 
manual.  Perhaps we  can  include  the  issue on the disabled  as one of  the  items 
to be considered  during  the world  social  summit  that  is to be  convened  in 
1995.  There, we  could  elaborate  on how the work  of  the United  Nations  and  its 
aqencies could  be  coordinated  effectively. 
Socially,  Governments  need  to  redouble  their  efforts  in heightening 
public awareness  of  the plight  of  the disabled;  in establishing  social 
policies and  social programmes  for  the disabled  that will  include  providing 
for financial  and physical  security;  in integrating  the disabled  into  the 
mainstream  of  society;  and  in reducing  the  risks  of disability.  It  is hoped 
that through  all  these efforts  the disabled will have  a much better  hope  for 
the future than before. 
Mr. ERDENECHULUUN  (Mongolia):  This  is the  first  time  the  General 
Assembly has  taken up  the  issue of disability  in plenary meetings.  We  applaud 
the fact that  it  is doing  so now and  consider  it to be a recognition by  the 
international  community  of  the urgency  and  acuteness  of  this  pressing 
problem.  The presence  among us of  representatives  of disabled persons  and 
their participation  in our  discussions will be of great value  in better 
understanding  the  issues  involved. 
A/47/PV.34 
106 
(Mr. Erdenechuluun. Mongolia) 
We  listened  with great  attention  to the  thought-provoking  and meaningful 
statements  of  representatives  of non-governmental  organizations  during this 
morning's  special  segment. 
Earlier  today Ambassador  Mustafa  Aksin of Turkey  spoke on behalf  of the 
States members  of  the Asian Group.  My delegation  fully  subscribes  to his 
statement. 
As we mark  the  conclusion  of  the United Nations  Decade  of  Disabled 
Persons, we  are given  a good  opportunity  to  sum up  the work  already 
accomplished,  to  identify  the major  challenges  that  lie ahead  and  to reaffirm 
our  commitment  to  the practical  implementation  of  the World  Programme  of 
Action beyond  1992 with  a view  to attaining  the objective  of  a society for all. 
Among  the major  achievements  of  the Decade we wish  to highlight  the 
increased  public  and  international  awareness  of disability  issues, the 
widespread  growth  and  development  of organizations  of disabled  persons, the 
formulation,  both  at the national  and  the  international  level, of  integrated 
policies  and  concepts  aimed  at  improving  the  status of  the disabled  and the 
setting  up of  a mechanism  for  international  cooperation  to address  the needs 
of  the disabled  throughout  the  world. 
It  is gratifying  to note  that  the United  Nations  has been  in the vanguard 
of  this global  movement  towards  the equalization  of opportunities  for disabled 
persons.  My  delegation wishes  to  commend  the work  done  by  the Centre for 
Social Development  and Humanitarian  Affairs  as  the  focal point  in the United 
Nations  system  for  disability  issues.  Of great  importance  were  the 
establishment  of  an  inter-agency  mechanism  and  a non-governmental  organization 
A/47/PV.34 
107 
(Mr. Erdenechuluun.  Mongolia) 
consultative mechanism,  with  a view  to  strengthening  cooperation  among  United 
Nations agencies  and between  the United Nations  and  the  family  of 
non-governmental  organizations. 
My Government  fully  endorses  the proclamation  of  1993  to  2002  as the 
Asian and Pacific  Decade  of Disabled  Persons. 
While much has been  achieved  over  the Decade,  it  is obvious  that  the  key 
objective of  full  and equal participation  of the disabled  in the  life of a 
society  is  far  from being  realized.  Today,  500 million men, women  and 
children are unable  fully  to enjoy  life because  of physical  or mental 
disability.  Eighty-five  per  cent  of  them  live  in the developing  countries, 
and thus are doubly  disadvantaged  by both  the poverty  and  the  disability. 
Furthermore,  it  is alarming  that  the number  of disabled  persons  continues  to 
increase as a  result of  currently  escalating population growth  rates, violence 
and war, poverty  and deteriorating  socio-economic  conditions  in many 
countries.  Therefore,  the  international  community  is called  upon  to  redouble 
its efforts  to meet  the challenges  of disability  issues  in the  1990s.  Now  is 
the time to build  upon  the  awareness  raised  throughout  the Decade  and  turn 
this awareness  into  comprehensive  disability  programmes. 
Mongolia  attaches  great  importance  to the activities  of  the Voluntary 
Fund for the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons, designed  to  facilitate 
the grass-roots  level  initiatives,  and  supports  its continuation  in the  period 
beyond the Decade. 
There  is no doubt  that  the primary  responsibility  for the  implementation 
of the World  Programme  of Action  lies with  the Member  States.  The 
Secretary-General's  report  (A/47/415) reveals  that, despite  certain  progress 
A/47/PV.34 
108 
(Mr. Erdenechuluun.  Mongolia) 
in addressing  a variety  of  disability  issues, the  implementation  process in 
most  of  the countries has been uneven  and difficult.  We  are  fully  cognizant 
of  the  fact  that  factors  of  an objective  nature,  such  as  the deterioration of 
economic  and  social  conditions, the  lack of  financial  resources, xenophobia 
and nationalistic  tendencies, among others, have greatly hindered  that process. 
On  the other hand, we must  not  avoid mentioning  inadequate  policies and 
activities  on  the part  of Governments  to deal with this  "silent  emergency" in 
a comprehensive  and  action-oriented  manner. 
The  above, both positive  and negative, can be  attributed  to my  own 
country  - Mongolia. 
In a country which has embarked  upon  the  road  to  a market  economy,  it is 
the vulnerable  groups, including  the disabled, who  are  the hardest  hit. 
Conditions  demand  the urgent preparation of  a comprehensive  national 
disability programme  and  action-oriented  activities  of  the Government  to 
implement  it.  In this  respect, we  look  forward  to the early  elaboration of a 
long-term  strategy  to  further  the  implementation  of  the World  Programme of 
Action  to the year  2000 and beyond  and  the Standard  Rules  on  the Equalization 
of  Opportunities  for Disabled  Persons. 
In conclusion, my  delegation  expresses  its  full  support  for  the sound 
recommendations  contained  in the Secretary-General's  report  and  the readiness 
of  its Government  to  join in the world-wide  endeavours  towards  a society for 
all. 
Mrs. MBELLA  NGOMBA  (Cameroon):  Our meeting here  today  to mark the 
end  of  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  coincides with a new 
A/47/PV.34 
109 
(Mrs. Mbella Nqomba.  Cameroon) 
decade of change,  a new decade where every nation must  strive  to attain  full 
and equal participation  and  full  integration  of  all  its members  into  the 
mainstream  of  social  and economic  development,  regardless  of  sex,  age, race or 
disability. 
After  the  International  Year  for Disabled  Persons  in 1981, the  General 
Assembly  adopted  the World  Programme  of Action  for Persons with Disability  in 
1982, with  a long-term  goal  aimed  at the  rehabilitation  of disabled persons, 
their full participation  in society,  and  also  the prevention  of  disability 
itself.  At  the end of  the Decade, our  objective  should be to evaluate  the 
achievements made  at  the national  and  international  levels  in  implementation 
of the World  Programme  of Action,  to assess the obstacles  encountered  and to 
examine prospects  for  surmounting  these  obstacles  in the  future. 
Given the above  criteria, our  approach  in reviewing  national 
implementation  of  the World  Programme  of Action  and the progress made will  be 
confined to the experience  that we  know best, which  relates  to policies  and 
programmes  for  the disabled  in Cameroon. 
After  the  adoption of  the United Nations World  Programme  of Action  in 
1982, Parliament  passed  a law on the protection  of the disabled  in Cameroon  in 
1983.  A decree  in application  of  the  law was  later  signed  in 1990 by  the 
President of  the  Republic  His Excellency  Paul  Biya. 
The practical  implementation  of the  said  legislation  for disabled  persons 
emphasizes  special  education  for handicapped  children and  integration  of  these 
children in the  regular  primary  and  secondary  school educational  systems. 
Within the period  of  the Decade  about  500 disabled  children were  able  to 
A/47/PV.34 
110 
(Mrs. Mbella  Noomba.  Cameroon' 
complete  their  secondary  school  education  and  of  those  of  them who went to 
university  about  60 have  graduated  and  are  in  the  job market. 
In the domain of  institutional  infrastructure  for  the disabled,  the 
Government  has  encouraged  associations  of  disabled  persons  in Cameroon to 
establish  various  cooperatives  for  the handicapped,  much  of  the  financing of 
which  is heavily  subsidized  by  the Government.  In addition,  the  Government 
equally  subsidized  funding  for  the  creation  of  22  small-scale  projects to 
benefit  smaller  groups  of  disabled  persons  and  individual  initiatives. 
Furthermore,  a unit  for orthopaedic  surgery,  costing  CFAF  350 million was 
established  in our  capital  of Yaounde,  along with  a national  rehabilitation 
centre  called  affectionately  "Les Oeuvres  du Cardinal  Leger", which was 
recently  renovated  and extended  with  the  assistance  of  the  Canadian 
Government. 
A/47/PV.34 
111 
(Mrs. Mbella Noomba.  Cameroon) 
One of  the most  successful  undertakings  of  the Government  on behalf  of 
the disabled  during  the Decade was the creation of  a rehabilitation  institute 
for the blind  in Buea,  the  south-western  provincial  capital,  to which has  been 
attached a  large  agricultural  project  and  a fish-industry  facility  to  train 
the blind  in art,  agriculture  and  fishery.  In the  last three years  100 blind 
adults have graduated  from  the  institute. 
In enhancing  institutional  infrastructure  for disabled persons,  the 
Government  realized  that  it could  not undertake  its programmes  single-handedly 
and that  the private  sector  and  the community  at  large had  to become  actively 
involved  in the  implementation  of  these programmes.  As  a result,  a national 
strategy to mobilize  greater  awareness  of  the needs of  the disabled  in the 
private sector was  launched.  The  result was  the creation  in the provinces  of 
16 privately-run,  but  also  Government-subsidized  institutions  for  the 
disabled.  The most  successful  of  these  are the medical  re-adaptation  centre 
and the rehabilitation  centre  located  in the  south-western province  of 
Cameroon,  created with  the  technical  cooperation  and assistance  of  the 
Netherlands  Government. 
In spite of  the national  efforts made to  integrate  the disabled  in our 
society, major  obstacles have  endured.  Although  the community  in general  has 
become more  aware of  and more  accommodating  towards  the handicapped,  most  of 
the disabled people  themselves have  remained  frustrated,  particularly  in a 
developing country  like ours, by  the hostile environment  created  by  the 
economic  recession  and  the various  limitations  it has  imposed  on the  job 
market. 
Also, many  employers, particularly  in the private  sector, have  often 
failed to acknowledge  the potential  of disabled workers.  This, along with  the 
A/47/PV.34 
112 
(Mrs. Mbella  Ngomba.  Cameron) 
physical  and environmental  barriers  in the workplace,  has  compounded  the 
problem  of unemployment  for disabled  persons. 
Furhermore,  the  recession has  taken  a great  toll  on  the  Government's 
capacity  to  invest  effectively  in social programmes  for  the disabled.  An 
illustration  of  this  fact  is that  in 1982 the Government's  yearly  expenditure 
for the blind  alone was  180 million CFA  francs, as  compared  to  the mere 
10 million CFA  francs  currently  allocated  to yearly  expenditure  on the blind. 
This  issue  of  insufficient  financing  has greatly  compromised  and eroded the 
Government's  potential  to  improve  its  institutional  infrastructure  for the 
disabled  and  its  capacity  to envisage  more  ambitious  programmes. 
Our national  experience  in integrating  the disabled  seems  to have been 
replicated  at  the  international  level.  However,  in order  not  to dwell on 
pessimism,  we wish  to examine briefly  the notable  achievements  made during the 
10-year  international  crusade  on behalf  of  disabled  persons. 
Several  international  bodies  and organizations  of  the United Nations 
system have prepared  guidelines  and manuals  on key disability  issues to assist 
Governments  in formulating  their policies  on disabled  persons  and  in adopting 
programmes  with  innovative  approaches  to disability  - although  the 
Secretary-General's  report  has pointed  to the  fact  that many  countries did not 
have  a comprehensive  plan or programme  within  the  framework  of  the World 
Programme  of Action. 
Among  the United  Nations  agencies  that have  spearheaded  international 
action on behalf  of  the disabled,  we wish  to acknowledge  with  deep 
appreciation  the Centre  for  Social  Development  and Humanitarian  Affairs of the 
United  Nations  office  at Vienna, which  in recent  years has  developed its 
capacity  for disseminating  information  on disability  and has  instituted a 
A/47/PV.34 
113 
(Mrs. Mbella Ngomba.  Cameroon) 
unique interagency  mechanism  in collaboration with  the World  Health 
Organization,  the  International  Labour  Organisation  and  the United  Nations 
Relief and Works  Agency  for Palestine  Refugees  in the Near  East  in order  to 
assess national  and  local  rehabilitation  services  and  to  explore 
income-generating  activities  for disabled  persons.  It  is our  firm hope  and 
conviction  that  the  role of  the Centre  for Social Development  should  be 
further  strengthened  after  the Decade, particularly  its unit  for the  disabled, 
which is currently very much  understaffed  in proportion  to the tasks  to be 
accomplished. 
Since  the  adoption of  the World  Programme  of Action  in 1982, there  has 
been a drive  in the  international  community  for a new  instrument  to make  the 
World Programme  of Action more  operational.  As a result,  the Economic  and 
Social Council,  at  its first  regular  session  in 1990, authorized  the 
Commission  for  Social  Development  to establish  a working group  to  elaborate 
standard rules on  the equalization  of opportunities  for persons  with 
disabilities.  In our  capacity  as current  Chairman of  the Commission  for 
Social Development,  Cameroon participated  in the deliberations  of  the  ad hoc 
working group  that  only  last week, at  its third  and  final  session,  adopted  the 
draft document  to be presented  to the Commission  at  its thirty-third  session. 
We hope that the  standard  rules, if and when  adopted,  will be  accompanied  by a 
monitoring mechanism  leading  to a more  concrete  review and evaluation  of  the 
United Nations programme  on  disability. 
My delegation would  also  like  to acknowledge  the  results of  the 
expert-group meeting  held  at Vancouver  in April  1992 and  the  ministerial 
meeting to mark  the end  of  the Decade which  recently  took place  in Montreal, 
Canada.  It is our hope  that  the  results  of both meetings 
which will  be 
A/47/PV.34 
114 
(Mrs. Mbella  Ngomba. Cameron) 
further  examined by the Commission  for  Social  Development  and  the Economic and 
Social  Council  - will  contribute  to  the adoption by  the General  Assembly of a 
long-term  strategy  to guide  international  action on  disability. 
In spite  of  the efforts made  at the  international  level  in the areas of 
health  and  rehabilitation,  recent  statistics published  by  the United Nations 
Centre  for  Social  Development  at Vienna point  to  the  fact  that  the number of 
disabled  persons  has  increased  over  the course  of  the Decade, especially in 
war-stricken  areas  and  regions  affected by  famine.  Between  6 and 10 per cent 
of  the world  population 
about  500 million people 
have been  identified as 
having  one  or more  disabilities.  Those  figures  include  about  160 million 
women  and  140 million  children.  About  300 million  of  the  total  figure live in 
developing  countries  and only  1 per  cent of  these have  access  to basic health 
and education  and  adequate  sanitation  services.  The  report  further indicates 
that with  the current  escalating  population-growth  rates, poverty, accidents 
and armed  conflicts, these  figures will  increase  in the  coming years. 
The  scenario  I have  described  clearly  indicates  the  strategy  that must be 
followed.  The  international  community  must  redouble  its efforts  in the period 
following  the Decade  to  reach  the  long-term  goals  that were  originally 
envisaged.  It  is in this  light  that my delegation  fully endorses  the proposal 
of  the Secretary-General  to continue  the  fund  created  for  the Decade, under a 
new name  - the United  Nations Disability  Fund  - to  finance programmes on 
disability. 
Furthermore,  drawing  inspiration  from  the United Nations  Institute for 
the Elderly  in Malta,  an institute  for  the disabled  under United Nations 
auspices  could be  created with  a clear mandate  to  foster  international and 
regional  cooperation  on disability  issues, placing  emphasis  on research, 
training  and  rehabilitation. 
A/47/PV.34 
115 
(Mrs. Mbella  Ngomba.  Cameroon) 
At the national  level, the creation of national  coordinating  committees 
or other  national  mechanisms  to assist  in monitoring  the  implementation  of 
programmes  for  disabled persons  should be encouraged.  By the  same  token, 
particular effort must  be made  to ensure  that disabled  persons  themselves  are 
included  in the  conception  and  implementation  of policies  and  programmes 
concerning  them. 
While much has been  achieved  during  the Decade,  it  is obvious  that  the 
goal of  full  and equal  participation  is far  from being  realized.  The  current 
economic crisis  and  the  resulting  insufficient  funding  reflect  the  low 
priority that has been  accorded  disability  issues.  However, we  firmly  believe 
that equalization  of opportunities  for every member  of  society  is an  ideal 
towards which every  nation must  strive with  the firm  support  of  the 
international  community.  The United Nations must play  a central  role  in  such 
a renewed  effort. 
A/47/PV.34 
116 
Ms.  GILES  (Australia):  The Australian  Government  is committed to 
social  justice  for  all Australians.  We  aim to enable  Australians  with a 
disability  to participate  fully  in the economic,  social, and  political 
spheres, and  so determine  the direction  of  their  own  lives. 
Australia  has participated  actively  in the United Nations  Decade of 
Disabled  Persons.  We  in Australian have promoted  the  rights of people with a 
disability  and have  supported  related  international  initiatives.  In 1991 the 
Government  contributed  $100,000  to  advance  the work  of  the United Nations 
Expert  Group  developing  international  standards  for  achieving  equal 
opportunities  for people with  a disability.  We  look  forward  to the report of 
the meetings  of  the working  group, which will  be  considered  by the Commission 
on Social  Development  early  in 1993. 
This  year Australia  co-sponsored  a draft  resolution  at the  forty-eighth 
session  of  the Economic  and  Social  Commission  for Asia  and  the Pacific, which 
proclaimed  the Asian  and Pacific  Decade of Disabled  Persons  1993-2002. 
Australia was pleased  to contribute  $20,000  to  the  trust  fund  for the Decade. 
As the needs of  the  region become more  apparent, we  anticipate  increased 
co-operation  in information  sharing  and  the provision  of  technical 
assistance.  Australia  also  sent  a delegation  representing  Government, people 
with  a disability,  and unions  to  the  international  congress  and exposition -
Independence  '92 
in Vancouver  in April  1992, and  attended  the, ministerial 
/ 
meeting  in Montreal  last week. 
Throughout  the Decade  the Australian  Government  has pursued  a vision of a 
fairer  Australia where  people with  a disability  are  regarded  as having the 
same  rights  as  all  other  citizens.  It  is timely  that  at  the end of the 
Decade,  after  a series  of  legislative  and  social  reforms, we have  this year 
A/47/PV.34 
117 
(Ms. Giles.  Australia) 
introduced  into  the Australian  Parliament  disability  discrimination 
legislation  in  line with our  international  obligations  under  a number  of 
United Nations  instruments,  including  the  International  Covenant  on Civil  and 
Political Rights, the  International  Covenant  on Economic,  Social  and  Cultural 
Rights, the Convention  on  the Elimination  of All  Forms  of  Discrimination 
Against Women,  and  the  International  Labour  Organisation  Convention  concerning 
discrimination  in employment  and occupation.  It is a far-reaching  bill  that 
will provide people with  a disability with  the  legal means  to  address 
discrimination  they may experience  in their day-to-day  activities. 
The 1981 United  Nations  International  Year  of Disabled  Persons  heralded 
i 
the beginning of  this  decade  of  change.  For  the  first  time, Australians  began 
to listen seriously  to  the voice of people with  a disability  and,  more 
I* . 
importantly,  to  respond. 
Australia  recognized  that people with  a disability had been  marginalized 
Ii 
from mainstream  society  for  too  long.  We believed  that  the only way  to bring 
about widespread  and enduring  change was  through  cooperation  at  all  levels of 
'' society.  As  a result,  during  the Decade, an unprecedented  partnership  has 
1 been forged between people with  a disability,  various  levels  of  Government, 
«'• employers, unions  and  the  community  at  large.  This partnership  has  led  to 
(i)-more responsive  and  individualized  accommodation  and  employment  services,  and 
liii'has helped break  down  the barriers  to full participation  in mainstream 
activities within  the  community. 
ijiri
A detailed paper  prepared  by  the Australian  Government  is attached  as  an 
sj)(Jannex to the text  of my  statement,  and we hope policy  information  contained  in 
(,|the paper will  assist  in the dissemination  of  information  between 
governments.  The  recognition  of  the need  to  share our  collective  experiences. 
A/47/PV.34 
118 
(Ms. Giles. Australia) 
modifying  them where  necessary,  to  take account  of  different  environments, was 
one  of  several  constructive  outcomes  from  the  recent  meeting  in Montreal. 
I am  conscious  time  is  short  during  these  special  plenary meetings, but 
would  like briefly  to outline  some of  the major  policy  initiatives we have 
found most  effective  in promoting  the  rights of  and opportunities  for people 
with  disabilities.  In the  context  of  the Government's  social  justice 
policies, we have  learned  some basic  lessons  about  the  type  of policy required 
to  create  the  appropriate  environment  for  individuals  to  realize  their human 
potential.  This  approach gives  strong emphasis  to  formal  consultation with 
interested  groups,  including  non-governmental  organizations,  unions, and 
business  and  service  providers.  It also provides  appropriate means  for long-
and  short-term  support  for  individuals  and  their  families. 
In 1983  the Government  established  the Disability  Advisory  Council of 
Australia  to enhance  existing  consultative mechanisms  by  advising  the Minister 
responsible  for disability  services  on the  impact  of policies which affect 
people with  a disability  and  their  families.  Also  in  1983  the Australian 
Government  undertook widespread  consultations  with people  with a disability 
across Australia  about  the types of  services  they wanted.  The  answers were 
clear:  People with  a disability  did  not want  to be  assigned  a passive role 
outside  the mainstream  of  life.  They wanted  to be  acknowledged  as people with 
the  same wants  and needs  as everyone  else.  These  consultations  resulted in 
the  introduction  of  landmark  national  legislation,  the Disability  Services 
Act,  in 1987.  The  Disability  Services  Act  includes  a  statement  of principles 
and  objectives which  represent  a clear policy  commitment  by  the Australian 
Government  to the  rights  of people with  a disability,  and  key principles and 
practices  that  should  apply  to services which  assist  people with  a disability' 
A/47/PV.34 
119 
(Ms. Giles. Australia) 
The Act  aims  to promote  innovation  in the provision  of  services, with a 
focus on achieving  results which  increase  the power  and options  available  to 
each person.  It  recognizes  the need  to provide  assistance  to ensure  that, 
wherever possible, people with  a disability  can gain  access  to and  benefit 
from the everyday  services  and  facilities  available  to the general  community. 
Within the framework  of  the Disability  Services  Act,  the Disability  Services 
"' Programme  funds non-governmental  organizations  which provide  employment, 
" accommodation  and  community  participation  services  for people with  a 
ai disability. 
'. 
We have  realized  that  to make  the principles  and objectives  of  the Act  a 
:: reality we must  involve  all members  of  society.  The Australian  Federal 
Government has therefore  introduced  initiatives  to promote  cooperation  between 
©Governments, cooperation between  Government  departments,  cooperation  in the 
•workplace and cooperation  in the  community. 
... 
One such  initiative was  the disability  reform package  introduced  in 1990, 
,r.»hich brings  together  three  Government  departments  whose  responsibilities 
jnclude income security,  employment  and  training,  and health and  community 
.fservices.  This  is  a coordinated  effort  to change  the nature of  the  income 
maintenance system  from  a dependence model  to an active mechanism  for  support 
jocusing on the needs  of  the  individual.  The package provides  incentives  to 
jmployers to employ  people with  a disability  and  to make people with  a 
j w 
isability more  competitive  by providing  opportunities  for  skills  development 
Lit! St"-
hile providing  a secure basis  of  income  support  for  those who  need  it. 
ot«l; 
Another  initiative was  the  Commonwealth/State  Disability  Agreement  signed 
» 1991, which  aims, through greater  cooperation between Governments,  to 
"iver services  for people with  a disability more effectively  and 
,it>''; 
A/47/PV.34 
120 
(Ms. Giles. Australia) 
efficiently.  It  seeks  to establish  agreed  arrangements  for  the  coordinated 
planning  and  implementation  of Government  responsibilities.  It will  also 
extend  the benefits  of  the Commonwealth's  Disability  Services  Act  to those who 
use  State  Government  services.  Before  the Agreement  is  implemented  in a 
State,  the  State  Government  must  enact  legislation  complementary  to the 
Disability  Services  Act.  To date  four  of Australia's  eight  States  and 
Territories  have  done  so, and  several  others  are  in the process  of drafting 
new  legislation. 
As  a result  of  these Australian  Government  initiatives, people with a 
disability  are  finally beginning  to take their  rightful  place within the 
community.  In particular,  there has been  a focus  on promoting  employment 
opportunities  in recognition  that  this  is one  of  the best means  of breaking 
down  economic  and  social barriers  that have  set people with  a disability apart 
in the past.  The  Government  provides  a comprehensive  range  of  employment 
placement  and  support  services  which  assist  people with  a disability to gain 
and maintain mainstream  jobs  and provide  alternatives  to  sheltered workshops. 
A/47/PV.34 
121 
(Ms. Giles. Australia) 
The Australian  Commonwealth  Rehabilitation  Service has  radically  changed 
its focus  since  the  introduction  of  the Disability  Services  Act.  It has 
dismantled  its  large  institutions  and  now provides  locally based  community 
services  focused  on developing  individualized  return-to-work  programmes. 
Another  major  milestone was  achieved  in 1988 with the  introduction  of 
legislation  administered  by COMCARE  Australia,  to provide  an  integrated 
package of prevention  programmes,  compensation  and  return-to-work  strategies 
for all Australian  Government  employees. The  key to  its  successful  operation 
is cooperation  at  the workplace  level  together  with  a framework  of  prevention 
and early intervention  to effect  a return to work  as  soon as possible. 
Finally,  as  I mentioned  earlier,  the United Nations Decade of  Disabled 
Persons has  seen  the development  of  the Disability  Discrimination  Bill  in 
Australia in 1992.  That  legislation will be a vital element  in removing  the 
attitudinal, physical,  structural  and  institutional  barriers  that people  with 
a disability  currently  face.  Through  such legislation  the Government  is 
providing a lead  to the  community  and  setting  the direction  for the  coming 
decade, promoting  attitudinal  change  through education  and  reconciliation.  We 
firmly believe  this  legislation will not only  significantly  benefit  people 
with a disability  themselves, but  that  our  nation  as a whole will be  enriched 
by the full participation  of people with  a disability  in society on  equal 
terms. 
Notwithstanding  those  achievements, many  challenges  remain.  There  are 
still many people with  a disability who  do not  receive  the  services  from which 
they could benefit,  or  the  justice  they deserve.  While  the effects  of  the 
Government's  social-justice  initiatives  are gradually  filtering  through  to the 
wider Australian  community,  the process  is at  times  slower  than we would  like. 
A/47/PV.34 
122 
(Ms. Giles. Australia) 
As people with  a disability gain  access  to the work  force, employers and 
co-workers  are becoming more  aware of  the valuable  contribution  that people 
with  a disability  can make economically  and  socially.  The  flow-on effect of 
this  is  attitudinal  change  that will help  to break  down  the barriers  that have 
set people with disabilities  apart  in the past. 
Our vision  is a fairer Australia where people with disabilities  are 
regarded  as equals, as people with  the  same  rights  as other  citizens, with 
recourse  to  systems  that  redress  the  infringement  of  any of  their  rights, 
where people with  a disability have equal  access  to programmes  provided by 
Government,  by  the private  sector  and by community  groups, where people with a 
disability  can gain  and hold meaningful  employment  that provides wages and 
career  opportunities  that  reflect performance, where people  with  a disability 
have  control  over  their  own bodies, lives  and  future, where  difference is 
accepted  and where public  instrumentalities,  communities  and  individuals act 
to ensure  that  society  accommodates  such differences. 
This  is our  challenge  for  the coming decade. 
An  account  of policy,  legislation  and programmes  such  as  I have just 
completed  may  fail  adequately  to convey  their  actual  effects  upon  the daily 
lives  and  expectations  of people with  a disability.  I should  therefore like 
briefly  to describe  recent  dramatic  changes  in the  lives of  some of my 
constituents,  changes  that  are directly  attributable  to  coordination between 
State  and  federal  departments  and  that have been preceded  and  accompanied by 
comprehensive  nation-wide  consultation with people with disabilities  and their 
organizations. 
For  instance, one young wheelchair-bound  couple have  in the very recent 
past made  the  transition  from  institutional  life  to their  own  suburban home, 
A/47/PV.34 
123 
(Ms. Giles. Australia) 
one designed with  their participation  to fulfil  their  special  needs.  While 
they were busy  choosing  furnishings  for their new home they were  also 
interviewing  applicants  for the positions  of  their personal  attendants  to be 
employed under  our Attendant Care  Scheme.  For  the  first time  in their  lives 
they have been empowered  to make  such decisions. 
In the  second  instance  an institution  for 40 profoundly  intellectually 
and physically handicapped  adults has gradually become  redundant  as the 
residents moved  in groups of three or  four to specially built or  modified 
suburban houses.  Under  these new conditions, and with the help of  24-hour 
well-trained  staff, aberrant behaviour  gradually modifies, new skills  are 
acquired and positive neighbourhood  interaction  rapidly  develops.  Their 
quality of  life has been greatly  enhanced  and family  acceptance has  followed. 
People with  lower  support  needs have previously been  limited  to poorly 
paid jobs in sheltered workshops, but now, increasingly, have been given 
access to training  and placement  in open employment, and selective  secondary 
schools are equipped with physiotherapy  clinics  for  students  whose 
disabilities would  otherwise preclude  their  routine  interaction with  their 
peers. 
Mr. AL-MUSHAOBEH  (Jordan)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  It is a 
pleasure for me  to be here  today as we discuss  the achievements  of the United 
Nations Decade of Disabled  Persons  and assess  the World Programme  of  Action 
concerning Disabled  Persons.  Before coming  to New York, I had attended  the 
International Conference  of Ministers  responsible  for Persons  with 
Disabilities organized  by  the Government  of Canada, at Montreal, last week. 
The results of that meetinj demonstrated  the  international  conviction  of  the 
need to intensify efforts  and promote  cooperation  to guarantee  the  continuity 
A/47/PV.34 
124 
(Mr. Al-Mushaqbeh. Jnrda.,) 
of  the processes  that were  initiated  and  set  in motion  during  the Decade.  The 
meetings  highlighted  future  challenges  and emphasized  the  fact  that  it is now 
high  time  that we  embarked,  together, on plans  to  face up  to  them. 
It  is obvious  that  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled 
Persons  has  not been  fully  implemented.  Its importance  lies  in the fact that 
it created  a motive  and  incentive  for  the majority  of  countries  to initiate 
serious  action  aimed  at achieving  its objectives,  namely,  the objective of 
ensuring  full participation  by disabled persons  in  social  life  and 
development,  as well  as the objective  of  equality.  Those objectives have 
provided  the disabled with  a strong  incentive  to develop  their  abilities and 
to assert  themselves.  Moreover,  the objectives  of  the Programme  as a whole 
have  provided  those who  render  services  to  the disabled with  a motive to 
improve  those  services  so that disabled may be helped  to  surmount  their 
disabilities  to  the greatest  extent  possible. 
The  Programme  also encouraged  us to  free ourselves  from  the domination of 
remedial  services  and  to devote ourselves  to measures  of prevention and 
development  wherever  approporiate. 
Among  the principal  achievements  of  the Decade  in my  country, Jordan, 
with  regard  to the disabled,  was  an increased  awareness  of  the  importance of 
deploying  concerted  efforts  by various  sectors  to  improve  the conditions of 
the disabled,  side by  side with  an awareness  on the part  of  the disabled 
themselves  that  they have  to express  their needs more  effectively  and 
confidence  in their  ability  to make  their own decisions  on matters  that affect 
their  lives. 
The most  telling  example  of  this was  the participation  by  a number of 
disabled  persons  in drawing  up  the provisional  Jordanian  law on care for the 
A/47/PV.34 
125 
(Mr. Al-Mushagbeh.  Jordan) 
disabled, which  entered  into  force  at the beginning  of  1990.  That  law 
established  statutory  rights  to education,  training  and  rehabilitation  for  the 
disabled with  a view  to  integrating  them  into productive  society.  It  also 
guaranteed  for  them  diagnostic  services  and  free medical  services. 
A/47/PV.34 
126 
(Mr. Al-Mushaqbeh. Jnrdan) 
The  law also  introduced  tax and customs  exemptions  on  educational 
materials  and  the machines  and different means  of  transportation  used by the 
centres which  render diagnostic  and other health  services  to  the disabled and 
to the disabled  themselves. 
The  law also established  the national  council  on  care  for  the disabled. 
Many governmental  and  civil organizations  are  represented  in that council. 
But  the most  important  stipulation  of  the  law was  the  statutory  representation 
of  the disabled  and their parents  in that  council.  The  council  is mandated to 
formulate  policies  and draw up plans  for prevention  and  rehabilitation 
programmes  that  operate under  the supervision  of  the Government  and of 
non-governmental  sectors. 
Moreover,  the new draft  labour  law in Jordan  stipulates  that every 
institution with more  than  50 employees  must  recruit  no  less  than 2 per cent 
of  its workforce  from  the  ranks of  the disabled.  This  is not  the  first move 
by Jordan  to guarantee  an  income  to the disabled.  Programmes  aimed at 
increased  incomes were  first  introduced  for  the benefit  of  those disabled who 
sustained  their disabilities  as a result of wars  from  the  early  1950s.  Those 
programmes  have been developed  now to embrace  other  disabled  persons. 
Although  there  is a conviction  that  it is necessary  to  integrate disabled 
students  into ordinary  schools, the achievement  of  that  objective will take 
some time.  Therefore,  it  is necessary,  for  the time being,  to build more 
schools  and  centres  for the  disabled. 
Jordan has governmental  and  civil  schools  rendering  services  for the 
elementary grades  and  the number  of  those  schools  has  increased  to 68 since 
the beginning  of  the decade.  The number  of disabled  students  in those schools 
has  doubled,  vocational  training programmes  have been  expanded  and new crafts 
have been  included  in the  curricula.  Some of  those  are  targeted  at disabled 
A/47/PV.34 
127 
(Mr. Al-Mushaqbeh.  Jordan) 
girls.  We have  now 9,000 disabled  students  from  the grand  total  of 
140,000 disabled persons.  However,  if we estimate  that  5 per  cent  of  the 
population  is disabled,  it becomes  clear  that  the schools  and  the centres  that 
are now in existence  serve  no more  than  5 per  cent of  those who  need  them. 
This demonstrates  Jordan's  need  for  international  and bilateral  aid  in this 
respect. 
Jordan's  future  strategy  in the area of  care  for  the disabled  is to 
increase programmes  of general  awareness, to  intensify measures  aimed  at 
preventing disability,  to expand vocational  training,  to promote  services  of 
special education,  to expand  programmes  for  increasing  income  and  to  set up a 
comprehensive  centre  for diagnosis, using mobile  units  for  rehabilitation  in 
remote areas  as well  as to develop  training programmes  for  special  education 
teachers. 
The  International  Conference  of Ministers  responsible  for Persons  with 
Disabilities held  in Canada  last week has given us high hopes of  cooperation 
and coordination between  States  to better  the conditions  of  the disabled  all 
over the world. 
My country, which  takes pleasure  in supporting  the document  adopted by 
the Conference  appeals  to all Member  States to do the  same  and  to  implement 
its recommendations.  We wish  to remind  the Assembly  that our  commitment  as 
States towards human  rights will  not be complete  if we do not work  seriously 
for the application  of human  rights  and principles  for the  disabled. 
I wish here  to  recall  a statement  made by His Majesty,  King Hussein,  at 
the beginning of  the  International  Year  for the Disabled when he  said  that 
disability lies  in  the  society  that  does not provide  the disabled  with 
A/47/PV.34 
128 
(Mr. Al-Mushaobeh. Jordan) 
opportunities  of participation  and  contribution  and  allows  the putting up of 
barriers  that  limit  their  abilities  and performance.  Let  us then work 
together  in order  to  remove  those barriers. 
Mr. MONGBE  (Benin)  (interpretation  from  French):  The Minister of 
Labour  and  Social Affairs  of  the Republic  of  Benin would have  liked to 
participate  in the  special meeting  herself,  but  for  reasons  beyond her control 
she  is unable  to be here  today.  She has  asked me  to  convey her  sincere wishes 
for  the  success of  our work. 
It  is a great  honour  for me  to address  the Assembly  in the context of the 
conclusion  of  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons. 
Ten years  ago the  international  community  marked  the end of the 
International  Year of Disabled  Persons.  On that  occasion,  in December 1982, 
the General Assembly  adopted  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled 
Persons,  the main  result  of  the  International  Year,  and proclaimed  the United 
Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons. 
We  are here  today  to mark  the end of  the Decade,  to  assess the road 
travelled  and  to plan  a programme  for  the  future. 
In this  regard,  Benin welcomes  the Secretary-General's  report on the 
implementation  of  the World  Programe  of Action  for  the Decade.  The report 
enables  us to  review  the goals  that have been  achieved  in the  context of the 
Organization's  follow-up  activities.  As the  Secretary-General  indicates in 
his  report,  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  has had some 
success,  some  insufficiencies  and  some  failures. 
Despite  a certain  amount  of progress  in some developing  countries in the 
areas  of health  and  rehabilitation,  the number  of disabled persons, 
particularly  in regions  afflicted  by war  or  famine, has  increased  during the 
Decade. 
A/47/PV.34 
129-130 
(Mr. Mongbe.  Benin) 
With the great  increase  in population  growth  rates  at the present  time, 
poverty, accidents  and  armed  conflicts will  rise  further  in the  future. 
In another  area there has been  an  increased  awareness  and  a better 
understanding  of questions  relating  to the disabled  since  the  International 
Year and the beginning  of  the Decade. 
The objectives  are  still very  far  from having been  reached.  However,  the 
main lines of  the World  Programme  of Action  - namely,  prevention, 
re-education, equal  opportunities  and  full participation 
have given us a 
valuable basis  for progress where  they have been  applied. 
The Decade  has  served  as a framework  for carrying  out many  important 
i projects for the benefit  of disabled persons. 
ii 
In Benin,  in the context  of  the implementation  of  the World  Programme  of 
lisAction, plans have been  implemented  to benefit  disabled persons. 
A/47/PV.34 
131 
(Mr. Monobe.  Benin) 
I  should  like to mention  some of  these  actions.  In  1981  a national 
seminar  was  organized  to promote  awareness  of  the problems  of  disabled 
persons.  This  seminar  brought  together  national  partners  including  disabled 
persons.  In 1983  a centre  for  the blind  and partially  sighted  was 
established.  In 1988 a national  social  affairs  day was  devoted  to the 
situation  of disabled persons  and  a special  school  for deaf  children was 
opened. 
In 1989  a special  school  for mentally handicapped  persons was opened by 
the Beninese  Association  for the Mentally Handicapped,  and  a  community-based 
rehabilitation programme  was begun.  One of  its main goals  is to promote a 
network  of  integrated  inter-sectoral  programmes  to ensure  for disabled persons 
in the  short, medium  and  long term,  a full  range  of basic  health, education, 
training,  employment  and other  services.  In 1991  a seminar  on the past, 
present  and  future  of  community-based  rehabilitation brought  together national 
and  foreign non-governmental  organizations  and  specialized  agencies and bodies 
of  the United Nations, as well  as national  partners. 
Benin  now has  three  centres  for  the  fitting of  artificial  limbs, as well 
as the Beninese  School  for  the Deaf, established  by  the national  education 
Ministry.  Before  the end of  1992  the elaboration  of  a national policy for 
disabled  persons will be  completed. 
Despite  the many  activities  that  are being  carried  out,  the main goals in 
this  area  are  still being  achieved  slowly because  our  financial  resources are 
very  limited.  Therefore,  it is desirable  that  in multilateral  assistance and 
technical  cooperation programmes  we give high priority  and  devote more 
resources  to  issues  related  to  disability. 
A/47/PV.34 
132 
(Mr. Monobe. Benin) 
Benin was privileged to be among the 75 countries whose Ministers and 
representatives responsible for disabled persons were invited by the 
Government of Canada to an international Conference - the first of its type 
held last week in Montreal, where, as the Canadian Minister, 
Mr. Robert Rene de Cotret, said this morning, an opportunity was offered to 
"look to the future" (A/47/PV.33. p. 37) and to seek to put an end to 
"discriminatory attitudes that deny equality, erode independence, limit 
opportunity and force isolation".  (A/47/PV.33. p. 38) 
In this perspective, one of the great tasks that the international 
community must tackle in the coming years is to perpetuate the awareness 
witnessed during the Decade, by taking concrete steps to establish a society 
in which everyone has a place and of which disabled persons are an integral 
part. 
The meeting rose at 7.45 p.m. 
