IITED 
JIONS 
General  Assembly 
UN  LIBRARY 
OCT 2 i 12-'" 
UN/SA COLLECT! 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.15 
7 October 1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh session 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 15th MEETING 
Held at Headquarters, New York, 
on Monday, 28 September 1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
Mr. GANEV 
Mr. LEAL 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Nicaragua) 
Address by Mr. Vytautas Landsbergis, President of the Supreme 
Council of the Republic of Lithuania 
General debate [9] (continued) 
Statements made by 
Mr. Evans (Australia) 
Address by Mr. Aleksander Meksi, Chairman of the Council of 
Ministers of the Republic of Albania 
/... 
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English 
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages.  The final text will 
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembly. 
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only.  They should 
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within 
aaS-Wfiek, to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61255  1434-I4it;v "*> 
A/47/PV.15 
l(a-z) 
Statements made by 
Mr. Chambas (Ghana) 
Mr. Alarcon de Quesada (Cuba) 
Mr. Wong (Singapore) 
Mr. Holo (Benin) 
Mr. Niehaus Quesada (Costa Rica) 
A/47/PV.15 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.30  p.m. 
ADDRESS BY MR. VYTAUTAS  LANDSBERGIS, PRESIDENT OF THE  SUPREME COUNCIL  OF THE 
REPUBLIC OF  LITHUANIA 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly  will  now hear  an address by  the 
President of  the Supreme  Council of  the Republic  of  Lithuania. 
Mr. Vytautas  Landsberqis. President  of  the Supreme  Council  of  the 
Republic of Lithuania, was escorted  into  the General  Assembly  Hall. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly,  I have  the  honour 
to welcome  to the United  Nations  the President  of  the Supreme  Council  of  the 
Republic of Lithuania, His  Excellency Mr. Vytautas  Landsbergis,  and to  invite 
him to address the  Assembly. 
President LANDSBERGIS  (spoke  in Lithuanian;  English  text  furnished 
by the delegation):  Allow me  to express  to you, Mr. President,  and  to the 
free people of Bulgaria my  sincere  congratulations  on behalf  of Lithuania  on 
your election to such an eminent post.  It  is fitting  that you,  an  active 
participant  in the creation of  a new Europe,  should preside over  the 
deliberations  of  this Assembly  as it  seeks  to establish  the  foundations  for  a 
revitalized United Nations.  The  task that  confronts  us  is a result  of  the 
many significant  changes  in the world. 
Exactly  four years  ago  in Lithuania,  in the Cathedral  Square  of Vilnius, 
people were beaten because  they  sought  freedom.  They had gathered  to 
commemorate the day  in  1939 when,  the Second World War having  already  begun, 
Hitler sold  to Stalin  the as yet  unconquered  land of  Lithuania with  all  its 
people and all  their  rights.  Almost  half  a century  later,  in 1988, no more 
rights had been  secured.  So on  that  day,  28 September  1988, in  Cathedral 
Square, some staged  hunger  strikes  for the  release of political  prisoners  and 
others sang songs  and demanded  freedom  for  their homeland,  while  still  others 
attacked with  shields  and  rubber  truncheons, beating  those  that  sang. 
A/47/PV.15 
3 
(President  Landsbergis) 
Such was  the  struggle  for  rights  and  ideas 
a struggle  that needed to be 
understood  and  appreciated.  And  in the  international  commentary  and portrayal 
of this  struggle, there  also ensued  a battle  of  ideas  for  right  and truth. 
Such was  the non-violent  struggle  for  liberation waged  by Lithuania  in the 
name of  independence  and universally  acknowledged  Christian  principles 
unifying  the  ideas of truth  and  freedom. 
A year has passed  since  that day  in September when  the Lithuanian flag 
was  raised  at United Nations Headquarters.  In that year we watched  as the 
Soviet Union  - that great  totalitarian  empire  stretching  from  the Baltic to 
the Sea of Japan 
flickered  and disappeared,  and how  that country was 
replaced  in  its seat here  at the United Nations by  a new democratic  Russia 
assuming  its predecessor's  rights  and obligations. 
We  also watched  as parallel movements  for national  independence brought 
down a small communist empire  in the south of Central  Europe  on the Adriatic 
coast.  And we watched  as both of these processes were  accompanied by the 
rather  ambivalent  sentiments  and positions  of  the Western  States 
that is, of 
their  leaders.  The world order  is moving  in a positive  direction 
we will 
see less evil 
yet these changes  seem to bring  about a nostalgia  for the old 
order  to which  so many had grown  accustomed. 
Lithuania's  position was  not one of ambivalence.  We  supported 
politically  Armenia, Georgia  and Moldova  and the Muslim  nations of the former 
Soviet Union, proposing peaceful  solutions  to their problems.  We were the 
first to  recognize  the  independence of  Slovenia and Croatia  in 1991, and this 
year we  recognized  the  independence  of Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and Macedonia. 
Although  this may  not have been much, these policies  nevertheless  reflected a 
position  arising  from our own experience  and the principles we  cherish. 
A/47/PV.15 
4 
(President  Landsberqis) 
And what  is that  experience? 
The campaign  against us was waged by magical means  that perhaps  can be 
best described  as communist voodoo politics, in which nothing  is called  by  its 
proper name.  So we  learned  how to identify  these phantoms  and  shadows  and we 
found that such ghosts, when  called by  their proper  names, soon begin  to fade. 
The evil  empire  continues  to fade  away, but it has not  vanished 
altogether.  Sometimes quite  the opposite  appears  to be  true 
its spirit  is 
so lively that  it just may  rise again among us and above us.  For this  reason, 
when we call  for  the  condemnation  and trial of  Soviet communism, when we  see 
and expose  attempts  to restore  the USSR, we  are  in effect  supporting 
democratic Russia and  international peace.  Democratic  Russia, which  condemned 
the 1940 Soviet  annexation  of Lithuania  and  recognized  our  independence, 
re-established  in  1990, should  not  refer  to the Baltic  countries  as  "newly 
emerged" States.  Those  officials who continue  to promulgate  this misnomer  do 
a disservice to the  truth and to their  country, which  is struggling  to  renew 
itself, to rise  above  the  lies of  the past.  This  applies  also to some  other 
labels and intentions. 
We do not  think, for example, that the Serbian army, operating  in 
neighbouring countries, could be  called  a  "peace-keeping  force", even  if  the 
troops painted  their helmets blue.  We do not think  that  such forces, 
authorized to act both on  their  own and on neighbouring  territory,  should 
unilaterally  establish  their  outposts wherever  they please, without  the 
neighbouring country's  consent. 
We think  that  States  and their  armies  should be  called by  their  proper 
names.  "Serbia" and  "Montenegro" are  fine names, appropriate  enough  for  a 
federation title, so let old ghosts  fade  away.  Defending  one  State's  actions 
against another  under  the guise of ethnic  protection  is dangerous. 
A/47/PV.15 
5 
(President Landsberqis) 
specifically if the goal is to politicize what is clearly a legal matter.  It 
is even more dangerous to hide in this way the true nature of military 
actions.  When an assault is called by a more neutral term, such as 
"conflict", this third-party position benefits the aggressor and that position 
becomes neither objective nor neutral. 
A/47/PV.15 
6 
(President  Landsberqis) 
Lithuania has  experienced  this  and  I think  that Lithuania's  experience  of 
defending  itself with  the  truth, and by avoiding political  entrapments, can be 
a useful example  to others, including  the Organization. 
Lithuania, Latvia  and Estonia have  a big neighbour where  a variety  of 
political  forces  are vying  for power  in sectors of  society  and government. 
Some elements  are democratic,  some  less  so, and others  not at all.  Those 
media circles  in neighbouring  Russia  that  inherited  the  characteristic 
mind-set of  the old empire  are at present promoting  aggressive  anti-Baltic 
sentiments, a substitute  "cold-war" policy which  surfaces  in the statements  of 
its officials  time  and  time again. 
Allow me  to share  some  concepts  and  statements, emanating  from  the 
conservative elements  of  the Russian Parliament  and the Foreign Ministry, 
which alarm Russia's  smaller  neighbours.  Foreign countries  are there  divided 
into two categories: the  inner  sphere  and the outer  sphere. 
Similarly, Lithuanian  composer  Bronius  Kutavicius's musical  score  for 
four of the  instruments  used have  the designations  of near violin,  distant 
violin, near piano  and distant piano.  The  stage violin  is the one  that  the 
listener can reach  from  the  front  row and  thus may  feel  the inclination  to 
grab as his  "vital  interest".  Universal musical harmony  is of  less  concern to 
him.  The 30 June  1992 document  of the Foreign Affairs  Committee  in the 
Russian Parliament  recommends  this position.  The  concept  is not new; it has 
been around since  the time of  Ivan  the Terrible.  It was  used by other  States 
less successfully. 
The "inner  sphere" is designated  as an extraordinary  or  special-interest 
zone.  This  concept having been defined  - and, if necessary  a 
Molotov-Ribbentrop-type  pact may be  signed 
military  force may be  used  and 
the former  inner  sphere  is no  longer  a foreign  land.  Then  the outer  sphere 
A/47/PV.15 
7 
(President  Landsberqis) 
becomes  the  inner  sphere  and  subsequently  a special-interest  zone. 
Territorial  expansion  continues, and will  continue, if  resources permit, until 
no  foreign  countries  at all remain. 
For  those who believe  this process  of  territorial  expansionism  to be 
natural  the opposite  process  is quite painful.  For  this  reason  attempts are 
made  to block  it, to  stop the withdrawal  of  troops  from  the  neighbour's 
territory;  for this  reason one must  find  someone  to protect with  this army as 
a pretext  not  to remove  troops.  Those politicians  like  President Yeltsin who 
think  democratically  and have  a broader  perspective, who want  to withdraw the 
army and  to normalize  relations, are called  traitors who do not defend the 
State's  imperial  interests.  "Your  interests  are our  interests", and  "Your 
rights  are our  rights", is said to  fellow nationals  abroad, especially to 
those who  think  that  their prime  interest  and  right  is the  restoration of the 
order  and traditions  of  the former  empire. 
I  take  a different view.  For  example, in my opinion the best  interest 
and natural  right of the Russian community  in Estonia  is to learn a little of 
the Estonian  language  and after  a few months  to acguire  Estonian citizenship, 
according  to the law about which  there  is so much outcry  at present.  We hear 
no protest  from Lithuanians  living  in Estonia, and Lithuania  does not plan any 
sanctions  against  that country.  We will  not  suspend  any of  our  treaties with 
Estonia and we will  not  ask  the United Nations  to  impose  any  sanctions against 
it.  I have  not heard  that  similar  actions have been demanded  by  Israel or 
Ukraine, although  the Foreign Minister of  the Russian  Federation  in his 
statement  to the Assembly  at this  session was  also  concerned  about other 
nationalities  residing  in Estonia. 
A/47/PV.15 
8 
(President Landsberqis) 
We disagree with the opinion expressed in the Russian periodical 
Diplomatic Bulletin that a referendum or other type of vote in one State may 
be regarded as an act of force against another State, with a presumed right of 
that State to resort to 
"reactive measures, and not necessarily ones of an equivalent character". 
Such diplomacy is based on the hope that: 
"Russia will not be condemned, at least by those nations which at that 
moment will be directing their planes towards a Libya or an Iraq". 
These are words uttered in August 1992, but they sound as if they were uttered 
in January 1991. 
When we hear from this very rostrum that it is necessary to use force to 
protect human rights we immediately begin asking ourselves who is this 
policeman-defender who comes, let us say, from Russia to Moldova or from 
Serbia to Bosnia.  In Dubrovnik and in Sarajevo he defends his minority rights 
in very strange ways.  It reminds me of an old and macabre dissident joke from 
the days of Stalin.  The first man asks "Will there be a third world war?" 
The second answers "No, there will not, but there will be such a battle for 
peace that not one stone will be left on another." 
For this reason we would not want to see Russian peace-keeping forces 
transforming themselves into forces that would impose a Russian peace, a "Pax 
Ruthenia", in the inner sphere of foreign countries.  We wish that somebody 
would remember the human rights of the hundreds of thousands of people 
deported from the Baltic countries, including the right to compensation, and 
that someone, possibly the United Nations, would help to raise from the bottom 
of the Baltic Sea the poisons of the Second World War that were dropped off 
our shores by the Soviet army.  The right of anyone to live on the shores of 
the Baltic Sea is now in danger. 
A/47/PV.15 
9-10 
(President Landsberqis) 
We would like to see the world community help all nations rising from the 
Red plague and to see the family of nations assist Russia economically and 
also in its search for democracy and justice.  It should be a matter of 
universal concern that the dead hand of communism should not drag down into 
its marble mausoleum the entire nation and possibly all mankind.  We should 
resist this danger by upholding other values, not those from the realm of 
ghosts of the past. 
Lithuania and the other Baltic States again present a challenge to 
Russia, and the world will see how it responds.  Maybe the economic pressure 
and measures of an undeclared blockade directed against us are not direct 
punishment for destruction of the empire or help to our leftist opposition in 
Lithuania.  Maybe these are just the difficulties of Russia itself, although 
probably not exclusively of an economic nature.  We also have these 
difficulties and thus we know them well. 
Recently signed bilateral agreements on the withdrawal of the Russian 
armed forces from Lithuania give us hope.  These agreements were welcomed by 
the democratic world and a multitude of people of good will.  I do not doubt 
that the United Nations will urge that such agreements should also be signed 
between Latvia and Russia as well as between Russia and Estonia.  Moreover, 
the process of withdrawal of the armed forces should be carefully monitored in 
order that the four States may as soon as possible achieve normalization of 
their relations under conditions of security, prosperity and friendship 
between all the nations of the region. 
A/47/PV.15 
11 
(President Landsberqis) 
I thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity to express that hope. 
In conclusion, I should like to say a few words about United Nations 
structural reforms.  These reforms are also tied to our experience. 
When a large State pressures and accuses a small neighbour, the latter 
should find support here, at the United Nations, which is duty-bound to defend 
small States.  Changes in representation could be made, such as establishing a 
Group of Small European States at the United Nations with its specific vision 
of global problems and shared concern for preserving national identity. 
Perhaps that "Little Europe" could initiate a solidarity movement in behalf of 
small States around the globe. 
The Security Council could be expanded to include three new permanent 
members - Japan, Germany and India  and the exercise of the right to veto 
from that day forward could require not one but at least two permanent 
members' invoking that right at the same time. 
I respectfully request that these ideas be included in the ongoing debate 
of ideas being considered at the United Nations. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank 
the President of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Lithuania for the 
statement he has just made. 
Mr. Vytautas Landsberqis. President of the Supreme Council of the 
Republic of Lithuania, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
GENERAL DEBATE 
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued) 
Mr. EVANS (Australia):  I congratulate you, Mr Ganev, on your 
election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. 
You take this important position at a very challenging time for the United 
A/47/PV.15 
12 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
Nations  and  its Member  States, not  least  for your  own country, which  is so 
admirably  consolidating  the gains  of  the democratization  process.  The 
Australian  delegation  looks  forward  to working  closely with you  as the session 
progresses. 
I  also extend, at the outset, Australia's  very warm welcome  to the 13 
States  for which  this  session will  be  their  first  as Members  of  the United 
Nations:  Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, San 
Marino, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Croatia, Slovenia, and Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.  We have, I believe, in our own highly  multicultural 
Australian population  immigrants  from every  one of  those  States, and we 
already  feel, as a result, that we  know them  well. 
In the past year we have  seen the total  collapse  of  the bipolar global 
structure which had underpinned  international  relations  since  1945.  The risks 
of  a global  nuclear holocaust have  receded  almost  to  the vanishing point.  So 
too have  the  sterile  ideologies of the past which  for  so  long  set obstacles in 
the way  of  the development  of a new  international  system  of  cooperation under 
the authority of  the United Nations  and  its agencies. 
But while  the opportunities  for cooperation have never  been greater, the 
challenges  to the  international  community posed by  regional  conflicts, 
humanitarian  crises  and unresolved  transnational  problems have  also never been 
greater.  What  is expected  of  the United Nations  system  is now immense, but 
there  is still  a very big question mark  over  the capacity  of  our  system to 
deliver.  In the past  twelve months  the international  community  has had some 
conspicuous  success  in meeting  some of  these  challenges.  We have  seen, for 
example,  the  signing  of  the Paris Agreements  on Cambodia  last October, the 
recently  completed  negotiation of  a chemical-weapons  Convention  text, the 
A/47/PV.15 
13 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED) summit  in Rio 
in June, movement  forward  in the Middle  East  peace process, and hopes  for  the 
resolution of  the  long-standing  problems  in Afghanistan,  Cyprus  and  Western 
Sahara. 
But a number  of problems have  to date been beyond  the capacity  of  the 
United Nations, or  international  cooperative  efforts more generally,  to 
resolve in a timely  and wholly  effective way.  The most  significant  and  tragic 
of these have  been  the  conflicts  in the  former Yugoslavia  and  Somalia. 
Equally, the world has  failed  so  far  in efforts  to strengthen  and expand  the 
liberal international  trading  system  through  the Uruguay  Round  of  multilateral 
trade negotiations  on  the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade  (GATT),  a 
failure of  just  as much  concern  to the developing  nations  as to  the 
developed. 
This  session of  the General  Assembly  gives us the opportunity  of 
systematically  reviewing where we have got  to and how  far we  still need  to go 
on the range of  acute problems  - political, economic  and humanitarian  - now 
confronting us around  the globe.  We  are much  assisted  in this  respect  by  the 
Secretary-General's  report  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace", on  some  key  aspects 
of which  I want  to  focus  in this  statement.  The  report,  although 
concentrating  specifically  on the  role of  the United  Nations  in  peacemaking, 
peace-keeping  and  related  areas, was of  course written very much  against  the 
background of  the  total  challenge  facing  the United Nations  international 
system, and  in particular  the  critical  importance  of  finding  lasting  solutions 
to the age-old problems  of basic  human  survival  and,  in the words  of  the 
Charter, "better  standards  of  life  in larger  freedom". 
A/47/PV.15 
14 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
If we have  learned  anything  from  the passage  of years  about  the  sources 
of  conflict  and war, and what  is necessary  to achieve peace  and  security, it 
is that these problems have  to be addressed  at many  different  levels.  Threats 
to  security  arise not only  from military  ambition and  the  race  to  acquire 
armaments, but  also  from economic  and  social  deprivation,  from  ignorance of 
countries  about each other, from  a failure  to address  problems  that by their 
nature  cross  international  boundaries, and  from  a failure  by national  leaders 
to trust the  sense  and  judgment  of  their own people.  An effective  system of 
international  cooperation  to meet  threats  to peace  and  security  itself has to 
operate  at all  these  levels  simultaneously. 
In the  first place, when unbridled  aggression occurs  across  national 
frontiers, the  international  community has  to have a credible  collective 
capacity  to resist that  aggression.  Chapter VII of  the Charter provides for 
such  a peace-enforcement  function.  There  is now  in the post-cold-war  era a 
manifest willingness  in the  international  community  to utilise  interventionist 
Chapter VII  functions, so long  rendered  impotent by  the veto  in the Security 
Council,  in cases of overt aggression  and other  obvious  cross-border  threats 
to international  peace  and  security. 
Of  course not every case of  aggression, or  the deliberate  infliction of 
suffering, occurs  across  State borders  or  in  such  a way  as to clearly and 
unambiguously  constitute  a threat to  international  peace  and  security.  And 
there will be  a number  of  such situations  in which  the  intervention of the 
international  community  could make a difference, so much  so that there are 
large moral  and political  pressures upon us all  to take  action.  It seems 
likely, unhappily,  that  the United  Nations will  increasingly  be  confronted 
with  situations  in which  the principle  of non-intervention  in  internal affairs 
will  be matched  by  a compelling  sense  of  international  conscience.  It may be 
A/47/PV.15 
15 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
that our  Charter will  never  be capable  of  formal  amendment  so as to precisely 
define those  circumstances  in which  such  intervention  is legitimate  and  those 
in which  it is not.  But  recent experience has  shown that there  is an  emerging 
willingness  - which my  country has certainly  shared 
to  accommodate 
collective  intervention  in extreme, conscience-shocking  cases, and  it may well 
be that a body of  customary  precedent will emerge over  time  and will 
constitute  its own  source of  authority  for  such  intervention  in the future. 
A/47/PV.15 
16 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
The  second  level of necessary United Nations  involvement  in peace and 
security matters  is peace-keeping:  that activity which  falls  short of actual 
enforcement, but  involves  assistance  on the ground  in monitoring, supervising, 
verifying  and generally  securing  the implementation  of agreements once made. 
As the various peace-keeping  operations  now  in place or planned  for Cambodia, 
Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere  amply make  clear, an increasingly wide 
variety  of  activities, involving both military  and  civilian personnel, are 
being  subsumed under  this general umbrella:  none of  them  are very  clearly 
described  in the letter  of  the United Nations Charter, but all of them are 
very clearly within  its spirit. 
Australia  strongly endorses  the call by President  Bush on 21 September to 
strengthen United Nations peace-keeping  and related  operations, and welcomes 
in particular  the stated  intention of  the United  States  to  look  at ways of 
ensuring  adequate  financial  support  for these  activities  as well  as for United 
Nations humanitarian  activities.  Financing  and administration  of United 
Nations peace-keeping  operations  are obviously  key  areas of  its activity where 
decisions  are necessary  at this year's  General Assembly.  It is a source of 
regret that we, the nations  of  the world, have  still not given  the 
Secretary-General  the  financial  resources or  flexibility  needed  to undertake 
United Nations peace-keeping  operations  expeditiously. 
For  its part, Australia would  support the Secretary-General's  call in "An 
Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277) for the establishment  at this  session of a 
peace-keeping  reserve  fund, and  for virtually  automatic  approval of one third 
of  the anticipated  budget  for a peace-keeping  operation  to enable  it to be 
deployed  speedily  and efficiently.  We would  also  recommend  that the 
Secretary-General  consider  further  structural  changes  in the Secretariat as a 
A/47/PV.15 
17 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
means of improving the administration of peace-keeping operations, including 
the relocation of the Field Operations Division into the Department of 
Peace-keeping Operations. 
The third level of United Nations involvement in peace and security, and 
the most basic and important of all, is the prevention of conflict.  We in the 
international community should be working hardest through the United Nations 
to create conditions that minimize insecurity and threats to peace, and which 
make it possible for specific high-risk situations to be addressed before they 
get to the point of requiring either peace-keeping or, worse still, coercive 
peace-enforcement responses. 
The effective prevention of conflict and risk minimization involve three 
quite distinct kinds of activity.  In the first place, it involves addressing 
a variety of non-military threats to security; secondly, addressing the 
military risk to security posed by uncontrolled arms build-ups; and thirdly, 
putting in place the most effective possible preventive diplomacy and 
peacemaking arrangements to deal at an early stage with specific high-risk 
situations.  I want to concentrate my remarks on what we should be doing, in 
this General Assembly and beyond, in each of these areas in turn. 
Among the gravest of all life-threatening non-military risks are those 
posed by humanitarian disasters, especially famine.  The recurring tragedy of 
mass starvation in Africa  often made worse by accompanying military 
conflict, but not wholly explained by that conflict  underlines the need for 
the United Nations system as a whole, and the Security Council in particular, 
to strengthen its capacity to meet the problems of potential famine. 
Australia proposes the establishment of a group of senior officials from 
developed and developing countries and relevant United Nations agencies, 
A/47/PV.15 
18 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
supported by a strengthened Department of Humanitarian Affairs and by a 
comprehensive database, which would convene regularly to conduct high-level 
reviews of the global famine situation and identify emerging crisis 
situations.  Such a group would be responsible for turning pledges into 
timely, life-saving deliveries of food to people in need, and would seek to 
ensure that donor contributions were complementary, properly coordinated and 
well-targeted. That high-level review group would report regularly, with 
appropriate recommendations, to the Security Council. 
Famine is only the most extreme example of a much more widespread global 
problem.  The Secretary-General, in his address to the summit of the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries, identified our "ultimate enemy" as poverty.  He 
argued for the indivisibility of peace and prosperity, of political and 
economic security, of democracy and development, and environmental protection 
and sustainable development, making the point that unless we meet the threat 
posed by poverty, it will undermine all the advances we make elsewhere.  We 
need to have this firmly in mind as we act for the rest of this decade and 
beyond to meet non-military threats to peace and security. 
Two issues in particular will have a crucial influence on our ability to 
prevail over these threats.  One is the retreat to protectionism, which could 
well result from a failure to reach agreement in the Uruguay Round, which will 
do untold damage to many economies around the world, particularly those of the 
poorest nations, which would effectively be excluded from the benefits of an 
expansion in world trade.  We cannot let pass the opportunity, provided by 
this round of negotiations, to further liberalize world trade and establish 
equitable disciplines for the new components of world trade.  The recent 
summit of the Non-Aligned Movement illustrated beyond a doubt that this is a 
view shared equally by developed and developing countries. 
A/47/PV.15 
19 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
The other important need in this context is for prompt and effective 
follow-up to the outcomes of the United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development, and in particular the creation of an effective Commission on 
Sustainable Development.  We cannot waste now the opportunity offered to us at 
Rio to make a serious attack on the elimination of global poverty, based on 
the principles of sustainable development.  Ignoring these will produce, at 
best, only short-term solutions which will have little impact on our ability 
to secure the future of this planet.  This places a particular onus on us at 
this session.  Our decisions and actions will have a crucial bearing on how 
the concerns identified at Rio are taken forward. 
Natural disasters, acute poverty, famine and environmental degradation 
are all, along with war itself, major contributors to another great 
humanitarian problem  and by extension security problem  with which the 
international system is barely coping:  the problem of unregulated population 
flows.  Much important relief and rehabilitation work continues to be done for 
refugees and displaced persons by the relevant agencies, in particular the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and some useful attention has 
been recently given to the problem by the General Assembly.  But crises 
continue to escalate, and there are still problems evident in the coordination 
of responses between operating and supervising bodies.  Those problems have to 
be addressed as a matter of urgency, and one obvious way to do so is, again, 
to strengthen the capacity of the new Department of Humanitarian Affairs. 
There is at least one other non-military threat to peace and security 
that Australia hopes will get increased attention from this General Assembly, 
and that is the failure of Governments to observe the fundamental standards of 
A/47/PV.15 
20 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration and the more detailed 
Covenants, to which so many of us have subscribed. 
The Secretary-General in his report "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277) very 
properly emphasizes in this context the question of the rights of minorities. 
It is understandable that, freed from the iron restraints of totalitarian 
regimes, some ethnic and linguistic groups have sought  and no doubt will 
continue to seek - to establish their own political entities.  As has been all 
too graphically demonstrated in the States of former Yugoslavia, Iraq and 
elsewhere, there is no easy answer to these aspirations, particularly when 
self-determination would in such cases be synonymous with fragmentation and 
itself be a source of threat to international peace and security.  War, 
particularly civil war, also engenders many of the greatest abuses of human 
rights. 
The bulk of such aspirations to self-determination might, in fact, be met 
by stricter observance of human rights and guarantees of the rights of all 
minorities  ethnic, religious, linguistic or social  within democratic 
frameworks.  The General Assembly will have before it at this session a draft 
declaration on the rights of minorities, endorsed earlier this year by the 
Commission on Human Rights.  And the launch, later this session, of the 
International Year of the World's Indigenous People  to which Australia is 
very strongly committed  will be a further indication of our concern in this 
regard. 
A/47/PV.15 
21 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
Breaches  of universal  human  rights  standards  remain, unhappily, all  too 
common.  In a country  such as Burma 
or Myanmar  - the security of  the  State 
is based on  a denial  of  fundamental  human  rights  and  the application  of 
democratic  processes.  In South Africa, the promise  of a peaceful, negotiated 
transition to majority  rule  continues  to be put at risk by  recurring  violence 
of appalling  intensity,  itself  an all too obvious  legacy of  the  apartheid 
system. 
These  and too many other  examples  that could be mentioned  show the 
dimensions of  the problem  still  ahead of us.  They  confirm  the  importance  of 
next year's  World  Conference  on Human Rights  in Vienna, particularly  for 
those Governments  needing  further  encouragement  to adopt human  rights 
policies  - founded,  I emphasize, not on  so-called Western values, but  on 
internationally  accepted,  universal  standards  of practice.  Discussion  at this 
session should play  an important  role  in developing  a consensus  approach to 
the Conference.  At the very  least, I hope  it will  resolve  the  outstanding 
question of the  agenda, which was  left undecided  at the  recent  preparatory 
meeting in Geneva. 
The General Assembly  at this  session might  also usefully  consider  some 
other steps  to consolidate  respect  for human  rights.  There  is, for  instance, 
a growing call by  the  international  community  for a mechanism  to try 
individuals  for breaches  of  international  humanitarian  law and other 
international  crimes.  Australia  supports  consideration being given  to  an 
international  criminal  jurisdiction  to deal with  such offences, and  considers 
that the  International  Law Commission  should  continue  its  important work  on 
this topic, specifically  by drafting  a statute  for  an international  criminal 
court. 
A/47/PV.15 
22 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
The  end of  the cold war  notwithstanding,  a major preventive  effort by the 
international  community  is still necessary  in  relation  to the military threat 
to security posed by  continuing  arms build-ups.  The  climate  for  such an 
effort  is certainly now encouraging.  International  endeavours  in this field 
are  finally producing  results.  After  over  20 years, agreement has  finally 
been  reached  on a chemical weapons  Convention  text.  It  is a historic 
achievement, and one  for which Australia has worked particularly  hard. 
Unanimous  endorsement  of this Convention, with  a recommendation  for its 
universal  signature  and  ratification, would be one of  the major  outcomes of 
this  forty-seventh  session of the General  Assembly. 
We  should  also build  on the success we have had  in concluding  the 
chemical-weapons  Convention  to reinvigorate  our efforts  to reach  agreement on 
other  elements  of  the multilateral  disarmament  agenda.  The benefits to 
mankind of  the end of  the cold war will be quickly  lost unless progress, which 
is being made  in bilateral  arms control  and disarmament  negotiations between 
the United  States  and the  former Soviet Union,  is carried  into the 
multilateral  arms control process. 
We must  redouble our efforts  to achieve  a world  free  from  nuclear 
weapons, and the threat of nuclear war.  We must work  harder  to obtain 
universal membership  of  the Treaty  on the Non-Proliferation  of Nuclear Weapons 
and ensure  its  indefinite  extension unamended  in  1995.  We  should also 
continue  the progress  that has been made  since  the Gulf War  to strengthen the 
nuclear  safeguards  system  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA) and 
tighten  export  controls  on nuclear  and nuclear-related  dual-use  items.  We 
should build  on the moratorium  on nuclear  testing  advanced  by Russia and 
France.  And  I urge Member  States  to support  once  again  the draft  resolution 
A/47/PV.15 
23 
(Mr. Evans.  Australia) 
that Australia will  co-sponsor  at this  session on the comprehensive  test-ban 
treaty. 
Increased  transparency  in military  activities  should  continue  to be  a key 
objective  for  all Members  of  the General Assembly.  I regard  the United 
Nations Register  of Conventional  Arms Transfers, established  by  the 
forty-sixth  session of  the General Assembly,  as an  important  step  in this 
process.  Australia welcomes  the Secretary-General's  report on the  operation 
of the Register  and  supports  its  adoption. 
At the  recent  summit of non-aligned  countries  in Jakarta,  leaders 
expressed  their  deep  concern over  the negative  impact of global  military 
expenditure, and their  support  for  the attainment of  security  at lower  levels 
of armaments.  We must  all work  to make good  these pledges, thereby  releasing 
sorely needed  funds  to help  free  the peoples  of  the world  from want, as well 
as from the fear of war  and destruction. 
Pursuing  an effective  arms  control  agenda and addressing  a variety  of 
non-military  threats  to security  are all  important ways of  creating  a general 
environment  in which  risks to security  are minimized.  So too are  the 
peace-building  strategies  described  in the Secretary-General's  report, many of 
which are as much  applicable  to pre-conflict  as  to post-conflict  situations. 
But the tools with  the  cutting  edges  in specific  situations  of  conflict 
prevention and  avoidance  of  conflict  escalation  are preventive  diplomancy  and 
peace-making. 
In "An Agenda  for Peace", the  Secretary-General  emphasized  the  importance 
of preventive  diplomacy  as a cost-effective  means  of  avoiding  the human  and 
material costs of  conflict  and the burdens  involved  in using  armed  force  to 
resolve conflicts.  Indeed,  if we  examine  the worst  conflicts  over  the  last 12 
A/47/PV.15 
24 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
months  in the former Yugoslavia, Somalia and Afghanistan  we could 
plausibly argue that, at least in the first two cases, more attention to 
preventive diplomacy may have avoided the catastrophes that befell those 
nations and peoples.  Australia considers, therefore, that the challenge 
before the United Nations in the coming year will be to establish more 
effective processes for converting the promise of preventive diplomacy in all 
its aspects into reality. 
Effective preventive diplomacy cannot be ad hoc or peripheral to the 
other activities of the United Nations.  What is reguired is a strengthened 
capacity within the United Nations to encourage and assist parties to disputes 
to resolve their differences peacefully.  The crucial elements in making 
preventive diplomacy work are timing, adequate resources and the willingness 
of Member States to invest the United Nations with the authority to use all 
the means available for its effective implementation. 
In practice, the trigger for United Nations action, and the threshold for 
defining a situation as a threat to international peace and security, has 
tended to be the outbreak of armed hostilities.  The earliest possible 
attention to potentially significant disputes is crucial if they are to be 
addressed before the parties have become committed and entrapped by their own 
rhetoric and actions. 
This in turn calls for the formation of a permanent unit within  the 
Secretariat with an enhanced capacity to gather, receive and analyse not only 
basic facts, but'also information about the concerns and interests of the 
parties to a dispute, in order better to prepare recommendations on possible 
action.  This requires a more systematic approach to information-gathering and 
analysis, for which a professionally dedicated support unit in the Secretariat 
is essential. 
A/47/PV.15 
25 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
This will  need  in turn  a sophisticated  level of expertise  and  skill  in 
the form of  a nucleus  of  foreign  affairs  specialists  and policy  analysts 
experienced  and  knowledgeable  in conflict  resolution, with  the  skills  that  are 
necessary  to encourage  parties  to a dispute  to improve  communication, minimize 
inflammation, define  issues  and create  innovative  and  imaginative ways  of 
reconciling their  conflicting  interests.  Regular  and  routine  field  visits 
should allow an improved  capacity  for  fact-finding, early-warning  information 
gathering  and the  opportunity  quietly  to provide good  offices.  Staff  should 
have the capacity  to develop  in-depth  knowledge  of emerging  disputes  and  to 
gain the confidence  of  all parties  at an early  stage.  An evaluation  mechanism 
should be developed  to collect, analyse  and  retain experience  from  such 
activities that  could  prove  useful  in other  similar  situations. 
I therefore  applaud  the decisions Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  has  so far 
taken to create geographically  based divisions within  the Department  of 
Political Affairs, whose  tasks will  include  the collection of  information  on 
various regions  and  the early  identification  and analysis  of  possible 
conflicts, and  I do urge  all Members  to support  the Secretary-General  in 
further efforts  to establish  a professional  and effective mechanism  for 
preventive diplomacy. 
There  is also  scope, in encouraging  greater  use of preventive  diplomacy, 
for more extensive  training  in the principles  underpinning  the concept.  It is 
good to hear, in this  context, that the United  Nations  Institute  for  Training 
and Research  (UNITAR) is planning  to  launch a new  fellowship  programme  in 
preventive diplomacy  in 1993.  I think  it will be  important  for  relevant 
United Nations  Secretariat  staff  and diplomats  and officials  from  Member 
States to participate  in this  fellowship programme.  I am pleased  to  announce 
today that Australia will  contribute US$  50,000  to UNITAR  to  assist with  the 
A/47/PV.15 
25(a-z) 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
costs  of  the  first  year  of  the  fellowship.  I would  urge  that  other  Member 
States  also  consider  a contribution,  and participation  by  their  officials. 
A significant  challenge  to an enhanced  Secretariat  role  in preventive 
diplomacy will, of  course, be  the deep  reluctance  of many  States  to accept any 
suggestion  that  a contentious  bilateral  issue  be  internationalized.  While 
there will  no doubt  continue  to be caution  about  too early  resort  to Articles 
35 and  99 
which  enable Member  States  and  the  Secretary-General, 
respectively,  to bring  disputes  to the Security  Council 
there  should not be 
the  same degree of  reluctance  to have  regard  to Article  33, which  requires 
parties  to a dispute  to first  seek  a solution by negotiation,  mediation or the 
like. 
A/47/PV.15 
26 
(Mr. Evans.  Australia) 
What  has been  lacking hitherto  is any  real  institutional  capacity  within 
the United  Nations  system  to  respond  to  such approaches  on other  than  a wholly 
ad hoc basis.  The building  of  such a capacity  for quiet  diplomacy  in the way 
I have been describing would  be  a major  step  forward,  and help over  time  to 
increase  the  confidence  of Members  in other more  formal United  Nations 
processes. 
I have  today  sought  to give  some  substance, not  just  rhetorical  support, 
to the proposition  that  the  changed  conditions  of  the post-cold-war  world  call 
for new responses  from  the United  Nations.  The  Secretary-  General  has  shown 
us some new directions  in his  "Agenda  for Peace".  What  is needed  now is 
action. 
In nearly  all  cases, no major  new  international  machinery  is called  for 
or necessary,  because  the machinery  is already  there  in the Charter 
rusty, 
in some cases, but  still  serviceable.  What  is needed, however,  in virtually 
every case,  is the  lubrication  of  adequate  financing  and  restructuring  within 
the United Nations  system  to meet  the  increasing  demands  being made  on  it. 
One of the  really  fundamental  tasks we  need  to move  forward  at this  session  is 
continuation of  the process,  accordingly,  of United Nations  reform. 
There  is no  single,  or  simple,  enemy  to peace  in the  contemporary 
world.  The  appalling  situation  in Somalia,  and  the  looming  crises  in 
Mozambique  and  the Sudan,  are demonstrations 
if any  are  still  needed  - that 
problems do not  come  in neatly  defined packages.  The  Somalian  situation 
involves, simultaneously,  humanitarian  assistance, peace-keeping  and  political 
negotiation, with no one  of  these  elements  being  capable  of delivery  in 
isolation.  The United  Nations  is now organizing  itself  in Somalia  to  deliver 
these elements  in  an  integrated  way,  although  it has been  a difficult  and 
Protracted process  to get  to this point.  The  task  for  the United  Nations  in 
A/47/PV.15 
27 
(Mr. Evans. Australia) 
the future is to learn from this experience and to devote the necessary 
resources to achieving the kind of cooperation between humanitarian and 
political strategies that is going to be increasingly necessary in the future 
if durable solutions are to be found to many real world problems. 
More and more attention is going to focus, as indeed it has already 
focused in this general debate, on the role and representativeness of the 
Security Council itself.  As President Soeharto said last week, speaking in 
this respect on behalf of the whole non-aligned Movement, the post-cold war 
world is not the world as it was after the Second World War.  Our guiding 
light should by all means continue to be the present terms of the Charter, but 
it should be within our collective capacity to work out the changes in the 
composition and methods of decision of the Security Council that will ensure 
that it can both fulfil its duty and command overwhelming consensus for its 
decisions in the years ahead. 
In many respects the task ahead of us, and ahead of the United Naions, 
is daunting.  It is clear that we are part of an evolutionary process, with 
both the world and the United Nations adjusting to new demands.  We must draw 
strength from the success achieved in the last 12 months, and from the 
progress we have made in improving global co-operation. 
But our success has not been uniform:  we were not able to respond 
adequately to some key challenges.  We must not ever lose sight of the goal 
ahead of us: a more stable and secure world, devoid of abject poverty, with 
all peoples able to enjoy basic rights and freedoms.  And we must never avoid 
the responsibility we all have to achieve those goals. 
A/47/PV.15 
28 
ADDRESS BY MR. ALEKSANDER MEKSI, CHAIRMAN OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF 
THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will now hear an address by the 
Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania. 
Mr. Aleksander Meksi. Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the 
Republic of Albania, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The PRESIDENT:  I have great pleasure in welcoming the Chairman of 
the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, Mr. Aleksander Meksi, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly. 
Mr. Meksi (Albania) (interpretation from French):  It is an honour 
and a particular pleasure for me, on behalf of the Albanian delegation and the 
Albanian people, to extend my heartfelt congratulations to you, Sir, upon your 
election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. 
It is a tribute to your personal accomplishments, an honour to your country, 
and an expression of the qualitatively new role that countries in transition 
are playing in the international arena.  I believe that the current session, 
under your presidency, will successfully attain its goals, which are the goals 
of the international community at large.  I should like to assure you of the 
support of the Albanian delegation in the Assembly's work during this session. 
I take this opportunity to convey my thanks and express my highest 
consideration to your predecessor, Mr. Samir S. Shihabi, for the admirable way 
in which he presided over the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session. 
Allow me also to extend my greetings to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his commendable role at the head 
of the world Organization, for his contribution to the strengthening of the 
spirit of cooperation, and especially for his personal contribution to solving 
various problems in different hotbeds of tension in the world of today. 
A/47/PV.15 
29 
(Mr. Meksi. Albania) 
My special greetings go also to the 20 newly admitted Members of the 
Organization, which are going to play their part in upholding the common 
values of the new society that is taking shape.  Their accession to membership 
of this world body has enriched the universal character of the United 
Nations.  The Republic of Albania has strongly supported their membership, 
believing that it will further promote the peace process and strengthen the 
democratic way of development. 
Since the last session of the General Assembly we have witnessed a 
number of significant events which followed the cold war and which will have 
an effect on the future of mankind.  The fundamental values of the 
post-cold-war era are being established.  Confrontation between the blocs, 
and the attendant political tension, has been supplanted by the universal 
values of democracy and equality in international relations, which are 
interdependent in terms of the economic and social development and security of 
every country.  This has been confirmed.  Today, the aspirations of the 
peoples towards self-determination and their striving to establish their 
national identity, which had been marred under communism, as well as their 
thirst for democracy and equality, have become the driving forces of the 
situations we are faced with today.  Nationalism is not a product of 
democracy.  Nationalism is the affirmation of national identity which, only 
afterwards, will work towards integration. 
The blows dealt by the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to the 
paralytic system of some years ago are today translating euphoria into onerous 
efforts to overcome a very difficult period of trial and transition.  The year 
that has passed has strengthened the tendency towards political union and has 
witnessed the victory of the basic principles of respect for human rights, 
democracy, the rule of law and the move towards the market economy system. 
A/47/PV.15 
30 
(Mr. Meksi. Albania) 
The  contribution  of  the United Nations  and  in particular  of  the  Security 
Council to these  ends  since  the  last  session of  the General Assembly has  been 
remarkable.  In seeking  to add  a human dimension  to the delicate balances  to 
be struck, the United  Nations  is shouldering historic  responsibilities.  The 
political vector  of  its activities  is aimed precisely  at promoting  those 
principles  and  thus  at creating  a common political psychology  of  thought  and 
action.  Unity  in diversity 
that  is, the  realization  of one's  national 
interests  in the overall  equation of world  development 
is undoubtedly  the 
foundation  and the  raison d'etre  of  the Organization;  it is the very 
embodiment of  the predominance  of peaceful  reasoning over passionate  action 
and the preservation  of  the very  delicate  balance  between  the two. 
The  resolutions  of  the Security Council, especially  the one  imposing 
sanctions  against  Serbia and Montenegro; the Middle  East peace  talks that are 
increasing  the chances  of  finding  a solution; the talks on resolving  the 
conflict between the  communities  in Cyprus, as well  as other  activities, all 
reaffirm the universality  of the Organization  and  the overall  impact of  its 
unique and  inalienable  role, which  is the universal yardstick  in measuring 
compliance with  implementation  of the principles  of  international  law and 
tacit norms of world  civilization. 
A/47/PV.15 
31 
(Mr. Meksi. Albania) 
In this context, Albania welcomes the recent contribution of the 
Secretary-General in the form of his report entitled "An Agenda for Peace" as 
a comprehensive approach to the challenges of the world of today and of the 
Organization. 
This session of the General Assembly gives Albania the opportunity to 
proclaim from this rostrum the remarkable victory scored by the democratic 
anti-communist forces in my country in the general parliamentary elections of 
22 May 1992 and in the local elections of 26 July.  Those events finally 
determined the course upon which Albania has embarked and which it is 
persistently pursuing.  Those events laid the foundations, in Albania, of the 
rule of law which is becoming institutionalized.  They marked the beginning of 
our first epoch of non-communist, democratic governments, the first of which 
is implementing a very profound reform as the only course towards the overall 
transformation and development of the political, economic, social and other 
fields, at the level of the individual and of society as a whole. 
My Government's main goal is to establish the legal framework needed to 
facilitate that reform in order to harmonize the integration of the Albanian 
economy with the world economy, in order to eradicate the disastrous 
consequences of isolation and to overcome the economic collapse which the 
Government inherited from many years of totalitarianism. 
That, however, is not all the Government inherited.  It also inherited 
active human resources inclined to change, human beings full of potential who 
are endeavouring to follow the models of the new system, people who, for no 
fault of their own, lack experience.  These are the people who are working to 
shape the new Albanian society, and to do so they have turned to international 
political life to find remedies against impatience.  In this context, the 
A/47/PV.15 
32 
(Mr. Meksi. Albania) 
involvement  of various United Nations  agencies  such  as the United  Nations 
Development  Programme  (UNDP),  the World Health Organization  (WHO),  the United 
Nations Children's  Fund  (UNICEF),  the World Bank  and  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  already  active  in the country,  is a valuable  contribution 
to democracy  in Albania.  I would  single out  in particular  the  remarkable 
contribution of  the  IMF  in working  out the programme of economic  reform  that 
is being  implemented. 
Albania  is  faced with  a very  challenging  economic  crisis  resulting  from 
the total  failure  of  the  centralized  economy which  it inherited  and  from  the 
inevitable  difficulties  of  transition  itself.  At present, Albania  is  living 
on the emergency humanitarian  aid offered by  the European Community  and  the 
Italian Government on the one hand, and on the modest  contribution of  the 
growing private  sector  on the other.  The Albanian economy,  in this  initial 
phase of  recovery, badly  needs  financial  support, substantial  investments  and 
raw materials  to  invigorate  industry  and employ  the  large work  force, one  of 
the youngest  in Europe.  Everything  cannot of course be done overnight; hence 
the difficulties  of  transition.  Understanding,  support  and  assistance  on  the 
part of the  international  community  are  the  sole guarantees  of  improvement  of 
the situation  in Albania  and of  the  success  of  the  reform. 
In that process, Albania  is trying  to develop  its economy  against  a 
background of environmental  safety.  We  are  fully aware of  the possible 
consequences of neglect, and  equally  aware of what we have  inherited  as a 
result of underdevelopment  in this  regard.  We  look  forward  to benefiting  from 
the relevant experience which  the United Nations  has  to offer.  In  this 
context, we welcome  the  outcome  of  the United  Nations  Conference  on 
Environment and Development  held  earlier  this year  in Rio. 
A/47/PV.15 
33 
(Mr. Meksi. Albania) 
Under those conditions, Albanian foreign policy has also acquired a new 
dimension and orientation.  Concrete proof of its new orientation is the 
establishment of diplomatic relations with a number of countries such as 
Estonia, Lithuania, Saudi Arabia, Slovenia, Croatia, the United Arab Emirates, 
Paraguay and Qatar; the active participation of Albanian delegations in 
various activities such as the Black Sea initiative and the Conference on 
Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).  In the course of this year, the 
Republic of Albania has joined the International Fund for Agricultural 
Development and has adhered to the 1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol on 
the status of refugees. 
The situation in my country is unfolding against a very tense and 
perilous background in the Balkans.  In some parts of the region, 
unfortunately, the practices being carried out go against the general 
political orientation and acceptable norms of behaviour of a civilized 
society.  All-out war has been going on in the former Yugoslavia for more than 
a year now.  The persistent efforts of the international community have been 
stubbornly flouted by malicious proponents of Serbian nationalism in its 
unprecedented affront to civilization and the norms of common democratic 
life.  For more than a year now, a number of international organizations have 
been directly seized of that crisis, which is ravaging more human lives by the 
day.  The United Nations, the CSCE and the European Community, among others, 
have been forced to consider stern measures to counter that uncivilized 
challenge.  The war, however, is still going on. 
Albania, a neighbouring country in that region, is suffering the 
consequences of regional insecurity.  Moreover, my country, situated as it is 
beside that region, is living under the constant threat and real danger of a 
A/47/PV.15 
34 
(Mr. Meksi.  Albania) 
spill-over  of the  conflict  into Kosovo.  That  threat  is even greater  if we 
take into account  the  continuing  repression  of  the third group  of peoples  of 
the former Yugoslavia, the  anti-constitutional  amendments  there, the  laws 
governing special  circumstances, and the complete  and  total paralysis  of 
institutional  life.  The danger becomes  alarming  if we  take  into  account  the 
cruel refusal by  the Belgrade  authorities  to allow the exercise  of 
institutional power  by  the Albanians  of Kosovo, who  are peacefully  and 
democratically  organized,  in conformity with all the norms of  international 
law. 
Kosovo  is one of the most delicate  issues of the Yugoslav  crisis.  The 
conflict there  is a highly political  one, a conflict deriving  from  the 
impossibility of  coexistence with  the occupier.  It is a conflict between  the 
peaceful exercise  of  the principle  of  self-determination  and  blatant 
hegemonistic  refusal  to allow that exercise.  Consequently,  the  situation 
remains explosive.  That  is also  the conclusion of  a number  of missions of  the 
European Community  and the CSCE which have visited Kosovo.  The  international 
community, fully  aware  and desirous of  avoiding violence, is seized of  the 
situation. 
The Albanian delegation, however, cannot but notice that  preventive 
diplomacy has  not  as yet yielded  the desired  results.  The  legitimate  leaders 
of Kosovo, on their part, although  determined  to pursue  the  road of 
unconditional political  dialogue  to which  the CSCE Helsinki  summit gave  its 
blessing, and which was  refused by  the authorities  in Belgrade, are  finding  it 
more and more difficult  to keep  the agitation of  their people under  control. 
The sacred principles  of  the United Nations Charter, the Helsinki  Final 
Act and other  fundamental  documents  of world political  life  apply equally  to 
the Albanian people  of Kosovo.  Principles  cannot be  selectively  applicable. 
A/47/PV.15 
35 
(Mr. Meksi. Albania) 
The Albanian side has, for a long time now, voiced its concern and called on 
the international community to concert its efforts towards finding a just and 
lasting solution that would be acceptable to the parties involved. 
The Yugoslav crisis is a complex one.  As such, it has been considered by 
a number of international bodies.  The London Conference, the most recent 
initiative, has set itself the task of finding an overall solution.  Albania 
appreciates and endorses the praiseworthy contribution rendered by the United 
Nations in trying to solve the crisis over the last year, especially now, as 
Co-Chairman of that Conference, which we believe will be able to ensure the 
political commitment of all parties. 
Albania is participating in that Conference in order to make its 
contribution to its proceedings, particularly as regards the question of 
Kosovo.  And in those endeavours, it will continue to advocate the findinq of 
an acceptable solution.  In our view, the Yugoslav crisis is the crisis of 
peoples who cannot live under Serbian hegemony any longer; it is not a 
constitutional crisis or a crisis among republics only.  Accordingly, a 
solution will entail broader direct participation.  It will entail the full 
participation of the legitimately mandated representatives of Kosovo when 
their future is being discussed.  It will entail international mediation. 
That is the only way to control the various factions which are seeking to 
obstruct the way to peace.  The Republic of Albania trusts that the United 
Nations, with its valuable contribution, will ensure the triumph of reason 
over passions, and will adopt the measures necessary to enforce the 
implementation of its decisions and to stand forcefully against the policy of 
fait accompli. 
A/47/PV.15 
36 
(Mr. Meksi. Albania) 
The social model to come embodies the loftiest standards of respect for 
the human being.  The new world order, based on security, understanding and 
cooperation, is the guarantee that current structures will be strengthened and 
further developed.  All of us must contribute to strengthening this edifice. 
The United Nations will continue to provide us with a framework in which 
peoples can count on good will and mutuality. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank 
the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania for the 
statement he has just made. 
Mr. Aleksander Meksi. Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Albania. 
was escorted from the rostrum. 
Mr. CHAMBAS (Ghana):  It is a great pleasure and privilege for me to 
congratulate you. Sir, in the name of the Ghana delegation, on the honour that 
the Assembly has conferred on you by electing you to preside over the affairs 
of its forty-seventh regular session.  The cordial relations that exist 
between our two countries give us added pleasure in your presidency.  We 
pledge you our support and cooperation during your tenure as President of the 
most representative organ of our United Nations. 
Permit me to express our gratitude to your predecessor, 
Mr. Samir Shihabi, for the excellence that marked his stewardship.  He tackled 
his assignment with a steadfast sense of commitment, fully charged with a deep 
awareness of the historic role that the General Assembly must continue to play 
in the expanding importance of our Organization. 
We salute the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his 
energetic leadership.  Within the short period since his assumption of office 
he has demonstrated his remarkable skills as an administrator and as an 
A/47/PV.15 
37 
(Mr. Chambas, Ghana) 
accomplished diplomat.  We renew our pledge to support him in his difficult 
and delicate task. 
My delegation would also like to take this opportunity to extend a warm 
welcome to the new Member States, whose presence among us further enhances the 
universality of our Organization.* 
It was with deep regret and sorrow that we learned of the crash of a 
Nigerian military aircraft and of a Pakistan International Airlines aircraft, 
with such loss of life.  Preliminary information indicates that among the 
163 officers reported dead in the crash of the Nigerian military aircraft were 
officers from other West African States, including Ghana.  We share in the 
grief at such a tragic loss.  Our condolences go to the bereaved families of 
these gallant men, who died in the course of service to our subregion.  We 
also wish to convey through you. Sir, to the people and Government of Pakistan 
our heartfelt condolences on their tragic bereavement. 
Once again we, the representatives of the Governments and peoples of the 
United Nations, have assembled here to combine our efforts for the promotion 
of peace and prosperity for all our peoples.  The search for peace is part of 
the eternal guest of humanity for a relationship in society that, though 
recognizing differences and conflicts of interests, strives for their 
resolution without resort to means that could destroy humanity itself.  Twice 
in recent world history this search has engulfed us in wars.  Regrettably, the 
period after the Second World War turned the quest into confrontation and 
competition marked by unrestrained and costly acquisition of deadly arsenals 
* Mr. Leal (Nicaragua), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.15 
38 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
of war on the untenable assumption that peace could be guaranteed only by the 
highest level of preparedness for war. 
This untenable policy of deterrence overshadowed the real causes of 
tension in society  factors that, in the words of the Charter, have twice 
"brought untold sorrow to mankind" and are at the root of conflicts that have 
sent our Blue Helmets to the continents of Africa, America, Asia and Europe. 
The world now stands on the ashes of the cold war, celebrating the end of 
that war.  Yet the harsh reality of our world, divided as it is between the 
rich and the poor, the strong and the weak, has not been obliterated by the 
ending of the cold war nor by the emerging new world order, the contours of 
which are far from clear.  In this uncertain new world order, we are told that 
history must resume.  Which history?  Is it the history at whose hands vast 
areas of our globe suffered so much, and from whose predatory effects we have 
yet to fully recover as nations?  Or is it the history that launched many of 
us into freedom and independence? 
Juxtaposed with the challenge of the reality of our world is a historic 
and unparalleled opportunity to construct peace, not as an alternative to war, 
but as the prerequisite for social progress and better standards of life in 
larger freedom, anchored in faith, in true human rights, and in human dignity 
and equality. 
In the grim reality of our world, which has not been wiped away by the 
end of the cold war, we would hear the anguished cries of the more than 30,000 
children who will die today, largely from preventable intestinal disorders; of 
the 2 million children who will die this year from vaccine-preventable 
illnesses; and of the 5 million to 6 million people who will die this year 
from diseases that the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) says could 
A/47/PV.15 
39-40 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
almost certainly be prevented by the development of new vaccines.  Four 
million people will die by the end of this year, their pleas and those of 
their nations for help to cure them of diarrhoeal ailments ignored.  We would 
also see the plight of the 1.3 billion human beings with no access to safe 
drinking water and the 2.3 billion people world-wide who have no access to 
sanitation services.  We would see the 135 million human beings who live in 
areas afflicted with desert conditions, particularly in Africa, where almost 
nothing grows.  We would also see that in that part of the world one out of 
every five children dies at birth.  For those who survive life expectancy 
ranges from 42 to 63.  During their short span on Earth many of these 
relatively lucky ones will be uprooted from their homes by poverty, drought 
and natural disasters, all compounded at times by rivalries that are ethnic in 
character but emanate largely from quarrels over scarce resources. 
A/47/PV.15 
41 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
These  are but  a few of  the graphic  and dehumanizing manifestations  that 
only partly  reflect  the world  reality  in which 70 per  cent of  the  world's 
income is produced  and  consumed  by  15 per  cent of the world's  population 
located  in the  industrialized  countries.  The World  Bank  forecasts  that  there 
will be no  significant  upturn  in this  lopsided  relationship  until  1995 or well 
beyond. 
And  the  international  community  is not unaware  of  the factors  that have 
conspired  to  frustrate  the efforts  of developing  countries.  Falling  commodity 
prices, rising protectionism,  huge  agricultural  subsidies, various  price 
support mechanisms  and  suffocating  debt-servicing  may now  sound  like 
repetitive platitudes  in some  ears.  But they  are the  realities  that have 
undermined  the gallant efforts  of  the developing  countries. 
In Africa overall  economic  output  continues  to  revolve  around 
3 per cent 
still  lagging behind  the population growth.  The  impact  on 
investment and growth of  the  structural  reform programmes, which many  African 
countries  continue  to undertake, remains  disappointing.  Debt  relief  through 
rescheduling has proved  to be of  little  real benefit  to African countries, 
which continue  to part with  $10 billion  a year  on debt  servicing  alone 
an 
expenditure  that  is  several  times higher  than  the expenditure  on health  and 
education put  together. 
Prospects  that  such  a dehydrating  financial  outflow would be  contained  by 
increased  aid  infusion have proved  illusory.  In its annual  report. 
Development Cooperation  1991, the Organization  for Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  (OECD) has  confirmed,  though  indirectly, the  fears of  the 
international  community  that the preoccupation with developments  in  Eastern 
Europe and the  former  Soviet Union would  aggravate  the marginalization  of 
A/47/PV.15 
42 
(Mr. Chambas, Ghana) 
Africa.  According to the OECD, not only did aid from the former Soviet Union 
and Eastern Europe to sub-Saharan Africa almost fall to zero, but also aid 
disbursements to the same area from other countries remained stagnant. 
In contrast, the OECD estimated that pledges from its members in November 
1991 to Eastern Europe amounted to $45 billion as compared with its annual 
official commitments to Africa of about $34 billion.  Furthermore, at their 
meeting in Munich in July this year, the Group of Seven industrialized 
countries endorsed a package of financial assistance worth $24 billion to the 
Russian Federation alone.  It is of little wonder, then, that the World Bank, 
in its report entitled African External Finance in the 1990s, foresees for 
sub-Saharan Africa a financial shortfall ranging from $1 billion to $7 billion 
by 1995.  It is against this discouraging backdrop that my Government supports 
not only the call for the write-off of debts by official creditors and 
commercial banks, as well as by multilateral institutions, but also the 
convening of the proposed international conference on the financing of 
development, which assumes a new urgency in the face of these facts. 
The end of the cold war has not brought peace to the world either.  It is 
true that the danger of nuclear holocaust has now receded into a very remote 
possibility.  But the world has not become any safer.  In its "Jakarta 
Message:  A Call for Collective Action and the Democratization of 
International Relations", the Non-Aligned Movement has aptly observed 
"Simmering disputes, violent conflicts, aggression and foreign 
occupation,-interference in the internal affairs of States, policies of 
hegemony and domination, ethnic strife, religious intolerance, new forms 
of racism and narrowly conceived nationalism are major and dangerous 
obstacles to harmonious coexistence among States and peoples and have 
even led to the disintegration of States and societies". 
A/47/PV.15 
43 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
The disintegration and descent of Yugoslavia into a region of 
instability, war, strife and misery is a source of concern to the people and 
the Government of Ghana.  Unrestrained nationalism that is projected as an 
expression of the much-cherished principle of self-determination and the use 
of force for the homogenization of populations are as unacceptable and as 
warped as they are incapable of promoting peace in an ever-increasingly 
interdependent world.  Underlying such policies is the obnoxious element of 
racial intolerance, which inexorably leads to racism and racial 
discrimination.  Ethnic homogeneity cannot, and should not, be a prerequisite 
for coexistence in a civic society.  Fundamental human rights, human dignity 
and eguality can be meaningful for man only in a society that respects the 
worth of the human person, irrespective of colour, race, ethnic origin, creed 
or sex.  We condemn the notion of "ethnic cleansing" in the strongest terms 
possible, just as the world has rejected and condemned every thought and 
manifestation of racial superiority. 
In our search for a new world order that emphasizes cooperation rather 
than confrontation as the means to international peace and security, we have 
to monitor developments carefully, if only to draw attention to threats to 
peace.  We are, therefore, disturbed by the increasing dangers to peace caused 
by intolerance, xenophobia, racial and ethnic tensions elsewhere in Europe. 
The raising of symbols reminiscent of an ignominious chapter of history, the 
baiting of religious minorities, including the desecration of their tombs and 
sacred places, as well as racial attacks, constitute inherent threats to 
peace.  While these manifestations may reflect the frustrations of those who 
stand on the fringes of their societies  marginalized, unemployed and 
neglected  the manifestations are none the less unacceptable.  We therefore 
A/47/PV.15 
44-45 
(Mr. Chambas, Ghana) 
call upon our Organization and individual Member States to redouble efforts in 
promoting peaceful coexistence through respect for each other's race, colour, 
ethnicity, religion and sex.  My Government is ready to play its full part in 
this renewed endeavour. 
While my Government does recognize the complexity of the Middle East 
crisis, we, nevertheless, regret that the hopes raised by the commendable 
initiative launched last year by the United States for a lasting peace in the 
subregion still remain only hopes.  We urge all parties to be persistent and 
cooperative in the search for peace.  We also urge the United Nations to be 
fully involved in the process so as to assure the speedy realization by the 
Palestinian people of the full restoration of their rights and the attainment 
of their self-determination in accordance with the relevant United Nations 
resolutions. 
The full restoration of Kuwaiti sovereignty and territorial integrity was 
a reaffirmation of basic principles of inter-State relations.  The time has 
now come to bury the hatchet and enter a new era of genuine peace and 
reconciliation.  In that regard, it is our cherished hope that all States will 
demonstrate respect for the principles of non-aggression, mutual respect and 
non-interference in the internal affairs of others.  Outstanding issues, such 
as the question of Kuwaiti prisoners of war, must now be promptly resolved to 
open the way for Islamic brotherhood, fraternal cooperation and solidarity. 
A/47/PV.15 
46 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
Our Organization needs to remind itself that even though the conflict in 
Liberia has been stopped from exploding into a major subregional crisis, it is 
far from over.  Now that the United Nations, particularly the Security 
Council, has been able to define a role for itself in the Yugoslav situation, 
it is imperative that our Organization assume its responsibilities in Liberia. 
The developing countries of the subregion which have so far borne the weight 
of the ECOWAS (Economic Commission of West African States) Cease-fire 
Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) deserve the recognition, the encouragement, and the 
material and financial support of our Organization.  The active involvement of 
the United Nations is now required to arrest the deteriorating situation, 
brought about largely by the intransigence of one faction. 
In our view, the involvement of the United Nations would, furthermore, 
not only accelerate the peace process, but also facilitate the restoration of 
peace and security in the entire subregion, enabling its countries to focus 
their full attention on their economic and social development. 
The pervasive breakdown of law and order in Somalia which is hampering 
the peace process and relief efforts also deserves the attention of our 
Organization.  The people and Government of Ghana have heaved a sigh of deep 
relief that at long last the Security Council has shown appreciation of the 
serious threat that the Somalia situation poses to the political and economic 
stability of the subregion and conseguently to international peace and 
security.  The Security Council's handling of the Yugoslav situation should 
encourage it to continue, in a more steadfast manner, its efforts in the 
search for peace in Somalia.  We also call upon the Somali factions currently 
engaged in senseless fratricide to desist from placing obstacles in the path 
of United Nations agencies and non-governmental organizations in their efforts 
to provide humanitarian assistance to the millions of starving Somali people. 
A/47/PV.15 
47 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
We all continue to look on as the Government of Sudan seeks a military 
solution to an essentially political problem in the southern part of the 
country, thereby resulting in gross abuses of human rights, untold suffering 
of the people and an unbearable refugee problem for neighbouring States.  The 
humanitarian dimension of this problem now calls for United Nations action. 
Developments during the year have reminded all of us that determined 
efforts would be required to complete the total political emancipation of the 
continent of Africa.  We regret the postponement of the referendum which was 
to have been held in Western Sahara under United Nations supervision to 
complete its decolonization.  We urge the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations, in cooperation with the Secretary-General of the Organization of 
African Unity (OAU), to settle all questions of voter eligibility, delays in 
the exchange of prisoners and the repatriation of bona fide Saharawis in order 
to facilitate the task of the United Nations Mission for the Organization of a 
Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO).  The inability of the parties to 
adhere to the implementation of agreements reached raises questions as to 
their commitment to the peace process.  We take this opportunity to appeal to 
all parties concerned to cooperate fully with the United Nations and the OAU 
to bring this chapter of colonial struggle to a close. 
In South Africa, the international community had hoped that the 
Convention for a Democratic South Africa would contribute to the introduction 
of "profound and irreversible changes".  In anticipation of the establishment 
of an interim government and firm processes leading to a democratically 
elected constituent assembly to draw up a constitution for a united, 
non-racial and democratic South Africa, the General Assembly at its 
forty-sixth session adopted a series of measures to encourage the racist 
A/47/PV.15 
48 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
regime in its efforts to dismantle apartheid.  Recent developments would seem 
to confirm the view that De Klerk's Government is, on the contrary, pursuing a 
double agenda in order to perpetuate the obnoxious system of apartheid. 
Whilst posturing and stating its willingness to negotiate, it seeks ways and 
means to entrench white supremacy.  The Boipatong and Ciskei massacres are 
disingenuous provocations of the racist regime designed to derail the process 
towards the establishment of an interim government which would work out a new 
constitutional framework.  The white minority regime and its cohorts stand 
accused of violence.  They instigate and perpetuate violence against unarmed 
peaceful protesters in an attempt to hold on to a moribund and unjust system 
and to prevent the march towards a united, democratic, non-racial South Africa. 
It is becoming clear that the international community relaxed its 
pressure on the racist regime far too early and without due regard for the 
warnings of the democratic forces of that country.  It should, however, be 
made clear to the South African Government that the programmed-management 
approach to the lifting of sanctions is intended as a reaction to measures it 
would take for the total elimination of apartheid.  It should be stressed, in 
this regard, that even the people-to-people sanctions would be re-imposed if 
the Government does not abandon its stalling of the peace process. 
History is littered with instances of situations in which desperation has 
driven people to actions which have spilled over their narrow confines to pose 
challenges and threats to others.  Many peoples have waged heroic struggles to 
overthrow the forces of tyranny and exploitation.  In spite of the belief that 
the Second World War was fought to end the threat to international peace and 
A/47/PV.15 
49 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
security that a particularly racist ideology posed, the greater threat to the 
common peace remains an international order that seems bent on denying many of 
us our fair share of the very fruits of our labour in a truly free and 
equitable market-place. 
The world cannot be seen to be encouraging a policy founded on the 
dangerous notion that it is only through military might that a sovereign State 
can gain respect and acceptability in the international economic system 
already dominated by a few. 
Popular demands for changes in the world order that manifest themselves 
as conflicts the world over cannot be contained by the dispatch of United 
Nations peace-keeping forces alone.  The people and Government of Ghana salute 
the Member States of the United Nations, our distinguished Secretary-General 
and his dedicated staff, and all who have been associated with the sterling 
successes achieved so far.  We share in their pride.  But we need to be 
reminded often of the self-evident truth that the presence of United Nations 
peace-keepers does not by itself guarantee enduring peace.  The harrowing 
events in Bosnia attest to this.  The peace-keeping presence does not even 
directly contribute to the solution of the underlying problems that give rise 
to the conflict or threat to peace.  The United Nations peace-keeping role 
should be seen for what it is:  an invaluable contribution to containing a 
conflict and to the search for a lasting political solution.  An international 
order that can be secured only through military presence or intervention is 
clearly inadequate.  It is a rather sad reflection on our search for peace 
that as of the end of April 1992, close to $3 billion had been assessed on 
Member States for peace-keeping purposes alone, while the United Nations 
relatively neglected the economic and social underpinnings of most of these 
conflicts and those yet to rear their heads. 
A/47/PV.15 
50 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
The inability of the United Nations since its creation to respond 
effectively to our Charter's injunction to combine our efforts to achieve 
international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, 
social, cultural or humanitarian character deserves serious and careful review 
now that the cold war has been pronounced over. 
A/47/PV.15 
51 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
The relative inaction by the international community and within the 
United Nations itself on the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of 
Africa in the 1990s speaks eloquently of our misplaced emphasis in our efforts 
regarding the establishment of a new world order.  The opportunity presented 
by the consensus General Assembly resolution 46/151 on the final review and 
appraisal of the implementation of the United Nations Programme of Action for 
African Recovery and Development 1986-1990, in which the international 
community accepted the principle of shared responsibility and full partnership 
with Africa, must be a spur to our good intentions, if the continent of Africa 
is not to be condemned to a fate worse than that which it has been enduring 
this last decade and a half.  The unseemly wranglings, which turned into 
disappointment for many, at the summit of the United Nations Conference on 
Environment and Development (UNCED) in Rio de Janeiro over the transfer of 
financial resources and technology to the majority poor, attest to an 
insufficient appreciation on the part of many of the developed nations that in 
the final analysis world peace depends on the economic and social well-being 
of all peoples. 
The statement that the Security Council adopted at the end of its 
historic summit on 31 January 1992 represented  as the Secretary-General has 
stated in his report entitled "An Agenda for Peace:  Preventive diplomacy, 
peacemaking and peace-keeping"  an unprecedented recommitment at the highest 
political level to the purposes and principles of the Charter.  In this 
document, however, the primacy of economic relations - nay, the necessity for 
a redefinition of the new world order underpinned by economic, trade, 
technological and development issues to promote peace  sadly received little 
attention.  Preventive diplomacy cannot and should not be limited to efforts 
A/47/PV.15 
52 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
to prevent the outbreak of conflicts.  No standing army, however well-equipped 
and well-garrisoned is a bulwark against underdevelopment, poverty and natural 
disasters.  Preventive diplomacy should also, and even more significantly, be 
directed at eliminating the factors that contribute to conflicts.  In the 
context of international peace and security it should focus on the 
establishment of a just world order in which everyone has access to good 
drinking water, food, shelter, health and education. 
The first significant steps should be taken within our Organization, the 
United Nations.  The pre-eminent position of the General Assembly in the work 
of the Organization should be asserted and reconfirmed.  The Charter 
provisions, notably Articles 15 and 24(3), must be given full meaning and 
effect.  It should be emphasized that the Security Council was not conceived 
as an executive organ.  It is to facilitate decision-making in urgent 
situations of the eruption of conflicts that the Members of the Organization 
have conferred on it, under Article 24, the primary responsibility for the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 
Above all, the present composition of the Security Council, with the 
outmoded and obviously undemocratic permanent-five arrangement that reflects 
the post-Second-World-War situation and its 10 two-year rotative seats for the 
rest of the world, flies in the face of a global reality in which we are all 
expected to play our part in maintaining the peace.  The creeping tendency on 
the part of certain nations to see themselves as policy-makers and executors 
on behalf of the entire United Nations membership through their predominance 
in the Security Council does not send out welcome signals to the rest of us as 
equal partners in world affairs.  The Security Council, we submit, should be 
A/47/PV.15 
53 
(Mr. Chambas. Ghana) 
enabled to perform its functions in a more democratic manner to enhance its 
legitimacy in acting on behalf of the membership of the United Nations in 
accordance with Article 24 of the Charter. 
In this regard we welcome the decision of the Non-Aligned Movement at its 
tenth summit in Jakarta to empanel a working group on the revitalization and 
restructuring of the United Nations, and hope that the working group will make 
a positive contribution towards the democratization of the Organization. 
The people and Government of Ghana retain faith  and we wish hereby to 
reaffirm it  in the United Nations to lead the efforts of the international 
community in the establishment of a truly new order.  We believe that the 
United Nations remains the only hope of mankind for peace and prosperity. 
Together we must resist the temptation to see some Member States as more equal 
than others; to see some Member States as leaders, with all others as mere 
followers.  For it is through the efforts of all Members, large and small, 
acting in concert through our United Nations that we can craft and ensure a 
new world order that is just and equitable and reflects the diversity of 
mankind, an order in which all nations have a legitimate share and interest as 
equals.  The people and Government of Ghana rededicate themselves to this 
pursuit. 
Mr. ALARCON de QUESADA (Cuba) (interpretation from Spanish):  I wish 
to congratulate Mr. Ganev on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly at this session.  He can be sure of the cooperation of the Cuban 
delegation. 
We shall soon be commemorating the five hundreth anniversary of the clash 
between two worlds and the beginning of an era that was to transform radically 
relations between nations.  That dramatic and as yet unfinished piece of 
A/47/PV.15 
54-55 
history started in the Caribbean Sea and forever left its mark upon the fate 
Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuba) 
of the peoples of the area. 
Our deepest root, which gave us life as a nation and a place in history, 
is our rebelliousness.  For centuries the Caribbean was the victim of the 
brutal greed of all sorts of intruders, the crossroads of slave-traders and 
pirates, of traffickers and invaders; violence and cruelty were its constant 
scourges.  But it was also witness to the heroic resistance of its peoples, 
which time and again rose up, pushed by the powerful and anonymous force of 
the Caribbean winds, in their eagerness to achieve their freedom.  While the 
plundering of its resources and the iniguitous exploitation of its people led 
the Caribbean to its encounter with the rest of the world, it was the struggle 
to abolish all kinds of servitude and to have no master other than our own 
conscience, which shaped our profound and irreducible identity and allowed us 
to discover ourselves. 
A/47/PV.15 
56 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada, Cuba) 
The Assembly is meeting at a crucial moment of definition.  Today, as 
five centuries ago, we are faced with attempts to reshape the world and 
reorder relations between nations.  Today, as in the past, the idea is to 
determine whether the future will allow human solidarity to flourish or 
whether it will still be weighed down by selfishness; whether it will one day 
lead to the emancipation of the dispossessed, or whether it will for ever 
perpetuate their tragedy; whether we are on the verge of a new colonizing 
adventure, or whether, at long last, hope will begin to emerge for the poor of 
this Earth. 
In recent years humanity has been surprised by a series of developments 
which have radically changed important elements of international relations and 
have led to an avalanche of hasty interpretations and conclusions promoted by 
the unrestrained haste of the privileged and the naive optimism of many others. 
The end of the cold war, and with it the lessening of the danger of a 
nuclear holocaust, should not be used to attempt to conceal what everyone 
knows.  It is true that military confrontation between the super-Powers 
which threatened mankind with extermination  never happened, and that the 
rancorous antagonism of yesteryear was transformed through the unilateral 
incantation of a baffling kind of alchemy into complacent subordination and a 
show of fondness.  That that war never occurred is of course salutary and 
deserving of praise, but to identify with that fact the emergence of universal 
peace is an absurdity which can make sense only from the profoundly racist 
perspective of the new conquerors. 
The period which now seems to be coming to an end was for the third world 
a period of hard-fought struggles for independence and freedom.  While 
threatening with a battle which never occurred, imperialists used 
A/47/PV.15 
57 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada.  Cuba) 
all their means  and  resources  to  invade, attack,  repress  and oppress  the 
peoples of  the  South; many  of  their  sons  and daughters  fell  in  confrontations 
which had nothing  to do with  the  rivalries between  the powerful, and  they  died 
without knowing how  that antagonism  was  to be transmuted  into  a bizarre 
convergence. 
Just  as the existence  of  the cold war did not alter  the  fate of  the 
third world,  its disappearance  does not, so far, seem  to be benefiting  its 
peoples.  The previous balance  of power  that contained  the opposing blocs  and 
avoided  a direct military  conflict between them  did not prevent  the  practice 
of war, aggression  and  intervention  against  the third  world. 
We have no  reason  to  imagine  that the effects of  the present  conditions 
of unipolarity  and hegemonism  will be more  favourable  to our peoples.  On  the 
contrary, dangers  are greater  than ever  in the  face of  a triumphant ecstasy  on 
the part of  those who  are  in possession  not only of  the  largest military  power 
but also of  an insurmountable  historical  ignorance  and  the most gross  moral 
callousness. 
The  cold war  is disappearing, but the  arms  race  is not being  reduced  in 
parallel, nor  are militarism  and bellicose mentalities  being  abandoned.  If 
the danger of war  has been  reduced, why  does  the United  States  aspire  to 
continue developing  its military  superiority,  as was  recently  announced  by the 
occupant of  the White  House?  Against whom will  the empire now direct  its 
weapons? 
We hear  unending  rhetoric  about  the end of  confrontation  and  the 
beginning of  a new era of  international  cooperation, but  it seems to  exist 
only in the imagination  of  those  so gullible  as to believe  it.  If a spirit of 
international  cooperation  does  really exist  and  if the cold war has  ended, why 
A/47/PV.15 
58 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuba) 
are the military expenditures of the big Powers not being drastically reduced 
and why are the resources thus released not being channelled to the promotion 
of development in underdeveloped countries?  How can it be explained that 
now  precisely now  attempts are being made to reduce international 
cooperation for development to an even more subordinate and hypothetical role, 
further to diminish the already limited presence of the United Nations in that 
field and also to introduce unacceptable conditionalities and restrictions? 
The changes that have occurred between the countries of the North have 
no meaning for the majority of the inhabitants of the planet.  If those 
changes are to make some sense for them, it is necessary to undertake decisive 
and effective action against the hunger and poverty which affect hundreds of 
millions of people in the third world; and against infant malnutrition and 
incurable diseases which are daily taking the lives of thousands of children 
in an ongoing and silent war that some choose to ignore. 
The economic crisis, the external debt of the third world, which has 
risen to the figure of $1.50 trillion, unequal exchange, and increased hunger 
and poverty have never been greater amongst the immense majority of mankind. 
Their effects are staggering even for the most solid economies of the world. 
Open subsidies and other selfish policies threaten to impede the conclusion of 
agreements which have been in course of negotiation for years to regulate 
international trade and which may provoke disastrous confrontations between 
the large economic Powers.  This clearly demonstrates that the history of 
capitalism cannot escape its terrible and self-destructive laws. 
There is meagre cause for optimism at present, when many cannot even 
defy the consequences of recalling the principles of the new international 
economic order solemnly proclaimed by the Assembly in times that were 
supposedly less favourable for international cooperation. 
A/47/PV.15 
59-60 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuba) 
True, universal and durable peace will be possible only in a world full 
of hegemony, based on the rights, interests and aspirations of all peoples, in 
a world in which the purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter will 
become a reality and, in particular, in a world which pays full respect to the 
sovereign equality of States, non-intervention and non-interference in the 
internal affairs of States, self-determination of peoples, and the right to 
development. 
But to achieve this, it is indispensable to democratize international 
relations and the United Nations, providing the Organization with the 
conditions necessary for it to fulfil the mission for which it should exist. 
The United Nations cannot be reduced to a simple instrument of 
domination by the powerful.  Member States must prevent that; if they do not 
they would in practice be permitting its termination and the elimination of 
all possibility of achieving an equitable and peaceful world. 
A/47/PV.15 
61 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuha) 
We must not accept the Security Council's operating as a secret society, 
turning its back on the Organization which created it and in whose name it 
should be acting; we must not accept its assuming functions which it does not 
have and which no one has conferred upon it.  The Security Council's 
composition, functions and modus operandi must be urgently examined in depth 
so that it can become a truly representative body, so that the anachronistic 
and anti-democratic veto privilege can be eliminated and transparency can be 
introduced into its activities, while limiting them strictly to those set down 
in the Charter, and so that it will fully respect the obligation enshrined in 
the Charter to be accountable to the General Assembly, which, in turn, should 
strictly fulfil its responsibility to exercise control over the Council. 
The Security Council has no authority whatsoever to interpret the Charter 
or to broaden the scope of its powers, or to carry out all the orders coming 
from its surreptitious informal gatherings.  We must not tolerate the use of 
the Council by those who so frequently defile the ideals of democracy as an 
instrument for carrying out a virtual coup d'etat in the United Nations.  Nor 
can we we allow ideas to take hold that would introduce the concept of limited 
sovereignty and promote the creation of mechanisms that would result in 
converting the Organization into a permanent source of intrusion, interference 
and intervention, to the benefit of the interests of the powerful. 
The Organization must be democratized in order to strengthen its role and 
enhance its efficiency.  To that end, it is indispensable to reinforce, not to 
weaken, the responsibilities of the General Assembly as the sole body in which 
all of us have equal responsibilities and which therefore has the capacity to 
represent the international community as a whole. 
A/47/PV.15 
62 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada.  Cuba) 
During  the  tenth  summit  conference  that we held  at Jakarta early  this 
month, the non-aligned  countries  adopted  a common platform  to  face  the  present 
international  situation  and  to ensure  concerted  action  in the United Nations. 
The Jakarta Message, the  Final Document  and  the resolutions  that were  adopted 
should become  our  tools  to mobilize  the third world  in defence  of  its  rights 
and to organize  our  resistance  to those who are attempting  to impose  a 
self-styled  new world  order, which was  conceived  against, and without  taking 
into account  the  interests  of, the peoples  of  the South and which would 
constitute nothing but  the  installation on a global  scale of the  kind of 
hegemonistic  delusions  upon the  cinders  of which  this Organization was  created. 
The aims of  those who  are concocting  the  reorganization of  the world, 
with a view to dominating  it, are becoming  increasingly obvious. 
Underdevelopment  and poverty would be permanently  reserved  for the peoples  of 
the South, which  constitute  three quarters of humankind, and  they would 
continue to be  the providers  of wealth  for the  affluent minorities  of  the 
North.  International  bodies would be  converted  into mechanisms  for  domination 
and intervention  to guarantee  a world  system where  the powerful would  impose 
their corrupted  ideas  and values.  The  new conquerors  are not bearers  of  the 
cross; rather, they brandish  the  sword  and  the moneybag, and the only gospel 
they preach  is profits. 
Cynically  they proclaim  themselves  the  representatives  of  a  superior 
society and they go  so  far  as to attempt  to present  themselves  as the  very 
image of democracy,  freedom  and human  rights.  With  the  same  arrogance  shown 
by their colonialist  ancestors, with  the  same haughtiness  shown by  their 
fascist inspirers, today's hegemonists  boast  about  the alleged  superiority  of 
A/47/PV.15 
63 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuba) 
their societies, their way of life, their ideas, beliefs and values, and use 
every means in attempting to impose them upon other peoples. 
They are attempting to impose not only their ideas, but also their 
"justice", which lacks the slightest equity and which, even within the 
territory of the United States, and with an openly racist point of view, 
pronounces the harshest sentences, including the death penalty, on, almost 
exclusively, blacks and hispanics.  What is the sense of, and how can we 
condone, the decision of that country's Supreme Court which legalized the 
right to kidnap anyone of any nationality in any part of the world?  Has 
mankind ever seen such an abuse of power and high-handedness at any other 
stage in its history? 
At the same time, encouraged by the setbacks of European socialism, they 
are trying to decree the end of socialist ideals and to impose capitalism, in 
its most uncontrolled fashion, as the sole, definitive and permanent model to 
be applied around the world.  They proclaim the so-called neo-liberal formulas 
as dogma which everyone must observe and they do not even blush when they 
portray themselves as having the exclusive recipe for mankind's prosperity and 
happiness. 
Millions of dollars that could be devoted to more noble purposes are 
being spent today in selling those ideas.  But the peoples of the third world 
have not forgotten that it was the unrestrained voraciousness of capitalism 
that compelled them to endure the long and harsh experience of colonialism, 
that crushed them with racism and discrimination, that subjected them to the 
backwardness and poverty still besetting them.  Capitalism was and is the 
A/47/PV.15 
64-65 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuba) 
essential cause of the evils afflicting our peoples; it can never be their 
solution. 
The euphoric promoters of so-called neo-liberalism are overcome with joy 
when they see the bankruptcy of a number of socialist projects which, as is 
well known, lasted barely a few decades and were tested in adverse conditions 
and in comparatively less developed countries. 
Those who exult over the failure of some socialist societies should be 
capable of demonstrating that capitalism is solving the problems of mankind or 
at least that it is doing so somewhere.  After all, capitalism has been the 
predominant system in the world for centuries and has come to full development 
in some of the more wealthy countries.  But, after more than 200 years of 
capitalism in a rich, developed and powerful country such as the United 
States, the population as a whole still lacks a health system; millions are 
calling for employment, housing, education and protection in their old age or 
are suffering the consequences of drug addiction, violence and other social 
evils; and tens of millions are victims of the worst expressions of racism and 
racial discrimination.  The most powerful country has not been able in two 
centuries to solve any of those problems through capitalism, although it not 
only has been able to rely on its own wealth but also has been pitilessly 
exploiting other peoples during that lengthy period. 
A/47/PV.15 
66 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuba) 
Certain turncoats may kneel before that deceptive golden calf, but to 
understand the failure of capitalism as a social project it is not necessary 
to read Karl Marx  one need only take stroll through the New York or Los 
Angeles inner city.  The American dream may dazzle some weak minds, but for 
broad, and growing, sectors in this country  and, above all, for tens of 
millions of Afro-Americans, Latinos, native Americans and Asians, the 
unemployed, the poor and the destitute - that dream has been, and is, a 
bitter, sad and perpetual nightmare. 
On what moral grounds can profoundly unjust societies present themselves 
as a universal archetype when the inordinate consumption patterns and the 
extravagance of their insolent minorities mock the plight of countless others 
in their midst who are suffering a life as miserable as that of the poorest in 
the third world?  In terms of human solidarity they have nothing to teach us; 
on the contrary, they have much to learn from us. 
In truth, not only is the type of society that would be imposed upon us 
intrinsically unjust and inhuman:  it threatens the survival of the human 
species - indeed, life itself on our planet.  The irrational consumption 
patterns of the wealthy exhaust non-renewable resources, poison oceans and 
rivers, make the air in our cities unbreathable, adversely change the climate, 
dangerously raise the sealevel, irreparably damage the soil, destroy forests, 
enlarge deserts and deepen the poverty of hundreds of millions of human 
beings.  The environment is also the victim of a relentless war that has 
already caused the death of numerous species and is putting many others in 
danger of extinction. 
A/47/PV.15 
67 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada.  Cuba) 
When will  it be man's  turn  to  fall victim  to his own  folly?  For how  long 
will a lifestyle  that  condemns  each  and every  one of  us to death  continue  to 
be worshipped? 
I  address  this Assembly  at what  is, for Cuba, a particularly  difficult 
time.  The economic, commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed by  the United 
States against  the Cuban people  has been  in force  for more  than 30 years, but 
it is now being  intensified  and extended.  While  talking hypocritically  of 
peace and  international  cooperation, the Government  in Washington  forbids 
foreign vessels  involved  in any business with Cuba to enter United  States 
ports and tries  to compel  corporations  based  in other  countries  to follow  its 
anti-Cuban policy.  Thus  it is grossly  violating  not only  the most basic 
rights of my people  but  also  the  sovereignty  of other  countries  and  the 
fundamental principles  and norms  of  international  law. 
While  former  adversaries  become partners, and while  the number  of 
countries  to which Washington  applies  economic  restrictions  diminishes, the 
budget and  resources of  the Government office entrusted with enforcement  of 
those restrictions  have been  increased,  and  it is publicly  acknowledged  that 
those actions  are geared  towards  reinforcement  of  the blockade  against Cuba. 
The United  States  obstructs  Cuban  economic  and  commercial  activities  world 
wide.  It strives  to prevent  us  from purchasing  oil, foodstuffs  and medicines; 
puts pressure  on  investors  and businessmen; and, more  than once, has been  able 
to intimidate  others, and  thus  frustrate  entirely  legitimate  operations, by 
its stubborn  and  criminal  attempts  to starve  our people  into  surrender. 
Never before, other  than  in the  course of war, has  a people  been 
subjected  to  such  rigorous, prolonged  and  total  attack.  This  aggression  is 
being carried  out  against  a small  and poor  country  - a country with very  few 
A/47/PV.15 
68 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuba) 
natural resources, and no substantial sources of energy; a country whose 
development prospects are totally dependent on foreign trade; a country that 
receives no credit or finance from international organizations; a country to 
which even various types of humanitarian aid are restricted.  And now attempts 
are being made even to prevent us from trading. 
The blockade is being intensified at a time when Cuba is suffering an 
extremely trying situation arising from the dissolution of the Socialist bloc, 
the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the sudden and radical change in 
relations with the countries with which we conducted 80 per cent of our trade, 
as well as from the abrupt disappearance of the fair and equitable prices that 
governed those relations.  This has meant the loss of 70 per cent of Cuba's 
purchasing power  the figure having fallen from $8,139 million in 1989 to 
$2.2 million this year.  In truth, Cuba is confronted by a double blockade 
that is becoming harsher and more implacable every day. 
Indeed, the enormous damage to our economy has had inevitable 
repercussions for the living standards and consumption levels of the 
population, as well as for the country's production and development 
programmes.  In these grave circumstances the imperialists nurture the hope 
that, by making their blockade tougher and more oppressive, they will be able 
to create conditions of poverty and hunger and, thus, make our people 
surrender.  However, that is nothing but a foolish hope.  Those who seek to 
annihilate us are ignoring the fact that Cuba's main resource - its only true 
wealth  is its people. 
Only a united, informed and resolute people, a people prepared to fight 
for what it wants to achieve, a people whose social relations are governed by 
equity and solidarity, can confront and overcome such adversity.  Only in a 
A/47/PV.15 
69-70 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada. Cuba) 
society such as that of Cuba could such disastrous conditions have occurred 
without leading to the closure of a single school, to neglect of the health of 
a single child or elderly man or woman, or to the abandonment of a single 
citizen.  Can the same be said of our rabid enemies or our hypocritical 
critics? 
There is no greater proof of the strength of our social system or of the 
implacable resolve and unity of the Cuban people in defence of its revolution 
than the heroic popular resistance to this imperialist onslaught.  How many 
countries have endured such a trial? 
But this large-scale economic warfare is not the only action being taken 
against Cuba.  Part of our territory continues to be illegally occupied by a 
United States military base, which is the source of frequent provocation; the 
air above and the sea around the country are constantly being used for 
manoeuvres by the mighty who assault us; more than 1,500 hours of aggressive 
radio broadcasts are transmitted to Cuba weekly, and there have been 
unsuccessful attempts to invade our television spectrum; the territory of the 
United States is used openly and shamelessly, and with the apparent complicity 
of the authorities of that country, for the purpose of carrying out terrorist 
attacks against us; and Cuba is being subjected to a systematic campaign of 
slander to distort the image of a country which the United States has not been 
able to defeat and which refuses to renounce its independence. 
A/47/PV.15 
71 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada, Cuha) 
As it has not been able to bend us to its will, imperialism threatens us 
with extermination and endeavours to compel the rest of the world to acquiesce 
to its genocidal infamy.  The Yankee blockade is a brutal violation of the 
rights of all the Cuban people and of international norms and the sovereignty 
of other countries.  It is, above all, a moral disgrace. 
Those who think they can bring Cuba to its knees are mistaken.  Our 
people has travelled a long road to achieve its full emancipation.  It started 
its trek, totally alone, more than 120 years ago.  Within its limited island 
space, without allies, without the material support of any Government, it 
struggled for three decades against a better and larger military force than 
the total of the forces which Spain had used to combat rebellion in all its 
other colonies.  Attempts were made even then to isolate our people from the 
rest of the world; even then the oppressor found accomplices; even then 
attempts were made to compel our people to surrender because of hunger, and a 
substantial part of our population was annihilated. 
The Puerto Rican patriot, Eugenio Maria de Hostos, described those 
painful times for Cuba in the following words: 
"It is necessary to imagine oneself in that terrifying situation, 
the most tragic ever faced by any people:  deprived of everything itself, 
while its enemy possesses all the power and resources of civilization; 
abandoned, while its enemy is abetted; disdained, while its enemy is 
flattered by the complicity of all.  It is necessary to be able to feel 
all the torments of the agony of many years to understand how long a 
revolution lasts, to realize how much time passes, to understand the 
prodigious resistance of the combatants, to appreciate their heroism, to 
be worthy of admiring those admirable men ... 
A/47/PV.15 
72 
(Mr. Alarcon de Quesada.  Cuba) 
"It  is necessary  to  live  in such  infamous  times, stumbling  through 
the darkness  of  injustice, to  feel  for  those men, elevated  by  their  own 
efforts  to  the dignity  of  complete men, all  the enthusiastic  reverence, 
all  the  impulsive  admiration,  inspired by those  capable of  heroically 
representing  the highest virtues  of mankind." 
Those  times  referred  to by Hostos were  certainly  even more difficult  for 
our people.  Today we  are  facing  an enemy more powerful  than Spain was then, 
but we have  a united, brave people, worthy heirs  of those  combatants who  never 
retreated despite  the greatest misfortunes.  We will  never betray  their 
memory; we will  never  renounce  a fatherland  which we  liberated with  rivers of 
blood and  sacrifice. 
We also  rely on the  solidarity  of peoples.  We  know that the  oppressed, 
the exploited  and  the victims  of  discrimination  on this Earth who place  their 
hopes in Cuba's  survival  are many. 
For our  dead, and  for  those who hope  for  a worthy  life, we will  continue 
resisting.  We will  not betray  the mandate  of our  ancestors  and  the  confidence 
of peoples.  We will prove  ourselves  capable of  resisting  and we will  know how 
to resist. 
We will  continue  to pursue  our most  sacred duty:  to save  the  fatherland, 
the revolution  and  socialism.  For  their  sake, we  shall  continue  our  struggle, 
without hesitating, despite  all obstacles, hard  and difficult  though 
circumstances may be; ever  onward  to victory. 
A/47/PV.15 
73 
Mr. WONG (Singapore):  In 1989, the year in which the Berlin Wall 
fell and the cold war came to an end, there were 159 Member States represented 
in this Hall.  Today, three years later, there are 179, an increase of 20. 
Will this trend continue?  If so, there could be 200 Member States represented 
in this Hall when we meet here again in 1995.  Will these new countries come 
from Africa, Asia, Europe or the Americas?  And will the birth pangs of these 
new States be as traumatic as those of some our newer Members, like Croatia, 
Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Moldova and Georgia?  Or will they emerge 
peacefully? 
I begin my statement with these questions because I believe that our 
first task at this session is to rid ourselves of the euphoria that many of us 
here experienced when the cold war ended.  From the tragic experience of 
Kuwait to the continuing anguish of the former Yugoslavs, we are seeing the 
re-emergence of forces that we thought had been swept away by forces of 
modernization.  Ghosts which had been sleeping for decades have awakened to 
haunt us.  How many more will awaken in the years to come? 
This session clearly needs to be one of sober reflection.  In this regard 
I am pleased that we have elected Ambassador Ganev of Bulgaria to guide our 
deliberations.  This reflects the confidence of Member States in his 
leadership abilities.  Bulgaria's geographical location gives it a unigue 
insight into the problems that we are facing. 
I should also like to place on record our appreciation of the wise 
leadership and guidance provided by our President's predecessor, 
Ambassador Samir Shihabi.  In addition, we wish to place on record our 
appreciation to Mr. Perez de Cuellar for his 10 years of dedicated and 
exemplary service as Secretary-General.  Let me also congratulate 
A/47/PV.15 
74-75 
(Mr. Wong. Singapore) 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali on his wise and dynamic stewardship of the United 
Nations in his first year in office. 
There can no longer be any doubt that the cold war, even though it 
terrified many of us in this Hall, effectively froze or suppressed many 
tribal, religious, ethnic and cultural divisions.  The thawing of the cold war 
has led to their re-emergence.  I need only to cite some obvious recent 
examples.  Even as we speak, conflicts are raging between Armenia and 
Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh, and there are conflicts in Moldova, Georgia 
and Afghanistan.  Somalia is splintering; the former Yugoslavia has descended 
into tribal warfare.  The world has still not recovered from the shock of the 
atrocities and the blatant disregard of basic humanitarian principles in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina in the name of "ethnic cleansing", which we condemn as 
an abhorrent practice. 
In this setting it is appropriate and timely that the Secretary-General 
has produced his report "An Agenda for Peace:  Preventive diplomacy, 
peacemaking and peace-keeping" (A/47/277).  Not every United Nations Member 
will agree with its analysis.  Nor will all the recommendations be universally 
endorsed.  But it is a far-reaching document with concrete proposals for the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 
A/47/PV.15 
76 
(Mr. Wong.  Singapore) 
It also  contains  the  Secretary-General's  recommendations  on ways  to  strengthen 
and make more efficient  the capacity  of  the United  Nations  for  preventive 
diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping  and peace-building.  We  should 
congratulate  the Secretary-General  and his  staff  on putting  together  a 
comprehensive  and  thoughtful  paper  that  raises  the  issues  that Member  States 
need  to address. 
There  is much  in there  for us to  ruminate  on but  there  is also  room for 
us to add  ideas  to  it.  For example, the  report, for obvious  reasons, refrains 
from  trying  to apportion blame  or  investigate  the causes  of  the  recent 
conflicts.  This  should be  the  job of Member  States.  We need  to be  clear in 
our minds whether  the explosion  of  new States  in recent years  is a natural and 
welcome  development, something  akin  to what we  saw  in the era of 
decolonization, or whether  it is a reflection  of  a state  of disorder  in the 
structures  of human  society  that we have  created  in the  twentieth  century.  Or 
is it the case, as the  "Agenda  for Peace" suggests, that  the  "deepest  causes 
of conflict" are:  "economic  despair, social  injustice  and  political 
oppression"  (A/47/277, para. 15)?  We need  to be  clear  in our minds  about what 
is happening because  this will  in turn define  the mission  that we will entrust 
to the United Nations:  when  a conflict breaks  out within  a State  should the 
mission of  the United Nations be  to  resolve  the  conflict  and  peacefully 
reunite  the  factions 
as in Angola  and  El  Salvador 
or  should  the mission of 
the United Nations be  to  facilitate  a peaceful  division  of  the  country 
as in 
Yugoslavia?  These  are not  theoretical  questions.  These  are  practical 
questions  that United  Nations  peace-keepers  confront  on  a day-to-day  basis in 
the  former  Yugoslavia  and  in Somalia. 
A/47/PV.15 
77 
(Mr. Wong.  Singapore) 
Lest  I be misunderstood,  let me  stress  that  I welcome  the new Member 
States that have  joined  the United Nations  this year:  Armenia, Azerbaijan, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the  Republic 
of Moldova, San Marino, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan  and Uzbekistan.  I 
believe that  they would  agree with me  that  if more new Member  States  are  going 
to join us we  should  ensure  that  they emerge peacefully  and not through war 
and conflict. 
The  "Agenda  for Peace" also makes  it clear  that  the functions  of United 
Nations peace-keepers  have gone  far beyond  their usual mandate.  In the  past 
United Nations peace-keepers  were  traditionally  sent  in after  a peace 
agreement had been worked  out between the warring parties.  Today  United 
Nations forces  are  involved  in a variety  of  tasks  ranging  from 
election-monitoring  to  inspection  of nuclear  installations.  The  range of 
functions is expected  to  increase.  As  the  "Agenda  for Peace" points out, 
these will  include preventive  diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping  and 
peace-building. 
Let me  also  state  the points  of  agreement  that  I have with the report. 
First, I agree  that the United  Nations  should play a more proactive  role  in 
preventive diplomacy.  As  the  report  states: 
"... preventive  diplomacy  requires measures  to create  confidence; it 
needs early warning based  on  information gathering  and  informal  or  formal 
fact-finding;  it may  also  involve preventive  deployment  and, in  some 
situations, demilitarized  zones." (A/47/277, para.  23) 
Secondly, I also  agree  that  the Security  Council  can now play  a more  active 
role because, as the  report states: 
"With greater  unity has  come  leverage  and persuasive power  to  lead 
hostile parties  towards  negotiations."  (A/47/277, para.  35) 
A/47/PV.15 
78 
(Mr. Wong. Singapore) 
Thirdly, I agree that the United Nations should work in concert with regional 
groupings.  I believe that the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) 
would be happy to do so.  The endorsement by the United Nations of the Treaty 
of Amity and Cooperation, signed in Bali, Indonesia, in 1976 and recently 
acceded to by Laos and Viet Nam, could make it a model for other regions to 
emulate. 
Having imposed these significant new burdens on the United Nations it is 
absurd that Member States, especially the permanent members of the United 
Nations Security Council, are depriving the United Nations of the funds needed 
to carry out these operations.  Unpaid arrears for United Nations 
peace-keeping operations now amount to $800 million.  They are likely to rise 
as the cost of peace-keeping operations for this year alone is likely to reach 
$3 billion. 
Some of the biggest debtors of the United Nations come from countries of 
the North.  It would be tragic for countries of the North to assume that they 
are immune from the political and economic travails of the South.  Yugoslavia 
has demonstrated that these problems can explode at their doorsteps.  The 
modern technology spun by the developed countries has made our world into a 
global village in the truest sense of the word.  No villager can ignore a fire 
in the home of his fellow villager, for if he does his own home could be burnt. 
We saw this clearly at the Rio de Janeiro Summit earlier this year.  The 
countries of the North called upon the countries of the South to restrain 
their deforestation, their production of chloro-fluorocarbons  (CFCs) and their 
pollutive development, for they were concerned that the effects of these 
activities in the South would wander into their homes.  Yet while they expect 
the relatively impoverished countries of the South to make valiant sacrifices, 
A/47/PV.15 
79 
(Mr. Wono.  Singapore) 
they are not prepared  to make  equal  sacrifices  in their  relatively  affluent 
lifestyles.  Given  these  difficulties,  it is remarkable  that  the Rio  Summit 
reached  a consensus  on Agenda  21.  We  in the General  Assembly  should  endorse 
the Rio Declaration  and Agenda  21 and  adopt  a good decision  to establish  a 
high-level  commission  on  sustainable  development.  The momentum  achieved  in 
Rio de Janeiro  has  to be maintained  and  followed  up. 
To address  these  environmental  questions  squarely,  the world  also  needs 
to reinvigorate  the global  economy.  We must  convince  the countries  of  the 
North that  if they want  the South  to pay greater  heed  to their  concerns  on  the 
global environment,  they must  in turn push  the global  economy  forward  by 
successfully  completing  the Uruguay  Round  as  soon as possible.  Instead  of 
doing this, the  countries  of  the North  are concentrating  on  regional 
integration.  Whatever  the  fate of  the Maastricht  Treaty,  an integrated  single 
European market will  be  in place by January  1993, bolstered  by  an expanded 
agreement with  the  European  Free Trade Association  (EFTA) countries  that would 
bring about greater  European  Community-EFTA  economic  co-operation  known  as  the 
European Economic  Area  (EEA).  The North American  Free Trade  Area  (NAFTA) is 
about to be  formed.  If these  arrangements  benefit  only  the countries  of  the 
North, with  no perceived  benefits  to the South,  the  South  is unlikely  to 
cooperate with  the North on environmental  issues. 
Fortunately,  the  South has not been  standing  still.  A major  economic 
revolution  is also  taking place  there, affecting  the  lives  of billions  of 
people, especially  in  large  nations  such as China,  India,  Pakistan  and 
Indonesia.  If present  trends  continue, by the year  2000 the ASEAN  countries 
and the Asian newly  industrializing  economies  will have  a gross  domestic 
A/47/PV.15 
80 
(Mr. Wong. Singapore) 
product (GDP) of $3.3 trillion, two thirds of the United States 1990 GDP or 
half of the European Community 1990 GDP.  China could double its gross 
national product (GNP) within this decade.  Clearly, some parts of the South 
are going to experience explosive economic growth. 
Except for a few which still cling to the virtues of the command economy, 
practically every country in the world now realizes that it has to introduce 
economic reforms.  The old economic systems with their manifest inefficiencies 
and inadequacies that hindered economic growth had to be discarded.  Except 
for a few, all States are working to introduce the market-economy system.  But 
such adjustment to open economic competition is not without sacrifices and 
great political costs.  The transitional economies have experienced great 
economic difficulties and dislocations in their initial periods of 
adjustment.  The North should see that it is in its interest to help these 
countries by fighting protectionism.  With such support, the developing 
countries should be able to pull off this economic transition successfully. 
A/47/PV.15 
81 
(Mr. Wong.  Singapore) 
If  this massive  economic  revolution  in the  South  succeeds, the world  will 
experience  a  rising  tide  that will  lift  all of humankind 
those  in the  South 
and those  in the North.  It  is also  likely  that  this  rising  tide would  help 
extinguish  the  flames  of  tribal  and  ethnic  discord  that have erupted  around 
the globe. 
South-East  Asia has  sometimes been  called  "the Balkans  of Asia".  Despite 
this, the countries  of  the Association  of  South-East  Asian Nations  (ASEAN) 
have already  experienced  two decades  of peace  and economic  development. 
Through regional  cooperation  in ASEAN  and  the  concentration  of  national 
energies on economic  development,  the ASEAN  region has become  the most 
peaceful and prosperous  part  of  the  third world.  There  is no  reason why  this 
ASEAN experience  cannot be  duplicated  in the  rest  of  the world.  I hope  that 
this session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  give  some  thought  to this  as it 
searches  for  solutions  to  the  ongoing  tragedies we  are now  witnessing. 
Mr. HOLO  (Benin)  (interpretation  from  French):  Nigeria  and  Pakistan 
are mourning  today.  I should  like  to extend  to the Governments  and  the 
peoples of these  two  friendly  countries  the  compassion  of  the people of  Benin 
who understand  their  sorrow  and  share  their  grief. 
I should  like to  join those who preceded  me  at  this  rostrum  in 
congratulating Mr. Ganev warmly,  on behalf  of  the Republic  of  Benin, on his 
outstanding election  to  the presidency  of  the General  Assembly  at  this 
session.  This  is a well-deserved  tribute  to his  country,  Bulgaria,  and  to him 
personally. 
I should  also  like  to  congratulate  his  predecessor, 
Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi  of  Saudi  Arabia, who presided  over  the  forty-sixth 
session of the General  Assembly  so ably  and  efficiently. 
A/47/PV.15 
82 
(Mr. Holo.  Benin) 
I wish  also  to pay  a well-deserved  tribute  to the  Secretary-General  of 
the United  Nations  for his  courage, his  dedication  and his  readiness  in the 
service  of the  ideals of  the Organization.  Less  than  a year  after  his 
election, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  has  already  demonstrated  his  effectiveness 
and his diplomatic  experience,  to the  admiration  of  the  international 
community  as  a whole.  His  tireless  efforts  to  restore peace  to  the various 
hotbeds  of  tension  throughout  the world  deserve  the  active  support  of all the 
Members  of  the United Nations.  His  recent  detailed  and well-written  report to 
the membership  is eloquent  testimony  of his  endeavours. 
My  delegation would  like once  again  to pay  a tribute  to his predecessor, 
Mr. Javier  Perez de Cuellar,  for his  invaluable work  at  the  service of our 
universal  Organization,  whose membership  has  continued  to expand  over  the 
years. 
Benin welcomes  the new Members  of  the United  Nations:  Armenia, 
Azerbaijan,  Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  Croatia,  Georgia,  Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan, 
the Republic  of Moldova,  San Marino,  Slovenia, Tajikistan,  Turkmenistan and 
Uzbekistan. 
At  the  last  session of  the General  Assembly,  we  unanimously  welcomed the 
end  of  an era of  confrontation  and  the  advent  of  an era  of  international 
cooperation  based  on a spirit  of  solidarity  and  fraternity  among  the nations 
of the  world. 
In that  context,  Benin  also welcomed  the  advent  and  the  admission  to 
membership  in the United  Nations  of  the  independent  States  that  emerged from 
the  former  Soviet  Union  following  the  signing  of  the Minsk  Agreements. 
The  first  ever meeting  of  the Security  Council  at  the  level  of Heads of 
State  or  Government,  held  on  31 January  1992, marked  the  end  of  the cold war; 
A/47/PV.15 
83 
(Mr. Holo. Benin) 
at that meeting, they urged the advent of a new, more stable and more 
prosperous world order, for which the United Nations would provide the 
framework. 
Unfortunately, we have to say that this session of the Assembly is 
beginning at a time when there is an unprecedented reappearance of hotbeds of 
tension throughout the world, resulting in a situation in which peace-keeping 
activities have become the primary concern of the United Nations over the last 
10 months.  These hotbeds of tension demonstrate the fragility of peace and of 
international security, at an important turning-point in our history. 
May I point out here that the Security Council, in its statement of 
31 January 1992, indicated that the development of the democratic movement and 
the promotion of respect for human rights would help make the world more 
stable and more prosperous. 
My delegation would like to reaffirm that the international community, 
while welcoming the emergence of new nations as a result of the affirmation of 
the unbreakable will of peoples to regain freedom, dignity and justice through 
respect for their own cultural and political values, must promote the search 
for consensus and the spirit of tolerance and dialogue which can still today 
provide the basis for a peaceful transition. 
Negotiation prevailing over the use of force, trade over exploitation, 
freedom over constraints:  those are the approaches that should guide each of 
our countries so that the capacity of the Organization in the areas of 
preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping can be enhanced. 
We often say that our planet is sick.  It is sick because of delayed 
development resulting from financial, technological, scientific and ecological 
imbalances between the northern and southern hemispheres.  It is sick because 
A/47/PV.15 
84-85 
(Mr. Holo, Benin) 
of social injustice and because of extreme poverty that dehumanize so many 
peoples that are referred to as "developing peoples". 
To all these ills, aggravated today by the resurgence of nationalism, we 
must add new kinds of illnesses that are decimating our peoples throughout the 
world.  It is therefore essential that States regain control and contribute 
individually and collectively to the strengthening of international peace and 
security. 
Against this backdrop, the Secretary-General's report, "An Agenda for 
Peace", submitted pursuant to the statement agreed by the summit meeting of 
the Security Council on 31 January 1992, offers us food for thought  serious 
thought  and it opens up new prospects.  We must all contribute to fleshing 
out that report so that our dream of a better world can become a reality in 
the years ahead. 
\_ 
A/47/PV.15 
86 
(Mr. Holo.  Benin) 
As  for Africa, our continent has  suffered  too much  for us not  to  try 
today, together, hand  in hand, to  join forces  and use  all  that we have  in the 
way of intelligence,  courage, strength  and  resources, to  lessen  suffering, 
alleviate poverty  and establish  a coherent  strategy  for  sustainable 
development. 
It is Benin's hope  that  all of Africa will  be  free of  fratricidal  and 
internal wars  and all other  conflicts  that hinder  our development.  It is 
enough to look  around  us to see the tragedy  of our brothers  in Liberia, 
Somalia and  Sudan, just  to mention  a few. 
From now on Africa  can prove, if need be, that  it can resolve  its own 
conflicts when  foreign  interference  does not  complicate matters.  To  eliminate 
instability  and  insecurity  in Africa, the  international  community must  offer 
its firm  support  for  the efforts  now under way  to restore peace  to Liberia  and 
Somalia. 
My country, which  currently  holds  the chairmanship  of the Economic 
Community of West African  States  (ECOWAS), has been making  intensive  efforts 
since August  to bring  those  involved  in the Liberian  tragedy  to silence  their 
weapons so that we  can move  towards  national  reconciliation.  Benin's  only 
interest in Liberia  is peace.  President  Soglo's  efforts  deserve  the  support 
of Africans  first and  foremost  and  then of all the major  Powers  and  all other 
Members of  the United  Nations. 
Benin hopes  that  recent  appeals  from  the Conference  of Heads  of  State  and 
Government of  the Organization  of African Unity  (OAU), held  from  28 June  to 
2 July 1992  in Dakar, to those  involved  in the tragedy  in Somalia  and  Sudan 
will be heard  so that hostilities  can cease  and negotiations  can begin, with  a 
view to national  reconciliation.  That, we believe, is a prerequisite  for 
A/47/PV.15 
87 
(Mr. Holo. Benin) 
preserving the unity and integrity of those two countries, which are also 
ravaged by famine. 
It is important to emphasize the hope inspired by the humanitarian 
actions of the United Nations to save the people of Somalia from famine.  Here 
I should also like to hail the work done by all the countries and humanitarian 
organizations that have taken action in that part of the world, despite the 
threats they are exposed to in the field by the various parties to the 
conflict.  In particular, we hail the efforts of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to 
whom we are indebted for heightening awareness of that tragedy and its 
horrors.  In addition, his Special Representative, Ambassador Sahnoun of 
Algeria, deserves our fraternal commendation and admiration. 
Just a few months ago, the international community welcomed the positive 
changes taking place in the situation in South Africa, changes that were 
expected to crown with success the tireless struggle of the black people of 
South Africa against a system that for more than 50 years had reduced them to 
slavery.  Here I should like to reaffirm my country's unequivocal position on 
the problem of apartheid.  That odious and inhuman system must be dismantled, 
in deeds and in law, to allow for the emergence of a democratic and 
multiracial South Africa, where the principle of one man, one vote, will 
become  a political reality. 
Recent developments, both political and social in that country, notably 
the resumption of violence, which has already claimed hundreds of innocent 
victions, shows, unfortunately, that many difficulties and obstacles still 
have to be dealt with before apartheid can be totally dismantled.  In the 
interest of international peace and security, we must encourage dialogue among 
those involved in the political situation in South Africa, who still have to 
A/47/PV.15 
88 
(Mr. Holo. Benin) 
overcome very  deep political  differences, while  continuing  at the  same  time  to 
keep the pressure  on  the  South African  regime  so that  the  reform  processes 
that have been  initiated  can be  continued  and speeded up. 
That  is how Benin understands  the  Security Council's  adoption of 
resolution  765  (1992) on the question  of South Africa, the  appointment by  the 
Secretary-General  of  a Special  Representative  and the  sending of United 
Nations observers  to that  country. 
We are happy  to  see  that  the peace process  in Angola, which began with 
the signing of  the  cease-fire  agreement  at Estoril, Portugal, on 31 May 1991, 
is on course.  The Members  of  the United Nations must  continue  to  support  that 
country, which has been  riven by  15 years  of  fratricidal  war, in its  efforts 
for democratization,  one  important  stage of which will be  the  free  elections 
scheduled  for  29  and  30 September  1992, that  is, tomorrow  and the day after. 
The delegation  of Benin welcomes  the  fact that the peace  talks which have 
begun between  the Maputo  Government  and RENAMO  leaders have  led to the  signing 
at Rome on 7 August  1992 of  a peace  agreement between the  two parties.  May 
peace truly and definitively  come to Mozambique  so that all  the  sons  and 
daughters of  that  country  can tackle  the  job of  national  reconstruction. 
The Madrid  Conference  on peace  in the Middle  East portended  a  reasonable 
arrangement between Arabs  and  Israelis with a hope  for  lasting peace.  Recent 
political changes  in Israel may  enable  the current  negotiations  to evolve  in a 
satisfactory manner  that would  be  acceptable  to all parties  to the conflict. 
!t is our duty  to encourage  that needed  dialogue, with  a view  to achieving  a 
lasting peace  that would guarantee  the existence of the Hebrew  State  and  a 
Palestinian State within  secure borders  recognized  by all. 
A/47/PV.15 
89-90 
(Mr. Holo, Benin) 
That, of course, would presuppose our listening to both parties.  It is 
in that spirit that Benin this year resumed diplomatic relations with the 
State of Israel.  We are guided by our firm resolve to use our pivotal 
position as a traditional friend of the Arab States and a new partner of the 
State of Israel as a point of departure to help bring the two parties together 
as best we can.  My country wholeheartedly hopes for success at the peace 
process that began in Madrid. 
A solution to the Middle East Problem also involves the consistent and 
effective implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 
338 (1973), emphasizing the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory 
through war and the need to work for a just and lasting peace, enabling each 
State in the region to live in safety within boundaries that are 
internationally recognized and guaranteed by the international community, 
including Palestine and Israel. 
My country is distressed at the killing and the flagrant violations of 
human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina stemming from the disintegration of the 
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. 
A/47/PV.15 
91 
(Mr. Holo. Benin) 
The  continuing  tragedy  of  the peoples  of  that country  threatens 
international  peace  and  security  and constitutes  a new challenge  to our 
Organization.  In my  Government's  opinion, there  are  three  factors  that  could 
have a favourable  influence  on efforts  undertaken by  the European  States  and 
the United Nations  to  restore peace  in the former Yugoslavia.  These  are  an 
immediate cessation  of hostilities; respect  for the territorial  integrity  of 
the various  States  that have emerged  from  the disintegration of  the  former 
Federation; and  the protection  of minorities. 
I would  add  to this our  unequivocal  condemnation  of the  intolerable 
practice of  "ethnic  cleansing", a practice  unworthy  of humankind  and one of 
which each  and every human being  should be  ashamed  today.  Given the 
universality of our Organization, however, my  country  hopes  that  the  reguest 
for admission of  the  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia 
Serbia and Montenegro 
will encounter  no obstacles  and  that the  admission of  that country might  even 
be a catalyst  for  a  just  and  lasting peace  in the Balkans. 
The new  spirit of  consensus 
particularly  among  the permanent members  of 
the Security Council 
and  the end of  the cold war have encouraged  the present 
atmosphere of detente  in the  international  political  arena.  In that context, 
general and  complete  disarmament must  remain  the  international  community's 
ultimate goal  at the end of  the  twentieth  century. 
The Republic  of  Benin would  like  to see the enormous  resources devoted  to 
the manufacture  and purchase  of weaponry  shifted  towards  satisfying  the more 
urgent need  for development  of  the third world  countries.  We believe  that a 
major step in that direction would be  the  acceptance  by  the  international 
community 
particularly  the  arms-producing  countries 
of  the 
Secretary-General's  proposal  on  taxing  arms  sales  in order  to offset  the 
budgetary deficit  of  the United Nations  and provide  it with  the  resources  it 
A/47/PV.15 
92 
(Mr. Holo.  Benin) 
needs  to carry out the work  entrusted  to it.  My  country  therefore  supports 
this proposal  by Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali.  Moreover, Benin  supports all 
United Nations  resolutions  related  to  the  reduction,  limitation,  and 
non-proliferation  of nuclear weapons. 
It  is often being  said that  the  international  community  is today at a 
turning-point.  The will  expressed  by Member  States  to move  towards the 
solution of  regional  conflicts  and the new  feeling  of  urgency  in the face of 
global  threats  to the well-being  of  the planet give us  an historic  opportunity 
to tackle  the  real problems we  all face. 
Of  course, the world  economy has developed  in a rather  remarkable way in 
the past  few years, as demonstrated,  inter  alia, by  the  extension of the 
market economy  and  the emergence of major  economic  groupings  in Western Europe 
and North America.  However, the  international  cooperation  necessary to the 
creation of  a new world order  is not  really getting under way.  The  imbalances 
between North and South  are being exacerbated.  If the  current  trends persist 
until  the year  2000, the  citizens of  the  richest  nations  of  the world will 
have  an average  annual  income of more  than  $13,600 while  those  from the least 
developed  African  countries will  have an average  per  capita  income of only 
$217 
that  is, $12  less  than  in 1985.  This  sharp  decrease  has already been 
seen in many countries. 
We must  therefore  acknowledge  that  the problem  of  the economic  liberation 
of Africa  is one  that  still  faces us most  acutely.  All  the efforts made to 
wipe out and  reverse  this  trend  towards  deterioration  in the economies of our 
countries have been  in vain.  Africa's  economic  horizon  is darkening daily-
Here,  I should  like  to broach  the question  of debt, and more  specifically 
in sub-Saharan African.  In one  report on  the debt  crisis, the 
Secretary-General  stressed  that  the heavy  obligations  imposed by debt 
A/47/PV.15 
93 
(Mr. Holo.  Benin) 
servicing have given  rise  to serious budgetary problems.  Public  investment 
and social expenditures  have  suffered  the  results  of  this, and  the most 
vulnerable  social  sectors have  therefore been the most  seriously  affected. 
Today, our  continent groans  under  the crushing burden of debt, which  now 
amounts to more  than $270 billion.  In 1990, our States had  to pay  out 
$23 billion to  service  this debt.  Confronted by  these  increasingly  harsh 
resource problems, most  of our States have committed  themselves  to  structural 
adjustment programmes.  These  programmes  do not yet have  the resources  that 
are truly necessary  to the development  of our devastated  economies.  That is 
why Benin appeals  to the  international  community  to take  concrete, urgent 
action to reduce  the debt burden of  the African countries  and  increase 
financial flows  for  their  development. 
Measures  to ease or  cancel debt  in some cases 
debt that our  countries 
find so difficult  to bear 
should be  accompanied  by detailed  and  explicit 
programmes on the conditions  for  financing  structural  adjustment  programmes 
and repaying  the debt owed by  our States. 
On another  level, the  forty-sixth  session of  the General  Assembly, 
following consideration  and  final evaluation  of  the  implementation of  the 
United Nations Programme  of Action  for African Economic  Recovery  and 
Development 1986-1990  adopted  the New Agenda  for  the Development  of Africa  in 
the 1990s.  That was  an opportunity  to  refocus  the  international  community's 
interest in the  socio-economic  difficulties  facing  the countries of Africa. 
To reach  the objectives  of  the New Agenda, it is now time  for  the 
international  community  to translate  into  real action the commitments  that 
have been entered  into  and  renewed  so many  times  to support  the efforts  made 
A/47/PV.15 
94-95 
(Mr. Holo. Benin) 
by the African countries themselves to achieve autonomous growth and 
socio-economic development.  Indeed, the Secretary-General has said that 
Africa is one of the five United Nations priorities for the 1990s.  As to the 
other four priorities  the environment, peace-keeping, the fight against drug 
abuse, and humanitarian assistance  we have to say that no actual decision 
has been taken to translate this priority into action. 
\^_ 
A/47/PV.15 
96 
(Mr. Holo. Benin) 
My delegation  feels  serious  concern  about  the situation  that  still 
prevails one year  after  the  adoption of  resolution  46/151 on the United 
Nations New Agenda  for  the Development  of Africa  in the  1990s.  First, the 
Secretary-General's  programme has not yet  really been  launched.  Secondly,  the 
follow-up mechanisms, for example, the high-level  consultative group, the 
inter-agency  committee  and the  steering  committee, have not yet been  set up. 
Thirdly, the  study on the need  for  and the  feasibility  of establishing  a 
diversification  fund  for African  commodities  has not yet been carried out, 
even though  it  is supposed  to be  the  subject of  a report by the 
Secretary-General  to the General Assembly  at its forty-eighth  session. 
Lastly, the  setting  up of  adeguate  financial  resources  is still hypothetical. 
I would  like  to express  the ardent hope  that no effort will be  spared  to 
ensure that by December  1992, or  at the  latest by January  1993, the New Agenda 
for the Development  of Africa  in the  1990s will  emerge  from  its present 
lethargy and enter  a truly  active  and dynamic phase  that will  live up to our 
hopes. 
To a certain extent, the Programme  of Action  for the Least  Developed 
Countries for the  1990s  is experiencing  the  same difficulties  as the New 
Agenda for the Development  of Africa  in the  1990s.  This will hardly help to 
improve the living  and working  conditions  of  the most vulnerable groups  in the 
least developed  countries. 
It is essential  to continue  and  support efforts  aimed  at ensuring  that 
the number of  least developed  countries, particularly  in Africa, can be cut in 
half by the end of  the  twentieth  century.  We must  thus  reverse  the  tendency 
towards increasing  the  number  of  least developed  countries, a trend  that has 
been noted  since  the  adoption  of  the Programme  of Action  in September  1990  and 
the adoption of  the  new criteria  for  classification  in 1991. 
A/47/PV.15 
97 
(Mr. Holo.  Benin) 
My Government  feels  that the  International  Conference  on  Financing 
Development  could provide  responses  to the difficulties  facing  the various 
programmes  and plans  of  action  for the development  of  the countries  of the 
South. 
For  that  reason, we  sincerely hope  that  the General Assembly will, during 
this  session, adopt  a resolution  to convene  the Conference, which will be 
prepared  as part of  the process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations with the 
participation  of  all States.  The holding  of  such  a Conference will be an 
important  element  in the process  of  strengthening  the  role of the United 
Nations  in promoting  international  economic  cooperation.  We welcome  the 
Japanese  initiative  to organize  in 1993  an international  conference  on the 
development  of Africa.  The work  of  that conference  should be  a good 
preparatory  exercise  for the Conference  on Financing  Development. 
Benin believes  that economic  integration  is also a response  to the 
marginalization  of Africa.  It is essential  today  for our  States  that the 
regional  economic  groupings we have  created  in order  to ensure  South-South 
cooperation  should be  strengthened. 
Africa, determined  to continue with vigour  the policy  it has been 
following  in this  sphere  for effective  regional  and  subregional  economic 
cooperation  and  integration,  is thus particularly  committed  to the creation of 
the African Economic  Community, whose  Constitution was  signed by  the Heads of 
State and Government on 3 June  1991 at Abuja. 
Success  for this project presupposes, I believe, a commitment by each of 
our States  to promote  integration  in the various  activity  sectors of our 
economies  and to ensure the development  and maintenance  of  reliable networks 
of  agricultural, road  and  industrial  infrastructures  on  the continent. 
A/47/PV.15 
98 
(Mr. Holo. Benin) 
Despite the economic situation of our countries, many specific actions 
have been taken to help children as part of the follow-up of the World Summit 
for Children. 
On 16 June 1992 Benin celebrated the Day of the African Child, as we had 
in 1991.  Although my country had already scored some successes, the 
celebrations on that day enabled us to place even more emphasis on improving 
the health of mothers and children through the expanded vaccination programme, 
the struggle to combat malnutrition and other widespread diseases of children, 
the provision of drinking water to rural areas, the gradual reduction of 
illiteracy and the securing of access to education for all children. 
Africa aspires to development of the whole person, and to that end, we 
must be sure to involve women and children.  They are, after all, the majority 
of the people of our countries on the path of progress, which can be achieved 
primarily through the education and training of young people and adults. 
Benin welcomes the action already taken by the Organization of African 
Unity (OAU), together with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), with a 
view to the holding of the International Conference on Assistance for the 
African Child, to be held at Dakar from 25 to 27 November 1992. 
Parallel with its actions in behalf of children, my Government is also 
preparing actively to mark the International Year of the Family in 1994.  In 
addition, we stand ready to make a worthwhile contribution to the preparatory 
work for the World Conference on Women, to be held at Beijing in 1995. 
A few years ago each of our States, particularly the richer ones among 
us, was content to act alone at the national level in order to stop 
environmental degradation. 
A/47/PV.15 
99-100 
(Mr. Holo.  Benin) 
Today we have  to  recognize  that  the major  ecological  problems we  face are 
planetary  in dimension  and  require  an  international  approach. 
In that  context,  Benin welcomes  the  conclusions  of  the United  Nations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED), held  from  3 to  14 June 1992 
at Rio  de  Janeiro. 
While  that historic  conference,  in which my  country  took  an active part, 
did  not  fully  live up  to  the hopes placed  in it,  it did enshrine  the concept 
of  sustainable  development  and  a recognition  of  the undeniable  link that 
exists between  environmental  protection  and  economic  development. 
Benin,  convinced  that  dealing with environmental  and development problems 
requires  the  coordination  of  activities,  initiatives  and programmes, welcomes 
the  agreement  reached  at Rio on  institutional  mechanisms  for  following up 
UNCED  decisions, particularly  the establishment  of  a high-level  commission on 
sustainable  development. 
In our  opinion,  that  commission  will play  an essential  role  in the 
implementation  and  follow-up  of Agenda  21, adopted  at  Rio by  the Conference. 
With  a strong  and  competent  secretariat,  which  could  be headquartered at 
Geneva,  the  commission  on sustainable  development  should  make  it possible, we 
believe,  to coordinate,  facilitate  and orient  intergovernmental  action within 
the United  Nations  system  in the area of  environment. 
The members  of  the commission,  to be elected  by  the General  Assembly, 
should  represent  all  the  regional  groups  in the United  Nations  and  all types 
of  development. 
A/47/PV.15 
101 
(Mr. Holo.  Benin) 
As well  as  supporting  the establishment  of  a high-level  commission  on 
sustainable  development, which will  be the  subject  of  a draft  resolution  at 
this session,  Benin  stresses  the great  importance  we  attach  to  following  up 
all the decisions  and  recommendations  of  the Rio Conference.  We welcome  in 
advance  the  resolutions  the Assembly  will  adopt  in this  connection,  including 
that by which  the Assembly  will  establish  an  intergovernmental  negotiating 
committee  to draft by  June  1994  an  international  convention  to  combat 
desertification,  particularly  in Africa.  We  also  look  forward  to a  resolution 
on the financing  of Agenda  21, whose  implementation  by developing  countries 
will require  new,  additional  funds. 
The Rio Declaration  on Environment  and Development  does not  reflect  all 
the concerns  expressed  during  the preparatory  process  for  the Conference;  the 
General Assembly must  therefore  adopt  a resolution with  a view  to preparing  an 
Earth charter  to be  adopted  during  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations in 1995, as proposed  by  the Secretary-General  of  the  Conference, 
Mr. Maurice  Strong. 
While  cruel  at times, our  age  can now be proud  of having witnessed  the 
emergence of  a universal  human-rights  movement.  An  awareness  of  democracy  is 
spreading throughout  the world,  a world where men  and women used  to be  reduced 
to silence and wretchedness.  Democracy  is slowly becoming  a reality  that  it 
will be difficult  to  ignore. 
The credo  of  Benin, henceforth  to be  a State where  the  rule of  law is 
paramount, is respect  for, and  the promotion  and defence  of, human  rights  and 
the rights of peoples.  That  is why we  support  the  1993  convening  of  a World 
Conference on Human  Rights  and  are  already  participating  actively  in the 
Preparations  for  that  high-level  Conference. 
A/47/PV.15 
102 
(Mr. Holo. Benin) 
It is necessary to promote social development if we are to promote, 
protect and defend human rights.  To the hungry, human rights can mean little 
if nothing is done to improve health care and education, to eliminate hunger 
and wretchedness, and to improve housing and the quality of life  in short, 
to achieve greater well-being.  That is why my country welcomes the decision 
to convene a world summit for social development in 1995; this will enshrine 
the human dimension of development. 
I wish on behalf of the Government and the people of Benin to pay tribute 
to all nations, large and small, that have shown unswerving support and 
friendship for my country, particularly in the past two years, and that have 
supported and encouraged democratic renewal in Benin:  the political, economic 
and moral rebirth of my country. 
I pay a special tribute to friendly agencies, bodies and Governments for 
their continued cooperation as we ponder, evaluate, organize and take 
decisions on all aspects of the lasting economic and social recovery of Benin, 
and for all they did to prepare for, coordinate, organize and hold the 
round-table meeting of partners in the economic and social development of the 
Republic of Benin, which took place at Geneva on 2 and 3 April 1992. 
It is my great hope that the forty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly will achieve a consensus acceptable to all in the negotiations on the 
restructuring of the United Nations system and the strengthening of the 
Organization's role in promoting international economic cooperation and 
consolidating our achievements in peace-keeping and international security. I 
also hope that it will show our peoples that it is still working for 
solidarity, partnership for development and hope. 
A/47/PV.15 
103 
Mr. NIEHAUS  QUESADA  (Costa Rica)  (interpretation  from  Spanish): 
Costa Rica  took great  pleasure  in supporting  the election  of Mr. Stoyan  Ganev 
to the presidency  of  the General  Assembly  at its  forty-seventh  session.  His 
election bears witness  to  a new era  in the history of  Bulgaria,  an era of 
freedom and pluralistic  democracy. 
My delegation  sincerely  congratulates  the Secretary-General  on his 
masterful guidance  of  the work  of  the United Nations.  Under  his  leadership 
the Organization  is with ever greater  vigour  assuming  the central  role that  it 
should play  in international  affairs. 
Costa Rica warmly welcomes  all  the new Members  of the United Nations. 
Their presence  in  this Hall  symbolizes  the birth of  a new era in  international 
relations based  on  the  ideals of peace  and  freedom  and  cooperation  between  all 
peoples. 
Mankind  has  seen  the  threat  of  nuclear  holocaust  lifted;  it has  seen the 
East-West  ideological  and military  confrontation  fade.  But  super-Power 
confrontation has been  replaced,  quickly  and bloodily,  by  conflicts  whose 
seemingly lesser magnitude  does  not make  them  any the  less dangerous  to world 
peace. 
The outbreak 
for  the most  absurd  reasons 
of  a number  of  conventional 
wars confirms our  belief  that  it  is more  important  than ever  to make  progress 
in the field  of disarmament.  The  end of  the East-West  conflict  provides  a 
unique opportunity  to make  decisive  advances  in that  sphere  and  to  impose 
strict controls  on the  arms  trade.  The  fading of  the nuclear  threat must  not 
take us back  to the era of  continuous  war. 
Old  sins  cast  long  shadows.  Today,  as  in  1914, we  look with  dismay 
at events in the Balkans.  A State Member  of  the United  Nations,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  is fighting  for  survival  in the midst  of  a bloody  and 
A/47/PV.15 
104-105 
(Mr. Niehaus Quesada. Costa Rica) 
unjustifiable war.  Peace initiatives fail one after the other.  A final 
solution to this senseless holocaust is not yet in sight. 
Costa Rica is deeply concerned at the dimensions this regional European 
conflict is taking on, and at the number of innocent victims, which grows 
daily.  The international community reacts tepidly, and, incomprehensibly, is 
reluctant to take the firm and vigorous stand that returned sovereignty to 
Kuwait. 
A/47/PV.15 
106 
(Mr. Niehaus  Quesada. Costa  Rica) 
How many  thousands  of deaths must  there be  for  a conflict  to be worthy  of 
international  interest?  The  case of  Somalia  reveals how far we  still have  to 
go before we  can truly  speak  of  a family  of united  nations.  The  conflict  in 
Somalia did not  command  our  interest until  2 million people were  about to die 
of hunger  and our  consciences were  struck by  the terrible  images of  Somali 
children begging  for  food.  Regrettably  the tragedy of  Somalia  is only  the 
most terrible  aspect of  the  tragedy of  sub-Saharan Africa, which  is  suffering 
a slow death of  despair, hunger, poverty  and underdevelopment  and  is met with 
the indifference  of  the  community  of nations. 
The end of  the  cold war has not decreased  the depth of the abyss  between 
north and south;  indeed,  it increases  daily with technological  advances. 
Third world  countries  not only do not receive an adeguate  response  to  their 
needs and expectations, but  are witnessing  a reduction  in outlets  for  their 
products and  in  financial  aid  for development.  The  stagnation  of  the Uruguay 
Round, the  increase  in protective measures  adopted by  industrialized  nations, 
and the reductions  in development programmes  are, oddly, occurring  at a time 
when Latin America has become  a continent of democracies  and when many  African 
and Asian countries have  again taken the  road to civil  and political  liberty. 
Some regrettable  steps backwards have  already been taken.  Latin  American 
democracy has  suffered  severe  setbacks  in Peru and Haiti.  In Peru there  seems 
to be movement  towards  a solution, despite  the fact that the country  is  still 
overrun by  the  irrationality  of  terrorism  and  the worst economic  situation  in 
its history.  In contrast, the problem  in Haiti, the poorest  and  most 
underdeveloped  country  in the Americas, grows worse  every day.  Because  Costa 
Rica belongs  to the Caribbean, Haiti's  tragedy  is of  special  concern  to us. 
My country believes  that both  the United Nations  and the  regional 
A/47/PV.15 
107 
(Mr. Niehaus  Quesada. Costa Rica) 
organizations  should  pay more  attention  to this matter  and  strive  harder  for a 
prompt  solution  to the  crisis.  We  are not  talking  about  the  legitimacy of a 
president  or  a government,  but  about  the  right  of  a sister  nation  to  live in 
freedom  and  receive  the  cooperation  it desperately  needs  for  its  development. 
I have mentioned  only  two examples, but  I believe  they  are  dramatically 
representative.  An overwhelming  majority  of  third world  democracies  are still 
on the  road  to consolidation.  This  consolidation  will be difficult,  however, 
without  a substantial  improvement  in their  economic  and  social  conditions, 
which  in turn requires  that  developed  countries  change  their  attitude  in 
respect  to opening  their markets  and  increasing  their  cooperation.  It need 
hardly be  said  that  the worse  the conditions  become  in third world  countries, 
the greater  will be  the number  of  legal  or  illegal  immigrants  to  developed 
countries, despite  the ethnocentric,  racist movements  which,  shamefully  in 
this era,  are again on the  rise. 
Needless  to  say,  the  third world  countries must  do  their  part  too. 
International  cooperation,  regardless  of  its magnitude, will  not change the 
situation of  the  receiving  country  if  it does not exert  a disciplined  and 
determined  effort  to make progress. 
It  is no  secret  that  in many  cases  financial  aid  intended  for  development 
has been misspent  on unproductive  and grandiose  projects.  It has been used to 
pay  salaries  and has even been placed  in personal bank  accounts.  Meanwhile, 
the people  continue  to  suffer hunger  and poverty.  Therefore  if  cooperation 
with  the underdeveloped  countries  is to  increase,  those  countries must  fight 
harder  against  bureaucracy  and  administrative  corruption  and must  redouble 
their  efforts  to ensure  that  international  aid  truly  fulfils  its objectives. 
A/47/PV.15 
108 
(Mr. Niehaus  Quesada.  Costa  Rica) 
At  a time when  the  economic  situation  is difficult  even  for  many 
industrialized  nations,  and when  the European  Community  is undergoing  one of 
the worst monetary  crises  of  its history,  priority  should  also be given  to 
increasing  South-South  cooperation.  Each  of us has  something  to give  and 
something  to  receive.  The  common  condition  of  third world  countries  does  not 
prevent us  from  recognizing  that  there  are many  stages  of development  and  many 
possibilities  for  cooperation.  Moreover,  the growing  importance  of 
integration  institutions  offers  a great  opportunity  to  intensify  the  levels of 
interregional  cooperation  by means  of  effective  and  coordinated  actions  which 
will contribute  to  fortifying  the democratic  system  through  economic  and 
social progress. 
Costa Rica wishes  to  stress  the efforts  to ensure  coordination  and 
cooperation being made  by  the  countries  of Latin America;  they  clearly  show 
the region's  determination  to  resolve  differences  through  the use of  machinery 
for peaceful  settlement  established  in international  law.  In this  connection, 
my Government  congratulates  El  Salvador  and Honduras  on  completing  their  case 
before the International  Court  of Justice, making  it possible  to  settle  their 
border conflict.  At  the  same  time, we express  our  satisfaction with  the 
efforts being made by  Ecuador  and Peru  to  find  a just  and  final  solution  to 
the bilateral  border  dispute which  for  so many years has existed  between  these 
two fraternal  countries. 
Democracy  can  flourish  only  if electoral  pluralism  is combined  with 
respect for human  rights.  Costa  Rica  assigns  primary  importance  to  these 
rights, which  for many  years  now we have made  the  foundation  for both  our 
internal life  and our  external  policies.  Consequently,  my  country  takes  a 
A/47/PV.15 
109-110 
(Mr. Niehaus Quesada. Costa Rica) 
great interest in the World Conference on Human Rights, scheduled to be held 
in Vienna next year, and we are very happy to serve as the site of the 
preparatory meeting for the Latin American and Caribbean region.  We are also 
pleased to know that during the Vienna Conference some countries will discuss 
the possibility of creating the post of United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights.  Costa Rica has submitted this idea to the General Assembly 
repeatedly since the 1970s, and we firmly hope that it will finally take shape 
at the World Conference. 
My delegation also wishes to express Costa Rica's firm support for the 
mechanism established by the Economic and Social Council in 1991 to allow the 
Commission on Human Rights to hold special sessions to take up serious 
violations of fundamental rights.  We deem it necessary to continue the search 
for flexible machinery which will stop and prevent massive violations of human 
rights in a timely manner.  We should like to recall here the Costa Rican 
proposal - approved by the Human Rights Committee at the beginning of this 
year  for a treaty on prevention of torture. 
The negotiations on the complex problems of South Africa and the Middle 
East are doubtless of great importance to the cause of human rights. 
A/47/PV.15 
111 
(Mr. Niehaus  Quesada.  Costa  Rica) 
In this  and  other  forums my  country  has  rigorously  condemned  the 
apartheid  regime,  an offensive  and  unjustifiable  anachronism  that  deprives  the 
majority of  the  South African people  of  their  fundamental  rights.  We  have 
welcomed, with optimism,  the beginning  of negotiations  between  the  Pretoria 
regime and  the African National  Congress,  and we  firmly hope  that,  leaving 
aside the  reprehensible  acts  that have  occurred  in Ciskei  and other parts  of 
South Africa,  the  renewed  peace  talks will  soon  lead  to  the construction  of a 
new, democratic  and peace-loving  South Africa  that will work  towards  the 
development  of  the entire  continent.  Costa Rica urges  that  resolute  steps  be 
taken in that  direction. 
The need  for  long-lasting  peace  in the Middle East  has been  a matter  of 
constant concern  to  the United  Nations  almost  ever  since  it was  established. 
Now, for the  first  time  in the eventful  history  of  this  region,  effective 
peace talks are  taking place with  the participation  of  all  interested 
parties.  Nevertheless,  it  is my  Government's  opinion  that  this process  should 
move faster  and  should be  accompanied  by  a substantial  improvement  in the 
human rights  situation  in the Middle  East without  distinction  as  to race, 
nationality or  religious  creed.  It  is important  that  in this  case, as  in many 
other cases, the  international  community  should  contribute,  in a vigilant 
manner, to promoting peace  and  assuring  respect  for  the  fundamental  rights  of 
individuals and  communities. 
Peace  is possible  regardless  of  the number  of human  lives  lost  in a 
conflict or of how much  damage has been  caused.  Human beings  are capable  of 
forgetting extremism  and  of  talking with  their  opponents  when  the  future  of 
their children  is at  stake.  The  recent  history  of Central  America  is vivid 
Proof that a cruel  and  lengthy  conflict  can be  stopped  by means  of  negotiation. 
A/47/PV.15 
112 
(Mr. Niehaus Quesada. Costa Rica) 
During the 1980s, Central America suffered an unprecedented political and 
security crisis marked by intimations of totalitarism and by guerrilla 
activity, flows of refugees, an arms buildup, the destruction of 
infrastructure and an alarming extension of the East-West confrontation. 
Fortunately, today most of these features belong to the past.  Democracy and 
political freedom reign in all the Central American countries, several 
national reconciliation processes are at present under way, arms limitation 
talks are moving ahead and a vigorous effort for integration is in progress. 
Nevertheless, the experience of Central America also shows the 
international community that it is very difficult to consolidate advances 
achieved in matters relating to peace and democracy if the underlying reality 
of underdevelopment and poverty continues to exist.  The democratic and 
peaceful Central America of today has seen the world lose interest in its 
problems.  It has witnessed a decline in the cooperation that existed when it 
was in turmoil.  The Latin American peoples' effort to change their destiny 
has collided with the increasing indifference of the developed nations. 
Financial aid is being reduced.  Coffee and bananas, our leading export 
products, are encountering more and more obstacles.  We are being urged to 
diversify our production, but international markets are not opening up to us. 
Central America is being urged to advance towards democracy without our being 
given the tools that will lead us to development.  Political democracy alone, 
regrettably, is not a panacea for the social problems of our countries.  It is 
true that it is possible to live in democracy even with poverty, but in 
countries that have just started to experience democracy, democracy will not 
sink its roots very deep if it is not accompanied by improvements in 
nutrition, housing and public health. 
A/47/PV.15 
113 
(Mr. Niehaus  Quesada. Costa  Rica) 
It is not possible  to approach most of  the  subjects  being discussed here, 
including international  cooperation,  from one point  of view  alone.  The 
present international  situation  is an especially  promising opportunity  for  all 
nations, regardless  of their  resources, to work  in a coordinated manner  to 
combat common enemies  and to build  a better world  for our  children.  This 
plurality of vision  is, for example, the only way  to confront, with  any 
prospect of  success, the problem  of drug trafficking  and production, which  is 
harmful to producing  and  consumer  countries  alike, and  is aggravated  by the 
accompanying  terrorism  and guerrilla warfare. 
Unquestionably,  the most  important problem we must  face  as a species  is 
that of saving  the planet's ecological, economic  and  social  integrity,  for 
ourselves and  for  future generations.  Costa Rica, which has been  a victim, 
like many other  countries, of the  irrational  destruction  and exploitation  of 
its national  resources, has  reconsidered  and now emphasizes  the need  for a new 
international ecological  order  that will  save mankind  from  its progressive 
environmental  suicide  and  reorient  the course of  its development. 
I am very pleased  to announce  to this Assembly  that, in accordance  with 
Costa Rica's offer  of  3 September  to set up, in the  capital  city of my 
country, the organizing  committee  of the Earth Council, a  non-governmental 
organization that will  supplement  and  support governmental  follow-up  of  the 
Rio agreements. 
The Rio Conference, regardless  of  all  its limitations, is a magnificent 
landmark in the  fight against environmental  degradation  and  unsustainable 
development patterns.  But how much has  really been done  to put  into  effect 
what was agreed  there?  Will we  limit ourselves  to  regarding  the  Rio 
Conference as a kind of  community  of ecological  nations packed  with 
fine-sounding words  and good  intentions but  lacking  results? 
A/47/PV.15 
114-115 
(Mr. Niehaus Quesada, Costa Rica) 
The triumph of ecological degradation creates only losers.  Safeguarding 
the environment, sustainable development and the struggle against poverty are 
joint responsibilities of both the industrialized and the underdeveloped 
world.  Hence the United Nations is an ideal forum for making efforts in that 
direction, for demanding compliance with the Rio resolutions and for imposing 
sanctions on those Members that disregard them.  While there are mechanisms 
for collective international action to combat threats to international peace 
and security, there should also be, within the United Nations, procedures for 
acting against those who endanger human survival, the planet's resources and 
social justice, and for imposing sanctions against them. 
As the Secretary-General has stated, the question of world peace, 
stability and security should include subjects other than military matters. 
It is logical, then, that the changes that have taken place in the world and 
the new realities being encountered by mankind today make it imperative for 
the United Nations, a pillar of the joint efforts of nations, to reorganize in 
order to fulfil its important mission more effectively.  From this 
perspective, my country considers it indispensable that the United Nations 
should comply fully with the principle of universality and open its doors to 
those who, for various reasons, have been forced to remain outside it. 
Of special concern to us is the case of the Republic of China in Taiwan, 
a democratic community of 21 million people with a brilliant economic 
development record whose reality cannot continue to be ignored by an 
Organization that takes pride in having gone beyond the patterns of the cold 
war. 
A/47/PV.15 
116 
(Mr. Niehaus  Quesada. Costa  Rica) 
In addition,  it is imperative  that  the  structures  and procedures  of  the 
United Nations be  revised  to conform  with  the  realities  of our times.  The 
Secretary-General, in his  outstanding  report, "An Agenda  for Peace", has 
written with  commendable  accuracy  about  the most  important  aspects which  need 
to be modified  in a  relatively  short period  of  time.  Costa Rica wishes  today 
to declare  that  it shares most  of  the  concerns  stated  in that document  and 
urges all Member  States  to begin a vigorous effort  for  institutional  renewal. 
One of  the most  important  areas  that  should be  revised  is the  Security 
Council, in terms of  its make-up  and objectives.  We believe  that  the  number 
of permanent members  should be  increased,  in accordance with  the new  realities 
of the international  scene, and based  on better  and greater  geographical 
representation.  We  also deem  it necessary  to  reconsider  the institution  of 
the veto and  reflect upon  the corresponding  role of  the Council  in maintaining 
world peace and  security, as well  as its relationship  to the  General 
Assembly.  Some  thought  should  also be given  to  strenthening, modernizing  and 
reducing bureaucracy  in the Economic  and Social Council. 
This is a good  time  also  to mention  the  importance  of  coordination 
between the United Nations  and other  international  forums.  Regardless  of  the 
inevitable difficulties, the  integration movement  continues  apace  in Europe, 
Asia, South America  and Central America.  We the Central Americans, joined  by 
democracy in all our  countries, have  reconsidered  our outmoded  system  of 
integration to adapt  it to the new regional  realities, and only a few months 
ago the Treaty  that establishes, on a new basis, the Central  American 
Integration System  came  into  force.  Costa Rica  is confident  that this  new 
organization will  become  the  arena  for persistent  efforts  towards  our  shared 
future and in keeping with  the Secretary-General's  proposal, it will  shortly 
be in a position  to  request observer  status  in the United Nations. 
A/47/PV.15 
117 
(Mr. Niehaus Quesada. Costa Rica) 
In a few days the anniversary of the meeting of two hemispheres  the 
meeting of the whole world with itself - will be celebrated.  Since the dawn 
of that day, a Friday in October, mankind was able to start thinking with a 
sense of family and of inevitable common destiny.  Now, on the threshold of 
the third millennium, that unavoidable mission of mankind is stronger than 
ever before, and the United Nations is its most important embodiment. 
Here at the United Nations, and in everyone's country and in everyone's 
home, the wise words of sura XXVIII of the Holy Koran hold true: 
"... [Do not] forget thy portion in this 
World:  but do thou good. 
As God has been good 
To thee ... 
"That Home of the Hereafter 
We  s h a ll  cjive  to 
those 
Who intend not high-handedness 
Or mischief on earth: 
And the End is (best) 
For the righteous." (The Holy Koran. XXVIII:77.83) 
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish):  We have heard the last 
speaker in the general debate this afternoon.  One representative wishes to 
speak in exercise of the right of reply. 
May I remind members that, in accordance with General Assembly decision 
34/401, statements in exercise of the right of reply should be limited to 
10 minutes for the first intervention and to five minutes for the second and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 
I now call on the representative of the Sudan. 
A/47/PV.15 
118 
Mr. ADAM  (Sudan)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  In his  statement 
this afternoon,  the  Chairman  of  the delegation  of  Ghana  said  that  in dealing 
with the Sudanese  crisis, the Government  of  Sudan  is trying  to impose  a 
military  solution, whereas  the problem  is  fundamentally  political.  We  agree 
with him on  the political  and  social  nature  of  the problem,  but we want 
everyone to  recall  that  all previous  Sudanese  Governments  have  proposed 
negotiation as a means  of  solving  this problem which  is not  of  the  Sudanese 
people's making. 
The problem  of  the  south of  the  Sudan, with  its attendant  fratricidal 
strife, was  created by  unmistakable  foreign  forces with  the aim  of  undermining 
the country's  unity.  The  revolution  of national  salvation has  consistently 
advocated the peace  option.  The  conference  of national  dialogue which was 
convened in 1989  and which  everyone  attended with  the exception  of  the 
rebellion movement  that  rejected  the  invitation  to participate  was  the 
starting point  in  the  search  for  a peaceful  solution  to the problem  of  the 
south.  Thereafter,  several meetings were held.  Worthy  of note  are  the  Abuja 
talks, sponsored  by Mr. Babangida,  the President  of  Nigeria. 
It is the  rebellion movement  that  rejects peace.  It  is that  movement 
that violates human  rights, particularly  in the  south of  the country, where  it 
has burned out whole villages  and  kidnapped  tens of  thousands  of  children,  to 
use them as human  shields  for  its horses, and  as  slave  labour.  This has  led 
the inhabitants  of many  villages  to  flee  their villages.  The  rebellion  has 
burnt those people's  crops,  rustled  their  cattle, mobilized  their  children by 
the force of  arms, deprived  them  of  relief  and now threatens  to  shoot  down 
aircraft that bring  in  relief  supplies. 
A/47/PV.15 
119 
(Mr. Adam. Sudan) 
We in the Sudan are calling for peace and on various occasions we have 
announced a general amnesty for those who would put down their arms.  This is 
a call that is beginning to have an unprecedented response on the part of 
those who had been misled by the rebellion movement. 
The duty of the legitimate Government in the Sudan is to retrieve every 
inch of the country's soil occupied by the rebellion movement, especially that 
it has instituted a federal system that allows every State to administer its 
own affairs in a federalist context. 
We invite all who wish to ascertain that we observe human rights in Sudan 
and that it is the rebellion movement that is violating human rights in an 
unprecedented manner. 
We would have expected the representative of Ghana, as the representative 
of a sister African country, to ascertain the facts as they are on the ground 
and not to follow the reports of foreign media.  This will never contribute to 
finding the peaceful solution we all desire. 
The visit by Mr. Eliasson, Under-Secretary-General  for Humanitarian 
Affairs, to the Sudan in the course of this month and the report he has 
submitted are conclusive proof of the veracity of what we have stated.  We 
consider that this statement is also a reply to what was said by the 
representative of Benin a few moments ago. 
The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m. 
