NITED 
ATIONS 
(£&&, 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.27 
21 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  27th MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Tuesday,  6 October  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
Mr.  MONGBE 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Benin) 
Address by  Sir Ketumile  Masire, President  of  the Republic  of  Botswana 
General  debate  [9]  (continued) 
Statements  made  by 
Sir  Baddeley Devesi  (Solomon  Islands) 
Mr.  Kalpage  (Sri  Lanka) 
Mr.  King  (Barbados) 
Mr.  Turnquest  (Bahamas) 
This record  contains  the original  text of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
be printed in the  Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
SSS_week, to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section, Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations  Plaza, and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61334  1664V  (E) 
A/47/PV.27 
2-5 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.15  p.m. 
ADDRESS  BY SIR  KETUMILE MASIRE, PRESIDENT  OF THE REPUBLIC  OF  BOTSWANA 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will  first hear  an address by the 
President of  the Republic  of  Botswana. 
Sir Ketumile Masire. President  of  the Republic  of Botswana, was escort-pri 
into  the General  Assembly  Hall. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General Assembly,  I have the honour 
to welcome  to the United Nations  the President  of  the Republic  of Botswana, 
His Excellency  Sir Ketumile Masire, and to invite him  to address  the Assembly. 
President MASIRE:  I am pleased  to extend  to you. Sir, and to your 
country, Bulgaria, the  sincere  congratulations  of my  delegation  on your 
election  to the presidency  of  the  forty-seventh  session  of  the United Nations 
General Assembly.  I have  no doubt  that under your  able  leadership  this 
session will be  a great success. 
A/47/PV.27 
6 
(President  Masire) 
In the  short  space of  time  since he  assumed  office  at the beginning  of 
the year, our new Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali, has more  than 
justified the confidence  reposed  in him  and his prodigious qualities  and 
abilities by his election  to the highly  demanding  office  of 
Secretary-General.  He has been, during  these  nine  turbulent months, more  than 
a match for the daunting  c.ises that have  so far  characterized  the  so-called 
new world order.  We  salute him  and his equally  dedicated  colleagues  in the 
Secretariat. 
The forty-seventh  session of  the General Assembly  is being held  at a rare 
moment in history.  It is a moment  so brilliantly  captured  in the  language  of 
Article 21 of  the Universal  Declaration  of Human Rights, wherein  are written 
these words: 
"The will  of  the people  shall be  the basis of  the authority  of 
government; this will  shall be expressed  in periodic  and  genuine 
elections which  shall be by universal  and equal  suffrage  ...". 
(resolution  217 A  (III),  article  21, para.  3) 
Peoples across  the globe  are marching  triumphantly  to  seize  control  of 
their own destinies  through  the ballot.  This has been clearly manifested  in 
the admission of  seven new Members  during  the  forty-sixth  regular  session of 
the General Assembly  and many more  at  its  resumed meetings.  The membership  of 
those new States  enhances  the universality  of  the United Nations.  We  warmly 
welcome their presence  in our midst. 
The end of  the  cold war  has  triggered  an avalanche  of demands  on  the 
United Nations  at a time w!-en the Organization  is tottering  on the verge  of 
bankruptcy.  The Organizat.on  is being  called  upon to be everywhere  where 
t'-iere is a problem  and  to carry  out  activities  ranging  from peace-keeping  and 
A/47/PV.27 
7 
(President Masire) 
peacemaking  in areas  ravaged by  civil wars  to  fighting natural  disasters.  It 
is also  required  to play  a role  in areas where  democracy  is being embraced. 
The  financing  of both  the United Nations  activities  under  its  regular 
budget  and  its peace-keeping  operations has  never  been more  crucial  to the 
role and  function of  the Organization.  For many years  the Organization was 
paralysed  by  ideological  confrontation, and  it is unfortunate  that it should 
now be hamstrung  in the performance  of  its  functions by  financial  emergency 
and crisis  in an era when  there  is so much good  will. 
The  issue  is simple:  the machinery  of  the United Nations  cannot be 
expected  to  function effectively  and efficiently when  it has  run out of 
financial  steam.  We  can all bear  testimony  to the  success  of  the United 
Nations  system when there  is a common desire  and will  to put the system to 
work.  The  assessed  contributions  have  to be paid  in  full  and on time, in 
accordance with  the Charter.  All  arrears have  to be paid  as a demonstration 
of our  commitment  to the process  of  renewal  and  revitalization  currently going 
on  in the world  and within  the United Nations  itself. 
Botswana has  followed with grave  concern  the  tragic  events  in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, the  senseless  killing  and brutality  visited  on  innocent men, 
women and  children.  It is  indeed  unfortunate  that while many  States  in 
Eastern  and Central  Europe have  experienced  relatively  peaceful  transitions to 
democracy  and political  pluralism,  the people  of  the  former Yugoslavia, the 
founding  champion  and  leader  of  the Movement  of Non-Aligned  Countries, should 
be bleeding  so hopelessly.  Yugoslavia was  a critical  factor  for  stability in 
Central  Europe  during  the  lark days of  super-Power  rivalry  and military 
confrontation. 
However, we  cannot be distracted  from present  reality by  the past.  The 
international  community  has been  rightfully  outraged  by  acts of barbarism  in a 
A/47/PV.27 
8-10 
(President  Masire) 
world increasingly  characterized  by  civilized  conduct  in  inter-State 
relations.  The  agreements  reached  at the London Conference, which enjoy  the 
overwhelming  approbation of  the  international  community, must be  implemented 
in full by  all  the parties  involved  in the brutal  conflict.  No effort  should 
be spared  in ensuring  the  restoration  of  lasting peace  in the Balkans. 
In South-East Asia, the brave  and  courageous men  and women of  the United 
Nations Transitional  Authority  in Cambodia  (UNTAC) continue  to work  quietly 
and tirelessly  to bring  about peace  and  stability  in that country.  It is 
hoped that all parties  to the Agreement  on a Comprehensive  Political 
Settlement of  the Cambodia Conflict will  honour  their  obligations.  The people 
of Cambodia have  long  awaited  the day when  they can return to their homes, 
walk in the streets  and  till  the  soil without  fear of  land mines. 
The implementation  of  the peace  agreement  is a monumental  task  the  likes 
of which this world body has never  before undertaken.  It is vitally  important 
that the efforts  of  the United Nations  succeed  in timely  and  effective 
fashion.  A  situation  in which  the United Nations Transitional  Authority  in 
Cambodia  (UNTAC) might be marooned  in Cambodia, with  the financial burden  that 
would entail, must be  avoided  at all cost. 
The Middle  East peace  talks which opened  in Washington, D.C.,  on 
24 August 1992 and which have now been  suspended have given us cause  for 
optimism.  The  atmosphere which has been  created  at the talks  augurs well  for 
serious negotiations  for  a comprehensive  political  settlement.  We  fully 
support the process  under  jay and encourage  the parties  to the negotiations  to 
ensure that this historic  opportunity  is not  squandered. 
A/47/PV.27 
11 
(President  Masire) 
In Afghanistan,  it is our  sincere hope  that the  establishment  of a 
transitional  Government will  silence  the guns, which  for  14 years wreaked 
death, misery  and disaster  on  innocent  civilians  and on belligerents alike. 
The  international  community,  in particular  those Member  States  that have 
strong ties with  the parties  to the conflict, should bring maximum  pressure to 
bear on the parties  to  refrain  from  resorting  to  the use  of  force  in settling 
their differences. 
In Somalia, a human  tragedy of unspeakable  dimensions  is unfolding before 
our very  eyes.  According  to a report of  the Secretary-General  contained in 
document S/24480 of  24 August  1992, famine  threatens  the  lives of 4.5  million 
people.  On a daily basis, many are dying  a slow and painful  death.  It is 
regrettable  that the  response of the  international  community was  painfully 
slow at the beginning of  the tragedy.  However, there were, and  there  continue 
to be, men and women whose devotion  to humanitarian  service  and  reverence for 
human  life are unparalleled  in their quality  and dimension.  The  International 
Red Cross was  there when no one else was.  Its dedication  to  alleviating human 
suffering  is truly extraordinary.  The great  son of a Lutheran pastor  and 1952 
Nobel  Peace Prize  laureate. Dr. Albert  Schweitzer, once  said 
"There  is no higher  religion  than human  service.  To work  for the common 
good  is the greatest  creed." 
The  Red Cross deserves  our gratitude  and  commendation. 
In equal measure, we  commend  the efforts  of  the Secretary-General  in 
securing  the  agreement  and  approbation  of  the parties  to the  conflict, in the 
face of  immense difficulties, so that humanitarian  assistance  could  reach the 
suffering people.  We  also welcome  the decision of  the Security  Council to 
deploy  an additional  3,000 observers  in Somalia. 
A/47/PV.27 
12 
(President  Masire) 
In South Africa, at the  time of  their  suspension  three difficult  months 
ago, the negotiations  conducted  within  the  framework  of  the Convention  for  a 
Democratic  South Africa  (CODESA) had undeniably  achieved positive  results.  A 
substantial  degree of  consensus  had been achieved within a relatively  short 
time, considering  that  less  than  two years  ago  the apartheid  edifice was  still 
very much  intact, barely  shaken, and prospects  for  change  in South Africa were 
as bleak  as they  could be.  Now, we have  seen what  the three-month hiatus has 
wrought 
more massacres  as brutal  at that  at Boipatong, which caused  the 
break-up of  the negotiations  in June.  The  recent one  at Bisho  in the 
Bantustan of  Ciskei, however, seems  to have had  a sobering  effect on the  South 
African leaders.  If  anything  at all, these massacres have  shown  that 
negotiations  are  the only hope  for South Africa, and  it is with a sigh of 
relief that we welcome  the  resumption  of the negotiation process. 
We welcome  the  keen  interest  the world  community has  shown in the  South 
African crisis, as evidenced  by  the adoption by the Security Council  of 
resolution  772  (1992) of  17 August  1992.  The  involvement  of the  international 
community  in the process  of  change  in South Africa  is a very  crucial  element. 
It is our  sincere  hope  that the United Nations  observers mentioned  in 
operative paragraph  4 of  that  Security Council  resolution- will be deployed  in 
full and kept  in place  throughout  the process  of negotiation, or as long  as it 
is deemed  necessary  and vital  to keep them  there. 
Progress,  if  any, towards  the  resolution of  the Western  Sahara  issue has 
been too  slow, to  say  the  least.  The people of Western Sahara  should be  given 
the opportunity  to exercise  their  right  to national  self-determination  freely 
and fairly  under  international  supervision.  No  obstacles  should be placed  in 
the way of  the  settlement olan. 
A/47/PV.27 
13-15 
(President Masire) 
Recent developments  in Angola  and Mozambique mark  the dawn of a new era 
in southern Africa.  A  situation of peace  and  stability  is now gaining 
momentum.  The  signing  of  the General  Peace Agreement by  the President of 
Mozambique, Mr. Joaquim  Chissano, and by  the  leader  of RENAMO, 
Mr. Afonso Dhlakama,  is a major  development  in the process  of bringing peace 
to Mozambique.  Botswana  contributed  in its small way  to the process, and I 
had  the honour  to witness  the  signing of  the Agreement  in Rome on 4 October. 
I hope  that the  international  community will  extend political, diplomatic and 
moral  support  to Mozambique  in order  to ensure  that the Agreement  is 
translated  into  solid peace.  Millions  of Mozambicans  face starvation and 
death because  of the war  and drought.  The  signing of  the General  Peace 
Agreement opens  the door  fjr  the United Nations  agencies  and other 
international  relief  agencies, and  the  international  community  as a whole, to 
alleviate  the  suffering  of the people of Mozambique, as well  as to assist with 
the means  to  reconstruct  their  country. 
For  the  first time  since  it acceded  to  independence  in 1975, Angola held 
multiparty  elections  last week.  The high  turn-out  for the elections  indicates 
the readiness  of  the Angolan people  to use  the ballot  rather  than the bullet 
to  resolve  their  differences.  I hope  that  this high turn-out, coupled with 
free and  fair  elections, will bestow  legitimacy  on  the new Government.  What 
is of paramount  importance  however, is the agreement made by the Popular 
Movement  for the Liberation  of Angola  (MPLA) and  the Union  for  the Total 
Liberation  of Angola  (UNITA) to  form  a Government  of  national  unity 
irrespective  of whichever  party wins  the elections. 
A/47/PV.27 
16 
(President  Masire) 
This  is the  second  time  the United Nations  has  successfully  supervised 
multiparty  elections  in southern Africa.  The  role of  the United Nations  in 
the peace process  in Angola  is therefore  truly  commendable. 
There  is an intricate  relationship between peace  and  security  and 
economic  and  social  development.  There can be no doubt  that the problems  of 
poverty, unemployment, huge  foreign debt, budget  deficits, lack  of market 
access, high  interest  rates  and  the environment  are not  the problems of  any 
one country  or group  of  countries.  No one country  can solve them  in isolation. 
The macroeconomic  management  of  the global  economy  should  now be  guided 
by the need  to serve  common  interests.  There  should be an end to the 
perception of problems  as being  exclusively  those of the North or of  the 
South.  A new approach  is  required, one  that will  identify  the common problems 
of humanity  and build  on the consensus.  We  should put an end to mutual 
distrust, and move  away  from perceiving  the economic  concerns of  countries  as 
being mutually  exclusive  and permanently  at loggerheads.  This  is not a 
zero-sum game. 
The lessons  of our  recent past  should guide us.  The world was united  in 
its opposition  to aggression  against  Kuwait, and  concerted  efforts were made 
to mobilize  resources  in support of the countries  of Eastern Europe  and  the 
Commonwealth of  Independent  States; all of this  showed  an acceptance  of  the 
validity of  the  concepts  of  interdependence, partnership  and  the  "global 
village." 
In 1993  a World  Conference  on Human Rights will be held,  followed by the 
1994 Conference  on Population  and Development.  And  in  1995, as the United 
Nations celebrates  its golden  jubilee, the World  Conference  on Women will  take 
place.  This  attests  to the  fact that  these  are  shared human problems  and 
A/47/PV.27 
17 
(President  Masire) 
therefore  require our  collective  endeavours.  There  should be  a move away from 
the temptation  to accord  the highest priority  to human  rights  and democracy, 
to the detriment  of other  areas of primary  concern.  It serves no useful 
purpose  to have priorities  based  solely  on political  considerations  and what 
are perceived  as strategic  national  interests. 
Democracy  is threatened  when  the  legitimate  expectations  of the people 
are frustrated  by economic  deprivation.  In this  regard, we  strongly  support 
the proposal  to convene  a world  summit  for  social development  in 1995.  It is 
our  fervent hope  that a co-isensus decision will  be  reached  on this matter of 
critical  importance  to the world  as a whole.  The  Summit  should  afford the 
international  community  the opportunity  to address  in an  integrated manner the 
problems  of poverty, illiteracy, disease, unemployment  and poor  living 
conditions. 
The economic  situation  in Africa  is still bleak.  Africa continues to 
experience  a crushing  debt burden, falling commodity prices  and  painful 
structural  adjustment programmes.  The economies  of many African  countries 
have  stagnated  or  retrogressed  during  the past year.  The African  economic 
crisis  is a development  challenge  to mankind's  collective  conscience. 
Concerted  efforts  should be made  to  translate  the United Nations New Agenda 
for Africa  into  concrete programmes  and projects  that can put our  continent on 
the path  to economic  recovery  and development.  The Global  Coalition  for 
Africa  (GCA), which  I have  the honour  to co-chair  on behalf  of Africa, has 
made  a signifioant  contribution  to the new consensus-building  process  since 
its inception  in Maastricht  in 1990.  As  a forum  that brings  together, at the 
highest  level, policy makers  from Africa  and  its international  partners, the 
GCA has great potential  in the  search  for  solutions  to Africa's most critical 
development  issues. 
A/47/PV.27 
18-20 
(President  Masire) 
The GCA  is a forum  for equal  engagement,  for openness  to policy  decisions 
and for great  seriousness.  Our partnership with  the North  requires  our  most 
determined  leadership.  It is  important  that  the GCA be Africa-driven,  and it 
is in the  interest  of Africa  to have  a forum based  on equal  partnership. 
As Chairman  of  the  former  Southern African Development  Coordination 
Conference  (SADCC),  I am pleased  to  inform  the Assembly  that  the member  States 
recently  signed  in Windhoek,  Namibia,  a Treaty  and Protocol  establishing  the 
Southern African Development  Community  (SADC).  This historic  development  is 
part of  the overall  efforts  of  the  countries  of  the  subregion  to enhance  and 
intensify  inter-regional  cooperation. 
SADCC had been  in existence  for  12 years  as a loose  arrangement  between 
members.  Those very  fruitful  years  armed us with  the  courage, wisdom  and 
experience  to  transform  the  loose  arrangement  that was  the SADCC  into  the 
formal entity  that  is the SADC.  The  establishment  of  SADC  is part  and parcel 
of continental  efforts  to  create  an African economic  community;  it  is without 
a doubt one of  the  community's  building blocks. 
A/47/PV.27 
21 
(President  Masire) 
The  establishment  of  SADC  takes place  against  the backdrop  of a serious 
drought  crisis  ravaging  southern Africa.  The  response of  the  international 
community  has been very positive, but  the magnitude  of  the  crisis  is 
daunting.  The  scope  and extent  of  its impact  continue  to  unfold, 
necessitating  a revised  estimation  of  the  resources  needed  to alleviate the 
plight  of  the most  seriously  affected  populations.  We  appeal  to the members 
of the  international  donor  community  who have not yet  done  so to convert their 
pledges  into  concrete  contributions  to avert  a human  tragedy. 
The United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  adopted a 
number  of  important  decisions which  are now before  the General  Assembly  for 
follow-up  and  implementation.  We  attach  the utmost  importance  to the Rio 
Declaration  on Environment  and Development  and  the Programme  of  Action 
outlined  in Agenda  21.  In this  regard, we  fully  support  the  recommendation to 
the General Assembly  on the establishment  of  a high-level  commission  on 
sustainable  development.  The  Rio  Summit  was  the beginning  of  a process which 
should  now  find concrete  expression  in the  form of  the  commitment  by Member 
States  to honour  their  obligations.  Of particular  importance  is the need for 
resources  to  implement  Agenda 21. 
Drought  and desertification  threaten  the economic  prospects  of many 
developing  countries.  It is  imperative  that urgent measures  be  taken to find 
an integrated  solution  to the problem.  We  strongly believe  that  this can be 
done within  the  framework  of negotiations  on  a convention  on  desertification. 
This  is a matter  of  critical  importance  to many African  States,  and a positive 
decision will  contribute  substantially  to the  search  for  solutions  to the 
economic  malaise  facing our  continent. 
A/47/PV.27 
22 
(President  Masire) 
I should  like  to conclude  by  reaffirming  Botswana's  abiding  faith  in the 
United Nations  and  its Charter.  We  are  ready  to play our part  in our  common 
endeavour  to  strengthen  the Organization  to enable  it to  face the  challenges 
of the twenty-first  century. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf of  the General Assembly,  I wish  to  thank 
the President  of  the Republic  of Botswana  for  the  statement  he has  just made. 
Sir Ketumile Masire. President  of  the Republic  of  Botswana, was  escorted 
from the General  Assembly  Hall. 
AGENDA  ITEM  9  (continued) 
GENERAL DEBATE 
Sir  Baddeley  DEVESI  (Solomon  Islands):  It is an honour  and 
privilege  for me  to  address  this  forty-seventh  session of  the United  Nations 
General  Assembly. 
On behalf  of  the Government  and people of  Solomon  Islands, I should  like 
to express  our  sincere  congratulations  to you. Sir, on your election  to the 
presidency of  the Assembly.  I am confident  that under your  able  leadership 
much will be  achieved.  I should  also  like to convey our  sincere  thanks  and 
appreciation  to your predecessor, Mr. Samir  Shihabi,  for his  outstanding 
leadership during  the  forty-sixth  session. 
Solomon  Islands  joins  the United  Nations  community  in congratulating  and 
welcoming Mr. Boutros-Ghali,  our  new  Secretary-General.  Mr. Boutros-Ghali  has 
indeed an important  and  challenging  task  ahead.  I assure  the 
Secretary-General  of my  Government's  continued  support  and  cooperation. 
Much has happened  since  the  last  session of  the General  Assembly.  Like 
the rest of  the world  community,  Solomon  Islands has viewed with  interest  the 
political developments  in Eastern Europe  since  the  latter half  of 1991. 
A/47/PV.27 
23-25 
(Sir Baddelev  Devest. 
Solomon  Islands) 
Self-determination  has  certainly  taken  its course.  The  former  republics and 
States  of  the Soviet Union  and Yugoslavia  have  now gained  their  freedom to 
govern  and pursue  their  own destinies.  We  observe with  concern, however, that 
these  changes have had  some negative  results. 
It is worth noting  that  as  a result  of  these  changes  a number  of former 
republics  and  States have  now become Members  of  this world  body.  In the same 
spirit  as previous  speakers, Solomon  Islands would  like  to congratulate the 
newly  independent  States  of Georgia,  Slovenia,  Croatia  and Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina.  The presence  of  those  countries with us  in this world  forum not 
only binds  us closely,  but brings  home  a message  of unity, hope  and peace.* 
* 
Mr. Mongbe  (Benin), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.27 
26 
(Sir Baddeley  Devesi, 
Solomon  Islands) 
Despite  this message,  Solomon  Islands has  learned with dismay  about  the 
recent killings  of  the  civilian population  and United  Nations personnel  in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  We  condemn  this  atrocious  act.  In this  connection, 
Solomon  Islands  fully  supports  the various measures  undertaken by  the United 
Nations. 
I now turn  to  the Middle  East.  Solomon  Islands would  like  to  register 
its recognition  of  the  countries which have played  a prominent  role  in the 
Middle East peace  initiative.  We  appreciate  the complexities  of the  conflict 
and acknowledge  the  initiatives  taken by  the parties  involved  to find a 
peaceful  and  lasting  solution.  Solomon  Islands urges  those with  the  necessary 
resources and  the will  to do  so, to continue  to play  a mediating  and 
supportive  role  in this process.  In this  context,  Solomon  Islands would  like 
to raise the questions  where  and how  the United Nations  can best play  its  role 
in facilitating  this effort.  Given  the emerging  trend  towards peace,  Solomon 
Islands calls  on the United  Nations  to be both  sensitive  and  responsive  in 
adopting  resolutions.  We  look  forward  to more positive  participation by  the 
United Nations  in  this  regard. 
We  should  like  to highlight  issues  that  are of  concern  closer  to home, 
the South Pacific.  As  the  current  Chairman of  the  South Pacific  Forum, 
Solomon Islands has  an obligation  to convey  to  this body  the  aspirations  and 
concerns of  the  region.  At  the  twenty-third  meeting  of the  South  Pacific 
Forum in Solomon  Islands  i 1 July  this year,  a number  of  issues of  concern  to 
the region were  discussed.  These  included  environmental,  trade  and  economic, 
political  and  security  issues. 
The  South  Pacific  region  is unique because  the marine  environment  is an 
integral part  of  our  existence.  Our people, perhaps  more  than others  around 
A/47/PV.27 
27 
(Sir  Baddelev Devest. 
Solomon  Islands) 
the globe, depend  on the  sea, the  land, the  rivers  and  the  forests  for their 
immediate  livelihood.  But poor  development planning  and global  environmental 
problems,  such as climate  change and  the associated  raising  of  the  sea level, 
are becoming  a threat to our  resources  and aspirations.  For  this  reason, our 
region places environmental  issues high on our  agenda.  Solomon  Islands  fully 
recognizes  the  important outcome of the United Nations Conference  on 
Environment  and Development, including  the Rio de Janeiro  Declaration, 
Agenda  21, the United Nations  Framework  Convention  on Climate  Change, the 
Convention on Biological  Diversity  and the  statement of principles  on 
forests.  We  also endorse  the concept of  sustainable  development, in which 
environmental  protection  constitutes  an integral part of  the  development 
process.  We  are concerned, however, that the United Nations  Framework 
Convention  on Climate Change has not  sufficiently  addresed  the  issue of global 
warming.  We  therefore  earnestly urge the early  commencement  of  the 
negotiations  on protocols  to  implement  and elaborate  upon  the Convention and 
we humbly  reguest that this be  treated  as a matter  of  urgency. 
Solomon  Islands welcomes  the decision of France  to suspend  its nuclear 
testing  in our  region.  The  suspension has  led  to an improvement  in the 
relations between France  and the countries  in the region.  It is hoped  that 
France will  endeavour  to cease nuclear  testing  activities  in the South Pacific 
for all time. 
Solomon  Islands believes  that environmental  education  and  the need to 
create public  awareness  of  environmental  and  related  issues  should  form the 
foundation  for  an  implemen;ation  strategy  for Agenda  21.  My  Government  is 
convinced  that without  educating  the youth of  today, who will be  the adults of 
tomorrow, we will merely  bj paying  lip-service  to  these  conventions. 
A/47/PV.27 
28 
(Sir Baddeley Devest. 
Solomon  Islands) 
declarations  and principles  on environment.  In other words,  sustainable 
development of the environment  and  its protection demand  relevant  and 
cost-effective  educational  programmes  aimed  at both the formal  and  the 
non-formal  sectors  of our education systems. 
As a step towards  implementing  Agenda  21, the primary  and  secondary 
curriculums  in Solomon Islands  are being  reviewed with a view to  introducing 
and improving  the quality  of environmental  science education  in schools. 
While we might have  the  initiative  and the motivation  to enhance  environmental 
education programmes, the  success  of  these undertakings  is contingent  on 
financial and technical  assistance  from  the richer nations.  It was  heartening 
to hear, during  the United Nations  Conference  on Environment and  Development 
in Brazil, that developed  countries have committed  themselves  to providing 
"new and additional" financial  assistance  to enable developing  countries  to 
meet their obligations  as stipulated  under  the conventions. 
On economic  and trade matters, Solomon  Islands  recognizes  the  adverse 
impact which the global macro-economic  trends have on its economy, which  is 
both open to, and  susceptible  to, external  change.  We  realize that while  the 
initiative  to begin economic  reforms must  come  from the country  itself, 
regional and  international  co-operation  in such efforts  is also very vital. 
Solomon  Islands  is at present pursuing  a programme of  structural 
adjustment.  This programme  emphasizes, first, active  and  effective 
private-sector  participation;  secondly,  sustainable utilization  of both human 
and natural  resources; thirdly, privatization of government-owned  companies; 
and fourthly,  streamlining  of  the public  service within  the government.  Being 
small, however, Solomon  Islands  cannot pursue  such a programme  effectively  on 
its own.  Success must depend on  strategic  regional development  planning. 
A/47/PV.27 
29-30 
(Sir Baddelev Devesi. 
Solomon  Islands) 
proper  coordination  of development programmes, and the mobilization of 
resources  to meet  the needs.  It also depends  on  the willingness  and the 
commitment  of  those with  financial  resources  to be  involved.  In view of these 
reforms,  it is our  sincere hope  that  the international  financial  institutions 
and donor  countries will  support our efforts  to achieve  our goals  and 
objectives. 
The vulnerability  of  small  island  countries  to external  and  internal 
security  threats  is not a new  issue  in this  forum.  It has been  a major 
subject of  extensive  discussion  and debate over  the past years.  We are 
raising the  issue  again because, despite  the end of  the cold war, there has 
been  little  improvement  in the situation  in our  region.  Undesirable, criminal 
and atrocious  activities  and behaviour, both  from within and outside  the 
region, continue  to threaten the  sovereignty,  security  and economic  integrity 
of  the South Pacific  countries. 
At the twenty-third  meeting  of  the South Pacific  Forum  in Honiara, 
Solomon  Islands, in July  1992, the Forum  agreed  on a Declaration  on Law 
Enforcement Cooperation.  This Declaration  identifies priority  areas and 
establishes  a framework within which  security  activities  are  to be  pursued. 
But these undesirable  activities  cannot be addressed  at the  regional  level 
alone. 
A/47/PV.27 
31 
(Sir Baddeley Devesi. 
Solomon  Islands) 
For the  long-term  peace  and  stability  of  the South  Pacific  region, or  any 
other region  for  that matter,  the  involvement  of  and  collaboration  with 
relevant  international  agencies  is vital. 
On decolonization,  the  Solomon  Islands notes with  appreciation  the 
positive measures  pursued  in New Caledonia by  the French  authorities  in the 
implementation  of  the Matignon  Accord.  We  encourage  a continuing  dialogue 
among all political  parties  in the  territory.  This  is to ensure  that 
self-determination  consistent with  the principles  and practices  of  the 
United Nations  Charter,  in a framework within which  all  options,  including 
that of independence,  is achieved.  We  encourage  regular  contacts  and 
interactions by  the Kanaks  and  other New Caledonians with  their  South  Pacific 
neighbours  to give  them  courage  and confidence  as they prepare  themselves  to 
take on greater  roles  in their  affairs. 
As a small nation,  Solomon  Islands  sees the United  Nations  system  as an 
effective  insurance  framework  for our peace  and  security,  fully  realizing,  of 
course, that we have  no military  forces  or military hardware.  To  this 
important  extent, we  hail with gratification  the Secretary-General's  "Agenda 
for Peace", which highlights  preventive  diplomacy,  peace-keeping,  peacemaking 
and peace-building  as a fresh  challenge  to our  Organization  in the  future.  We 
recognize  these measures  as they  are defined  in his  report  to be worthy  of the 
attention of  all Member  States. 
To conclude, may  I on behalf  of  the Government  and people  of 
Solomon Islands  thank  the United  Nations  for  its continued  interest  and 
assistance  in  the development  of our  country. 
A/47/PV.27 
32 
(Sir Baddelev  Devest. 
Solomon  Islands) 
I  should  like  to place  on  record my  Government's  appreciation  to the 
United  Nations  and  the United  Nations Missions  in New York  for  their  tributes 
and messages  of  condolence  in honour  of our  former  Permanent  Representative to 
the United Nations,  the  late Mr. Francis  Bugotu. 
Mr. KALPAGE  (Sri  Lanka):  The  delegation  of  Sri  Lanka  congratulates 
Mr.  Stoyan Ganev  of Bulgaria  on his  election  as President  of  the  forty-seventh 
session  of the General  Assembly.  We  assure him  of  our  full  co-operation and 
support. 
We wish  to record  our  deep  appreciation  of  the determined  manner  in which 
his predecessor. His Excellency  Samir  S. Shihabi,  conducted  the  affairs of the 
forty-sixth  session  and  of  the  keen interest he  took  in moving  forward  the 
process  of  revitalization  of  the General  Assembly. 
We welcome  the new Member  States  and wish  them every  success  in their 
legitimate  national  and  international  endeavours. 
It  is my  special  honour  to convey  to the General  Assembly  the  greetings 
of  the  President  of  Sri Lanka, His  Excellency  Ranasinghe  Premadasa,  and his 
sincere good wishes  for  the efforts  of  the United  Nations  to ensure  a just and 
peaceful  world. 
The  cold war  is over.  Momentous  developments  continue  to dominate  the 
international  scene.  The  consequences  of  these  developments  for  a peaceful 
world  have yet  to fully unfold.  New  independent  States have  emerged.  The 
transition  to a stable  and  equitable  order  is full of  uncertainties  and 
challenges.  Several  peace  initiatives  to resolve  conflicts  offer  hope. 
Nevertheless,  there  is simmering  discontent  within  and  among  nations.  Unrest 
and turmoil  prevail  in parts  of  the  world. 
A/47/PV.27 
33-35 
(Mr. Kalpaoe. Sri  Lanka) 
The violence  in the  territories  of  former Yugoslavia  continues  unabated. 
The tragedy  in Somalia  appals  and  shames  the human  conscience.  The  peace 
processes  that began  in Afghanistan  and Cambodia  have encountered  setbacks. 
In South Africa  a non-racial  and  democratic  Government  is yet  to be 
established.  The question  of Palestine  still  remains on our  agenda.  We hope 
that the Middle  East  peace process will  enable  that  troubled  region  to  soon 
enjoy the peace  for which  its peoples  yearn. 
We thank  the  Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali  for his 
comprehensive  report  on  the work of  the Organization  in these  and other  areas 
of activity  during  the year. 
The  Secretary-General's  report  on an  "Agenda  for Peace" is innovative  and 
challenging.  The  proposals  in his  report must  be considered  with  the  care and 
seriousness  they deserve given  the  instabilities  that prevail  and  the 
uncertainties  that  lie ahead.  The  central  focal-point  for  any action  in this 
regard should be  a revitalized  and democratized  United Nations. 
The Secretary-General  himself has observed  that  "the  foundation  stone  to 
this work  is and must  remain  the State".  The  fundamental  sovereignty  and 
integrity of  the State  are crucial  to any common  progress we  seek  to achieve. 
Preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking,  peace-keeping  and post-conflict  peace 
building must  be pursued  in a manner  that meets  the  legitimate  aspirations  of 
all Member  States. 
In keeping with  the principles  of  universality  and  sovereign  equality, 
the post-cold war  peace process must  encompass  and  involve  all Member  States. 
This is fundamental  to  the  legal  and moral  authority  of  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.27 
36 
(Mr. Kalpage. Sri Lanka) 
The  General  Assembly  should  continue  to be  the principal  policy-making 
body of  the Organization.  We  support  all  efforts  to ensure more  effective 
functioning  of  the General  Assembly  as a forum  of multilateral  diplomacy to 
achieve  our  common  objectives. 
The  role of  the United  Nations  in conflict  prevention  and  conflict 
resolution  should  be pragmatic.  It  should  contribute  to the  stability and 
long-term  viability  of  the  international  system.  The  Secretary-General  has 
reminded  us  that unlimited  "fragmentation"  of  sovereign  entities would make it 
more difficult  to achieve  peace,  security  and  economic well-being  for all. 
External  intervention  in any guise  cannot  be  justified,  except  in accordance 
with  the provisions  of  the Charter, particularly  in cases where  domestic 
solutions  have not been entirely  exhausted. 
To ensure  the efficacy  of our  collective  efforts  towards  fulfilling the 
"Agenda  for Peace",  it  is  imperative  that  the United Nations  assume  a decisive 
role  in formulating  and putting  into effect  an  "agenda  for  development". 
Lasting  solutions  can be  found only  through  enlightened 
development-cooperation  policies  pursued  in tandem with  strategies  for 
preventive  diplomacy. 
As the principal  organ  entrusted  with  the maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  the  Security  Council  now  functions without  the  shackles 
that made  it  ineffective  during  the cold war.  However,  its  present 
configuration  continues  to  reflect  the  realities  of  the  immediate-post-war 
power  structure.  The  Security  Council  could be made more  representative.  It 
is important  that  its procedures  be democratic  and  transparent.  Its decisions 
should  reflect  consensus,  arrived  at  after proper  discussion,  and  respect for 
national  sovereignty.  There  should be a better  balance  in the  relationship 
between  the General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council. 
A/47/PV.27 
37 
(Mr. Kalpaoe. Sri  Lanka) 
The  restructuring  of  the United  Nations  in its economic  and  social  areas 
has already begun.  There  is a need  for better  coordination  of global  economic 
policies and  for more  effective  policy-making  and  policy-implementation. 
Coordination  and  integration  of operational  activities  of  the  specialized 
agencies and other  bodies,  functioning  under  the Economic  and Social  Council, 
and strengthening  of  the  field presence  of  the United  Nations have  become 
vital.  This will  reduce  duplication,  inefficiency  and  a too-diffused  focus of 
United Nations  assistance.  The ultimate  aim  of  the  reforms must  be  to enable 
the United Nations  to be more  effective  in the promotion  of  development 
cooperation  for  social  and economic  progress.  However,  in our  enthusiasm  to 
reform the United  Nations  in the  social  and economic  fields, we must  maintain 
the principles  of  democracy,  universality  and  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of 
States. 
We wish  to commend  the Secretary-General  for his bold  initiatives  in 
streamlining  the work  of  the Secretariat.  We hope  that  continuing  efforts  to 
maximize efficiency  in the  Secretariat  will not diminish,  but will  enhance, 
the capacity of  the United  Nations  to  respond  to the pressing  socio-economic 
needs of the developing  world. 
We welcome  the  Secretary-General's  efforts  to reorganize  the  Secretariat 
and to utilize  fully  its human  resources.  These  efforts  should be matched by 
Member States' meeting  their  obligation  under  the Charter  to make  available 
the required  financial  resources.  If  the present  financial  crisis of  the 
United Nations  is to be  resolved,  these  resources  must be provided  on time. 
This year has witnessed  a reaffirmation,  by the nations  of  the 
Bon-Aligned Movement,  of  the validity  and  relevance  of non-alignment  and of 
A/47/PV.27 
38 
(Mr. Kalpage. Sri r.anfra) 
its basic  approach  in addressing  international  problems  and development.  The 
tenth  Summit  Conference  of  the Non-Aligned  Movement,  held  in Jakarta  last 
month,  emphasized  the need  to build  a new  and  eguitable  international  order 
based  on political  and  economic  democracy  both within  and between nations. 
The  Jakarta Message  conveys  a clear  consensus  that  the Non-Aligned Movement is 
not  a captive  of  its nomenclature, which  reflects  the historical  context in 
which  the  first  Summit  Conference  took place. 
In our  commitment  to promote  and preserve  the  "dignity  and worth of the 
human person" we believe  that  the best  defence  of human  rights  lies  in 
democracy  and openness  in societies. 
For  over  half  a century  Sri Lanka has had  a proud  record  of  uninterrupted 
universal  adult  franchise  and  respect  for the electoral  verdict.  My  country 
is a party  to the Covenants  on human  rights.  In Sri Lanka,  steps  are being 
taken  to establish  a human-rights  commission  to  strengthen  the  fulfilment of 
our  constitutional  obligations  relating  to  fundamental  rights.  We have an 
enduring  commitment  to both  national  and  international  accountability. 
Sri Lanka's  policy of openness  and of  cooperation with  national  and 
international  bodies  in the  field of human  rights  is derived  from  democratic 
traditions  and  institutions  that  are  an  integral  part  of  Sri Lanka's value 
system. 
Socio-economic  aspects  of human-rights  problems  have  found  their 
manifestations  everywhere.  This  is evident  from violent  and  undemocratic 
expressions  of grievances  in both developing  and developed  countries.  We 
believe  that  a cooperative  rather  than a coercive  approach would  help 
international  action  to achieve  the desired  results  in the  field of human 
A/47/PV.27 
39-40 
(Mr. Kalpaoe. Sri  Lanka) 
rights.  Sri  Lanka will participate  constructively  in the World  Conference  on 
Human Rights  in 1993  to develop  such  a positive  approach  to the promotion  of 
human rights world-wide. 
International  peace,  security  and development  are  indivisible.  It  is no 
longer possible  to conceive  of  security  essentially  in military  terms.  The 
cold-war era,  in which  a highly militarized  concept  of  security  dominated 
East-West  relations,  is over.  Today,  socio-economic  factors have become  major 
determinants  of global  security.  Multilateral  disarmament  and world  peace  and 
security are  inextricably  linked.  This makes  it necessary  for  the United 
Nations to play  the  central  role  in global  disarmament.  The United  Nations 
should also be  a catalyst  in facilitating  regional  disarmament. 
The monitoring  of  the  illegal  arms  trade  and  its elimination  should be a 
priority on the multilateral  agenda  on disarmament  and  conflict  prevention. 
The illegal  arms  trade  and  the highly  destructive  evils of drug  trafficking 
and terrorism  are  interlinked  and mutually  supportive.  States  should  not 
permit their  territories  or  their  citizens  to be used  for the perpetration  of 
acts of destabilization  against  other  States  through  support  for, or  tolerance 
of, arms smuggling  drug  trafficking  and  terrorism.  Multilateral  action to 
address these  real  threats  faced by democratic  societies  should  constitute  an 
indispensable  element  of  the peace  agenda of  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.27 
41 
(Mr. Kalpaoe. Sri Lanka) 
Sri Lanka  strongly  supported multilateral  negotiations  aimed  at a total 
prohibition  of  the entire  chemical weapons  cycle.  The  successful  conclusion 
of  the convention  on chemical weapons  demonstrates  the competence  of the 
United Nations  in multilateral  negotiations.  Sri Lanka was  among  those 
countries which  signified  an early  interest  in becoming  an original  signatory 
to the convention.  We hope  that States parties  to this  convention will 
promote  international  cooperation  in the peaceful  uses of  chemicals  in 
accordance with  its  letter  and  spirit. 
Efforts  to establish  a zone of peace  in the  Indian Ocean continue.  In 
view of  the changing  international  situation,  the United  Nations  Ad Hoc 
Committee  on the  Indian Ocean was of  the view  that  the General  Assembly might 
wish  to consider  alternative  approaches.  The Tenth Non-Aligned  Summit  Meeting 
in Jakarta  took  cognizance  of  this view  and  reiterated  the determination to 
continue  efforts  to achieve  the goals  of  the Declaration  as considered  at the 
meeting  of  littoral  and hinterland  States held  in 1979.  We hope  that  the new 
spirit  of  cooperation  evident  elsewhere  in the world  will embrace  the  Indian 
Ocean  region  as well. 
My  delegation  is pleased with  the conclusions  reached  at the United 
Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  held  in Rio  de Janeiro.  We 
endorse  the principles  enunciated  in the Rio Declaration,  the programmes  in 
Agenda  21, the commitment  to a shared partnership  by the provision  of adequate 
new  and  additional  funding  and  the  transfer  of  the  necessary  technologies to 
developing  countries.  Sri Lanka has  signed  the  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  and  the Con -ention on Biological  Diversity.  We  expect  that the 
creation  of  a commission  for  sustainable  development  will without  delay move 
forward  the process  of ensuring  the  sustainable  development  to which  all 
nations  and peoples  committed  themselves  in Rio de  Janeiro. 
A/47/PV.27 
42 
(Mr. Kalpaoe. Sri  Lanka) 
The United  Nations mu .t take  a visionary  perspective  in shaping  the 
future of a world  already  transformed  into a global  village  by modern 
technology.  Yet,  developing  countries  are  still  in a disadvantaged  position 
owing to the non-availability  of  the necessary  technologies.  Among  these, 
space technology  is useful  in the monitoring  of  the changing  global 
environment  and  can assist  developing  countries  in maximizing  the use of  their 
resources. 
However,  the high  cost  of  space  and other  advanced  technologies  prevents 
developing  countries  from  reaping  their potential  benefits.  The United 
Nations and  its  specialized  agencies must  therefore work  to ensure  equitable 
access to these  technologies  so that  the benefits  can be  shared by all.  This 
will enable  the development  of  a new  regime  of  technological  democracy. 
The Convention  on  the Law of  the Sea was  signed  10 years  ago.  The 
Preparatory Commission  continues  to labour painstakingly  to ensure  that  the 
resources of  the  seas  and  oceans 
a common heritage  of mankind 
will be used 
for the benefit  of  all.  We welcome  the  initiative  of  the Secretary-General  to 
bring about  universal  participation  in the  Convention. 
In different  parts  of  the world  regional  organizations  are being 
strengthened.  Sri Lanka hid  the honour  this year  to be elected  as Chairman of 
the South Asian Association  for Regional  Co-operation  (SAARC).  The  dynamic 
leadership of His  Excellency  Ranasinghe  Premadasa,  President  of Sri  Lanka, has 
significantly moved  forward  cooperation  among  the  seven States members  of 
SAARC on a number  of  initiatives. 
A South Asian Commission  on Poverty Alleviation,  established  this year, 
will enable  fresh  approaches  to be  taken  on  the basis of  shared  experiences  in 
alleviating poverty  in our populous  region.  Sri Lanka's  own approach has been 
A/47/PV.27 
43 
(Mr. Kalpaoe. Sri Lanka) 
to provide  opportunities  and access  to the poor  to participate  actively  and 
productively  as partners  in national  development, rather  than being  treated as 
passive  recipients  of  charity. 
A South Asian Preferential  Trading Agreement  (SAPTA) seeks to promote 
trade  and  commerce  among SAARC countries.  Efforts  to expand  cultural 
exchanges  and  to enhance people-to-people  contact  at various  levels are under 
way.  Regional  recognition has been granted  to  the SAARC Chambers  of Commerce 
and Industries. 
The  Second  SAARC Ministerial  Conference  on Children  in South Asia was 
held  in Colombo  in September.  The Conference  resolved  to  set up several goals 
and  a time  frame  for their  achievement.  The  specific goals  deal  with 
education, child-welfare  and  children's  rights. 
SAARC  is also  looking  forward  to promoting mutually  beneficial 
cooperation with other  regional  and  international  organizations. 
This has been  a year  of heightened  activity  in the  SAARC  region.  The 
countries  of our  region are determined  to maintain  this momentum. 
In this context  I quote the words  of our President, His  Excellency 
Ranasinghe  Premadasa: 
"A sense of  innovation must  animate  SAARC cooperation.  We  cannot 
remain  static.  Fresh  and  imaginative  approaches  are needed.  We have to 
face new challenges.  New ways have  to be  found  to deal with old problems 
that have  lingered, defying  solutions. 
"We  in South Asia, have  the ability  to forge  together  a unity based 
on our  ancient  ties.  Let us accept the challenge  to build  together a 
solidarity  of mutual  respect;  one which will  strengthen  each  individual 
A/47/PV.27 
44-45 
(Mr. Kalpaoe. Sri  Lanka) 
nation  in its  independence.  A  solidarity which will weld  our  nations 
into  a purposeful  and dynamic  unity.  We will be  then be able  to  face 
with confidence  our  common future". 
These  sentiments  are  a beacon  for  regional  cooperation  in South Asia. 
In meeting  the  challenges  that  lie ahead  it is abundantly  clear  that the 
United Nations  offers  the best hope  for humankind.  The  strong and the weak, 
the rich and  the poor, the  industrialized  and the developing  are  all 
represented here.  It is only  through our deliberations  that the problems of 
our world  come  into global  focus and  solutions  can be provided  accordingly. 
For the  first time  after  the Charter  of the United Nations was  signed  in 
San Francisco, 47 years  ago, the peoples  of the world  through  their 
representatives  here  assembled  have  it in their power  to provide  new 
directions  for ensuring peace, security, prosperity  and  social  justice  in 
keeping with today's  realities.  The  challenges  are many;  equally, the 
opportunities  are great.  We owe  it to the millions who crave eguity  and 
justice and  a better  life  in larger  freedom  that we  shoulder  our 
responsibilities  with  courage  and perseverance.  We cannot afford  to falter or 
fail.  We must  succeed. 
A/47/PV.27 
46 
Mr. KING  (Barbados):  It  is a pleasure  for me  to  congratulate 
Mr.  Ganev on his  unanimous  election  to the presidency  of  the Assembly  at its 
forty-seventh  session.  I am confident  that  our  deliberations  will  benefit 
from his wise  leadership. 
I also  commend  his predecessor, Mr. Samir  Shihabi,  for the  outstanding 
stewardship  he provided  during  the course of  the  last year, and  I take this 
opportunity  too  to extend my personal welcome  and good wishes  to our  new 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali. 
I  am pleased  to greet  the many new Members  that have  joined  the United 
Nations  family  since  the beginning  of  the  last  session  and  to offer  them the 
full  cooperation  of  the delegation  of Barbados  as we work  together  to shape 
the  international  order  for  the twenty-first  century. 
The  old world  order  has disintegrated  at an astonishing  pace. 
Assumptions  and doctrines  based  on  the cold-war  balance  of power  have  lost 
their  relevance.  At  the  same time, ambitious  expectations  have been  created 
for  the emergence  of a new world  order based  on peaceful  coexistence,  economic 
equity  and  social  justice. 
The  transition, however, has proved more  traumatic  and  destabilizing  than 
the propitious  circumstances  would  have  suggested.  The  energies  for 
revolutionary  change  need  to be positively  directed  so that prospects  for 
international  peace  are not  threatened by the  resurgence  of  ancient  ethnic and 
tribal  conflicts  and  the violent  clash of nationalistic  rivalries. 
Regrettably,  there  are alarming manifestations  of that  new  threat  in 
Yugoslavia  and  Somalia. 
Barbados  is appalled  at the  savagery with which  the protagonists  of 
ethnic  strife  in what was once Yugoslavia  are pursuing  their misguided  notions 
of nationalism  and  sovereignty.  Such barbarism,  including  the  horrendous 
A/47/PV.27 
47 
(Mr. King.  Barbados) 
practice of  "ethnic  cleansing", has no place  in our modern world.  Its 
perpetrators must be made  to understand  the outrage  of  the  international 
community at their  actions.  My  country  fully  supports  the regime of  sanctions 
imposed by the  Security Council  and  the dedicated  efforts of the  European 
Community and  the United Nations  to create  the conditions  for a peaceful 
settlement and to bring  relief  to the hundreds  of thousands  of  innocent 
civilian victims. 
Equally  disturbing  is the desperate  situation  in Somalia, which, 
regrettably, has  only  recently  attracted  the international  attention  it 
deserves, and  then only  at the sharp prodding  of the  Secretary-General. 
Barbados supports  regional  and  international  efforts  towards  the convening of 
o conference on national  reconciliation  and unity  in Somalia  and  towards 
creating secure  conditions  for humanitarian  action. 
My country  commends  the Secretary  General's  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
to the Assembly  for  its careful  study.  A number  of  its recommendations  are 
consistent with  the views  contained  in my  statement  to the General Assembly  at 
its forty-sixth  session, namely, the need  to strengthen  the capability of  the 
Secretary-General  for preventive  diplomacy;  the need to put  into place  the 
permanent enforcement  tools  required under  Article  43 of  the Charter  to deter, 
and in the  last  resort, counter  aggression; and  the need  to make  full use of 
the appropriate  regional  and  subregional  security  arrangements  under 
Chapter VIII of  the Charter.  We  also  support his call  for greater  recourse  to 
the International  Court of Justice  for  the peaceful  adjudication  of disputes. 
My delegation  supports  the view of the  Secretary-General  that  there  is an 
urgent necessity  to put peace-keeping  operations  on a sound  financial 
footing.  His  recommendations  and other positive  suggestions  should be given 
Priority  study. 
A/47/PV.27 
48 
(Mr. King.  Barbados) 
A number  of  small countries have been unable  to play  a part  in 
traditional United Nations peace-keeping  simply because  they have  lacked the 
logistical military  capability  for  so doing.  The expanded  dimensions of 
peace-keeping, however, provide  the possibility  for participation by  small 
States  in other  fields  in which they have expertise, such as  electoral 
supervision, human-rights monitoring  and the  supply  of police  and  civilian 
personnel.  Such participation  should be encouraged  and  facilitated by the 
Organization.  In this  regard, my delegation has noted with  interest the 
Norwegian proposal  for the establishment  of  a special United Nations  institute 
for education  and training  in peace-keeping  and  related  activities  as a means 
to  respond  to these new dimensions. 
While we  cannot  fail  to recognize  the indispensable  nature of United 
Nations peace-keeping  operations, my  country  is nevertheless  concerned  at the 
dramatic  escalation  in their  costs and would wish to see more  stringent 
controls  and oversight  in place  to ensure efficient  use of  the billions of 
dollars  now  involved. 
An agenda  for peace  requires  a supportive  economic  environment.  A new 
world  order must be developed  around  the central priority  of  closing  the gap 
between North and South,  '.'his requires  courageous  leadership  on the part of 
the North to create the opportunities  for  sustainable  economic  and  social 
development  in the South through genuine  trade  liberalization,  meaningful 
debt-relief  strategies  and positive  resource  transfers.  It also  requires 
responsible management; sound, people-oriented  development  planning;  and the 
creation of the  appropriate  environment  for development  on the part of the 
South. 
The United Nations  is a critical  forum  for  the  resuscitation  of the 
international  economic  dialogue.  Barbados welcomes  the  serious  debate now 
A/47/PV.27 
49-50 
(Mr. King.  Barbados) 
taking place  on  reforming  and  strengthening  the economic  and  social mandate  of 
the United Nations.  Any  such  reform  must be  consistent  with  the provisions  of 
the Charter  and  seek  to ensure  universality  and  accessibility.  Care must  be 
taken not  to exclude  the  small  and powerless  from  the process.  Regrettably, 
however, the emphasis  currently  given  to developmental  issues within  the 
administrative  structure  of  the Organization  does  not  reflect  the  priority 
accorded to those  issues by  the majority  of Member  States.  My  delegation 
accepts that  the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  is a major 
responsibility  of  the United Nations.  We  strongly  support  the view that  peace 
and economic  and  social well-being  are  indivisible  and that  issues  relating  to 
development must  be given emphasis  equal  to that given  to  issues  relating  to 
peace. 
It is important  that  the United  Nations be a forum  for  constructive 
consensus-building, where  all points  of view 
no matter  the  size of  their 
proponents or how much  influence  they wield 
are given  equal  attention  and 
respect.  A new world  order  cannot  evolve  except  in an atmosphere  of  free  and 
open dialogue,  consultation  and  transparency  in  decision-making. 
A/47/PV.27 
51 
(Mr. King.  Barbados) 
There  is considerable merit  in the argument  that the  Security Council in 
the post-cold-war  era  should be updated  to reflect  the new  international 
political  and economic  realities, as well  as the balance  and  diversity 
necessary  for  its decisions, if it is to command  universal  acceptance  and 
respect. 
A very  topical  issue  in this  forum  in recent  times has been the dialogue 
on what  the  Secretary-General  has termed  "the democratization  of  international 
relations  and the participation of  all States  in developing new norms of 
international  life".  There have been calls  for the  redefinition of the 
concept of  State  sovereignty  in international  law, and many  States  have 
accepted  as a matter  of policy  the notion of the  right  to  intervene  on 
humanitarian grounds  and  for the protection  of human  rights, and have 
advocated  the universal  application of  such a principle. 
My  country has  always been outspoken on the universal  need  to protect and 
strengthen  the principles  of democracy  and  respect  for  fundamental  human 
rights.  We have consistently  condemned  abuses, wherever  and whenever  they 
have occurred, and  long before  the resurgence  of democratic  values  in our 
region and elsewhere made  it popular or  safe to do  so.  Our  actions  have 
always been motivated  strictly by principle  and objectivity,  and not by 
ideological  considerations  that have  served  in the past  to politicize  the 
debate. 
The disappearance  of  ideological  polarization  gives  the  international 
community  an unprecedented  opportunity  to  influence  the dialogue  on this vital 
issue  in a balanced  and constructive way.  There  is need  to ensure  respect for 
fundamental  human  rights;  out there  is egual  need to take  care  to promote 
impartial  standards  for measuring  adherence  to, and  for guarding  scrupulously 
against manipulation of, the debate  to suit  the narrow  foreign  policy 
A/47/PV.27 
52 
(Mr. King.  Barbados) 
interests of particular  States.  What  is needed  in the ensuing  dialogue  is  the 
sensitive  and  sensible  application  of  universally  agreed  standards, not  the 
imposition  of  new  forms of  conditionality  devoid  of  all historical  or  cultural 
context. 
The World  Conference  on Human Rights, scheduled  to be held  in Vienna  in 
June 1993, will present  a unique  opportunity  not only  to  review the progress 
made in human  rights  since  1948, but  also  to formulate  recommendations  aimed 
at charting  the  course  of human  rights well  into  the  twenty-first  century. 
The  tragic  situation  of  the people of Haiti  remains  a major  preoccupation 
of the Government  and people  of Barbados  and of  the Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM) as a whole.  We have made  clear  our  outright  condemnation  of  the 
usurpation of  the  authority  of  the  legitimate  government  of 
President Aristide,  and have  collaborated  with our  regional  partners  in 
CARICOM and  the Organization  of American  States  (OAS) in the effort  to  restore 
that government.  We have  supported  the OAS-imposed  embargo  and the  Protocol 
of Washington.  It  is clear, however,  that no  lasting  solution  can be  found, 
except in a context  that  neutralizes  the power  of a brutal  and  lawless 
military, which  continues with  impunity  its  flagrant  abuses  of  the human 
rights of  the Haitian people.  The  international  community  has  a  special 
obligation  towards  the people of Haiti, whose  electoral  process was  monitored 
and authenticated  at every  step with  direct United  Nations  involvement.  If 
such a process  can be  overturned  with  impunity, what message  are we  sending  to 
the world of would-be  dictators,  and what  assurance  are we providing  for  the 
fledgling democracies  in our  region?  It  is imperative  that  the United  Nations 
take action  to  internationalize  the embargo  and  to contribute,  in whatever 
ways are considered  appropriate  and  useful, to OAS efforts  towards  the 
restoration  of  the Aristide  government. 
A/47/PV.27 
53 
(Mr. Kino.  Barbados) 
Barbados  is greatly encouraged by  the decision  reached by  the De Klerk 
Government  and by Mr. Mandela on 26 September  1992 to  resume  negotiations with 
a view  to establishing  an interim government  and  a constituent  assembly  in 
South Africa.  The  release  of  150 political prisoners  and  the promise by the 
South African Government  to release  the remaining political  prisoners by 15 
November  1992  represent  a significant development  that  satisfies  an  important 
condition of  the United Nations Declaration on  southern Africa. 
Barbados deplores  the violence  that has been a major  obstacle  to reform 
in South Africa, and holds  the De Klerk Government  fully  responsible  for 
failing  to curb  it.  The  role of  the United Nations  remains  critical  to reform 
efforts  in South Africa.  We  therefore welcome  the deployment  of  50 United 
Nations  observers  in South Africa to assist with the  implementation of the 
National  Peace Accord, and hope that the size of  this  contingent will be 
increased,  if necessary.  We urge  all  the parties  to collaborate  in 
maintaining  an environment  free of violence  and to participate  in peaceful 
negotiations  aimed  at achieving  a non-racial, democratic  South Africa. 
We  are also encouraged by  the current dialogue  in the Middle  East.  We 
hope  that  all parties will make every effort  to achieve  a just  and  lasting 
peace. 
The United Nations Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED), 
which took place  in Rio de Janeiro  in June  this year, was perhaps  the most 
ambitious  and  far-reaching United Nations-sponsored  gathering  ever held.  It 
served  a vital purpose  in focusing world  attention on the  interrelationship 
between human development  and  the environment, and  in  fostering  global 
awareness  of  the  importance  of  the concept of  sustainable  development  to the 
future  survival  of our planet  and  all  its inhabitants. 
A/47/PV.27 
54-55 
(Mr. Kino. Barbados) 
Barbados  cannot pretend  to be  fully  satisfied with  the results  of the Rio 
Conference. It was, however, an important beginning  in the process  towards  an 
international blueprint  for  sustainable  development  in the  twenty-first 
century.  The  creation of  a high-level  sustainable  development commission  is 
an important element  in providing  serious  follow-up  to the decisions  of 
Agenda 21.  Care must be  taken  to ensure  the widest possible  access  to, and 
participation  in, the work  of  the Commission by  the  full membership  of  the 
United Nations.  Barbados has  signed  the Conventions  on Climate Change  and on 
Biological Diversity,  and  is taking  the necessary  steps at the domestic  level 
to ensure their  early  ratification.  We  reiterate, however, that there  is an 
urgent need  to begin work  on a protocol  to the Framework  Convention on Climate 
Change that  specifically  addresses  stabilization  and  reduction of  carbon 
dioxide and other  greenhouse gases. 
My country  is heartened  that one of the significant  achievements  at UNCED 
was the recognition given  to the  special environmental  and development  needs 
of small island  developing  States, leading to the  inclusion in Agenda  21 of a 
specific plan of  action  for  the  sustainable  development of  small  island 
developing States.  In this  regard, my delegation wishes  to place on  record 
its deep appreciation of  the  sterling efforts  of  the Alliance of Small  Island 
States  (AOSIS), whose  contribution  to the  success of  the Conference  cannot be 
overstated.  As part  of  the plan to identify  and  address  the  special  needs of 
this category  of  States, a global  conference will be  convened  in 1993. 
Barbados is honoured  to reiterate  its offer  to host that Conference. 
A/47/PV.27 
56 
(Mr. King. Barbados) 
The vulnerability of our environment and the fragility of our marine 
ecosystems require constant vigilance to guard against deliberate or 
accidental degradation.  In this connection, we echo the concerns of the Prime 
Minister of Saint Kitts and Nevis about the possible passage through our 
region of plutonium or other hazardous material. 
The opportunities provided for shaping a truly harmonious new world order 
are enormous.  The danger of failure is, however, equally great, unless the 
redefinition of our future takes place with equal participation by all the 
members of the global family.  Never before has the power of the few over the 
destinies of the many been so apparent, and never before has it been so vital 
to the survival of the majority of small and powerless States that make up the 
United Nations for that power to be used responsibly. 
Mr• TURNOUEST (Bahamas):  I congratulate Mr. Ganev on his unanimous 
election to the presidency of the forty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly.  We are certain that his diplomatic skills and considerable 
experience will lead us to historic conclusions. 
I also wish to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Samir S. Shihabi, 
Permanent Representative of Saudi Arabia, for the excellent manner in which he 
presided over the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly. 
In his short time in office our Secretary-General, 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has inspired our confidence that he has the 
qualities essential to perform the duties of chief executive of the United 
Nations.  I take this opportunity to congratulate him on his appointment to 
this high office last year.  I assure him of the continued cooperation of the 
Commonwealth of the Bahamas during this session of the General Assembly, as he 
leads a United Nations challenged to reaffirm its fundamental purposes and 
A/47/PV.27 
57 
(Mr. Turnquest.  Bahamas) 
principles, and  obliged  to  redefine  its  role  and  function  in this world  of 
unprecedented  change. 
The Bahamas warmly welcomes  those  States  that have  joined  the United 
Nations  since  our  last  session of  the General  Assembly. 
In just  six days 
on  12 October 
we who  live  in the Western  Hemisphere 
will mark  the  five-hundredth  anniversary  of  the encounter  between  the old 
world and the new, which  comes  at  a most pivotal  time  in modern history.  It 
all began on one  of  the many  islands of  the Bahamas, now called  San Salvador, 
and we are pleased  to mark  this historic  occasion. 
On a number  of  occasions  during  that  500-year  interval  these worlds 
referred to as East  and West  have  encountered  each other  in angry and  even 
bloody disagreement,  and  sometimes  those  disagreements  have  resulted  in a cold 
separation of peoples,  countries  and  cultures. 
The quincentennial  presents  an opportunity  and  an  invitation  to East  and 
West to re-enact  that  initial  encounter  in a way  that  is relative  and 
meaningful  to the nations  and  the  cultures  of  the  twentieth  and  the 
twenty-first  centuries  for mutual benefit  and  for global  preservation. 
The present-day  inhabitants  of  the Bahamas, like  those  of  1492, are a 
peace-loving  and hospitable  people.  Small  though we  are  in population,  we 
firmly believe  in the  significance  of the  role we  can play  in achieving  the 
peaceful coexistence  of  nations  and environmental  preservation.  In that 
belief, I extend  a warm  and  cordial  invitation  to all  the nations  represented 
here to come  and  see  and  experience  the peace  and  tranguillity  of  the  country 
where that encounter  took place  500 years  ago. 
Today  I address  the Assembly  on behalf  of  the Government  and  the people 
of the Commonwealth  of  the Bahamas  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the 
A/47/PV.27 
58 
(Mr. Turnouest.  Bahamas) 
purposes  and principles  of  the Charter  of  the United  Nations  and  to pledge my 
Government's  cooperation  as we  seek  to ensure  that  our  Organization  maintains 
its objectives  and  enhances  its effectiveness  in international  affairs. 
The winds  of political  change,  stirred by  the  innate  desire  of the 
electorate  for democratic  representation  and  the concomitant  responsibility of 
those  elected,  did  not bypass  the Bahamas.  The  Bahamian people  once  again 
demonstrated  their  long tradition  of, and unswerving  commitment  to, the 
democratic  process when  in the most  dramatic  yet  tranquil  manner,  in the words 
of Aldous Huxley,  a "brave  new world" was  ushered  into  the  lives  of Bahamians, 
and  a new administration,  the Government  of  the Free National Movement  (FNM), 
was  democratically  elected  only  seven weeks  ago, on  19 August.  That  signal 
event  heralded  a new era  in Bahamian history.  It  is a reinvigorated  Bahamas 
that  is now poised  to take  its place  in this emerging  new political  arena. 
Our vision  is of  a world  free of  tension,  thus  enabling  us to deliver to 
our people  a new kind  of  freedom  and  social  and economic  justice. 
This year  natural  disasters have  occurred  worldwide,  exacting high tolls 
on human  life and  the destruction  of property  and natural  resources. 
Just  recently  the Bahamas  endured  the  ravages  of Hurricane  Andrew, which 
caused  severe  damage 
$250 million-worth 
to several  islands  of  the Bahamas, 
resulting  in a tragic  loss of  life and  leaving more  than  1,200  persons 
homeless. 
I wish on behalf  of my  Government  to thank  all  those  countries  and 
international  organizations,  as well  as many,  many  individual  friends, for 
coming  to the  aid of  the  Bahamas  as we begin  the  task of  reconstruction.  At 
the  same  time, we  extend  our  sympathy  to the Governments  and people  of the 
A/47/PV.27 
59-60 
(Mr. Turnquest,  Bahamas) 
United  States of  America,  China, Nicaragua  and Pakistan  for  the  devastation 
and loss of  life  inflicted  upon  their  countries by  recent  natural  disasters. 
All our  countries  face potential  natural  hazards.  But natural hazards, 
no matter  how great,  need not  result  in natural  disasters.  We often  spend  too 
much time  and money  recovering  from disasters  and  too  little  on prevention. 
Widespread  upheavals  and  conflicts, within  States  and between States, 
have been  responsible  for  the mass movement  of persons  from  one  country  to the 
other.  This phenomenon  not only  threatens  the  security  and  stability  of the 
affected  countries, but  also  creates  competing  demands  for  attention  and vital 
resources.  This Organization must  not be perceived  as  selective  in mediating 
problems of  a political  nature, nor  as elevating  the  suffering  of one group of 
people over  that  of  another. 
In our  region,  the critical  situation  in Haiti demands  urgent 
international  attention. 
A/47/PV.27 
61 
(Mr. Turnquest. Bahamas) 
Almost two years ago, the people of Haiti spoke for democracy.  But the 
unconstitutional seizure of power by the military has subverted the popular 
will.  The great expectations which the world had for Haiti under a 
democratically elected Government were dashed.  Political unrest, economic 
deprivation and poverty have caused a mass exodus of its people, who are 
fleeing their homeland in unprecedented numbers and thereby placing an 
unacceptably high burden on neighbouring countries, particularly the Bahamas. 
I now make a plea for the people of Haiti.  We call on the international 
community to come to the aid of Haiti. 
It must be appreciated that no matter how grave our disillusionments over 
the plight of the Haitian people, no matter how solicitous our efforts to 
understand and to help, and no matter how expansive our Christian charity in 
this whole unfortunate affair, the Bahamas has a priority responsibility for 
the welfare of the Bahamian people. 
In the comprehensive Manifesto on which the Governing Party in the 
Bahamas was swept into power in August this year, we reaffirmed our commitment 
to that priority, and it is necessary that our sister nations in this 
Organization fully understand the Bahamas' position on the matter. 
For almost three decades the Bahamas has been subjected to this serious 
problem of illegal Haitian immigration.  The presence of large numbers of 
illegal immigrants in the Bahamas has created unexpected demands on the 
country's economic, health and welfare agencies.  This situation cannot 
continue, and the Bahamas :an no longer afford to be penalized by the 
situation simply because of our geographical position. 
The Bahamas supports the efforts of the Organization of American States 
(OAS) to negotiate a settlement to the situation in Haiti.  Fully appreciative 
A/47/PV.27 
62 
(Mr. Turnquest.  Bahamas) 
of the practical  limits  to action by  the OAS, the Bahamas  advocates  and 
supports United Nations  efforts  aimed  at strengthening  OAS initiatives  and 
finding a solution  to  this  problem. 
The Bahamas wishes  to place on  record  its deep  appreciation  for  the 
continuing  assistance which  the Office of  the United Nations High  Commissioner 
for Refugees has  rendered  to us  in the difficulties  caused  us by  this 
problem.  We  implore  all  concerned  to continue  to pursue  all peaceful means  to 
reach a comprehensive  settlement of the Haitian  situation. 
I  should  also  like  to decry  the problems  of drug  abuse, drug  trafficking 
and the illicit production  of drugs, which  continue  to haunt  the  international 
community with  their  catastrophic  effects  on our  individual  societies. 
The  creation of  the United Nations  International  Drug Control  Programme 
has been our most  recent  collective  step to strengthen, improve  and 
rationalize  the  legal  and  institutional  framework  for control of  the 
production, trafficking  and  abuse of narcotic  drugs  and  psychotropic 
substances.  My  Government wishes  to affirm  its support  for  the Programme  and 
its efforts  in providing valuable  assistance  to countries  fighting  this menace. 
However, a most  significant  element  in the fight against  the drug trade 
is the requisite  cooperation between  States.  My  Government pledges  to 
continue  its collaboration with our neighbours  to  fight against  the drug 
menace.  In this  regard, we wish  to thank  the Governments  of the United  States 
of America  and Canada  for  the  assistance  they have  rendered  to the Bahamas. 
The world breathed  a sigh of  relief  earlier  this year when  it  appeared 
that talks between  the Government  of  South Africa and  the African  National 
Congress gave promise  of establishing  a political  solution to the problems of 
South Africa.  The  Bahamas  deeply  regrets  that the process  of dialogue  has 
A/47/PV.27 
63 
(Mr. Turnquest. Bahamas) 
been interrupted.  We condemn the massacre at Boipatong and other massacres of 
innocent civilians, as we equally condemn the efforts by the South African 
Government to delay the realization of majority rule in South Africa. 
The United Nations has been a critical force in opposing the abhorrent 
system of apartheid in South Africa and in moving that country towards a 
non-racial, unitary and democratic society.  The role of the United Nations is 
even more critical since the lifting of sanctions by many influential States. 
The United Nations must not fail the people of South Africa at this critical 
moment.  My country strongly supports the phased lifting of sanctions agreed 
by States members of the Commonwealth, and it firmly supports the effort that 
the United Nations is making to encourage the resumption of negotiations 
towards a new constitution for South Africa and ending the violence which 
threatens a total disruption of these negotiations. 
The Earth Summit held in Rio in June of this year was a historic 
beginning.  The fact that wore than 118 world leaders attended is a measure of 
the seriousness with which the global community is viewing the question of the 
environment. 
It is perhaps a trite truism to observe that the survival of the human 
family depends to a great extent on how this generation protects the natural 
environment.  The positive results achieved by the Summit were due in large 
measure to the cooperation fostered by the United Nations.  Real success, 
however, will be judged by the abilities of countries to carry out programmes 
at the national level.  Tins can come about only when national capacities are 
strengthened and additional resources are available.  We must therefore 
continue to maintain the vision and basic principles of multilateral 
cooperation. 
A/47/PV.27 
64-65 
(Mr. Turnquest.  Bahamas) 
The Bahamas  therefore welcomes  the decision to establish  a United  Nations 
commission on  sustainable  development  to monitor  the  follow-up  action  after 
Rio.  The Bahamas, an archipelagic  State of pristine  aquamarine water, with a 
vibrant tourist  industry,  is committed  to the protection  of  its own  natural 
environment  as well  as the promotion of  the global  environment.  My  Government 
sees eco-tourism  as a powerful  instrument  for  sustainable  development  of the 
Bahamas, and we  are  fully committed  to protection  of  the environment.  The 
Bahamas therefore  gives  its assurance  that it will  scrupulously  abide by the 
conventions  signed  at Rio, and  its commitment  to sustainable  development 
remains absolute. 
The World  Economic  Survey of 1992  indicates  that world  output has 
declined for  the  first time  since  the Second World War.  World  trade has 
experienced  slow growth.  Countries  continue  to wrestle with  economic 
recession and the decline  in world  financial markets.  Failure  to complete  the 
Uruguay Round  of negotiations will  undoubtedly  lead to  increased 
protectionism.  These  are areas of concern to us all, as are the  uncertainties 
prevailing  in world markets with  regard  to the  future  course of  interest 
rates.  These  introduce many  constraints  on  investment  capital  flows and 
consequently on  the growth of developing  countries  in particular. 
A/47/PV.27 
66 
(Mr. Turnquest. Bahamas) 
In spite of  all  these problems  and uncertainties, the performance of the 
world economy  can be  improved  through the enhancement of  international 
cooperation  and policy  coordination, which must now be a principal  objective 
of  the United Nations. 
The United Nations has become  the centre of  a diplomatic  revolution, one 
that mirrors  the  revitalization of national political  institutions  in many 
countries.  Fundamental  changes  not only promise greater personal  freedom and 
more dynamic  societies, but frequently provide  new challenges which  create 
uncertainty  in international  relations.  The United Nations will have to adopt 
a new  strategy  for addressing  these challenges. 
Today, we  live in a world of much  lowered  ideological  tension, a world in 
which  representative  democracy  is of  fundamental  importance.  Indeed, the 
renewal  in many parts of  the world  of the democratic  process  implies greater 
respect  for human  rights.  In that  regard, the United Nations must play a 
catalytic  role  in ensuring  that human  rights  are  assured. 
We have  also come better  to understand  the  relationship between  respect 
for human  rights and our  search  for economic  and  social  development, and we 
must measure  that development by actual  improvements  in human  lives and not 
exclusively  in monetary terms. 
We  are hopeful  that  the greatly  changed  international  environment and the 
renewal  of  interest worldwide  in human  rights will  contribute  to the  success 
of the World  Conference  on Human Rights  scheduled  for  1993.  In this  regard my 
Government has undertaken  to give early  consideration  to all of  the human 
rights  conventions  to which  the Bahamas  is not yet a party,  including  the 
Covenants  relating  to economic, social  and political  rights. 
A/47/PV.27 
67 
(Mr. Turnquest.  Bahamas) 
The pace of change  in international  politics  is  straining  mankind's 
capabilities of  assimilation  and  assessment.  In Western Europe  the outlines  of 
supernationalism  have become visible. In Central  Europe the echoes  of history 
are heralded  again  after more  than 40 years  of  silence.  And  in Eastern  Europe 
communism  is in  full-scale  retreat  under  the  implacable  pressure  of  the 
recognition of  its  limitations  and of  rising expectations.  In Asia  countries 
that could scarcely  feed  themselves  a generation  ago have become  tigers  of 
economic competition.  Meantime, the spectre of  famine  remains  over  the Horn 
of Africa, demonstrating  that not all change  is positive.  Almost  everywhere 
pluralistic democratic  values  are  surfacing  and tending  to dominate. 
In a world  of  tinder, fire-breaks  are needed. The United  Nations 
peace-keeping operations  can be  considered  just  such  fire-breaks. The  support 
of the international  community, both political  and material, remains  an 
essential characteristic  of peace-keeping  operations, regardless  of  their 
size. Political  support by  Governments  can mean  the difference  between  a 
party's compliance with  the  terms of  an agreement  and  serious  infractions  that 
jeopardize  lives  and progress  towards peace. 
The price of United Nations peace-keeping  is, by monetary  standards, a 
bargain.  But the United Nations  is more  than  just good value.  The 
contributions of  the membership  are certainly  a more  cost-effective  and humane 
solution to  international  disputes  than the conflict  and human  suffering  that 
occur when States  feel that they are unable, or  are unwilling, to use  the 
machinery offered by  the United Nations  and  resort to war. 
We welcome  the  recent pronouncements  of  the Presidents  of the 
United States of America  and of  the Russian  Federation  of  17 June  1992  to 
A/47/PV.27 
68 
(Mr. Turnquest. Bahamas) 
reduce  their  nuclear  arsenals below  the numbers  agreed  to last summer  during 
the Strategic Arms  Reduction Treaty Talks  (START) and  their  joint statement on 
chemical weapons  in which they  reiterated  their  commitment  to the global 
elimination of  such weapons.  The  recently  concluded  negotiations  on a 
convention banning  chemical weapons  is a further  important  step forward  in 
curtailing  the use of weapons of mass destruction.  Further progress  in this 
area will be determined by  the political will  of Member  States, their 
commitment  to their obligations  under  existing  disarmament  agreements, and the 
more  recent agreements, such as the United Nations  universal  and 
non-discriminatory  Register  of Conventional  Arms, which became  operational on 
1  January  1992.  The Bahamas  remains  totally  committed  to general  and  complete 
disarmament. 
The bedrock  for action by the United Nations  lies  in States  adhering to, 
and  consistently  applying, the principles of  the Charter.  It costs money to 
put principles  into practice. Expanded  responsibilities  translate  into greater 
costs, which must be borne by the States Members  of  the Organization. 
In the coming decade  it is vital  to use  in the most  effective  and 
efficient manner  this Organization, which has demonstrated  the  importance of 
its promotional  and  catalytic  role, particularly  in bringing  to the  surface 
issues which  are  likely  to assume  importance  in coming years. 
The  creation of  a stable and more  favourable  international  environment is 
fundamental  to the  strengthening  of multilateral  policy  coordination within an 
enhanced  framework, especially  if we  are to  realize our  new vision  for an 
improved  new world  order. This  requires  the collective  resolve  of  the giant 
nations  as well  as of  tiny nations, such as the Bahamas, to work  together to 
A/47/PV.27 
69 
(Mr. Turnquest.  Bahamas) 
remove constraints  and  to allow  for optimum  growth  and development.  The  new 
world order  can be  lasting  only  if all constituent elements  grow  in harmony. 
A multilateral, concerted  and  comprehensive  approach  is vital  for  the 
implementation of effective  and  lasting  solutions  to global problems. 
As I noted  at the outset, this year's  commemoration  of the  quincentennial 
in the Bahamas  and  in the "/estern hemisphere  offers  a unique opportunity  to 
make real and meaningful  and mutually  beneficial  that original encounter  of 
the old and new worlds. There  are  those who  condemn  that encounter  but 
Columbus did  come  and  as a result a medley of old  and new cultures  and 
civilizations  emerged. 
It was  fitting  that with  the coming  into being of the United Nations  in 
San Francisco  in  1945 the Preamble  to our Charter  reaffirmed  our  determination 
to save succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge of war  and our  faith  in 
fundamental human  rights, and established  conditions  under which  justice  and 
respect for the obligations  arising  from treaties  and other  sources  of 
international  law should be  maintained. 
In those  47 years, many  swords have been beaten  into plowshares, and many 
spears into pruning hooks. It is now  left  for us to make  abidingly  true the 
end of that refrain, that nation  shall not  lift up  sword  against nation, 
neither shall we  learn war  any more. 
The meeting  rose at 5.30  p.m. 
