UNITED 
NATIONS 
General Assembly  UN 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.25 
15 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  25th  MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Monday,  5 October  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
Mr.  AL-HADDAD 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Yemen) 
General  debate  [9]  (continued) 
Statements made by 
Mr.  Al-Bishari  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya) 
Mr.  Alleyne  (Dominica) 
Mr.  Adoum  (Chad) 
Mr.  Mesfin  (Ethiopia) 
Mr.  Abdurazzakov  (Uzbekistan) 
This  record  contains  the original  text of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
he printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one weekr  to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750,  2 United  Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61322  1635V  (E) 
A/47/PV.25 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.20  p.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  9  (continued) 
GENERAL  DEBATE 
Mr. AL-BISHARI  (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)  (interpretation  from 
Arabic):  It gives me pleasure  at the outset  to  join  the  speakers who preceded 
me  in congratulating  you. Sir, on your  election  to  the presidency  of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session.  My  delegation  is confident 
that your wide  experience  and  diplomatic  skill will  contribute  to the success 
of  the  session. 
I  should  like  also to pay  tribute  to your predecessor,  Mr. Samir Shihabi, 
for  the exemplary  manner  in which he  conducted  the  affairs  of  the  forty-sixth 
session  of  the General  Assembly. 
I am pleased  also to convey our  appreciation  and praise  to the 
Secretary-General, His  Excellency Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  for  this 
consistent  efforts,  in the  face of numerous  impediments,  to  strengthen the 
role of  the  Organization  in achieving  the purposes  and principles  of the 
United  Nations  Charter,  as well  as for his Agenda  for  Peace proposals  aimed at 
enhancing  the  role of  the United Nations  in preserving  international  peace and 
security,  ensuring  justice  and protecting  human  rights. 
I  should  like too  to welcome  the new Members  of  the  Organization: 
Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  Croatia,  Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Slovenia, Moldova,  San Marino, Tajikistan,  Uzbekistan,  Turkmenistan  and 
Georgia.  Thei,r accession  to the Organization's  membership  is a further step 
towards  the  complete  universality  of our  Organization.  It also  enhances 
international  acceptability  of  the principles  and purposes  of  this great 
Organization  and boosts  its efforts  to achieve  justice, prosperity, progress 
and  international  peace  and  security. 
A/47/PV.25 
3 
(Mr. Al-Bishari,  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
Since the  last  session,  international  relations  and  the  international 
balance of power  have  undergone  profound  changes  and  transformations.  Those 
changes have  resulted  in, among other  things, the collapse  and  disintegration 
of what was  known  as  the Soviet Union,  and  the end  of bipolarity.  The world 
has begun to  seek  the  establishment  of  an alternative  order whose  features 
have not crystallized.  In the meantime,  there  are  signs  that  several  of  the 
cold-war problems 
such  as certain  regional  conflicts,  the dismantling  of  the 
apartheid system  in South Africa  and  the  slowing  down of  the  arms  race 
may 
be amenable  to solution.  These  developments  in international  relations  have 
created new opportunities  and  new  challenges.  The  challenges must  be 
confronted by the  international  community  with  all  seriousness  and 
determination.'  This  should  be done by  strengthening  the  spirit  of 
understanding  and  reconciliation  that  now prevails  in international  relations. 
However,  this  optimism  should  not  stop us  from  conceding  that  certain old 
questions and problems have  notvbeen  resolved  yet.  Furthermore,  those 
developments have  created  new hotbeds  of  tension  in certain  areas of  the 
world, as evidenced  by  the eruption of  the ethnic  conflicts  and  civil wars 
that have cast  their  shadows  on the  international  arena.  Such  unwelcome 
trends make  it  incumbent  upon  the  international  community  to do more  to 
strengthen the positive  trends  in international  relations  so that we may 
resolve the residual  and  the new problems  alike. 
Within  that  context,  my  country  supports  the efforts  of  the States  of  the 
Economic Community  of West  African  States  (ECOWAS)  to  reach  a speedy  solution 
to the Liberian  problem. 
We also urge  the  international  community  to encourage  the Afghans  to 
settle their differences  in a manner  that would  spare  them  new  confrontation. 
A/47/PV.25 
4 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
And we call on the  international  community  to work  seriously  to end the bloody 
conflict  in the Balkans by encouraging  the  republics  of  the  former Yugoslavia 
to settle  their disputes  through dialogue  and negotiation  instead of force and 
violence. 
The  international  community  should  redouble  its efforts  to put an end to 
the human  tragedy of the  Somali people  and to take  appropriate measures to 
reach  a rational  reconciliation,  thereby guaranteeing  a dignified  life for the 
Somalis, who  are  facing  a massive  famine. 
As  for the conflict between  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran and the United 
Arab Emirates, over  the  islands  of Abu Mousa, Greater Tunb  and Lesser Tunb, we 
would  like  to state  the need  to adhere  to the  international  norms  and 
conventions  that prohibit  the occupation by  force of  the territory  of another 
State.  We call upon our brethren  in Iran and the United Arab Emirates to 
allow reason, respect  for good-neighbourliness, and  the principle of 
sovereignty  to prevail, and to search  for a peaceful  solution to this 
conflict, thereby  sparing the  region  an escalation  in tensions. 
The  just cause of  the Palestinian people has been with  the United Nations 
since  its inception.  Notwithstanding  the adoption of  numerous  resolutions by 
the General Assembly, the Security  Council  and other organs, the Organization 
remains unable to implement  its own  resolutions.  As  the  Secretary-General 
states  in his  report to the Security  Council  on preventive  diplomacy, 
"The principles  of  the Charter  should be  applied  consistently, not 
selectively,  for  if the perception  should be  of  the  latter, trust will 
wane  and with  it the moral  authority which  is the greatest  and most 
unique quality  of  that  instrument."  (A/47/277, para.  82) 
A/47/PV.25 
5 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
Due to clear  discrimination  against  the Palestinian people 
who  remain 
under the yoke of  Israeli occupation  and  suffer  all  forms of  oppression, 
repression, enslavement  and  injustice  caused by  an  international  community 
which employs  double  standards 
that people  rose up  in an intifadah  against 
Israeli occupation,  insisting, properly, on  their  right to  self-determination 
and demonstrating  that the will  of peoples  cannot be crushed by  repression. 
A/47/PV.25 
6 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
We  should  like to  reaffirm  from  this  rostrum  our  support  for the 
intifadah of  the Palestinian people  against  injustice  and  for  that people's 
right  to  liberate  their  land,  to exercise  self-determination  and to establish 
their  own independent  and  sovereign State.  We urge  the  international 
community  to translate  its  support of  the Palestinian  people  into practical 
measures  by pressing  for the  immediate  halting  of Jewish  immigration  to 
Palestine  and  the occupied  Arab territories,  the complete  halting  of the 
building  of  Israeli  settlements, the protection  of  the Palestinian people and 
the  implementation  of  all  resolutions  relevant  to  the Palestinian guestion and 
to the occupied  Arab  territories,  so that peace  and  justice may prevail in all 
parts of  the Middle  East. 
Despite  all  the encouraging  developments  in South Africa over  the past 
two years, recent  events have  shown that  the  situation  there  is still a source 
of  tension  and  cause  for  concern.  The  recent  eruption  and  escalation of 
violence  is an ominous  sign of  a possible  explosion  that may  jeopardize the 
process  designed  to abolish apartheid  through negotiation.  While  welcoming 
the  steps  recently  taken by the  international  community  in this  respect, my 
country will  continue  its support  of  the South African people's  struggle to 
eradicate  the  system  of  apartheid,  which,  it  seems,  is unwilling  to desist 
from  its  racist  practices voluntarily  and,  chameleon-like,  is  desperately 
trying  to disguise  itself.  Therefore,  all  of us must maintain  the pressure on 
that  regime  to'make  it heed  the will of  the majority,  the will  of  the 
international  community  and  the  relevant United  Nations  resolutions. 
The  remarkable  changes  and developments  in today's  world  impose  new 
responsibilities  on  the United  Nations  in performing  its  role  as  an instrument 
A/47/PV.25 
7 
(Mr. Al-Bishari.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
of preserving world peace  and  security  and promoting  stability, 
reconciliation,  development  and prosperity  for all.  Small  and  vulnerable 
countries have  taken heart  from  the Organization's  increased  capabilities, 
especially now  that  the Organization has  achieved marked  success  in the 
settlement of disputes  in Cambodia  and Afghanistan,  in the  realization  of 
Namibia's  independence  and  in  supporting  the  legitimate  struggle of  the  people 
of South Africa to dismantle  apartheid. 
Notwithstanding  those positive  indications  in the Organization's work,  it 
has been noted  that  some  still  continue  to dominate  the Organization  and to 
use it, under various pretexts, to  serve  their  own political purposes  through 
the law of force  rather  than the  force  of  the  law, and by pursuing policies of 
political and military  intervention  as well  as economic pressure.  The 
pressures to which Libya has been  subjected  are part  and parcel  of  those 
policies.  The  same  is true of what has been visited  upon  the  Iraqi people. 
Thus, we call  for  an end  to  the embargo  imposed  against  the people of  Iraq, 
for an end to their  starvation,  for  respecting  their  sovereignty  and  for 
non-interference  in their  internal  affairs. 
What has become  known  as the Lockerbie  Case  is one of  the by-products  of 
the present  international  situation  and  illustrates  its effect  on  small 
countries that pursue  independent  policies  and  take  independent  positions. 
The case also  shows  the  need  to  introduce  basic  changes  in the mechanism  by 
which resolutions  are  adopted  in the United  Nations, and especially  in the 
Security Council,  so as  to make  them more  expressive  of  the will  of  the 
international  community.  The  case  also pinpoints  the dangers  inherent  in the 
tendency of  certain  States  to use  the powers  of  the Security  Council  to 
A/47/PV.25 
8 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
achieve  their  own private objectives  and  to use  double  standards  in dealing 
with  issues before  the Council  in a manner  that  deals high-handedly  and 
arbitrarily with  the  sovereignty  and  rights of  small  and vulnerable countries. 
The  Lockerbie  Case was  raised  and  forced  upon  the Security  Council and 
dealt with under  Chapter VII  of  the Charter, which does  not  apply,  since Libya 
neither  threatened  world  peace  nor  threatened  or  committed  aggression against 
another  country,  actions  it would  have  to have  taken  to be  liable under the 
provisions  of Chapter VII, which  relates  to the maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  Conscious  of  that,  and based  on  its  abhorrence of 
terrorism,  of which  it is a victim,  my  country  expressed,  in good will, its 
sincere willingness  to cooperate  in uncovering  the  facts  and  circumstances 
relating  to the  case.  Upon being  notified  of  the matter, my  country took all 
reguired  legal measures  consistent with  international  law and  conventions that 
do not violate  Libya's  sovereign  rights.  Regrettably,  however,  the interested 
parties  refused  to cooperate with  the Libyan  legal  authorities, which had 
offered  to conduct  joint  investigations  of  the  two Libyan  suspects.  When the 
States  concerned  referred  the matter  to the  Security  Council, which adopted 
resolution  731  (1992) calling  upon Libya  to  cooperate, my  country,  in letters 
to the United  Nations  Secretary-General,  expressed  its acceptance  of the 
resolution  and proposed  a series of  initiatives  to  implement  it.  Throughout, 
my  country  has been motivated  by a desire  to  reach  a settlement  that would 
guarantee  the  rights  of  all parties  and  spare  the  region  the dangers of 
A/47/PV.25 
9-10 
(Mr. Al-Bishari.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
tension and  instability.  However,  the Libyan  initiatives  concerning  the 
implementation  of  the provisions  of  the  resolution met  the  same  fate  as 
earlier ones, for  the countries  concerned  rushed  to the Security  Council  to 
seek adoption of  another  resolution  imposing  unjust  sanctions  against  the 
small, peaceful  Libyan people, without  any  legal basis or moral 
justification.  That  action  completely  ignored my  country's  declared 
commitment  to effective  cooperation  in the  implementation  of  Security  Council 
resolution 731  (1992),  as  set out  clearly  in document  S/23917  of  14 May 1992. 
The commitment  was welcomed  by  the great majority  of  the  family of nations  as 
represented  in the Movement  of Non-Aligned  Countries,  the Organization  of 
African Unity,  the Organization  of  the  Islamic Conference  and  the League  of 
Arab States, all of which expressed  solidarity with  the fair  Libyan  position 
from the very  start  of  the  crisis.  In all of  their  decisions  and  final 
statements issued  in September  1992 those  organizations  were unanimous  on the 
following points. 
A/47/PV.25 
11 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
First, praised  Libya's  cooperation  in seeking  a peaceful  settlement of 
the crisis within  the context of Libya's national  sovereignty,  international 
law,  and  the principles  of  the United  Nations  Charter  that govern  relations 
between  independent  States. 
Secondly,  called  on the parties  concerned  to  respond positively  to 
Libya's  initiatives  calling  for dialogue, negotiation,  and non-escalation, in 
order  to  reach  a solution  to the crisis under  Chapter  VI of  the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and under  the auspices  of  the Secretary-General,  in a manner 
that would be  conducive  to ending  the crisis  and  its  repercussions  peacefully, 
fairly  and  quickly. 
Thirdly,  called  upon the Security Council  to  lift  the measures  imposed on 
Libya, which has expressed  its commitment  to  resolution  731  (1992) 
As part  of  its  initiatives, Libya has  recently  called  on  the 
Secretary-General  of the United Nations  to  send  an  international  committee to 
verify  that  Libya has met  all  the  requirements  of  Security  Council  resolution 
731  (1992) related  to terrorism.  Once  again,  the parties  concerned  prevented 
the  Secretary-General  from  responding  to  this proposal,  and  - at a time when 
my country had expected  the Council  to  lift or  reduce  the unjust  sanctions in 
the  light  of Libya's  positive  response  to  the  requirements  of  resolution 
731  (1992) concerning  terrorism,  which we  unequivocally  condemn,  and its 
complete  willingness  to provide  a fair  and unbiased  trial  for  the suspects, 
which has been  agreed  to 
sought  to persuade  the Security  Council  to adopt a 
new  resolution  extending  the  sanctions  for  four more months.  My  country still 
calls  for a peaceful  settlement  to this  situation,  a settlement  that will 
A/47/PV.25 
12 
(Mr. Al-Bishari.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
safeguard the  rights of  all, maintain  the principles  of  international  law,  and 
save the world  from escalation  and  confrontation. 
The unjust  sanctions  against my  country  have  caused  a great deal of  human 
and material harm,  loss and  suffering  to the Libyan people.  My  country  has 
already detailed  those  losses  and damages  in official  circulating  documents  of 
the Security Council.  The embargo  has  affected  numerous  sectors,  especially 
in the fields of health  and  social  services.  One example  of  this  is the  fact 
that the delay  in the  arrival  of medical  supplies  and  instruments  has  led to 
the deaths  of  a large number  of  children,  and pregnant  women who died  in 
labour.  It was  also  impossible  to  send  abroad  over 3,000 medical  cases  that 
can not be  treated  locally,  including  cases of heart  disease,  kidney 
transplants, bone-marrow  transplants, neurosurgery,  and burns.  One  hundred 
and fifty gravely  ill patients, who could  not be  treated  locally,  died  while 
being transported  overland  to airports  in Tunisia  and Egypt.  In addition,  the 
overuse of land  routes  to and  from the Jamahiriya  resulted  in an  increase  in 
road accidents  during  the  last  four months  of  this year  compared  to the  same 
period in 1991.  The  number  of accidents  rose  from  2,401  in 1991 to 3,788 over 
the past four months.  Deaths  from these  accidents  rose  from  389  to  528, an 
increase of  about  35 per  cent. 
As for economic  losses  resulting  from  the air embargo,  they have  amounted 
to $2,157 million  as a result  of  the  fall  in revenues generated  by  exports  of 
fruits and vegetables, in addition to a 44 per  cent  drop  in non-oil  exports. 
The sanctions  also  resulted  in the  interruption  of many  industrial  activities 
due to the  shortage  in means  of production  and  spare parts, not  to mention 
agriculture.  The  losses  in animal  and  agricultural  production,  for  example. 
A/47/PV.25 
13 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
are estimated  at $1,062,803,000.00  as a result of the non-arrival  of medicines 
and  sera necessary  for protecting  the  livestock  sector  against  animal 
epidemics  and communicable  diseases. 
Those who prompted  the Security  Council  to  impose  these  sanctions on our 
small, peaceful population 
which has  limited  resources  and has  threatened no 
one 
bear  the political, legal, and moral  responsibility  for the deaths of 
women, children, the aged, the handicapped,  and  the  sick.  They  also bear 
responsibility  for  the decline  in the  standard of  living, the  slow pace of 
development, the  spread of epidemics, and the  imprisonment  of an entire people 
inside  its own borders.  There  is no doubt  that all of  this  relates directly 
to human  rights.  History will bear witness  to what  is being perpetrated in 
the name of  the Security Council  against  a small, peaceful  population. 
Thus, my  country would  like  from  this  rostrum  to call upon the 
international  Organization  and the  international  Security Council, out of 
respect  for  the principles  of  justice, to lift these  sanctions, which have 
harmed  the Libyan people  and the peoples of neighboring  States.  It also 
invites  the concerned parties  to engage  in dialogue  and  to cooperate  in order 
to reach a solution to this dispute based on  sovereignty  and mutual  respect in 
accordance with  international  norms  and  laws. 
I must put before  this  international  forum  some  facts  that are no doubt 
universally  accepted.  The  first fact  is that all  countries, large and small, 
must  respect  the Charter of  the United Nations  and uphold  international law if 
the world  is not to slip  into  a state of anarchy, which  is in no one's 
interest.  The objective  of the United Nations  should be the protection of the 
sovereignty  of States  and  respect  for  their  laws.  The  second  fact is that the 
A/47/PV.25 
14-15 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
Security Council,  the authority  entrusted  with maintaining  international  peace 
and security,  should  not become  a tool used by  some world  Powers  as a cover 
for their hegemonistic  designs.  The  third  fact  is the need  for  an 
international  judicial  organ  entrusted  with  trying  those who  commit  acts of 
terrorism of any  sort  or  source.  Hence, we welcome  the call  for  the 
establishment  of  an  international  criminal  court  to  look  into  international 
criminal cases. 
The consolidation  of  security  and  cooperation  in the Mediterranean  region 
is high on the agenda  of  the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  for we believe  that 
security and peace  in that  region  is vital, not only  to the  coastal  States, 
but also to the peace  and  security  of  the world.  Thus, my  country  remains 
convinced that effective  security  in the  region  can be  achieved  only  after  the 
causes of tension  that  beset  the Mediterranean  are  removed  and  after  the 
foreign navies  and military  bases  are withdrawn  from  it.  Moreover, 
cooperation among  its coastal  States  should  be  increased,  coordinated  and 
intensified.  That  is why my  country would  like  to underscore  the  findings  in 
the final declaration  of  the Tenth  Summit  of  the Non-Aligned  Movement 
Countries, which called  for  supporting  the efforts  aimed  at  transforming  the 
Mediterranean  into  a  zone of peace,  security  and  cooperation  on the basis of 
the principles  of  respect  for  the eguality  and  sovereignty  of States, 
non-intervention  in the  internal  affairs  of others, and  the non-use or  threat 
of force. 
A/47/PV.25 
16 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
My  country has  consistently  affirmed  that  it  supports  disarmament because 
it is aware of  the  terrible  dangers  that  armaments  pose  to our planet.  In 
this  context,  Libya  submitted  to the Assembly  a proposal  calling on the United 
Nations  General  Assembly  to look  into  the  serious  phenomena  of  concern to all 
nations,  such as  international  terrorism 
how  to deal with  its causes and how 
to eradicate  it; weapons  of mass destruction,  and offensive  strategic weapons, 
which  constitute  a terrifying  danger  for  all,  including  those who  own them. 
The proposal  refers  also  to offering  compensation  to the peoples who were 
colonized  and  subjected  to  repression  and  suppression  by  their  colonizers. 
Our proposal  deals  also with other  important  issues,  such  as the question of 
refugees, exiles  and the kidnapped,  in addition  to  reviewing  the Charter of 
the United  Nations.  It proposes  studying  various  economic  and  social problems 
and  the  ills  that  afflict  humanity with  a view  to  finding  a solution  for all 
these  problems  and  to  realizing  stability,  prosperity  and happiness  for the 
whole  world. 
In addition  to this, it is important  to  solve  certain political questions 
which have been with  the United  Nations  since  its  inception.  All  those 
questions  are contained  in document  A/46/840 of  9 January 1992. 
Once  again, my  country  renews  its call  for  disarmament  through the 
elimination  of  all weapons  of mass  destruction  of  all  countries  which possess, 
produce  or  stockpile  them,  without  exception  or discrimination.  My country, 
as party  to the nuclear  non-proliferation  Treaty  and  to the Treaty on the 
prohibition  of bacteriological  weapons  and  the Geneva  Protocol,  supports all 
efforts  aimed  at curbing  the  arms  race and  at eliminating  nuclear weapons. 
That  is why we welcome  the  recent  agreement  between  the United  States of 
America  and  the Russian  Federation  further  to  reduce  their  nuclear weapons. 
A/47/PV.25 
17 
(Mr. Al-Bishari.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
My country  also welcomes  France's  accession  to  the non-proliferation  Treaty. 
To further  expand  this  tendency, my  country  supports  the establishment  of 
zones that are  free of  all nuclear,  chemical  and bacteriological  weapons, 
including Africa  and  the Middle  East.  It also  supports  the proposal  of the 
Arab Republic  of  Egypt which  calls  for declaring  the Middle  East  an area  free 
of weapons  of mass  destruction.  This objective, however,  is obstructed  by 
persistent  difficulties  resulting  from  Israel's  continued  production, 
possession and  stockpiling  of weapons  of mass  destruction  as well  as its 
testing of these weapons  and  its refusal  to heed  repeated  international 
appeals to submit  its nuclear  facilities  to the  safeguards  regime of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency. 
In this present  era of  change  one  concrete  fact emerges, namely  that the 
international  community  has not  shown the  same  concern over  questions  of 
economic development  as  it did  in regard  to other questions  such as those of 
political crises.  Economic  problems, which  are  a significant  factor  in the 
obstruction of  development  and growth,  are  still with  us.  This does not  seem 
logical, especially  at a time when  the world  looks  forward  to  a new era of 
security and  stability.  If this  new era is to materialize,  appropriate 
measures should be  taken  to  solve  the  intractable  economic  problems  of the 
developing countries  in particular.  These  include  the problems  arising  from 
protectionism,  lack of  transfer  of  technology,  reverse  flows  of  resources, 
external debts  and  low commodity  prices.  Furthermore,  the  imposition  of 
arbitrary measures  and  sanctions,  such as economic  embargoes,  trade 
restrictions  and  the  freezing  of  funds  and  assets by  certain  developed 
countries against  a number  of  developing  countries, must  be halted.  In 
A/47/PV.25 
18 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
addition,  it  is very  important  for  the  international  community  to honour its 
commitments  vis-a-vis  certain programmes,  such as  the United Nations New 
Agenda  for  the Development  of Africa  in the  1990s.  Africa expects  a great 
deal  from  this programme  which  is supposed  to bolster  development  efforts 
started  on  the continent  at the  regional  level by  establishing  the African 
economic  community,  and  at  the  subregional  level  in the  form  of groupings such 
as the Arab Maghreb Union,  to which my  country  is honoured  to belong.  This 
union  aims  at  intensifying  cooperation  among  its member  countries  and with the 
rest of  the  continent.  It also  seeks  to enter  into wider  cooperation with 
other  countries  of  the world,  especially  the European Mediterranean  countries, 
and  to enhance  cooperation  between  the countries  of  the  South  and  the North. 
The  results  of  the  Summit  on environment  and  development  which was held 
in the middle  of  this year  are a great  achievement  that bespeaks  the 
international  community's  determination  to protect  the world's  natural 
resources.  The  commitment  of  the world  to preserve  the environment  was 
evident  in the agreements  on climatic  change  and biological  diversity that 
were  reached  at  that Conference.  The  important  thing  now  is to  cooperate 
internationally  and  effectively  in implementing  the  conclusions  and 
recommendations  of  the Earth  Summit.  In this  respect, my  country welcomes the 
decision  of  the  Summit  concerning  the  setting  up of  a standing  developmental 
committee  and hopes  that  this  committee  will become  a forum  for  implementing 
the decisions  of Agenda  21 which  are aimed  at preserving  the  environment while 
pursuing  development. 
Conservation  of  the environment  requires  both  international  cooperation 
and national  efforts.  My  country  participated  in the  Rio  de  Janeiro 
Conference  and  signed  its  conventions  and  agreements.  At  the  national  level 
A/47/PV.25 
19 
(Mr. Al-Bishari.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
my country  accords  top priority  to questions  of  development.  Accordingly,  my 
country has begun  to  combat  drought  and  desertification  through  the great 
man-made  river project  which will  carry millions  of  cubic metres  of water  from 
the southern part  of  Libya  to  the arable  land  in the  coastal  area where  the 
greatest part  of  our population  lives.  Our  national  plans  aim  at  the 
reclamation of  thousands  of hectares  of  land  for both  agriculture  and  human 
settlement.  Despite  all  this, my  country  still  suffers  from  a severe  shortage 
of water which  is necessary  for  its economic  development  plans.  This  shortage 
not only threatens my  country,  but will  imperil  the  continuation  of  life  in 
North Africa  and  the Middle  East  unless  it  is dealt with  through  international 
cooperation. 
I must  state here  that  our  aspirations  after  development  face  certain 
difficulties which my  country has  raised  in several  regional  and  international 
forums, including  the  General  Assembly.  The  Secretary-General  himself  spoke 
about those difficulties  in his  report. An Agenda  for Peace.  I am here 
referring to mines  and  the  remnants  of war.  During  the Second World  War, 
Libyan territory was  used  as one  of  the main  theatres  for military 
operations.  Our people  have paid  an exorbitant  material  and human price  for a 
war in which our  country  had  no  stake.  Since  the end of  that war, the  Libyan 
people have  continued  to  suffer  from  the  remnants  of  the war  and  the mines  and 
explosives planted  by  the warring  armies  in its  territory. 
Many  regional  and  international  organizations,  including  the  General 
Assembly, have  adopted  resolutions  calling  upon  the countries  responsible  to 
submit the required  information  and  technical  assistance  needed  for  the 
removal of  those mines  and  remnants, and  to pay  compensation  for  the  damage 
caused by  them. 
A/47/PV.25 
20 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
Today, we  reiterate  our  call  to  those  countries  to  act  in a  responsible 
manner,  to  respond positively  to the  appeals  of  the  international  community 
and  to  implement  the provisions  of General  Assembly  resolutions  relating to 
the  remnants  of war. 
The  environment  in my  country  is also  threatened  by  the harmful  effects 
of pollution  in the Mediterranean,  caused  by  the wastes  poured  into  its water 
by  foreign navies  stationed  in the  area,  the over-consumption  and 
over-production  of  the developed  Mediterranean  countries  and  the dumping of 
hundreds  of  tons of pesticides  and  combustibles  in its waters.  This has 
caused  an environmental  imbalance  that  is being  further  aggravated  by the 
exploitation  of  the Mediterranean  by  countries  from outside  the  region. 
A/47/PV.25 
21 
(Mr. Al-Bishari.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
Human  rights  issues  are  the  focus  of  the  international  community's 
attention and  are  at the  top of  its  scale of priorities.  While  appreciating 
the role of  the United  Nations  in ensuring  the exercise  of human  rights  and 
basic freedoms, we must  state  that  those  rights  are not  scrupulously  respected 
in a number  of  regions.  In addition,  the double  standards  and  the  selectivity 
that mar  the  conduct  of  certain  countries  in the  area of protecting  human 
rights have prevented  the United  Nations, and especially  the Commission  on 
Human Rights,  from  effectively  performing  their  role  in this  area.  We  hope 
that the World  Conference  on Human Rights, to be held  in Vienna  in mid-1993, 
will afford us opportunities  to deliberate  on  all  these  questions  and will 
adopt practical measures  to deal with  them  and  identify  the ways  and  means 
whereby human  rights may be protected  and defended  against  violations.* 
My country  attaches  great  importance  to human  rights  and  to the  dignity 
and welfare  of man.  This was  reaffirmed  in the great green  document  on  human 
rights, which  includes  numerous basic  principles  for  the promotion  of human 
rights.  This has  been  crowned by  effective  and  legal procedures,  such as the 
law on enhancing  freedoms, which was promulgated  in 1991, the establishment  of 
a national human  rights  commission  and  an  international  committee  for the 
Qaddafi human  rights  award.  Furthermore,  Libya has  acceded  to most 
international  agreements  and  instruments  relating  to human  rights  and  measures 
are being taken  to meet  our  commitments  arising  from  accession  to  these 
agreements and  instruments. 
* 
Mr. Al-Haddad  (Yemen), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.25 
22 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
One of  the  items on the  international  agenda  is the  setting  up of a new 
world  order.  There  is no doubt  that  such a world  order will  not  function 
properly  and effectively  unless we  overcome  and  rectify  certain  shortcomings 
of  the United  Nations,  since  the Organization will  be  the world body that will 
play  a  fundamental  role  in the management  and  coordination  of  that  new world 
order.  Thus, the most  urgent  task now  is to  reinvigorate  the United Nations, 
restructure  and  democratize  it.  My  country welcomes  the  efforts  being made at 
present  to  reform  the Organization  and enhance  its effectiveness,  including 
the encouraging  initiatives  of  the  Secretary-General. 
However,  a great  deal  remains  to be done  in this  respect,  such as 
ensuring  full  respect  for  the Charter,  and  consistent  adherence  to its 
provisions, without  selectivity  and without  any breach of  its principles.  We 
must  also  ensure  that  the Organization  is not  dominated  by  any one  and that 
its  resolutions  are  respected  and  implemented  non-selectively.  Furthermore, 
the  role of  the General  Assembly  should be  strengthened  in a manner  that would 
ensure  the effective  and  full  implementation  of  all  its resolutions, as those 
resolutions  are  the true expression of  the  sum-total  of  the positions of all 
the Member  States.  Also,  the  current  composition  of  the  Security  Council 
should  be  reviewed  and  expanded  in order  for  it to  reflect  the  increase in 
membership  of  the United  Nations.  It is also highly  important  to  review some 
of  the provisions  of  the Charter.  We would  like  specifically  to  focus 
attention  on  the veto  right  in the Security  Council.  My  country was  the first 
to  call  for  the  abolition  of  that privilege, because  it is one  of  the main 
impediments  to the most  important  role  for which  the United  Nations was 
established,  namely,  the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
A/47/PV.25 
23 
(Mr. Al-Bishari.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
have lately  felt  satisfaction  at the expansion  of  this  call.  Many  countries, 
including  some current  members  of  the Security  Council, have voiced  similar 
views, and have  come  to  share  our  conviction  that  a system  of  collective 
security that  continues  to be  subject  to a veto by  some  countries  can never  be 
depended  on to maintain  peace  and  security. 
In a few years  time, we will  celebrate  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations.  Over  the past  four  decades, the Organization has performed  a 
remarkable  role  in decolonization  and has worked  tirelessly  for  the 
consolidation  of  international  peace  and  security.  It has  taken many 
initiatives  towards  the  achievement  of economic  development  and  social 
well-being.  Hence, my  country's  welcome  for  the  call  to convene  an 
International  Conference  on Human Rights  in 1993  and  an  International 
Conference on Population  in 1994, as both conferences will  afford  an 
opportunity  for  the  re-assessment  of  international  programmes  of  assistance  to 
developing countries, with  a view  to  achieving  an optimum  balance  between 
population growth  and  development  resources. 
My country welcomes  also  the  call  for convening  an  International 
Conference on Women  in 1995, and  attaches  great  importance  to the World  Summit 
for Social Development,  because  it will  give  political  impetus  to national, 
regional and  international  efforts  and  activities  aimed  at meeting  the  social 
needs of many  developing  countries. 
As all  those world  conferences will  take place  under  circumstances  of 
international  change  and  transformation,  my  country  looks  forward  to  their 
results and hopes  that  they will  lead  to the  laying of  solid  foundations  and 
the forumlation  of  clear-cut  approaches  that would  lead  to  international 
A/47/PV.25 
24-25 
(Mr. Al-Bishari. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
efforts  aimed  at  the  strengthening  of peace,  security  and  stability  for all as 
well  as  the  creation of  opportunities  for  the progress  of  all  mankind. 
In these  critical  times  and  in the context  of  this  unstable  international 
situation,  the  small  countries  of  the world  look  towards  the United  Nations 
with  all  their  hopes  for  a brave  new world  of peace,  security,  justice and 
equality  for  all  that would  be built  by the hands of  all  nations  alike, large 
and  small, wealthy  and poor;  a brave world  in which  the values  of  freedom, 
democracy  and human  rights  are upheld  and which will  be  free of violence, 
injustice  and  dictatorship;  a world  of  love and brotherhood,  where  God's light 
shines  above  the whole  Earth 
the one God, who  is Lord  of  the  universe.  We 
sincerely  hope  that  the United Nations will  rise  to  the great  challenges that 
face  it.  The  President  of  the Assembly  can count  on my  country's  cooperation 
in every endeavour  that will promote, enhance  and  realize  these principles and 
objectives  I have  spoken of.  With peace  and  love  from  the  small, peaceful 
Libyan people  to  all your peace-loving  peoples. 
Mr. ALLEYNE  (Dominica):  I am honoured  to  congratulate  Mr. Ganev and 
his  country,  Bulgaria,  on his election to  the high office  of  President  of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session.  We  are  aware  that he possesses 
the qualities  and experience  required  for assuming  the  responsibility  of 
presiding  over  the Assembly,  and we  are  therefore  confident  that he will serve 
in that  capacity with  authority,  dignity  and honour.  I assure  him  of the full 
cooperation  of  the delegation  of  the Commonwealth  of Dominica  in the discharge 
of his  duties. 
It  is with great  pleasure  also  that  I congratulate  and  welcome 
Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  on his  election  as  the  sixth  Secretary-General  of 
the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.25 
26 
(Mr. Alleyne.  Dominica) 
Mr. Boutros-Ghali's  election  is a contribution by Egypt, Africa  and  the  third 
world in general  to the maintenance  of world peace,  justice  and  fundamental 
human rights.  His  intellect,  integrity,  sense of  commitment  and wide 
experience  in international  affairs  are qualities which,  I have no doubt,  will 
ensure excellence  in the performance  of his duties.  I assure 
Mr. Boutros-Ghali  of  the  strong  support  of  the Government  and people  of  the 
Commonwealth  of Dominica  throughout  his  term  as  Secretary-General. 
Permit me  to  formally bid  farewell  to  the  former  Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations, Javier  Perez de Cuellar, who gave  10  remarkable  years  of 
service to this  international  body.  He will be well  remembered  for his  keen 
interest  in the welfare  of humankind  and more  specifically  for his efforts  at 
maintaining world  peace.  It  is my  firm belief  that his  successor  will  pursue 
the issues  that Mr. Perez de Cuellar  hopes will be  the main  concern of  the 
United Nations  in the  coming years:  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security,  justice, universalization  of human  rights, and  lessening  of  the gap 
between rich and poor  nations  of  the world  community. 
We believe  the United  Nations  should be  a truly  international  body,  with 
universal membership.  However, we do not  accept  the practice  of  automatic 
succession.  We  insist  that  all new States  seeking  admission  must qualify  for 
membership.  Countries  seeking  admission  to this world  community  must  be 
committed  to peace  and must  accept  the obligations  of  the United  Nations 
Charter:  countries which,  in the  judgement  of  the Organization,  are  able  and 
willing to carry out  their  obligations. 
It is in this  context  that we wholeheartedly  support  the decision  to 
exclude for  the  time being  Serbia  and Montenegro  from membership  of  the United 
A/47/PV.25 
27 
(Mr. Alleyne. Dominica) 
Nations, and we welcome other new members from the former Yugoslavia and 
former Soviet Union.  Serbia and Montenegro, on the other hand, by their 
barbaric acts and flagrant violation of human rights through the practice of 
"ethnic cleansing", have demonstrated a lack of respect for the obligations 
and principles of this world body. 
The Commonwealth of Dominica joins the world community in condemning 
Serbia's acts of violence and aggression against the peoples of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, and calls for concerted and effective action in defence of the 
defenceless in those States. 
While we support unstintingly the resolutions adopted by the Security 
Council authorizing the use of force to provide humanitarian assistance to the 
refugees and displaced persons of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and applaud the 
efforts of different United Nations agencies in that respect, there is need 
for greater effort to stop Serbian aggression and end the civil war under way 
in the former Yugoslav Republic.  "Ethnic cleansing" and violations of 
international humanitarian law must not be tolerated.  Our community of 
nations cannot be indifferent to the slaughtering of innocent people. 
Recent trends have demonstrated a weakening, and even a disruption, of 
the democratic process, as well as widespread violations of human rights not 
only in Eastern Europe but also in Africa and the Americas. 
Civil war coupled with the severity of the drought problem has led to 
famine and death for too many Somalians, and we exhort the United Nations to 
spare no effort in alleviating the plight of the starving millions of that 
country. 
The Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica was deeply gratified by 
the positive outcome of the referendum on reform in South Africa.  It seemed 
A/47/PV.25 
28 
(Mr. Alleyne.  Dominica) 
to confirm  the will  of  the people  of  South Africa  to move  forward  rapidly 
towards an equitable  society where  all citizens would  be offered  their 
God-given dignity  and  their  full  right  to participate  in the  affairs  of  that 
country.  As  a sign of  support, and  in response  to the positive vote on  the 
referendum, the Government  of  the Commonwealth  of Dominica  joined  other 
nations of  the Commonwealth  in an easing  of people-to-people  contacts 
generally. 
We are however  deeply  concerned  at the persistence  of violence  and  the 
failure of  the South African  Government  to control  it, which  undermines  and 
obstructs progress  towards  democracy  and majority  rule.  We  call  for  a 
concerted thrust  to bring  an end  to violence, and  for  a constructive  and  open 
dialogue between the  Pretoria  regime  and  the African National  Congress  in an 
effort to arrive  at an early  agreement  on majority  rule. 
The international  community must  keep  the  situation  under  constant  review 
and should ease economic  sanctions  against  the minority  regime  in South Africa 
only in response  to firm,  significant  and  irreversible  progress  towards  a 
democratically  elected government  based  on principles  of equality  and 
justice.  We hope  for  an end  to all violence  and  look  forward  to  peaceful 
progress towards  a truly  just and democratic  system. 
The situation  in Haiti  is of particular  concern  to us  in the Americas. 
The violence and  illegal  interruption  of  the democratic  process  in our  sister 
island has led  to continual  violations  of human  rights, increased  poverty  and 
suffering of  the Haitian  people, economic  degradation  and  the  fleeing  of 
thousands from  their  homeland.  The  subsequent  refugee  crisis  is cause  for 
9rave concern. 
A/47/PV.25 
29 
(Mr. Alleyne. Dominica) 
The  Organization  of American  States  (OAS) has made  significant  efforts to 
restore  the democratic  system  in Haiti, but  despite  resolutions  passed by the 
OAS General  Assembly  and a number  of missions  to Haiti,  along with  other 
initiatives,  the  situation has not been  resolved.  We  urge  all  States  Members 
of  the United Nations  to  support  the decision  contained  in the OAS  resolutions 
on the  restoration  of democracy  in Haiti  and  to participate  in their  effective 
implementation.  The  leaks  that have enabled  the  illegal  government  to survive 
and even  consolidate  its position  in the  face of  the embargo  must  be  closed 
off. 
In his  statement  before  the United Nations  General  Assembly  in 
December  1991, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  stated: 
"If there  is no development without  democracy,  there  can also be no 
democracy without  development."  (A/46/PV.59. p.  16) 
The  economic  situation  in Haiti  is an issue  that  needs  to be  addressed. 
Labelled  the poorest  country  in the Western hemisphere, Haiti  continues to 
suffer  economic  deterioration.  The Members  of  the United  Nations  cannot turn 
a blind  eye  to  the urgent  and basic  development  needs  of Haiti.  Our  concerted 
efforts  at  restoring democracy must be  accompanied  by plans  for  immediate 
improvements  in the  social  and economic  conditions  of  the people  of  this 
Caribbean  nation. 
Within  this  context, Dominica  issues a warning  that  the  collapse  of the 
banana  industry  in Dominica  and  the Windward  Islands, which may be  the 
inevitable  consequence  of  imposing  a tariff  on bananas  under  the  General 
Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade, would  immediately  and  dramatically  adversely 
affect  the economic  and  social  conditions  of  those  small  island  developing 
A/47/PV.25 
30 
(Mr. Alleyne. Dominica) 
States.  We would find ourselves dealing, not with one Haiti, but with three 
or four in the Caribbean.  Such an upheaval could very easily be avoided at no 
appreciable cost to the basic principles of world trade.  What we need is 
continuing flexibility based on a recognition of the already proclaimed 
special needs of small island developing countries. 
Allow me, in the context of the discussion of violations of human rights, 
to refer to Iraq's flagrant violation of United Nations Security Council 
resolution 688 (1991), which requires Baghdad to end the repression of its 
citizens and allow access by international humanitarian organizations.  It is 
the responsibility of Iraq as a Member of the United Nations to comply fully 
with United Nations Security Council resolutions.  Iraq's continued violation 
of these resolutions and continued repression of its civilian population must 
be condemned. 
One of the fundamental principles of the United Nations is respect for 
the sovereignty of each Member State.  It is with this in mind that we 
consider intolerable the assumption that one sovereign State can with impunity 
commit criminal offences in another sovereign State on the pretext of 
promoting law enforcement.  National sovereignty is not of varying value 
depending on the size or wealth of the nations.  The rule of law must be 
upheld between States as well as within States. 
A/47/PV.25 
31 
(Mr. Alleyne. Dominica) 
The quest for the protection of the environment continues to be pursued 
vigorously, and the efforts of international organizations must be applauded. 
The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio last 
June, is proof, according to Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali, that nations 
understand the very fragile nature of the Earth and how very important it is 
to save our planet.  The question to be addressed, then, is how to approach 
the problem of environmental degradation in a manner which will protect the 
interests of both developing and industrialized countries. 
Out of the Earth Summit emerged the Rio Declaration on Environment and 
Development, consisting of a set of principles aimed at governing the economic 
and environmental behaviour of individuals and nations in the quest for global 
sustainability.  Agenda 21 covers all areas affecting the relationship between 
the environment and the economy and deals with the protection of the 
atmosphere and of the oceans; combating deforestation, desertification and 
drought; the role of indigenous peoples and women in implementing sustainable 
development; the meeting of basic human needs; and, very importantly, the 
transitional patterns of production and consumption in the industrialized 
countries which would significantly reduce their disproportionate contribution 
to the deterioration of the Earth's environment. 
We must be cognizant of the difficulties to be encountered in our 
attempts to accomplish some of the goals of Agenda 21. 
The industrialized countries have gained economic prosperity in disregard 
of the resultant destruction of the environment.  The developing countries, 
for their part, are seeking, belatedly, to raise the standard of living of 
their populations, primarily through a process of industrialization patterned 
A/47/PV.25 
32 
(Mr. Alleyne.  Dominica) 
on the model  of  the developed  countries.  That quest will  no doubt  take  its 
toll on the  environment. 
The  responsibility  of  the  industrialized  countries  to contribute  to  the 
progress of  the developing  countries  in a compensatory  manner  must  be 
recognized.  They must  compensate  for damage  to the environment  and  for 
injustice  to the developing  countries. 
The sovereign  right  of  a country  to use  its natural  resources  for  its 
economic development,  while  respecting  the environment  and bearing  in mind  the 
needs of  future generations, must be  recognized.  Small  countries, no  less 
than large ones, have  the  right  to pursue  their  national  interests  free  from 
the bullying  threats  of  special-interest  groups. 
Finally,  I should  like to recall  that  Secretary-General  Boutros-Ghali,  in 
his induction  speech  on 3 December  1991, promised  to  streamline  the  operations 
of the United Nations,  "eliminating what  is wasteful  and  obsolete 
(A/46/PV.59. p.  16).  If our objective  of  achieving  progress  towards  world 
peace is to be  realized,  we must  strengthen,  not weaken,  the  ability of  the 
United Nations  to provide  technical  and material  assistance  to  developing 
countries  "in order  to narrow  the gap between  the  rich North  and  the poor 
South" (A/46/PV.59. p. 13).  It will  also help  us to achieve  the  "agenda of 
justice" which  the outgoing  Secretary-General,  the distinguished  diplomat 
Javier Perez de Cuellar,  identified  as the dominant  concern of  the United 
Nations in the years  ahead. 
The restructuring  of  the United  Nations  is a very urgent  need.  We  are 
living in a dynamic world where, every day,  events make heavy  demands  on  the 
Organization.  The United Nations has had  to deal with  those  demands  in a 
rather ad hoc manner,  and  if  it  is to become more  responsive  to the needs  of 
A/47/PV.25 
33 
(Mr. Alleyne. Dominira) 
Member  States  and  to  function more  effectively  within  the parameters  of the 
Charter,  a comprehensive  analysis  needs  to be  undertaken  immediately  and new 
machinery put  in place  to make  the  tasks of preserving  world  peace  and 
promoting  fundamental  human  rights  achievable. 
During  the  forty-sixth  session of  the General  Assembly,  there was much 
discussion  on  reforming  the Organization.  Emphasis  was placed  on  streamlining 
the  Secretariat  and  increasing  the  authority  of  the  Secretary-General.  There 
is need  at  this point  to do more  in-depth  study  of  the plan worked  out by the 
22  industrialized  and developing  countries  and  of  the  final  report prepared by 
the Nordic  United  Nations  Project.  The  important  thing  is that whatever is 
done must  render  the Organization more  effective  in promoting  peace  and 
development  throughout  the world.  Anything  less would merely  perpetuate the 
waste  of  limited  resources.  It must  be made  clear  that  the world  cannot long 
continue  on  its present  path. 
Mr. ADOUM  (Chad)  (interpretation  from  French):  In addressing the 
General  Assembly  this  afternoon  from  this  rostrum,  I should  like  first of all 
to offer Mr. Ganev my warmest  congratulations  on his  unanimous  election as 
President  for  the  forty-seventh  session.  His great  experience  is 
unquestionably  a most valuable  assurance  for  the  international  community 
during  this  tumultuous  period  in the world,  a world which  is  seeking peace, 
security  and well-being.  He can count  on the  strong  support  and  the full 
cooperation  of  the Chadian delegation, which  it  is my privilege  to head. 
Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi, his predecessor, won  our  admiration  with the 
tact  and  skill with which he handled  the  serious questions  that  arose during 
the period  of his mandate.  We express  to him  our  fullest  appreciation  for his 
valuable  contribution. 
A/47/PV.25 
34-35 
(Mr. Adoum.  Chad) 
Less  than  10 months  after  the beginning  of his  term  of office,  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali, has put his  stamp  on  the 
Organization  and has been  called  upon  to play  a role of growing  importance  in 
the life of  free peoples  and nations.  We wish him  ever-greater  successes  and 
offer him our  support  in the  execution  of his weighty  duties.  We have  no 
doubt he will  discharge  his  tasks with his well-known  skill  and  tenacity. 
I should  also  like  to extend  a warm welcome  to the new Members  of  the 
Organization.  Their  presence  here  cannot but  strengthen  the universality  of 
the United Nations,  the goal of whose  founding  fathers was  to bring  together 
all peoples, put  an end  to  the  scourge of war  and  other  forms  of  conflict,  and 
above all to ensure  socio-economic  development  and  fraternity  among men. 
At the  last  session of  the General  Assembly  my  delegation  set  forth  the 
changes that had  taken place  in Chadian politics.  We  announced  the  enactment 
of the law on the  conditions  for  the creation  and  functioning  of  political 
parties in the  framework  of pluralistic  democracy  and  on the holding  of a 
national sovereign  conference  scheduled  for May  1992.  It goes without  saying 
that a meeting  of  such  crucial  importance  for  the  future  of  the  country had  to 
be most carefully  and  rigorously prepared  if optimum  results were  to be 
achieved.  Thus, it was  not possible  to convene  the  conference  on  the 
scheduled date because  the  commission  in charge of preparations  for  it did not 
submit its conclusions  in time. 
Today  I am  in a position  to  announce  from  this  rostrum  that  the  Chad's 
national sovereign  conference will  take place  during  the  first quarter  of 
1993, at the  latest.  This  is a solemn  commitment  and  one  that has  been 
repeatedly  reaffirmed.  Similarly,  I reiterate  here  and now that  the 
democratic process  under way  in my  country  is  irreversible. 
A/47/PV.25 
36 
(Mr. Adoum.  Chad) 
Looking  forward  to this  important  date, and with  a desire  to bring 
together  the  largest  possible  number  of our  fellow  citizens  in the  daily 
management  of  the  affairs  of  the  State, President  Idriss Deby  decided,  after 
long  consultations,  to modify  the National  Charter which has governed  Chad 
since  4 March  1991.  On  this basis, Mr. Joseph Yodoyman,  a member  of the 
opposition,  has been  appointed  Prime Minister  and Head  of  Government.  The new 
Government  includes both  representatives  of  the opposition parties  and 
representatives  of  ordinary  citizens.  This  forward-looking  government has set 
for  itself  the objective  of pursuing  the orientation  plan presented  to the 
donors  and  sponsors  of Chad  in Geneva  in June  1990.  Stress has been  laid on 
disengagement  of  the State, privatization,  liberalization  of  the economy and 
sector-based  development,  with priority  given  to competence  and experience in 
the  administration  and  to maintaining  a dialogue  with  our  social partners. 
Like many  other  countries  on the continent,  Chad  is  confronting  an 
unprecedented  economic  and  financial  crisis.  To deal with  the  crisis, the 
Government  adopted  a number  of measures  to  stabilize  public  finances.  These 
measures  included:  an  increase  in  individual  income  taxes; a  50 per  cent 
decrease  in compensation  given  to all governmental  and  related workers; a 
10 to  20 per  cent  reduction  in indexed  income; a 20 per  cent  reduction  in 
lump-sum  income; a 10 per  cent  reduction of  the numbers  working  in public 
administration;  and  a reduction  in State  spending.  These measures, which 
affect workers  in both  the public  and  the private  sectors, encountered  the 
vigorous  opposition  of  the  trade  unions,  leading  to days of  strikes  in May, 
June,  July  and August  1992. 
Although  the  strikes were  conducted  lawfully,  the Government  had no 
choice but  to maintain  these measures,  the overriding  necessity  of which was 
repeatedly  underscored  in the  face of  limited  national  resources.  To make it 
A/47/PV.25 
37 
(Mr. Adoum.  Chad) 
possible  for  these measures  to have effect,  the Government  is at the  present 
time negotiating with  social partners  a social  truce  that will  apply  to  the 
rest of the year. 
The Chadian people, officials  and agents  of  the public  and  private 
sectors have  a moral  obligation  to endure  these  sacrifices  if  they  are  to be 
able to look  forward  to the  future with greater  hope  and  serenity.  With  a 
view to reducing  expenditures  and  establishing  balance,  the Government  is 
pursuing its programme  of  restructuring  the army.  In this  respect  a protocol 
agreement has been  signed with  France which  should make  it possible  to  reduce 
the army  from  50,000  to  25,000 men  and  to  integrate  all  forces  into  a truly 
national army.  This means  that  the  French Government  is giving  us  technical 
and financial  assistance  in this  tremendous  undertaking. 
In connection with  this programme, my  country has not  lost  sight  of 
questions of  security  at  the  regional  level, and we have  taken part  in 
subregional  cooperative meetings  in this  regard.  At  the  initiative  of  the 
10 States members  of Central Africa,  the United Nations  General  Assembly 
adopted by consensus  on  6 December  1991  resolution  46/37  B entitled  "Regional 
confidence-building  measures".  In keeping with  this  resolution,  on 
28 May 1992  the Secretary-General  of  the United Nations  announced  the  creation 
of the Permanent  Consultative  Committee  on Questions  of  Security  in Central 
Africa.  The Committee  is charged with developing  confidence-building 
measures, promoting  the  limitation  of  armaments  and  furthering  development  in 
the subregion of Africa.  From  27-30 July  1992, in Yaounde, Cameroon,  the 
Committee held  its organizational  meeting  at the ministerial  level, with  the 
assistance of  the Office  of Disarmament  Affairs  of  the United  Nations 
Department of Political  Affairs.  In  its final  report  on this meeting,  the 
A/47/PV.25 
38 
(Mr. Adoum.  Chad) 
Committee  laid  down,  among other measures within  the  framework  of 
peace-building,  assistance  for  restructuring  the army  and providing  new job 
training  to military personnel.  We place  tremendous hopes  in the  results of 
this meeting  and expect  eventually  to benefit  from  this  assistance  as we 
endeavour  completely  to reorganize  our  army. 
During  the most  critical periods  of  its history  Chad has  always  enjoyed 
the  invaluable  support of  the  international  community,  and the  Chadian people 
and Government  are particularly  grateful  for  this.  Today  again we urge all 
our partners  to help us to carry out our  ongoing  stabilization programmes, and 
to  stimulate  economic  activity  in the country.  These programmes  have been 
laid down  in a political  context  that has not  always been  conducive  to the 
process  of democratization  that had been begun.  Indeed,  there have been here 
and  there pockets  of  resistance  to change,  leading  to  instances  of  rebellion 
that have been put down thanks  to the Government's  policy of  reaching out and 
promoting  dialogue.  Several peace  agreements have  thus been  signed with 
rebellious movements, with  the support of  friendly  countries, which deserve 
our heartfelt  gratitude. 
Our  joy at the ending of the cold war, which  led to the beginning of a 
fruitful  dialogue  in the Security  Council,  is matched by our  concern at a 
resurgence  of  certain problems  such as injustice, ultranationalism,  racism and 
religious  fundamentalism,  all of which are potential  sources of  conflict.  The 
Chadian delegation would  like to pay  a well-deserved  tribute  to  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  for his  report,  "An Agenda for 
Peace", which gives us valuable guidelines  towards  achieving  a more  secure, 
peaceful  and  just  world. 
But, as  I said,  there  remain many  sources  of potential  concern.  In 
Europe,  for  example,  an area that had been  spared violent  upheavals  thus far/ 
A/47/PV.25 
39-40 
(Mr. Adoum.  Chad) 
we are now helplessly witnessing  a situation  that  defies  the  conscience  of  the 
world.  The breakup  of  the  former Yugoslavia  could have  led  to  relationships 
other than those based  on war, particularly  since  the birth of  that  country 
had been accompanied  by much  suffering.  We denounce practices  such as  "ethnic 
cleansing",  a notion we had  thought  definitively  eradicated  from  the  language 
of modern nations.  Chad  believes  that, whether  in the States  that  have 
emerged from  the  former Yugoslavia  or  elsewhere, our  conduct  should be  guided 
by the hallowed  principles  of  the Universal  Declaration  of Human Rights  and of 
all other  related  instruments. 
On the other hand,  the Chadian delegation welcomes  the evolution  of  the 
situation in Cambodia  and expresses  the hope  that  this most  ambitious 
operation undertaken by  the United  Nations will be  successfully  concluded,  as 
is so ardently  desired by  the  international  community  and by  the  Cambodian 
people, who have  suffered  long  enough. 
Turning now to  the  situation  in the Middle  East  and Palestine, my 
delegation observes  that  the process which began  last year  in Madrid  has 
continued towards  a lasting  solution  to the Arab-Israeli  crisis.  The  results 
of the Washington meetings, however, have  fallen  short  of expectations.  While 
we believe  that  a certain dynamism  emerged,  this will  lead  to success  only  if 
the relevant United  Nations  resolutions  are  taken  into  account  in good  faith 
thus showing  a clear  determination  to restore peace  and  security  in that part 
of the world. 
Even if the end of  the  confrontation between  the two blocs has  led  to 
certain bright  spots  in Africa, with  the  logic  of peace  at work  in Angola  and 
Mozambique, even  if democratization  has made  considerable progress, peace  and 
harmony are not  yet  at home  in many  parts of  the  continent. 
A/47/PV.25 
41 
(Mr. Adoum.  Chad) 
For  example,  in South Africa,  notwithstanding  the positive  initiatives of 
the minority  Government, we must  continue  to condemn manoeuvres  aimed at 
setting  some peoples  against others  in an attempt  to  justify  a system  that 
belongs  to another  age.  The  international  community  must  bring  sustained 
pressure  to bear  to ensure  that  the vestiges  of primitive  racism will yield to 
a democratic, multiracial  and egalitarian  South African  society. 
My  country  also  deplores  the break-up  of  the  Somalian nation as a result 
of  the  appetites  of  certain warlords  there.  It  is high  time  that we put an 
end  to this  abominable  carnage whose victims  are  always  the  same:  women and 
children. 
We  strongly  support  the  current  initiatives  of  the Organization  of 
African Unity,  the Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  and  the 
United  Nations, and we  urge  the heads of  the Somali  factions  to  sit down at 
the negotiating  table  and  try to put  an end  to the  terrible  tragedy  of the 
Somali  people. 
Liberia  symbolizes  the  freedom  of  the black man.  For  the past  two years 
it has been bogged  down  in a war  that has taken a heavy  toll  in human  lives 
and economic  infrastructure.  We  appeal  to the  sense  of  responsibility  of the 
primary  leaders  of  that  country  and urge  them  to heed  the voice  of  reason. 
Civil war  in the  last decade of  the  twentieth  century  is a major 
challenge  to  the constantly  expressed  desire  for peace  and  security.  In the 
recent  past  Chad has experienced  internal  crises,  so we  are hardly  in a 
position  to preach  to  anyone.  But we  still believe  that  a sincere  commitment 
to disarmament  or  rigorous  control  of  the  transfer  of  conventional weapons, 
which  are  flooding  zones  of  tension  or open  conflict,  is an absolute  necessity. 
My  delegation welcomes  the opening  of  the Register  on  Conventional Arms 
established  by  the  Secretary-General.  However, we have  no  illusions  as long as 
A/47/PV.25 
42 
(Mr. Adoum.  Chad) 
there are  secret  sales  of weapons, which are  a source of  income  for  certain 
suppliers and  a means  of  acquiring  power  for the many  beneficiaries. 
If today, with  a degree  of optimism,  everybody  could  agree  there  is a 
real desire  for  change  and progress  in the world with  regard  to democracy  and 
human rights, the  economic  situation  in many  developing  countries  of  Africa, 
Latin America  and Asia  remains particularly  disturbing  notwithstanding  some 
progress that has been made. 
The  cold  statistics  of  the United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  the World  Bank  and  the United  Nations  give us  food  for 
thought.  The  economic  situation  of  the developing  countries  requires  urgent 
solutions. 
As was  stressed  by  the  Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  at 
the eighth  session  of  the United Nations  Conference  on Trade  and  Development, 
"The economic  crisis  that  results  from weakening  investments  and  the  slow 
growth of democratic  institutions  has  threatened  the national  stability 
of these  countries  and  their political  future.  Zones of poverty,  which 
far from beginning  absorbed  are only  spreading,  are potential  sources  of 
violence  and  confrontation.  The proof  has already been given  that  these 
areas could  flare up  in ethnic,  tribal or  national  conflicts.  Therefore 
lasting development  is an essential  factor  in the establishment  of world 
peace and  stability,  which  is undeniably  in the mutual  interest  of  all 
the members  of  the  international  community,  whether  developed  or 
developing." 
My delegation  supports  that  analysis, and we  urge  the  international 
community  to  implement  without  delay  the various  instruments  that have  been 
adopted thus far,  in particular  the Declaration  on International  Economic 
Co-operation, more  specifically  the growth  the development  of  the  developing 
countries. 
A/47/PV.25 
43 
(Mr. Adoum.  Chad) 
If  there  is one question  that  is of  concern  to all  the members  of  the 
international  community,  it  is the challenge  of  the environment.  My  country 
is  located  in a Sahelian  area and daily witnesses  the deterioration  of  its 
environment,  so we attach  special  importance  to this question  at both  the 
national  and  regional  levels.  However,  the universality  of  the question means 
that  it can be  tackled  only within  the  framework  of  international  co-operation 
based  on  interdependence  and  solidarity.  While  we welcomed  the Rio  Conference 
on the Environment  and Development,  we  still believe  that  its  results will not 
put  an end  to  the many  and varied  threats  to the environment  if  real  substance 
is not given  to  the  concept  of  sustainable  development. 
Over  the past  few years human  rights have played  a preponderant  role in 
the  lives of  nations.  New  concepts  that  are  still vaguely  defined  have 
emerged.  However,  political  pluralism  alone will  not  solve  all  the problems 
of more  than half  of mankind.  That  is why we hope  that  at  the  1993  Conference 
all questions  concerning human  rights will be  tackled. 
The United Nations  is revived  and  refreshed  as  a result  of  the end of the 
era of  confrontation between the  super-Powers.  The Organization has  recorded 
astounding  successes  in such varied  fields  as decolonization  and  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  thanks  to  the Blue Helmets who 
are  scattered  around  the world, notwithstanding  the difficulties  that have 
been  encountered  in implementing  the  ideals of  the  Charter. 
One  such  ideal  is the need  for  solidarity  among peoples,  and  that 
solidarity  can be  realized  only  if we  take  into  account  the  elementary needs 
of  those who  are destitute.  On the threshold  of  the twenty-first  century, men 
must  show that, having  avoided  a nuclear  holocaust,  they  are now capable of 
building  a universal  peace  through  development. 
A/47/PV.25 
44-45 
Mr. MESFIN  (Ethiopia):  On behalf  of  the Ethiopian  delegation  and 
myself  I wish  to extend  heartfelt  congratulations  to you. Sir, on your 
election as President  of  the  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assemblyl. 
My delegation  is  confident  that, under your wise guidance,  the current  session 
of the General  Assembly  will  achieve outstanding  successes.  In this 
connection  I wish  to  assure Your  Excellency  of my  delegation's  full 
co-operation  in the  discharge  of your  responsibilities. 
I also wish  to express my  delegation's  sincere  appreciation  to your 
predecessor, Mr. Samir  Shihabi  of  the Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  for his  able 
stewardship  of  the  forty-sixth  session  of the General  Assembly. 
Likewise,  I should  like  to take  this opportunity  to pay  tribute  to 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,  the Secretary-General,  for his vigorous  efforts  to 
fulfil the mandate  bestowed  upon him  by the world  community.  We  are  confident 
that under his  able  leadership  the  stature  and  credibiility  of  the  United 
Nations will be  further  enhanced.  We wish him  every  success  in his  endeavours. 
A/47/PV.25 
46 
(Mr. Mesfin. Ethiopia) 
My delegation is also pleased to extend a cordial welcome to all the new 
Members of the United Nations which have joined our family during the last 12 
months. 
The end of the cold war, which was a great turning-point in history, was 
followed by further positive changes in the international political climate. 
However, it is a matter of concern to us that there are still conflicts raging 
in many parts of the world.  The thaw in the relations between East and West 
did not necessarily lead to total peace, devoid of human suffering and 
hardship. 
In this regard, I should like to draw the Assembly's attention to the 
unfolding tragedy in Somalia, which defies imagination and affronts our senses 
and sensibilities.  Over the past two years, the situation in the country has 
deteriorated so much that the State has ceased to exist.  Law and order, peace 
and stability and the basic infrastructure necessary for the life of a 
functioning society are virtually non-existent.  These have all been destroyed 
by acts of internecine warfare, the extent of whose damage and the consequent 
human suffering combine to make Somalia one of the worst humanitarian crises 
in living memory. 
It is lamentable that Somalia should be bleeding to death by the actions 
of its own sons.  Nearly half the total population of the country has been 
dislocated by war and famine.  Scores of children and old people are dying 
every day, while thousands have perished.  The Somali people have left their 
homes and fled to neighbouring and other countries. 
Given the situation in Somalia today, it is pertinent to ask why the 
various factions are doing all this to their own country and people.  Why this 
A/47/PV.25 
47 
(Mr. Mesfin. Ethiopia) 
wanton destruction for the sake of political power over a disintegrating 
country?  How can one explain what is being done to the people of Somalia, 
something which goes beyond any conceivable political cause or justification 
when we see women, children and the elderly being killed indiscriminately 
merely because they belong to this clan or that sub-clan? 
This nightmare must come to an immediate end.  The Ethiopian people can 
speak from their own history of 30 years of conflict:  war and the application 
of brute force and senseless destruction cannot by any means provide the 
solution to a country's political problems.  We believe that the bloodletting 
in Somalia during the past two years should serve as a sufficient lesson to 
the various factions that the path of conflict can only lead to more 
catastrophe.  Historical knowledge confirms beyond a reasonable doubt that the 
use of force or war never achieved lasting results in the conduct of human 
affairs.  It is our firm conviction that the protagonists in the current 
crisis in Somalia should make the welfare and interests of the country and the 
people they claim to represent uppermost in their minds. 
It must be stated that Somalia's neighbours, the countries of the Horn 
of Africa, did not spare the slightest effort to bring about a peaceful 
resolution of the tragic conflict. 
It will be recalled that a Horn of Africa summit meeting on humanitarian 
issues was convened in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in April 1992.  Its main 
objective was to examine the serious humanitarian crisis in the subregion and 
work with regional organizations and the United Nations in order to save lives 
and ultimately bring the warring  factions together with a view to seeking a 
solution to the fratricidal conflict.  At the end of the summit meeting, a 
Declaration, Framework of Cooperation and Programme of Action was issued. This 
A/47/PV.25 
48 
(Mr. Mesfin. Ethiopia,) 
was followed by the Horn of Africa Conference on Humanitarian Issues, held to 
formulate modalities for the effective implementation of the summit 
Declaration.  A resolution on the situation in Somalia was subseguently 
adopted which, inter alia, provided for a cease- fire among the warring 
factions, the holding of immediate peace talks leading to national 
reconciliation and lasting political settlement in the country, and the 
unhindered delivery of humanitarian assistance to the people in need.  Most 
significantly, the summit meeting decided to establish a high-level Standing 
Committee of the Horn of Africa on Somalia to coordinate ongoing efforts to 
bring about a peaceful resolution of the conflict. 
In fulfilment of its mandate, the Committee convened an all-party 
meeting on Somalia in Bahr-Dar, Ethiopia, in May 1992.  At that meeting 
agreement was reached on the effective distribution of humanitarian assistance 
and on convening a national reconciliation conference.  To follow up the 
implementation of these two agreements, the Chairman and other members of the 
Committee visited Somalia twice in May and August 1992 and held talks with 
leaders of various political organizations.  The result of the mission has 
been generally satisfactory under the circumstances.  The Committee is still 
actively seized of the crisis in Somalia in all its aspects. 
The effort of the countries of the Horn of Africa is a practical 
manifestation of the principle that regional conflicts should, as far as 
possible, be resolved by the countries of the area concerned.  Although the 
situation in Somalia has for some time been ignored and left on the sidelines, 
it is encouraging to note that the United Nations and donor Governments are 
giving it the necessary attention it so rightly deserves.  The international 
effort to distribute humanitarian assistance to those in need should be 
further intensified as a matter of top priority. 
A/47/PV.25 
49-50 
(Mr. Mesfin.  Ethiopia) 
The  efforts  under way by  the Governments  of  the Horn of  Africa,  the 
United Nations,  the  Organization  of African Unity,  and  others, to bring  about 
lasting peace  in Somalia  should  henceforth be pursued  in a  coordinated 
manner.  We  should  all  speak with one  voice  to the parties  in the  conflict. 
The message  they  should get  should  be one, and only one: that  they  cannot 
continue with  their  callous  disregard  for  the  interests  and welfare  of  the 
people of  Somalia;  that  the existence  of  Somalia  as a nation  should,  first  and 
foremost, be  of paramount  importance;  that  there  is no way  they  can  achieve 
their aims  through war;  and  that  they  should  be prepared  to  resolve  their 
differences by peaceful  means. 
In this  connection,  it  is sad  to note  that  certain quarters  are 
undermining  the peaceful  resolution  of  the crisis by  supplying weapons  to  the 
warring factions  instead  of  relief  assistance  to  the suffering people  of 
Somalia, or dumping  industrial  toxic waste  on Somali  territory  instead  of 
providing medicine  to  take  care of  the  sick  and wounded,  and plundering  the 
livestock and marine  resources  of  Somalia  instead  of providing  critically 
needed humanitarian  assistance.  We  call  on these quarters  to desist  from 
attempts to polarize  the  region of  the Horn  of Africa  and  instead work with us 
in partnership  in our  efforts  to  restore  lasting peace  and  stability  in 
Somalia. 
A/47/PV.25 
51 
(Mr. Mesfin. Ethiopia) 
I should like now to turn to another issue of concern to us.  We have 
been following closely the positive developments in South Africa.  However, we 
still have serious misgivings about the prospects for the peaceful 
transformation of that country, as the system of apartheid remains in place. 
We are deeply committed to the decisions and positions of the Organization of 
African Unity (OAU) and of the United Nations  decisions and positions that 
have been emphasized repeatedly over the years  as well as to the principled 
stand of the democratic forces in South Africa to end the apartheid system 
once and for all and set in motion an irreversible process of change to a 
multiracial and democratic political order in that country. 
The current efforts to create the conditions necessary for the success of 
peaceful negotiation should be encouraged.  In this connection, the recent 
agreement between the African National Congress and the Government to resume 
negotiations is a positive development, as is the release of political 
prisoners.  We look forward to the initiation of talks between all the 
democratic forces in South Africa and the Government, with a view to the 
establishment of an interim Government to supervise the process of preparing a 
constitutional order for a multiracial and democratic South Africa. 
Likewise, we are gravely concerned about the tragic situation in the 
former Yugoslavia, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina.  This crisis, which 
is fast getting out of control, is a serious threat to international peace and 
security.  The continuing bloodshed should be brought to an end and a 
political solution acceptable to all parties should be found as soon as 
possible.  In this respect, we hope that the conference currently being held 
in Geneva under the auspices of the United Nations and the European Community 
will have concrete results. 
A/47/PV.25 
52 
(Mr. Mesfin.  Ethiopia) 
We  are  also  following  the  current  peace  process  in  the Middle  East. 
Despite the  international  community's  repeated  efforts  to broker  peace,  the 
situation  in the Middle  East  still hangs  in the balance.  Nevertheless,  the 
prospects  for peace  in the  area are better  today  than  they have  been  for  a 
long time.  We  are  therefore  hopeful  that  the question  of  Palestine, which  is 
at the core  of  the Middle  East  problem,  will  eventually  be  resolved  in 
accordance with  the  relevant United Nations  resolutions  so  that  a just, 
durable  and comprehensive  settlement  for  the  region  as a whole may be  achieved. 
We are gratified  by  the outcome  of  the efforts  of  the Conference  on 
Disarmament with  regard  to chemical  weapons.  The  draft  treaty prohibiting  the 
production,  use,  transfer  and  stockpiling  of  chemical weapons  represents  an 
important  step  in the global  effort  to eliminate weapons  of mass  destruction. 
We derive  special  satisfaction  from  the  success  of nearly  25 years of  effort 
in the disarmament  process  and  from  Ethiopia's  contribution  as a member  of  the 
Conference on Disarmament.  In view  of  current  trends  towards  democracy  and 
respect for human  rights, there  is a need  for  the disarmament  negotiations  to 
include conventional  weapons.  It should  be emphasized  that  the  "peace 
dividend"  from  disarmament  efforts  should be  channelled  into  fighting  the 
problems of poverty,  disease  and backwardness  in developing  countries. 
It goes without  saying  that  the opportunities  created  in the past  few 
years to secure  a more  just  and  stable  international  order  cannot  bear  fruit 
unless there  is a parallel  effort,  deployed with  increased vigour,  to bring 
about positive  change  in  international  economic  relations.  In this  regard, 
much more  is expected  from  the United Nations.  The United Nations  Conference 
on Environment  and Development,  held  in Rio, Brazil,  in the middle  of  this 
A/47/PV.25 
53 
(Mr. Mesfin. Ethiopia) 
year demonstrated the great importance that the international community 
attaches to the pressing issues of the environment and development. 
Environmental protection and economic development bear on the future of 
mankind and affect every country.  Therefore, our collective and individual 
strategic planning activities should be aimed at solving these two global 
problems, which call for effective international cooperation and mutual 
consultation.  The Rio Declaration and Agenda 21, as well as the two 
Conventions, the Convention on climate change and the Convention on biological 
diversity, lay a good foundation for enhanced international cooperation in 
this area.  However, there has yet to be sufficient focus on the problems of 
environmental pollution and ecological degradation and desertification. 
We should like to share certain fundamental thoughts about the promotion 
and strengthening of democracy and democratic institutions in the context of 
current international relations.  Although democracy may have certain 
universal features, it is equally true that it has unique characteristics 
peculiar to a particular country's socio-political situation.  In effect, 
there cannot be a standard prescription for building democracy applicable to 
all societies and situations.  Realization of this fact should restrain any 
attempt to prescribe uniform modalities and processes for the establishment of 
democracy and democratic institutions in different countries. 
It is incumbent upon those who claim to stand for democracy to help newly 
democratizing peoples in their effort to consolidate that process, rather than 
confine themselves to levelling criticism from the sidelines.  If those forces 
that advocate the strengthening of democracy fail to extend a helping hand to 
us in our unrelenting struggle to democratize our country, and instead simply 
A/47/PV.25 
54-55 
(Mr. Mesfin.  Ethiopia) 
watch from  a distance,  any weakening  or  failure  of  the process  of 
democratization will  be  attributable,  at  least  in part,  to  their  lack of 
cooperation. 
It goes without  saying  that  democracy  is unthinkable without  peace  and 
stability, both  internal  and  inter-State.  Thus  support by  the  forces of 
democracy  for  internal  democratization  processes would  be  a significant  step 
forward in the  resolution  of  internal  conflicts.  Inter-State  conflicts  can be 
settled by democratizing  inter-State  relations  and by  scrupulously  observing 
norms of  international  law  for  inter-State  relations.  Although  the parties  to 
an inter-State  dispute  are primarily  responsible  for  the peaceful  resolution 
of their problems,  the United Nations  and  the  international  community  can,  and 
should, play  a significant  role  in encouraging  the peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  Sanctions  could  be  applied  as  a last  resort  against  a  recalcitrant 
party violating  basic  norms  of  inter-State  relations  once  all other  attempts 
to resolve disputes  had been  fully  exhausted. 
It is evident  that  democracy  cannot  be nurtured  and  sustained  to grow 
into a robust  institution  in countries  characterized  by economic  deprivation 
and destitution.  It  is therefore  imperative  to democratize  the  international 
economic order with  the  same vigour  as we  are deploying  to democratize  the 
international political  order,  if we  are  to  strengthen  democracy  and 
democratic  institutions. 
A/47/PV.25 
56 
(Mr. Mesfin. Ethiopia) 
To this end, developing countries, as a whole, should be given assistance to 
extricate themselves from the quagmire of poverty and underdevelopment. 
Failure by the developed countries to do so would mean exacerbating 
international tension and conflict in a different form, thereby adversely 
affecting all our efforts towards lasting peace and socio-economic 
development.  In order to forestall such an eventuality, the United Nations 
and the international community should go beyond paying lip-service to 
democracy and development and provide meaningful economic assistance to 
developing countries.  Only then will we be able to say that international 
peace and development are guaranteed. 
At this juncture, allow me to say a few words on developments in Ethiopia 
since the establishment of the Transitional Government just over a year ago. 
The demise of the repressive military regime in May 1991, the assumption 
of power by democratic forces and the endorsement of the Transitional Charter 
have heralded a new chapter in the history of our country in which freedom, 
equal rights and self-determination of all peoples are the guiding principles 
of political, economic and social life. 
During this short period, while striving to ensure durable peace and 
stability after 30 years of bloody civil war, we have been able to lay the 
groundwork for the creation of a new political order in a country where very 
little was known about democratic political and institutional machinery. 
The Transitional Charter laid the basis for the establishment of a 
broad-based administration incorporating a wide spectrum of political views, 
regional interests and national aspirations.  The Council of Representatives, 
which is the highest legislative authority, consists of dozens of political 
and social organizations.  Morever, with a view to paving the way for the 
implementation of the right to self-determination of all peoples in Ethiopia 
A/47/PV.25 
57 
(Mr. Mesfin.  Ethiopia) 
as enshrined  in our Transitional  Charter, we have  taken  the the  first 
significant  step by holding  the  first  successful  democratic,  local  and 
regional elections  in the  country's  history  in the presence  of  international 
observers.  An  administration  aimed  at the  consolidation  of peace,  stability, 
democracy,  reconstruction  and development  in the country  is now  firmly  in 
place. 
The protection  of human  rights  is at the  top of  the  agenda of  the 
Transitional Government.  For  the  first  time, internationally  recognized  human 
rights and  fundamental  freedoms  are  fully guaranteed  in Ethiopia.  The 
Transitional Government  is  fully  committed  to upholding  and protecting  the 
rights of  individuals  and peoples based  on the Universal Declaration of Human 
Sights.  To that  end, we have  initiated  a process  by which Ethiopia  is to 
accede to the various  international  Covenants  on human  rights. 
The Transitional  Government  of  Ethiopia was  established  under 
circumstances  left  by  the  country's  former  absolute  dictatorship.  It was a 
situation where government  accountability  and  responsibility were  unknown, 
democratic culture  and  institutions  were  non-existent  and where  the  country's 
infrastructure was devastated  by a long drawn-out  war  and  recurrent  drought 
and famine. 
Although  the  absence of  a pluralistic  political  culture  and  institutional 
machinery, as well  as Ethiopia's  only  recent  emergence  from  an extended  period 
of intense civil war, has had  a significant  impact  on democratization,  in 
general the process  of  democratization,  decentralization  and  devolution  of 
power in Ethiopia  is  right  on  track.  However,  this  does not mean  that  the 
transition from war  to peace  and  from dictatorship  to democracy  is a  smooth 
ne.  Indeed, we  chose  to go  through  a transition process with  a view  to 
A/47/PV.25 
58 
(Mr. Mesfin. Ethiopia) 
making it possible for us to lay down the necessary preconditions for a 
full-fledged democratic order.  We have made significant progress in all these 
areas during the past year of the transitional period.  As part of the 
continuing process of democratization, the Council of Representatives has 
issued a proclamation on the setting up of a Constitution Drafting Commission, 
which is about to embark upon its important task as soon as organizational 
matters are finalized. 
The lesson we have drawn from the first year of the transitional period 
is that the establishment of democracy, dependable democratic institutions and 
democratic culture in a least developed country such as Ethiopia, with an 
economy devastated by war and natural calamities, is an extermely arduous 
undertaking.  However committed one may be or however strenously one may 
strive to achieve this goal, the process is bound to be very slow and full of 
difficulties and complications.  This is not a sign of despair but an 
acknowledgment of a concrete reality, which is a necessary first step to 
success in any undertaking. 
Undaunted by the adverse internal situation at the outset, the 
Transitional Government took, and is taking bold and decisive steps to lay the 
groundwork for the socio-economic transformation and democratization of the 
country.  Thus, building democratic institutions, carrying out major economic 
reforms, instituting human rights and fundamental freedoms previously unknown 
in Ethiopia, such as freedom of assembly and association, freedom of 
expression without censorship, encouraging the formation of numerous political 
organizations which are now exercising democratic rights without any 
hindrance:  these are only the most salient achievements of the Transitional 
Government in the brief period of one year.  As a result, we can assert with 
A/47/PV.25 
59-60 
(Mr. Mesfin.  Ethiopia) 
full confidence  that  a new democratic  culture  and new democratic  institutions 
are taking  shape  in our  country  today. 
The  unity of  Ethiopia  is being guaranteed  on the basis  of  the  unswerving 
recognition  and  accommodation  of  diversity.  Bold,  and  in many ways  unique, 
steps are  again being  taken  to  resolve  the  country's  internal problems. 
Although problems may persist,  our  internal  experiment  aimed  at their  solution 
is already paying  dividends. 
The Eritrean question  has  also been  resolved  by  the  recognition  of  the 
right to self-determination  of  the Eritrean people.  A  referendum  will be held 
early next year  in the presence  of  international  observers,  including  the 
United Nations,  to determine  definitively  the  future  status  of  Eritrea. 
The decision  to  resolve  the Eritrean question  through  a referendum  has 
been subscribed  to without  reservation by both  the Transitional  Government  of 
Ethiopia and  the Provisional  Government  of Eritrea.  They have  also  declared 
in no uncertain  terms  that  they will  accept  the  results  of  the  referendum.  In 
effect, the decision  is ours, and ours  alone, and belongs  in no way to  any 
external force.  We  are  confident  that  once  the people of Eritrea have  freely 
decided their  own  future,  no matter what  the outcome  of  the  referendum,  the 
existing and  fast-developing  economic,  trade  and  social  relations  between  the 
two peoples based  on mutual  trust  and benefit will be  the  trail-blazer  for 
economic and  social  integration  in the Horn  of Africa  subregion, which we  hope 
will materialize  in  the not-too-distant  future. 
A/47/PV.25 
61 
(Mr. Mesfin.  Ethiopia) 
As  regards  our  economic  situation,  it has been  repeatedly  stated  that 
Ethiopia's  economic  potential  contrasts  sharply with  its  socio-economic 
underdevelopment.  In addition  to drought, war  and  famine,  the mismanagement 
of  the national  economy  over  the years by  the  former  regime has  militated 
against  steady growth by  the national  economy.  Under  these  rather  difficult 
circumstances,  the transitional  Government  of Ethiopia has  embarked  upon a 
comprehensive  programme  of new economic  policy measures  and  institutional 
reform  aimed  at  increasing  the  role of  the private  sector  in the  national 
economy,  and  is rationalizing  the public  enterprises  by  improving  their 
management  and generally  allowing  the promotion  of market-economy  principles 
and mechanisms. 
It  is imperative  for us  to exert  the maximum  effort  to overcome  the 
multifaceted  problems  facing  the  country  today  and  revitalize  our  national 
economy.  However,  it is evident  that  such an undertaking  calls  for the 
availability  of vast  resources which  cannot be mobilized  at the national level 
alone.  We  therefore  call on the  international  community  to extend 
humanitarian  as well  as development  assistance  to  supplement  our  domestic 
efforts  to cope with  the emergency  situation.  The positive  response  and good 
will  demonstrated  by various  donor  countries  and  international  organizations 
over  the past year  in support of  our  economic  recovery  and  reconstruction 
programme  are encouraging.  We  are hopeful  that  that  support will  continue. 
The  changes  under way  in Ethiopia  are having  an  impact  on the  country's 
external  relations.  Thus,  for  the  first  time  in  several  decades, our 
relations with  all our  neighbours  in the Horn of Africa  are being  strengthened 
on  a qualitatively  new  level.  Harmonious  cooperation  in all  fields  is fast 
developing  in our  subregion.  Our  relations with other  countries  are also 
developing  on  the  some basis  and  are  showing  encouraging  results. 
A/47/PV.25 
62 
(Mr. Mesfin. Ethiopia) 
In this new experiment of nation-building, Ethiopia has from the outset 
enjoyed the good will of many countries.  Some have also extended material 
assistance.  We wish to express our deep gratitude to all who have helped us 
in one way or another.  Nevertheless, we have, regrettably, to admit the fact 
that the assistance we have so far received, in particular material 
assistance, falls short of what is needed to make our effort at socio-economic 
development a success.  We therefore call again upon all our friends to 
provide us with meaningful assistance at this crucial phase in our history. 
In conclusion, I should also like to reiterate Ethiopia's readiness to 
participate in all endeavours aimed at enhancing the role of our Organization 
in the maintenance of international peace and security and in assisting the 
developing countries in their efforts to achieve a greater degree of economic 
development and self-reliance.  I am hopeful that at the present session the 
Assembly will review and assess the world situation with a new perspective and 
take a bold approach in order to meet the imperatives of the time.  We must 
encourage and promote the positive trends already evident in international 
relations, and at the same time guard against certain tendencies which 
patently carry within them the seed of new crises. 
Mr. ABDURAZZAKOV (Uzbekistan) (interpretation from Russian):  Let me 
most cordially join in congratulating the President of the General Assembly at 
its forty-seventh session. 
For the first time, the delegation of the Republic of Uzbekistan is 
taking part in the work of the United Nations General Assembly as an 
independent State.  It is an honour for us to express our sincere gratitude to 
all State Members of the United Nations for the support and cooperation they 
have given the young independent Republic of Uzbekistan. 
A/47/PV.25 
63 
(Mr. Abdurazzakov. Uzhekist-an) 
We  are very grateful  to Secretary-General  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  for his 
constant  attention  to our  region.  The  decision  to open  at Tashkent  an office 
representing  the United Nations  and  a number  of  its  specialized  organizations 
is clear evidence  of  that  attention.  This  approach  arises  from  the main 
orientation  of United Nations  activities  at the present  time, which were 
formulated  in concentrated  form by  the Secretary-General  in his  report "An 
Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277). 
Recently  the people of Uzbekistan  solemnly marked  the  first  anniversary 
of  its  independence.  The  fact that  now we have begun building  an  independent 
State  is the  logical  result  of  the constant  and  selfless  struggle  for 
independence waged over  the centuries by our people  and  its best  sons. 
Achieving  independence has  never been easy  anywhere  in the world.  For 
that  reason our year of  independence  is only the beginning  of  a long process. 
We  are  laying  the groundwork  for an independent Uzbek  State. 
We have  saved our  language,  religion,  traditions,  customs  and moral 
principles  from  the danger  of  complete  disappearance; we  are  fully 
reincarnating  our national  values.  Our  natural  resources,  together with the 
economic,  scientific,  technical  and moral  potential built  up by  the labour of 
previous generations, can serve  as a guarantee  for the  social  and  economic 
development  of  independent  Uzbekistan. 
To  turn  this potential  into  a real  force, our  Republic,  under  the 
leadership  of President  Islam  Karimov,  is working  out  an appropriate  system; 
it'is  looking'for  the best  structure  of governmental  administration  and for 
f 
ways  to develop  the economy  and  to construct  its foreign  and  domestic 
policies.  Measures  are being  taken  for  the  social protection  of  the 
population  against  the  shocks  that  are  inevitable  in the  transition  to a 
market  economy,  to a society which  is new  to us. 
A/47/PV.25 
64-65 
(Mr. Abdurazzakov.  Uzbekistan) 
In the process  of building  an  independent  State, we  are utilizing  the 
positive experience  accumulated  by other  developed  nations  and based  on 
openness and market  relations.  Of  course,  in so doing we  are taking  into 
consideration,  first  and  foremost,  the  specific  features  and  concrete 
circumstances of our  country  and  the national  and cultural  traditions  of  the 
people who  live  there. 
We seek to create  a social  and political  structure  under which  the 
principles of human  rights  and  freedom will be  stricted  observed.  Our  State 
policy is designed  to protect  the  interests  and  rights of all peoples, 
irrespective of  their  nationalities,  religion or beliefs, to preserve  and 
develop their  cultures,  languages, national  traditions  and customs  and  to 
involve them actively  in State  and public  life. 
We have  firmly  rejected  the domination  of  any one  ideology or  any one 
world view;  in fact, we  are establishing  a multiparty  system  as an  essential 
and logical element  of genuine  democracy. 
A/47/PV.25 
66 
(Mr.  Abdurazzakov. 
Uzbekistan) 
At  the  same time, we  are outlawing  those  forces  and movements  that 
attempt  through blackmail,  threats  and violence  to change  the  structure of the 
State,  that  endanger  the territorial  integrity  and  security  of our Republic, 
that  sow ethnic  and  religious  dissension,  that  encroach on  the  constitutional 
system  and  the moral  foundations  of our people's  life.  We  require  the 
activities  of  all  forces  and movements  to  remain within  the  limits of the law. 
In our  economic  policy, we  reject  the  structure  based  on the  command 
administration  system,  which  is highly  centralized  and distributive.  We 
completely  reject  ideology.  Equal  rights  apply  to  all  types  of  property. 
Of  course,  there  are difficulties  being encountered  in carrying out our 
political  and economic  programmes.  This  is  something we  all  recognize. 
Today  our  people  is going  through  a difficult  period  of  transition.  This 
is due  to  the  fact  that  for many years our  republic was  the victim  of a policy 
of  repression  and diktat,  resulting  in a dependent  economy  and making our 
region  a raw-materials  appendage. 
It  is not easy  to  rescue our people  from  the  consequences  of  the 
totalitarian  hegemony of  communist  ideas.  Certainly,  a new and  just society 
cannot be  created  in a day,  or even  in a year.  We  understand  all  this clearly. 
The most  important  thing  is that, on the basis  of  inter-ethnic  accord and 
unity  among  our  citizens, we have  established  a stable  social  and political 
situation  in our  country. 
The peoples  of  our  region. Central  Asia  - Uzbeks, Kazakhs, Turkmans, 
Kyrgyzes  and Tajiks  - are  the children of  common  forefathers.  We  share the 
same  land  and water,  the  same  religion,  the  same history  and  the  same fate; we 
share  the  same  cares, joys  and  anxieties.  Historically,  we have  always been 
A/47/PV.25 
67 
(Mr.  Abdurazzakov. 
Uzbekistan) 
naturally connected  and  interdependent.  We  created  our  common history  through 
cooperation.  Many  of our  internal  problems  are evolving;  they could  easily 
become inter-ethnic  or  international  problems, affecting  the  interests  of  the 
peoples of our  region.  This  is what  is special  about  the general  situation 
and the international  position  of Uzbekistan  and of  Central  Asia  as a whole. 
At present  the Government  and  the people of Uzbekistan  are  deeply 
concerned about  the  course  of events  in  Tajikistan, which  is on the brink of 
civil war.  The  serious  international  danger  is that  armed  clashes between  the 
opposing forces, which have  claimed  thousands  of  lives  among  the  peaceful 
population,  could  easily  spread  to neighbouring  Central Asian  States. 
In the Central  Asian  region, with  its dense population  of over 
50 million,  such an armed  conflict  could have unpredictable  consequences. 
Should the conflict  spread,  the peoples  of Central  Asia could be  involved  in 
an endless fratricidal  war, which  could ultimately  destroy  the  freedom  and 
independence they have  recently won.  That  is why  the  current  situation  is 
dangerous for us. We have  every  reason to be  concerned. 
In practice,  the border  between Tajikistan  and Afghanistan, where  there 
are hundreds of  thousands  of men  under  arms, remains  open.  The  actions  of 
extremists and  fanatical  armed groups  incited  by  those who  are playing  on 
people's national  and  religious  feelings  could  have  unpredictable  consequences. 
Uzbekistan  strongly  opposes  interference  in the  internal  affairs  of 
independent Tajikistan  and  is against  stirring  up  the  fire of war.  Uzbekistan 
advocates preventing  the  spread  of  the  armed  conflict  and  finding  a  solution 
as quickly as possible by peaceful  and  civilized means. 
A/47/PV.25 
68 
(Mr.  Abdurazzakov. 
Uzbekistan) 
Uzbekistan  supports  the appeal  of  the Government  of Tajikistan  to the 
United  Nations  to provide  assistance  in  finding  a solution  to the grave 
crisis, which  could become  international  in scope.  Uzbekistan  regards as 
decisive  in the present  circumstances  the  role of  the United  Nations  and the 
Conference  on Security  and Cooperation  in Europe.  Fully  aware of  the danger 
of  the  situation,  and  in a spirit  of humanity,  and,  at  the  same  time, of 
responsibility  for  the  fate of our peoples, Uzbekistan has  requested 
Secretary-General,  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  to examine  the  situation  and inform 
the Security  Council, and various United  Nations  committees  and  commissions, 
of our  concern. 
The President  of  the Republic  of Uzbekistan,  Islam  Karimov,  in his letter 
addressed  to Secretary-General  Boutros-Ghali,  stressed  that  only timely and 
effective  assistance  by  the international  community  can be decisive  in 
supporting  the process  of democratization  and  the political  and  economic 
reforms under way  in the new  independent  States  of  the  region. 
In proposing  this  initiative, Uzbekistan  proceeds  from  the concept that 
the predominant  idea of  the new  international  order  should  be  the prevention 
of aggression  and  conflicts  and  the establishment  of democratic  machinery for 
making  such an order  a reality.  That  concept was  convincingly  expounded as 
preventive  diplomacy by  Secretary-General  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali.  In our view 
the guarantee  for  such preventive  action  can be  found  in cooperation  in the 
broad  sense of the  term. 
A/47/PV.25 
69 
(Mr.  Abdurazzakov. 
Uzbekistan) 
I think that what  I have  said  is  sufficient  for  an understanding  of  the 
need to create  a United  Nations  Eastern Centre  in our  region with the aim  of 
extending the principles  of  the world  community  and  international  norms  to the 
central part  of  the Eurasian  continent.  I believe  that Tashkent,  as a 
historic centre  of  that  region, with  its  rich past  and  its modern  experience 
in peacemaking  activities, would  be  fully worthy  of  the honour  of  serving  as 
the seat of the Eastern  Centre.  That would  provide  the world  community  with 
reliable information  on the processes  of  social development  in the  region, 
expedite the solution of  its problems  and make  it a zone  free of conflicts. 
In our view,  that  is the main goal of  the United Nations  and  the new 
world order. 
The meeting  rose at  5.35  p.m. 
