INITED^ 
IATIONS 
General Assembly 
•/LLtLi ! 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.28 
21 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD  OF THE  28th  MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Wednesday,  7 October  1992, at  10  a.m. 
President: 
l a t e r: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
Mr.  KALPAGE 
(Vice-President) 
Mr.  GANEV 
(President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Sri  Lanka) 
(Bulgaria) 
General  debate  [9]  (continued) 
Statements made  by 
Mr. Tshering  (Bhutan) 
Mr. Pashovski  (Bulgaria) 
Mr.  Ssemogerere  (Uganda) 
Emergency  assistance  to Pakistan:  draft  resolution  [146] 
This record  contains  the original  text  of  speeches  delivered  in  English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
Sfll_week, to the  Chief,  Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750,  2 United  Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61358  1691V  (E) 
A/47/PV.28 
2 
The meeting was called to order at 10.40 a.m. 
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued) 
GENERAL DEBATE 
Mr. TSHERING  (Bhutan):  I have the honour to convey to you and to 
all the representatives here the warm greetings of 
His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck, King of Bhutan, and his good wishes for 
the success of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. 
I should first like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as 
president of the forty-seventh session of the Assembly.  Your unanimous 
election is testimony to the high regard the international community has for 
your country and the Assembly's confidence that your leadership will provide 
the necessary direction on many important issues that we shall take up during 
this session. 
I should like to take this opportunity to place on record our deep 
appreciation to Mr. Samir S. Shihabi, for the excellent manner in which he 
conducted the proceedings of our last session. 
I wish to extend our warm welcome to the Governments and peoples of all 
the new Members of "° United Nations.  The large number of new Members is 
testimony not only to t' 3 historic changes that are taking place in the world, 
but also to the universality and importance of the United Nations.  We welcome 
them and look forward to the opportunity to work together. 
During the last three years the world has witnessed the disappearance of 
the ideological conflict that had divided it and pervaded every aspect of 
social and economic life for much of this century.  While these sweeping 
changes have brought new opportunities for peace, stability and progress, 
A/47/PV.28 
3 
(Mr. Tshering,  Bhutan) 
hopes have been dampened  on the one hand by the unleashing of old  hostilities 
and new conflicts, and on  the other by  the  further  impoverishment  of millions 
of people  for whom  the  changes  in the  international  scene have  little 
meaning.  The  social  and economic  situation  remains  dismal  not only in many 
developing countries but also  in many  developed  countries which  are  suffering 
from a prolonged  recession.  Though  the opportunity  for peace  and progress  has 
never been better, the challenges  of  inequity  and poverty, which  are the main 
reasons for  instability  and  conflict, continue  to be daunting  as ever. 
In many ways  the United Nations has been the greatest beneficiary  of the 
changes in international  affairs.  After many years  of blatant disregard  and 
even disrespect by many  and a lack of  confidence  in its abilities by others, 
the international  community  is now increasingly  turning  to the United 
Nations.  There  is greater willingness  on the part of everybody  to work 
through the  Organization. 
In this context we  should  like to record  our  appreciation  to our  previous 
Secretary-General, Mr. Perez de Cuellar, for having  created  this  opportunity 
and increased  respect  for  the United Nations.  We  should  also  like to express 
our admiration and  appreciation  to our present  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for  taking  immediate  steps  to make the  Organization 
relevant and more  responsive  to the needs  of  the world, particularly  in the 
area of conflict.  We  share his views on the need  for  immediate  peace-keeping 
and peace-making  and  for greater  emphasis  on conflict  resolution.  Above all, 
we share his view on  the need  to give equal  importance  and  attention  to 
conflict and  suffering wherever  they may be  in the world. 
The  situation  in the Middle  East continues  to be  a major  concern  for 
global peace.  While  the unnecessary  and  senseless  aggression  against  the 
A/47/PV.28 
4 
(Mr. Tshering, Bhutan) 
peaceful  people  of Kuwait has been  reversed,  the  issue  of prisoners  and 
disarmament  remains.  This  new confrontation has added  another  dimension to 
the  region, where peace  and  stability have  already been denied  for a long time. 
We  fully  appreciate  the efforts  of  the  sponsors  of  the dialogue  that is 
taking place  on the Middle  East.  We  sincerely hope  that  the talks will defuse 
the conflict  and pave  the way  for peace  in the  region.  However, this process 
will  not be  successful  unless  the question of Palestine  and occupied  Arab 
lands  is addressed  and the  legitimate  rights of  the Palestinians  to 
self-determination  in their homeland  are guaranteed.  Equally, the  territorial 
integrity  of Lebanon and  the  security  and  safety  of  all  States  in the region, 
including  Israel, must be  assured.  Only  then will  there be meaningful peace 
in the  region. 
In South Africa, while  there has been progress  towards  change, the 
process has been  continuously  marred by  a heavy  toll  in human  lives.  The 
violence must  stop and  the talks  should  continue.  The  inevitable  course of 
change  should  not be  restrained  any  further. 
While  the cold war has ended, one of  its last  remnants  still  stands in 
the division of the Korean peninsula.  We welcome  the  recent exchanges  between 
the two countries  and believe  they will  eventually  lead  to unification.  We 
fully  support  the pragmatic  steps  set forth by President  Roh Tae Woo of the 
Republic  of Korea  in his address  to this  session  and  share his vision of the 
Korean peninsula presenting  itself  as one  nation before  this body  in the near 
future. 
The  supply  of  arms over  the years has made  it possible  for  conflicts in 
Somalia  and  other  regions  of  the world  to continue  despite  the major  changes 
A/47/PV.28 
5 
(Mr. Tshering.  Bhutan) 
in the international  scene.  The  results have been  tragic, and we  cannot  but 
emphasize the  immediate  need  for humanitarian  assistance  and  for  resolution of 
the problems. 
The disappearance  of  the bipolar world has provided  the best  opportunity 
for ending the  arms  race  and bringing  about complete  disarmament.  The  chance 
to direct  all efforts  and  resources  from  the production  of weapons of mass 
destruction  towards  the  service  of humanity must not be allowed  to slip by. 
While there has been  reduction of major weapons, the production  and  supply of 
smaller arms have  continued  to thrive  in many parts  of the world.  Developing 
countries can  ill  afford  to  spend  their  resources  on  such unproductive  and 
destructive enterprises. 
The tragedies  of war  and  conflict  are not the only  factors  contributing 
to human suffering.  While  they may be dramatic  and  reguire  immediate 
attention, more  suffering  is taking place on a day-to-day basis,  involving 
millions of people  in the world.  Just as it is important  to end conflict, it 
is essential  that the problems  of poverty be  addressed. 
The decade of  the  1980s produced  few, if any, positive  results  in the 
field of  socio-economic  development; consequently,  the  living conditions  of 
only a few are better  than when  the decade  started.  The  International 
Development Strategy  for  the  1990s, adopted by  the General Assembly  at  its 
eighteenth  special  session; the Cartagena  Commitments  agreed  to at the  Eighth 
Conference of  the United  Nations Conference  on Trade  and  Development 
(UNCTAD VIII);  the Rio Declaration  of  the Earth Summit; and the  Jakarta 
Message of  the Tenth  Summit  Conference  of the Non-Aligned Movement  all  call 
for renewed  efforts  in international  development  in the decade  ahead. 
A/47/PV.28 
6 
(Mr. Tshering. Bhutan) 
On the otherwise discouraging sceme there have been two important 
events:  the World Summit for Children, in September 1990, and the 
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in 
Rio de Janeiro in June this year.  The children's Summit clearly drew our 
attention to the need to redouble our efforts to give our children the 
necessary care, attention and education if we are to ensure a better future 
for humanity. 
The Earth Summit clearly established the common stake we all have in the 
well being of the planet.  It recognized that, while the responsibility for 
preserving the delicate ecological balance falls on all nations, at the same 
time those responsible for its degradation and abuse must be held 
accountable.  Our planet can no longer sustain a high level of exploitation, 
and there must be a willingness on the part of those placing a high demand on 
natural resources to reduce consumption.  At the same time more resources are 
necessary to improve the conditions and meet the basic needs of billions of 
people in developing countries, particularly the more than 1.1 billion people 
who live in absolute poverty.  As further misuse of the earth's finite 
resources would be disastrous, the only alternative is a greater willingness 
to share. 
The high pace of population growth and the resulting increase in demand 
on resources is a serious threat to the environment and to the future. 
Developing countries, where 4.3 billion of today's population of 5.5 billion 
live, and where nearly all the next billions will be added in the decades 
ahead, must take all measures to ensure that population and development are 
balanced in a sustainable manner. 
A/47/PV.28 
7 
(Mr. Tshering.  Bhutan) 
The next  three  to  four  decades will be  the most  challanging humanity  has 
ever faced, as they will  determine  the long-term  survival of our planet.  Just 
as we have  a common  stake  in the environment  and  social well being, our 
futures are  also  tied  in terms of overall global  economic  health.  The  slow 
recovery in the North  from  a long protracted  recession has affected  all 
countries.  Similarly,  the economic  strength of developing  countries  clearly 
affects economic  opportunities  for  the North. 
The long established  target of  0.7  per  cent of gross national product  for 
official development  assistance has not been  reached by most donor  countries 
and is not  likely  to be during  this century.  Official development  assistance, 
whether through bilateral  or  through multilateral  channels, has been  set back 
not only  in terms of  slow growth but also  in terms of  slow  disbursement 
resulting from  increasing modalities  and  conditionalities. 
The question of  debt  still  awaits  comprehensive  solution after more  than 
a decade of discussion.  Both  the need  for debt  relief  and the  requirement  of 
additional credit must be dealt with  in a fair  and comprehensive  manner.  The 
serious imbalances  in international  trade  in terms of prices  for  commodities 
as well as volume of  trade must be made more  stable.  Trade  is one of  the  few 
avenues available  to developing  countries  for progress, and must not be 
restricted.  It is also necessary  that access  to knowledge  and  technology be 
made easier. 
Our discussions  on development  and political  change must  take  into 
account the human and  social  dimensions.  There  is increasing  social  tension 
and disregard  for human dignity  arising out of poverty, high population  growth 
and resulting  unemployment, migration  and  competition  for  scarce  resources. 
The wholesome well  being  of  individuals  and  their  rights  can be  assured  if 
A/47/PV.28 
8 
(Mr. Tshering. Bhutan! 
there are stable social, economic, political and natural environments.  We 
look forward to the Second World Conference on Human Rights, in 1993, and the 
proposed world summit for social development to address these important issues 
in an integrated manner. 
In my own country, Bhutan, development activities started only in the 
1960s.  Since then, major changes have taken place: an effective fiscal and 
financial management system, a basic network of social services, roads 
connecting all population centres, and a growing export sector comprised of 
energy, minerals and agricultural products have been established.  The 
development of human resources and the preservation of our rich environment 
have been given special attention.  Despite the considerable progress, our 
economic infrastructure remains inadeguate, and the country's communications 
and transport systems require expansion.  In addition to the problems all 
least developed countries face, Bhutan is further handicapped by being 
landlocked. 
Bhutan has always taken full responsibility for its own development, and 
we will continue to do so, but the progress we have made thus far would not 
have been possible without generous support, particularly that of India, 
Japan, Switzerland, Denmark, Kuwait, Austria, Norway, the Netherlands, 
Germany, the United Kingdom and Australia and various agencies and bodies of 
the United Nations, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, 
the United Nations Children's Fund, the International Fund for Agricultural 
Development, the United Nations Capital Development Fund, the World Health 
Organization, the World Food Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization 
of the United Nations, the United Nations Volunteers, the United Nations 
Population Fund, the United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation for 
Development and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
A/47/PV.28 
9 
(Mr. Tshering.  Bhutan) 
Organization.  I take  this  opportunity  to express  the  sincere gratitude  and 
appreciation of  the people  and Government  of  the Kingdom  of Bhutan  to our 
development partners. 
One of  the  important  issues before  the Assembly  is the establishment  of 
the Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  We  fully welcome  such a 
commission,  but we must  emphasize  that  its mandate  and  relationship  to 
existing organizations  must  be very  clear,  and  its  task must  contribute 
tangibly and  substantively  to  socio-economic  development.  Let  it not be  one 
of the multitude  of  international  organizations  struggling  to bring  about 
development. 
The  strengthening,  revitalization  and  reorganization  of  the United 
Nations must  extend  to all  its organs  and organizations.  In this  context  we 
welcome the concrete  steps  that  our  Secretary-General  has  taken  in 
streamlining  the  Secretariat.  The United Nations  is finally being geared  to 
undertake  its peace-keeping,  peace-making  and humanitarian  relief  work 
effectively.  We  urge  that  a similar  effort be made  to ensure  that  the 
multitude of organs  and  agencies  involved  in development  be  streamlined  and 
revitalized with  the  same  vigour. 
We have  listened  carefully  to  the various  views  on  reforming  and 
democratizing  the United  Nations.  This  is an extremely  important  matter  that 
must take  into  account  the  significant  historical  changes  and  the  current 
membership  of  the  international  body.  There  is need  for  a new  enlightened 
balance among  the principal  organs  of  the United  Nations.  The  General 
Assembly must  be provided with more  responsibility,  and  the  International 
Court of Justice  with more  authority. 
Finally,  the United  Nations  is no  longer  the hostage  of  ideological 
conflict  and  now has  new  found  respect  and  confidence.  While  this  opportunity 
A/47/PV.28 
10 
(Mr. Tshering. Bhutan) 
must not be missed, the path ahead is a long one, and the United Nations must 
move guickly to make itself relevant and capable of meeting the 
responsibilities it has long not been permitted to carry out.  But above all 
the United Nations must be fair in fulfilling the aspirations and meeting the 
hopes and needs of all its Members, big and small. 
Mr. PASHOVSKI (Bulgaria) (interpretation from French): 
Mr. President, at the outset I should like to express our deep thanks to all 
delegations of Member States for the uananimous decision to confer the 
presidency of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly upon us.  That 
can be conceived as an application of the rules of procedure, which provide 
that the presidency of the forty-seventh session will be given to a 
representative of Eastern Europe.  However, I should also like to see it as 
support knowingly given for all that our people have done to ensure that 
Bulgaria would remain an example in the difficult transition from dictatorship 
towards normalcy. 
A/47/PV.28 
11 
(Mr. Pashovski.  Bulgaria) 
I should  also  like  to express my delegation's  gratitude  to 
Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi  for his valuable  contributions  to achievements  of  the 
forty-sixth  session. 
On behalf  of my  country  I am pleased  to welcome  the new  States Members  of 
the United Nations.  We hope  that  other peace-loving  States prepared  to 
implement  the principles  of  the Organization will make  their  contributions. 
The Organization's  work has  now been going on without  interruption, 
albeit with ups  and  downs,  for 47 years.  Today, we  are happy  to be  able  to 
say that  it is entering  a new stage.  The  aggressive  communist  system  that had 
set itself  the goal  of  spreading  its colour  over  the entire planet  no  longer 
exists.  The  peoples  under  its domination paid  dearly  for  that  experiment. 
State, economic  and  social  structures  are  in ruins, and  the environment  been 
degraded.  When we  add  the new  investments  needed  to divert  to  satisfying  the 
real needs of  society  the vast military machinery  and weapons  stockpiles  that 
were accumulated  we  cannot  help but  exclaim  to ourselves:  What  a waste  of 
resources! 
The  common  denominator  of  communism's  deeds  is the wasting  of millions  of 
human lives.  People  have  been  killed,  tortured,  mutilated  and  removed  from 
active life.  Let  us pay  tribute  to  them,  for  through  their  suffering  history 
has once again  demonstrated  that  although violence may well  create  empires,  it 
cannot preserve  them. 
In assessing  today  the United  Nations  place  in human  civilization  we 
recall that  our  inheritance  from  the Roman  Empire was  not  the  frontiers 
established  by  its  legions  but  Roman  law, Roman  architecture  and  Roman 
philosophy 
all  products  of  the thinking  of  the people  of  that  era.  The  same 
holds true  for  the Eastern  or  colonial  empires.  Reason  alone  leaves  lasting 
A/47/PV.28 
12 
(Mr. Pashovski. Bulgaria) 
fruits.  The failure of the badly brought up and poorly educated who have 
tried to govern the world has provided further proof of this. 
It is unnecessary to come up with lengthy treatises to understand that 
throughout the succession of different forms of social organization the 
institutions that last are those that ensure the best opportunities for 
thought to emerge, spread, endure and evolve.  Thought knows no local or 
international boundaries.  It creates links across space and time.  It truly 
unites nations.  The best way to give a new impetus to the United Nations is 
to work to transform it into an Organization of united minds. 
Only the individual can create a thought.  Even with the traditional 
predominance of the State in society, we must recognize that it is the human 
being who bears the responsibility for maintaining parliamentary democracy and 
the effective production of goods.  The protection of the human rights of each 
human being must be the fundamental condition for accepting any State into the 
United Nations family.  Today, as we assess the 47 years that have gone by and 
seek new directions, we see that compromise in this area is very costly  and 
the price is not paid only by those in the Gulag Archipelago; it is paid by 
everyone. 
We know that totalitarian regimes provoke domestic and international 
crises and that their authoritarian decisions threaten nature and sometimes 
even mankind's survival. 
I should like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who submitted his report, "An Agenda for Peace," at 
a time when a new atmosphere prevails within the United Nations.  The 
Bulgarian delegation warmly welcomes his message, which is designed to guide 
the Organization towards efficiency and concrete results.  It goes 
A/47/PV.28 
13 
(Mr. Pashovski.  Bulgaria) 
without  saying  that  the  fundamental  condition  for  the  reform  proposed by  the 
Secretary-General  is the bridging  of  the gap between  the declarations  of 
States and  their  true policies. 
The Bulgarian  delegation  supports  the principal  ideas  in "An Agenda  for 
Peace" and welcomes  the  fact  that  a "constructive  discussion  on that basis has 
been initiated  at  the present  session.  We  consider  it would  be useful  to 
create a special working  group  to accelerate  the evaluation  of  comments  and 
proposals  submitted  by Member  States. 
For the Bulgarian  delegation  the  link between  international  peace, 
development  and  respect  for human  rights  is basic.  That  link exists  in the 
Charter, and  it was  emphasized  at the  Security  Council  Summit Meeting  on 
31 January  1992.  We  should have  it constantly  in our minds when  discussing 
ideas of preventive  diplomacy,  peace-keeping  and  peacemaking. 
Preventive  diplomacy  is a necessity,  and  the  Secretary-General  must  be 
supported  in his efforts  to develop  that  concept  and give  it practical 
dimensions.  In this  connection  there  is a whole  range of  activities  that 
might be considered,  such  as:  information-gathering  on problems  that  may 
provoke conflicts; the establishment  of  contacts with  forces  that may  become 
involved in conflict;  the dispatch of  fact-finding  or other missions, both 
long-term  and  short-term;  the  sending  of  special  representatives;  the 
deployment  of  civilian  or military observers; and,  lastly,  the deployment  of 
military troops  should  the need  arise. 
United  Nations  efforts  in the  realm  of preventive  diplomacy, 
crisis-management  and post-conflict  peace-building  must  also  include  a greater 
and more effective  cooperation with  regional  organizations.  We  support  the 
Secretary-General's  idea of making better  use  of  the potential  of  regional 
A/47/PV.28 
14 
(Mr. Pashovski. Bulgaria) 
organizations.  In our view  this entails  creating  a system  to coordinate the 
efforts  of  agencies working  at both  the global  and  regional  levels.  As of 
now,  there  could  be  such coordination with  regard  to the  sending  of 
fact-finding missions  or  special  rapporteurs, or  to  similar  measures.  We 
believe  that  interesting  ideas may emerge  from  a discussion  of  the 
opportunities  available  to the United  Nations  to delegate  certain  functions to 
regional  organizations  as provided  in Chapter VIII  of  the Charter.  At the 
same  time, we must  not  forget  that  the  supreme  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of peace has been entrusted  to  the United  Nations. 
We  consider  very  useful  the experience  already  acquired  through  the work 
of  the Conference  on  Security  and Co-operation  in Europe  (CSCE).  As an 
example,  let  us  take  the establishment  of  the post  of High Commissioner  on 
National  Minorities, whose  tasks  could well  be considered  to come within the 
field  of preventive  diplomacy,  or  all  the  confidence-building  measures  drafted 
in the course  of  the Helsinki  process, including  the  recently  signed  "Open 
Skies" Treaty.  Here  I might mention  a measure proposed  by  the  Bulgarian 
delegation  at  the Vienna  negotiations, and  already  successfully  tried, which 
is to  invite  accredited  military  attaches  to visit  zones of  tension  in the 
country where  they  are posted.  With  necessary  adjustments, when  feasible, 
many of  these measures  could  acguire  universal  status. 
We  feel  that  the  reverse  process  could  also be  employed.  The  notion of 
creating  a universal  register  of  conventional  arms  could  also  be  implemented 
at  the  regional  level  to prevent  quantities  of  conventional  weapons  capable of 
destabilizing  a region  from being  stockpiled  without  any preventive  control. 
A/47/PV.28 
15 
(Mr. Pashovski.  Bulgaria) 
Regional  registers would  not  only ensure  increased  transparency,  but  would 
also assist  in the  creation  and  functioning  of  a world  register.  Bulgaria 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  implementation  of  resolution  46/36  L, 
"Transparency  in armaments." 
A/47/PV.28 
16 
(Mr. Pashovski. Bulgaria) 
The reform of the United Nations cannot take place without strengthening 
confidence among States.  Continuation of the disarmament process is 
absolutely necessary if the new climate in the world is to be maintained.  We 
pay a tribute to Presidents George Bush and Boris Yeltsin for having taken 
courageous steps to reduce offensive nuclear weapons and to diminish the risk 
of a nuclear holocaust.  We hope that they will continue their efforts and 
carry this process to its completion. 
Encouraged by the success achieved in nuclear disarmament and knowing 
that regional conflicts are still raging, we feel that it is time to take a 
decisive step to resolve the problem of the non-proliferation of weapons of 
mass destruction.  As a State party to the non-proliferation Treaty, Bulgaria 
knows its value and supports the efforts to make it universal.  We are in 
favour of having it continue in force indefinitely after 1995. 
We participated in the drafting of the Convention on chemical weapons 
which we expect to see adopted at this session.  From this lofty rostrum I 
should like to confirm Bulgaria's will to be among the first countries to sign 
the Convention and to work for its entry into force as quickly as possible. 
In putting forth efforts to prevent world war, we must not forget that 
regional wars are raging.  Whether we speak about Iraq, Somalia, on Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, the malady is universal, even if solutions can only be individual. 
Since the beginning of the Yugoslav crisis, Bulgaria has adopted a 
position aimed at preventing the conflict from spreading and at cooperating 
with the international community in efforts to find a political solution to 
the conflict.  We participated in the London Conference, which stimulated 
international efforts by launching a process of negotiations under the 
A/47/PV.28 
17 
(Mr. Pashovski.  Bulgaria) 
auspices of  the United  Nations  and  the European  Community.  Bulgaria  firmly 
supports the principles  drafted by  the Conference  because we  feel  that  they 
are the basis  for  a lasting  and  comprehensive  solution  to the  conflict. 
Bulgaria has  recognized  all  of  the Republics which,  in accordance  with 
constitutional  procedures, have  clearly  expressed  their  desire  to become 
sovereign States.  That makes  it possible  to bring  all  the parties  of  the 
former Federation  together  round  a negotiating  table 
but  if one or  two of 
them were  to be  absent,  it would be  impossible  to do so.  We have  therefore 
recognized  the existing  international  borders, showing  clearly  that we  are not 
getting ready  to  take  advantage  of  our  neighbour's  difficulties  for 
nationalist  purposes. 
At  this  time  it  is extremely  important  to  contain  the conflict  and to 
prevent  its  spread.  The Bulgarian  Government  has decided  to continue  to work 
together with  the  international  community  in carrying  out  the decisions  of  the 
London Conference  and  of  the  Security  Council. 
An additional  but  effective way  is to deploy  international  observer 
missions.  Since  the end of  last year,  the Bulgarian  Government  has  declared 
several  times  that  it was  ready  to accept  such a mission on  its  territory.  We 
support  the decision  taken by  the Conference  on Security  and Cooperation  in 
Europe  (CSCE) to  send missions  to  the neighbouring  countries  of  Serbia  and 
Montenegro  and we  pay  a tribute  to  the mission  of  the European  Community  which 
is in Bulgaria. 
I  should  like  to  recall  that we  invited  another  special  mission of  the 
European Community  and  of  the CSCE  to  lend  assistance  to our  authorities  in 
A/47/PV.28 
18 
(Mr. Pashovski. Bulgaria) 
the  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  imposing  economic  sanctions 
and  the embargo  on  imports  of weapons  into  the  former  Yugoslavia. 
And while we  are  speaking  of  sanctions,  I should  like to draw the 
Assembly's  attention  to the  fact  that  they  also  affect  the  countries  which 
apply  them.  Whether  we  talk  about  the  case of  Iraq,  Libya or  the  former 
Yugoslavia,  a  large  number  of Bulgarian  enterprises  have been  seriously 
affected  and our  entire  economy has  suffered  serious  losses.  If we wish to 
punish  only  the guilty party,  it would  be only  fair  to  consider  setting up a 
compensation  programme  for  the non-guilty  party. 
Bulgaria will  continue  its efforts  to organize  a conference  to  reaffirm 
the  applicability  in the Balkans  of  the principles  of  the CSCE.  The  Bulgarian 
initiative  for  a Balkan  forum  is a concrete  example  of  the general  principles 
of  the Helsinki  Final Act,  as applied  to the  actual  conditions  in the 
Balkans.  In this  context  the  setting up  and  carrying  out  of  a  special 
programme  for the economic  recovery  of  the Balkan  States, a kind  of  "Marshall 
Plan",  is of prime  importance. 
Bulgaria  is working  to establish  relations  with neighbouring  States on a 
stable  legal basis.  We have  concluded  treaties  of  friendship,  cooperation and 
good-neighbourliness  with Greece, Turkey  and  Romania,  and we  are now  in the 
process  of  signing  such  a treaty with Albania,  Slovenia  and  Croatia.  We wish 
to live  in peace  and  a state  of good-neighbourliness  with  all  the peoples  in 
our  region,  including  the  Serbian  and Montenegrin  peoples  with whom  we  have 
long historic  ties.  We hope  that,  as  soon  as possible,  they will  once  again 
find  their place  in this Hall.  That would  be  the best  sign  that  the  problems 
have  already  been  resolved. 
A/47/PV.28 
19 
(Mr. Pashovski.  Bulgaria) 
The  death  of  thousands  of people  and  the  suffering  of millions  of 
others, especially women,  children  and  the elderly,  the huge  flows  of 
refugees, and  the barbaric  practice  of ethnic  cleansing must  not be 
forgotten.  These  flagrant  violations  of humanitarian  international  law have 
eloquently  shown  the overriding  need  to create  an international  penal  court 
which would have  the  competence  to  judge  individuals who  commit  crimes  against 
peace and humanity.  Perhaps  it would  be  appropriate  to analyse  the 
possibilities  of  using  for  these  purposes  one of  the permanent  courts  already 
in existence 
the  International  Court  of Justice or  the European Court  of 
Human Rights.  In any  case,  this  requires  discussion  and Bulgaria  favours 
continuing  the work  of  the  International  Law Commission  on drawing  up  the 
draft statute  for  such  a court. 
We  think  that  after  the cold war  it  is imperative  to  strengthen  the  role 
of international  law  in  international  relations.  This  is necessary,  in our 
view, because  the bipolar  structure  of  international  relations  has  disappeared 
and therefore  it is necessary  to  replace  it with  clear, precise,  legal  rules 
which are  also  universally  recognized.  On that basis, we  should,  in our 
opinion, promote  above  all, the  strict  implementation  of  the provisions  of  the 
Charter and  strengthen  the  role of  the United  Nations  in  international 
affairs. 
Bulgaria  energetically  supports  all  actions  and measures which have been 
laid down  in the biennial  programme  for  the United  Nations  Decade  of 
International  Law.  We  are  convinced  that  the most  important  part  of  the 
programme  is  the part  dealing with ways  and means  to bring  about  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes.  In this  context,  I should  like  to 
inform  representatives  that  on 23 June  1992  the Bulgarian  Government  deposited 
A/47/PV.28 
20 
(Mr. Pashovski. Bulgaria) 
with  the  Secretary-General  a Declaration  of Acceptance  of  the  binding 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of Justice.  Furthermore,  on that same 
day we withdrew our  reservations  on the  jurisdictional  provisions  of  a number 
of  international  conventions,  such as the  International  Convention  on the 
Elimination  of All Forms of Racial Discrimation,  the  International  Convention 
against  the Taking  of Hostages,  and others.  I should  like to extend  the 
Bulgarian  delegation's  support  for  the recommendation  of  the  Secretary-General 
contained  in paragraph  38 of his  report  "An Agenda  for Peace", namely  that the 
General  Assembly  could, pursuant  to Article  96, paragraph  2, of  the  Charter, 
authorize  the Secretary-General  to  take  advantage  of  the  advisory  competence 
of the  International  Court  of  Justice.  Such a possibility  would  considerably 
strengthen  the effectiveness  of  the work of  the  Secretary- General. 
I began my  statement with  some thoughts  about  the  role of man  as the 
only being  capable of  using  reason  and of original  thought.  Honour  and 
dignity  are  inherent  in each human being,  and history  shows  us that  all 
conflicts  are more  or  less  linked  to violations  of human  rights.  Our 
Organization  has created  very good  standards  in this  field  and  emphasis  must 
now be placed  on  improving  the machinery  for monitoring  and  implementing 
existing  standards. 
A/47/PV.28 
21 
(Mr. Pashovski.  Bulgaria) 
The crises  that  have  followed  the disintegration  of  multinational 
federations have  demonstrated  the  importance  of  the problems  of ethnic  and 
religious minorities  within  the overall  framework  of human  rights  protection. 
In this context, my  country  is deeply  concerned  over  the  fate of  the  Bulgarian 
minority in Serbia.  Although  it  is not directly  affected by  the war,  this 
population has  a justified  feeling  of  insecurity with  regard  to  its  future  and 
identity,  and  should  not be  forgotten by the  international  community. 
Democratic  Bulgaria has  succeeded  in finding  an original  and  effective 
approach to  solving  these problems.  The  Bulgarian Turks have  their 
representatives  in the national  parliament,  and bear  their  share of  the 
responsibility  for  the  future  of our  country.  Ethnic  tolerance  is a 
characteristic  trait  of  the Bulgarian  people; one of the most  telling  example 
is the way  the Jews  in Bulgaria were  rescued  during  the Second  World War. 
The words  "war" and  "peace" have been  intermingled  in my  speech,  as  they 
are, moreover,  in real  life.  But  it is clear  that peace will win  out  in the 
end, because  it  is  in peace  that man  shows himself  to be  reasonable  and 
creative.  Those who preach peace  still  remain  among  us; those who  cry 
violence are not.  That  is why,  in Bulgaria, we have  said  a last  farewell  to 
communism  and  sided with  the nations  that  are united  in their way of  thinking. 
Mr. SSEMOGERERE  (Uganda):  Mr. President,  allow me  to  congratulate 
you most warmly  on your  election  to the presidency  of  the General  Assembly  at 
its forty-seventh  session.  I am confident  that, given your  skills  and 
experience, you will  successfully  guide  our  deliberations.  I wish  also  to pay 
a well-deserved  tribute  to your predecessor. Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi  of  the 
A/47/PV.28 
22 
(Mr.  Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
Kingdom  of Saudi Arabia,  for  the excellent manner  in which he  steered  the work 
of the  forty-sixth  session. 
It is with  a sense  of pride  and  satisfaction  that  I take  this 
opportunity,  firstly,  to congratulate Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  a 
distinguished  son of Africa,  on his deserved  election  to  the  important  post of 
Secretary-General  of  our  Organization;  and,  secondly,  to express  sincere 
appreciation  to him  for  the  commendable  leadership he has  showed  in  carrying 
out his  duties.  Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali's  long and valuable  service  to 
Africa, especially within  the Organization  of African Unity  (OAU),  the  central 
role he played  in peacemaking  under  the Camp  David  accord,  and  the 
considerable  familiarity  he has with  the burning  issues of  the  developing 
world  give him  impeccable  credentials  for  this Organization's  highest  and most 
challenging  post.  We wish him  every  success; he enjoys Uganda's  full 
confidence;  and he  can count  on our  constant  cooperation  and  support.* 
Uganda welcomes  the  13 new Members  of  the United  Nations, with which we 
look  forward  to forging  close  and mutually  beneficial  relations.  An  important 
principle  of this Organization  is self-determination  by  the people  of  the 
Member  States.  The  admission  of new Members  is in keeping with  that principle. 
When we gathered  here  at  the  forty-sixth  session  of  the General  Assembly, 
it was  against  a backdrop  of  international  political  developments  which had 
profoundly  altered  the global  landscape.  The  transformation  of  international 
relations  has, over  the  last year,  increased  in pace  and ushered  in a new 
pattern  of  relations.  In place  of  the cold war between  East  and West, we  now 
Mr.  Kalpage  (Sri  Lanka),  Vice-President  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.28 
23 
(Mr. Ssemoqerere. Uganda) 
see a more  cooperative  relationship.  Mutual  suspicion,  conflict  and  the 
attendant  arms  race between  the major  Powers have  been  replaced  by  dialogue 
and joint endeavours.  Dictatorships  are giving way  to democracies,  and 
conflicts  are being  resolved  through  dialogue. 
As  a member  of  the Non-Aligned  Movement, Uganda has  always  urged  the 
major Powers  to put  an end  to their  rivalry  and,  instead,  pool  their  efforts 
to promote  international  peace  and  security  and  also  the economic  and  social 
development  of  all  countries,  as envisaged  by  the Charter.  We  therefore 
welcome the emerging  peaceful  relations  among  the major  Powers, and we 
accordingly have  a good basis  for hoping  that  investment  in economic  and 
social development  worldwide will  now  receive  a higher  priority.  In this 
connection,  special  note must be  taken  of  the  important  address  to  this 
session of  the Assembly  by President  George  Bush of  the United  States when he 
put forward  new  ideas  about  international  economic  cooperation.  These  ideas 
merit  serious  consideration. 
It will  be  recalled  that  the cold-war  divisions  hampered  the efforts  of 
the Organization  in fulfilling  its mandate.  But now the  correspondence  of 
objectives  among  the permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council, as 
contemplated  by  the  founding  fathers, has  facilitated  the United  Nations 
central  role  in  finding  solutions  to various  regional  crises.  From  Yugoslavia 
and Cambodia  to  Somalia,  to name but  a few,  it has now become possible  for the 
United Nations  to handle  the underlying  causes  of  crises without  its  actions 
being hamstrung  by  the  ideological  differences  between  its Members. 
As  the  confidence  being  reposed  in the United Nations  has  increased,  so 
have the  responsibilities  the Organization  is being  called  upon  to undertake. 
A/47/PV.28 
24 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
Yet its resources remain precarious.  There is an urgent need for the 
Organization to be strengthened, in order to be able to be appropriately 
restructured, and to be provided with adequate means meet the challenges 
before it. 
It is critical that the United Nations organs be made more representative 
so that they can cater more meaningfully to the interests and aspirations of 
all its Members.  The objective should be to make the decision-making process 
in the United Nations, including the Security Council, more democratic and 
transparent.  It is with this in mind that Uganda will positively examine the 
various proposals for reform of the United Nations.  We are thus prepared to 
examine proposals for reform and expansion of the Security Council to reflect 
contemporary realities that will lead to a more equitable and balanced 
representation without, however, sacrificing capacity and efficiency. 
The present structure of the Security Council reflects the realities of 
1945 and the resultant cold war.  Countries were designated permanent members 
because of their capacity, at the time, to contribute to the maintenance of 
international peace and security and to prevent war.  For the record, it ought 
to be stated, with appreciation, that the Organization's structures have 
discharged their principal obligations well, and have, in particular, 
safeguarded the international community against a world war and against a 
nuclear catastrophe. 
It must, however, be acknowledged that we are now moving into an age 
where new issues such as development, environmental protection and 
technological advancement are critical in international relations and affect 
A/47/PV.28 
25 
(Mr. Ssemogerere.  Uganda) 
the security  of  the world.  We  therefore  believe  it  is necessary  to  review  the 
criteria  for permanent  membership  in order  to take  into account  the  capacity 
of countries  to  contribute  in this  regard. 
A/47/PV.28 
26 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
If only  for the  sake of  accountability,  it  is  imperative  that Member 
States, on which  our  Organization will  increasingly  depend  as the main source 
of  contributions  for  the  implementation  of  its new  agenda  for  the next 
century,  should  also have  a say  in the decision-making  structures  of the 
United Nations. 
Secondly,  in any  restructuring  of  the Council,  it  is also  important that 
consideration be given  to having  for each major  region  a permanent  member, 
which would  be designated  through  consultation with  the  relevant  regional 
groups or organizations.  An  important  criterion  to take  into  account  is that 
a country,  large  or  small,  seeking membership  on the  Security  Council must 
fully  embrace,  and be  seen  to act  in accordance  with,  the underlying  values of 
the United  Nations  mandate  for peace,  respect  for human  rights, 
democratization  and other  accepted  international  norms.  In our view  that 
would  enhance  both confidence  in the Council  on the part  of  the Members  of the 
Organization  and  the  acceptability  of  the Council's  decisions. 
While  the  rapprochement  between  the  super-Powers,  as well  as  the 
prevailing  international  climate, has been  instrumental  in the  resolution of 
long-standing  conflicts, we  should  not be  lulled  into complacency.  There are 
still many  formidable  obstacles  to overcome  in our quest  for  a more peaceful, 
secure,  just  and  equitable  new world  order.  Along with  increased  integration 
among  States  and  increased  democratic  governance, we  see  centrifugal  forces 
tearing  States  and  societies  apart, be  it  in Europe  or  in  developing 
countries.  Many  of  those  conflicts  are driven by ethnic,  religious,  racial or 
other  sectarian  differences  and have  resulted  in the  loss  of many  lives  and 
the  suffering  of very  large  numbers  of  innocent  people  on account  of 
displacement,  the destruction  of  social  and  economic  infrastructure,  the 
A/47/PV.28 
27 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
breakdown of law and order, and the lack of food, medical facilities and 
shelter.  Quite appropriately, these conflicts ought to be the focus of our 
attention in our deliberations.  In addressing ourselves to such conflicts, it 
is legitimate for the international community to press for their peaceful and 
prompt resolution and to resort to such mechanisms as are deemed practical in 
coming to the immediate rescue, with humanitarian assistance, of those who are 
suffering.  National sovereignty should not be invoked for the prevention of 
delivering needed humanitarian assistance to the innocent. 
In South Africa we were encouraged by the positive steps taken by 
Mr. De Klerk towards the dismantling of the apartheid apparatus.  The repeal 
of the legislative pillars of apartheid  the Population Registration Act, the 
Group Areas Act and the Land Act  followed by the convening of the Convention 
for a Democratic South Africa (CODESA), gave us hope that at long last we were 
on the verge of putting in motion an irreversible process towards the 
establishment of a united, non-racial and democratic South Africa.  It was 
therefore a matter of deep regret that the process was subseguently undermined 
and endangered by the violence which claimed thousands of lives among the 
black population.  We vividly recall the carnage at Boipatong early this year 
and more recently in the Ciskei bantustan.  The failure of. the South African 
Government to prevent and contain violence clearly raised doubts about the 
Pretoria Government's commitment to the process of fully dismantling apartheid 
and ushering into the country a truly democratic order. 
We welcome the recent talks between Mr. Nelson Mandela and Mr. De Klerk 
aimed at breaking the impasse.  Those talks should give impetus to the 
process.  The De Klerk Government needs to take drastic steps to control 
violence and to engender confidence in the negotiation process.  It should 
A/47/PV.28 
28 
(Mr. Ssemoqerere. Uganda) 
also  release  all  remaining  political  prisoners  without  delay.  We  commend  the 
decision  of  the United  Nations  to  station  observers  in South Africa  at this 
time to monitor  the  situation  and  to assist  in the process  towards  democratic 
change.  It  remains  our  conviction  that many more  observers  are needed  in 
order  to ensure  an effective  international  presence. 
This Organization  has been  at the  forefront  of  the  struggle  against 
apartheid  and  it  is  imperative  for  it to  stay  the  course  until  the  objective 
is achieved.  Uganda's  position  remains  that  until  the  apartheid  constitution 
is scrapped  and  replaced with one which guarantees  human  rights  and  political 
freedoms  to  all  South Africans  on equal  terms, we  shall not have  achieved our 
goal.  While  agreeable  to the phasing  out of  sanctions  in response  to the 
progress  registered, we believe  the  international  community  should  maintain 
the necessary  pressure  to keep  the  South African Government  negotiating  in 
good  faith.  It  is critical  to agree  on a constitution  that enjoys  the widest 
consensus.  To  that end,  it becomes  crucial  for all parties  in South Africa to 
take part  in the negotiations  and  for  South African  leaders  and  the 
international  community  to spare  no effort  in encouraging  all  necessary 
consultations  to ensure  that  no  significant  group  feels  left  out. 
The  events  in South Africa have  a great  impact  on developments  elsewhere 
in  southern Africa.  Apartheid  has  always been  a source  of  destabilization  for 
the  region,  especially  for  the  front-line  States, with Angola  and  Mozambique 
being  the most  affected.  Over  the years, those  countries have  been  the  object 
of a destabilization  campaign  that  encouraged  fratricidal  internal  conflicts. 
We  are glad  to note  that  in both  countries  progress has been made  towards 
reconciliation  and  the  comprehensive  resolution  of  their  internal  conflicts. 
A/47/PV.28 
29 
(Mr. Ssemoqerere. Uganda) 
Angola has  just  held  an election  in which  all  the parties have  participated. 
The United Nations,  through  the United  Nations Angola Verification  Mission, 
(UNAVEM)  II, has greatly  contributed  to the creation of  an  atmosphere 
conducive  to  reconciliation.  In Mozambique,  the Government  and RENAMO  have 
reached  an accord, which  is  spelt out  in the Joint Declaration  signed  in 
Rome.  We welcome  that  accord,  and  it is our hope  that  a cease-fire  agreement 
will soon be  signed  so as to  facilitate  elections  and pave  the way  for an 
enduring peace. 
Mozambique,  Angola  and other  front-line  States have borne  the brunt  of 
the struggle  against  apartheid.  Their  economic  and  social  infrastructures 
have, in the process, been damaged.  Their  economies will  therefore  take a 
long time to  recover.  The  long drought  they  are currently  experiencing  has 
compounded  these problems.  I wish  to call on  the  international  community  to 
render them  the  requisite  assistance  for  their economic  recovery  and 
development. 
In Somalia we have  a disaster  of enormous proportions which, on the one 
hand, is man-made  and,  on the other,  is compounded  by drought.  Both  the  OAU 
and African  leaders  in the  regional  and  subregional  contexts  have made 
strenuous efforts  to  resolve  the underlying political  differences, but without 
success.  Last  Saturday  President Museveni  of my  country, with  a view to 
promoting dialogue between  the parties, had discussions with, among others, 
Somali interim  President  Ali Mahdi  and General  Farah Aideed  of  the United 
Somali Congress,  in which he  appealed  to both of  them  to  resolve  their 
differences.  Already  the  conflict  has brought misery  and massive  loss of  life 
to the Somali  people.  A major problem  now is that  the continued  fighting  is 
A/47/PV.28 
30 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
making it extremely difficult to distribute food.  We appeal to the various 
groups in Somalia to put an end to the conflict.  We commend the efforts of 
the United Nations and its agencies, such as the United Nations Children's 
Fund (UNICEF), at providing humanitarian assistance, and we call on the 
international community to increase support for this initiative.  We appeal to 
the various groups involved in the fighting in Somalia to cooperate with the 
United Nations and work for national reconciliation.  We support the call by 
the current OAU Chairman, President Abdou Diouf of Senegal, for the convening 
of an international conference on Somalia after due preparation. 
The Secretary-General, in his annual report and in "An Agenda for Peace", 
underscores the role of regional and subregional efforts in defusing tension 
and in working out long-term solutions.  We agree with the Secretary-General's 
observations. 
In East Africa the efforts of our Heads of State have gone a long way 
towards finding long-term solutions to regional problems, in particular that 
of refugees. 
A/47/PV.28 
31 
(Mr. Ssemogerere.  Uganda) 
The joint  commissions  we have with our  neighbours  have been most helpful  as 
confidence-building  measures.  The United Nations  should be  supportive  of our 
efforts. 
As  regards  Liberia, Uganda will  continue  to  support  the  initiative  of  the 
Economic  Community  of West African  States  (ECOWAS)  for  a peaceful  settlement. 
The groups  in Liberia  should  cooperate with  the EOWAS  Cease-fire  Monitoring 
Group  (ECOMOG) and  abide  by  the terms of  the accord  they  reached  at 
Yamoussoukro, which were  recently  reaffirmed  by  the Dakar  summit  of  ECOWAS, 
especially with  regard  to demobilization  and peaceful  transition  to  democratic 
governance.  There  is also  need  for active  involvement  of  the United  Nations 
to assist  the  subregion  in preventing  the  situation  from getting* worse. 
The  conflict  in  southern  Sudan has been  a source of  anguish  for us.  The 
people  in this  area have  for  long experienced  the agony of war with  the 
attendant  loss  of  lives  and  the problems  of  refugees  and  population 
displacement.  The path  towards  a long-term  solution  lies  in dialogue  and 
reconciliation  among  the parties  in the  Sudan.  Time  is of  the essence  in  this 
situation.  Uganda  appreciates  and  encourages  the efforts  of  President 
Babangida and of  the OAU towards  this end.  I wish  to  register  our  gratitude 
to the international  community  for  coming  to the  rescue  of. the  civilian 
population with humanitarian  aid.  It is our hope  that both  the Government  of 
Sudan and  the  Sudanese  People's  Liberation Army  (SPLA) will  facilitate  the 
international  humanitarian  relief  effort, which  at  the moment  is,  regrettably, 
suspended,  with  only  little help  reaching  the affected  population. 
Uganda  commends  the  fruitful  regional  and  international  initiatives  for 
the resolution  of  the  social  and  armed  conflict  in Rwanda.  Uganda 
acknowledges  and  supports  the ongoing  dialogue, under  Tanzanian  mediation, 
A/47/PV.28 
32 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
between the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front, in 
accordance with agreements and recommendations reached in regional conferences 
and under OAU auspices.  Uganda appreciates the constructive and helpful role 
played by the international observers in these negotiations. 
As to Western Sahara, Security Council resolution 690 (1991) remains the 
only agreed basis for the resolution of the problem.  It is our hope that the 
obstacles with regard to the criteria of eligibility to vote will soon be 
resolved so that the way can be paved for holding the referendum as envisaged 
in the settlement plan. 
The Middle East crisis, at the core of which is the guestion of 
Palestine, has been one of the most intractable problems on the agenda of the 
United Nations.  Peace in the region will continue to be elusive if a solution 
is not found to that question.  Uganda thus welcomed the United States 
initiative in launching negotiations between all the parties concerned, 
beginning with the Madrid conference last year.  While we regret that no 
breakthrough has yet been made, we are encouraged that the dialogue is still 
continuing.  We call on the parties to persist in their negotiations, remove 
mutual suspicion, engender confidence, and grapple with the real issues that 
will bring forward a comprehensive, just and durable solution. 
Uganda welcomed the restoration of Kuwait's independence, in which the 
United Nations played a key role.  It is our hope that with the Gulf War 
behind us, it will be possible to restore prosperity and to refocus the 
energies of the countries in the region on economic and social development. 
As regards Cyprus, we support the Secretary-General's efforts to reach an 
agreement on fundamental principles for an overall settlement.  We maintain 
A/47/PV.28 
33 
(Mr. Ssemogerere.  Uganda) 
our position  that  the  settlement  should  safeguard  the  sovereignty,  unity  and 
territorial  integrity  of Cyprus. 
In the Korean peninsula, Uganda  continues  to be  supportive  of  the 
aspirations  of  the Korean people  for peaceful  reunification.  We wish  to 
encourage them  in their  dialogue  for. this purpose.* 
In Cambodia,  we  note  the progress made by  the United Nations  Transitional 
Authority  in implementing  the  agreements  for  a comprehensive  political 
settlement.  It  is  for  us a matter  of  regret  that  there  are problems  with 
regard to the  second  phase  of  the  cease-fire  regarding  the  regrouping, 
cantoning  and disarming  of  the various  armed  forces.  We  call on all  parties 
to the agreements  to  live  up  to their  undertakings  so that peace  and  stability 
can return to that  country. 
Uganda has been  deeply  concerned  at the continuing  conflict  in the  former 
Socialist  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia.  Yugoslavia was  a pillar  of  the 
Movement of Non-Aligned  Countries.  It contributed  a lot  to the Movement  and 
to the struggle  for  the  independence  of our  States when  the  cold war was  at 
its height.  It  is, therefore,  a source  of great  anguish  to  see that  in its 
breakup, Yugoslavia has become  a region  of  instability,  strife  and war  based 
on ethnic  and  religious  differences.  We  reject  the notion  of  "ethnic 
cleansing" as being  repugnant  to accepted  norms. 
The United  Nations  Protection  Force  (UNPROFOR) has been  functioning  under 
very dangerous  and  trying  circumstances.  It deserves  our maximum  support  as 
it endeavours  to  restore  peace  in the  area.  We  call  on  the parties  to  embrace 
the path of peace  and  reconciliation. 
*  The  President  returned  to  the Chair. 
A/47/PV.28 
34 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
In the  field of disarmament,  Uganda welcomes  the  successful  conclusion of 
the negotiations  regarding  the Convention  on the  complete  and  effective 
prohibition  of  the development,  production  and  stockpiling  of  chemical  weapons 
and on their  destruction,  which  is due  to be  submitted  to the Assembly  at this 
session  for adoption.  As a party  to the non-proliferation  Treaty, Uganda also 
looks  forward  to actively participating  in the preparation  for  the  1995 Review 
Conference, which will decide on  the extension  of  the Treaty.  It is our hope 
that  the  review will  strengthen  the Treaty by  removing  the present  imbalances, 
and  result  in increased  assistance  to developing  countries  in the  peaceful 
application  of nuclear  energy. 
Uganda  is happy  to  see that  the question  of human  rights has  a place of 
pride  on the  international  agenda.  In both  our  domestic  and  our  foreign 
policies, we give high priority  to  this  issue.  As part  of  its commitment  to 
this end,  a preoccupation  of my Government  has been  to  strengthen  the  rule of 
law and our  capacity  to enforce  those  rights.  We  regard  the proper  training 
of  law enforcement  officials  as crucial.  Therefore,  this has been given due 
priority  in our programmes.  Currently, Uganda has  embarked  on  a process  for 
the enactment  of  a new  constitution  that  should  have built-in  safeguards  for 
fundamental  human  rights  and political  freedoms.  I wish  to place  on  record 
our  appreciation  to those  countries  that  are  rendering  assistance  to Uganda in 
this  regard. 
Uganda  looks  forward  to the  third World  Conference  on Human  Rights 
scheduled  to take place  in Vienna next  year.  That  Conference  should  provide 
us with  an opportunity  to enhance  the  implementation  of  existing  human  rights 
instruments,  to develop  new  norms where  necessary,  and  to examine  fully  the 
intrinsic  relationship  between  human  rights  and  development. 
A/47/PV.28 
35 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
It has been emphasized that people must be at the centre of development. 
We agree.  This requires us to strive for the attainment of social justice and 
equality for all peoples.  Our avowed commitment for human rights and 
democracy cannot be taken seriously if it is not egually matched with a 
commitment to address the problems of underdevelopment, mass poverty and the 
social misery in which the overwhelming majority of the world population is 
trapped.  Durable peace can only be anchored in the bedrock of economic 
progress among and within nations. 
A/47/PV.28 
36 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
Regrettably,  as we  approach the next millennium,  the economic  and  social 
problems  of  the developing  countries  continue  to worsen.  The  overall  external 
environment  remains unfavourable, with most of  our  countries  confronted with 
worsening  terms of  trade, a crippling  debt burden  and a  reduction  in the flow 
of  resources  earmarked  for development.  While  there  is  increasing  integration 
in the process  of production  and  the globalization  of world  trade, the trend 
of marginalization  of  the  least  developed  countries  continues. 
Of grave  concern  is the critical  economic  situation  in Africa.  The 
Secretary-General  in his  annual  report  aptly describes  the plight  of Africa as 
follows: 
"Most Africans  are poorer  today  than they were when  their  countries 
achieved  independence  in the  late  1950s  and  1960s.  The  continent  as a 
whole  accounts  for  32 out of  the world's  47  least  developed  countries. 
Africa  is the only  low-income  region  in the world where  the number  of 
people  living  in poverty  is, if  the current  trends  continue,  likely to 
increase by the year  2000.  It is also  the only  region of  the world whose 
total debt  equals  or exceeds  its economic  output.  The  freshly-witnessed 
momentum  for political  pluralism  in Africa  can hardly withstand  a 
continuing  assault by desertification,  famine  and  deprivation.  Poverty 
is infertile  soil  for democracy.  It breeds  a search  for  survival  that 
cannot  be held back by national  frontiers.  The African  countries  need to 
become masters  of their economic  destiny  in a more  supportive  global 
framework."  (A/47/1, para.  62) 
In response  to this plight,  the General Assembly  adopted  at  its 
forty-sixth  session,  in resolution  46/151, the New Agenda  for  the 
A/47/PV.28 
37 
(Mr. Ssemogerere.  Uganda) 
Development  of Africa  in the  1990s, whose  objective  is to accelerate  the 
transformation,  integration  and  diversification  of African  economies.  The  New 
Agenda aims  at  achieving  an  average  real growth  rate  in gross  national  product 
of about  6 per  cent  a year  through  the decade, paying  special  attention  to 
such goals  as  increased  life  expectancy,  lower  rates of  child  and  maternal 
mortality,  and  improved  health, water,  sanitation,  basic  education  and  shelter. 
Most  African  countries  have undertaken major  reforms  of their  internal 
economic policies  and mechanisms.  In Uganda,  for example, we  are  committed  to 
the liberalization  of  the economy  and have  enacted  an attractive  foreign 
investment  code.  These  reforms  can be meaningful  only  if  the  external 
economic  environment  is supportive  and  there  is a positive  response  in the 
form of  increased  investment  and  trade.  It will be  recalled  that  the United 
Nations Programme  of  Action  for African Recovery  and Development  1986-1990  did 
not achieve  its objectives  because  of  the  failure  of  the  international 
community  to provide  the  requisite  resources.  For  the New Agenda  to  succeed, 
therefore, our partners must have  the political will  to  live up  to  their 
commitments. 
The  System-Wide  Plan  of Action which  is before  the General  Assembly 
provides  a framework  for  the United  Nations  system  to give more  focussed 
attention  to Africa.  In this  regard, Uganda  strongly welcomes  the 
International  Conference  for Assistance  to African  Children,  scheduled  to  take 
place  in Dakar  in November,  and we  commend  the United Nations  Children's  Fund 
for the preparatory  work  already  undertaken. 
We  appeal  to  the  international  agencies  to earmark  resources  for  the 
implementation  of  the New Agenda.  In this  connection,  we  commend  the 
A/47/PV.28 
38 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
International Fund for Agricultural Development's Special Programme for 
Sub-Saharan Africa.  I also wish to register my appreciation to the Government 
of Japan for initiating and arranging to host, in 1993, an African development 
conference that will bring together African countries, major aid donors and 
international agencies to discuss ways and means of accelerating African 
economic development. 
Two major conferences were held last year:  the Eighth United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD VIII) and the United Nations 
Conference on Environment and Development, which culminated in Agenda 21.  It 
is necessary to maintain the momentum achieved at Rio and at UNCTAD VIII by 
putting in place measures to implement those decisions.  The Rio Summit 
established a clear link between environment, growth and development.  The 
need to help developing countries achieve sustainable development was 
underscored.  It is our hope that the Uruguay Round will soon be successfully 
completed and that it will remove the impediments to our products reaching the 
markets of the industrialized countries. 
In the report "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277), issued as a follow-up to 
the statement adopted at the conclusion of the Security Council's historic 
Summit meeting of 31 January 1992, the Secretary-General outlines his 
proposals on how the United Nations role in the maintenance of international 
peace and security can be strengthened.  The report contains a number of 
useful proposals on preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-building and the 
role of regional groupings which, if adopted, will enhance the effectiveness 
of the United Nations.  We agree that regional arrangements in many cases 
possess a potential for early warning of. 
A/47/PV.28 
39 
(Mr. Ssemogerere.  Uganda) 
monitoring  and  defusing  conflict  situations,  a potential  that  should  be 
realized.  The United  Nations  and  the  international  community  should  help  them 
to improve  that  capability. 
The Organization  of African Unity,  for example,  is  in the process  of 
trying to establish  a mechanism  for  conflict-prevention,  conflict  management 
and conflict-resolution.  Such  a mechanism  would  strengthen  the  OAU's 
peace-keeping  capabilities.  Any  assistance  given  in this  regard will be  an 
important  and  useful  investment  for peace  and development  in Africa. 
I wish  to emphasize  that,  as  indicated  in the  Secretary-General's  annual 
report, underdevelopment  and poverty  are prime  sources  of  conflict.  The 
United Nations,  through  its macroeconomic  policy  formulation  and 
implementation,  has played  a central  role  in forging global  consensus  on 
development  issues.  As envisaged  by  the United Nations  Charter,  the 
Organization must  continue  fulfilling  this  function,  especially  now, when many 
developing  countries  are  restructuring  with  a view  to  integrating  their 
nations into  the global  economy.  We  should  therefore  endeavour  to  integrate 
our agenda  for peace with our  agenda  for development.  By strengthening  the 
Organization's  peacemaking  and peace-keeping  capabilities, we  should  not, by 
default or neglect,  reduce  the United Nations  focus on economic  and  social 
issues.  Clearly,  development  and peace  are  so  intimately  related  that  they 
must be  tackled  under  a common  agenda. 
We  stand  at  a historic  watershed,  especially  given  the  fact  that  the 
global transition  period  we  are  entering  is marked  by  contradictory  trends. 
At this  crossroads, however,  a unique opportunity  exists  for  the United 
Nations to  achieve  the objectives  envisaged  in the Charter.  Whether  or  not 
A/47/PV.28 
40 
(Mr. Ssemogerere. Uganda) 
the United Nations can help create a better world for the twenty-first 
century, in which the interests of us all are adequately catered for, depends 
on the structures we create now.  History will judge us harshly if we fail to 
construct a firm foundation for the edifice of the future.  That is our 
challenge. 
A/47/PV.28 
41 
AGENDA  ITEM  146 
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE  TO PAKISTAN:  DRAFT RESOLUTION  (A/47/L.2) 
The PRESIDENT:  In connection with  this  item, the General  Assembly 
has before  it a draft  resolution  issued  as document A/47/L.2.  I call on  the 
representative  of Turkey  to  introduce  the draft  resolution. 
Mr.  AKSIN  (Turkey):  Last month, a natural disaster  of  enormous 
proportions  struck  Pakistan.  The  torrential  rainfall  in the northern areas of 
Pakistan caused  extensive  flooding,  leading  to many  deaths  and much  material 
damage.  As a  result of  this catastrophe, more  than  1,000  people  lost their 
lives and tens of  thousands  of homes were destroyed.  In addition to 
widespread damage  to bridges, roads, railroads, and telecommunication  lines, 
some six million people  have been  rendered homeless. 
Although  the Government  of Pakistan has  taken urgent measures  to 
alleviate the  suffering  of  the victims, it is clear  that, given the magnitude 
of the calamity, national  efforts will  not  suffice.  There  is a pressing  need 
for international  assistance by Governments  and other organizations. 
It is in  response  to  this need  that  I have  the honour  to  introduce, on 
behalf of the  63  sponsoring  countries, the draft  resolution  entitled 
"Emergency  assistance  to Pakistan" contained  in document A/47/L.2.  The 
following countries  have  decided  to  join the  sponsors  listed  in the document: 
the Bahamas, Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam, Cyprus, El  Salvador, Ethiopia, 
Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Jordan, Kuwait, the Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya, 
Madagascar, Mali,  the Russian  Federation, the  Sudan, Uganda, the United  Arab 
Emirates and Yemen. 
The draft  resolution  is made up of  four preambular  and  five  operative 
paragraphs.  It calls  for  the Secretary-General,  in cooperation with  the 
A/47/PV.28 
42 
(Mr. Aksin.  Turkey) 
relevant  organs  and organizations  of  the United Nations  system  and  in close 
collaboration with  the Government  authorities,  to  assist  in the  rehabilitation 
efforts of  the Government  of Pakistan.  It also  requests  all  States  and 
international  organizations  and other  intergovernmental  agencies  to extend 
emergency  support  to Pakistan  to alleviate  the economic  and  financial  burden 
of  the people  of  Pakistan. 
The  draft  resolution  expresses  in a tangible way our deep  sympathy  for 
the victims  in their hour  of  suffering.  At  the  same  time,  it demonstrates our 
readiness  to contribute  morally  and materially  towards  the  rehabilitation of 
the millions  whose  lives have been  so cruelly  disrupted. 
I am confident  that,  true to the principle  of  international  solidarity 
with  the victims  of disasters, the General  Assembly  will  rally  to the 
assistance  of  the Government  and  the people  of Pakistan  and  adopt  the draft 
resolution by  consensus. 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly  will  now  take  a decision  on draft 
resolution  A/47/L.2. 
May  I take  it that  the Assembly  decides  to adopt  draft  resolution 
A/47/L.2? 
Draft  resolution  A/47/L.2 was  adopted  (resolution  47/2). 
The  PRESIDENT:  I shall  now call  on  those  representatives  who wish 
to explain  their position  on  the  resolution  just  adopted.  I should  like to 
remind delegations  that,  in accordance with General  Assembly  decision 34/401, 
explanations  of vote  are  limited  to  10 minutes  and  should  be made  by 
delegations  from  their  seats. 
A/47/PV.28 
43 
Mr.  SRREENIVASAN  (India):  My delegation  joined  the  consensus  in 
support of draft  resolution  A/47/L.2,  entitled  "Emergency  assistance  to 
Pakistan". 
India was  deeply moved  by  the extensive  damage  and  devastation  caused  in 
Pakistan by  the unprecedented  floods  in that  country.  Certain parts of  India 
were also  severely  affected  by  the  rain and  floods.  India was  one of  the 
first countries  to  rush emergency  assistance  to Pakistan  as  soon  as the extent 
of the damage  came  to be  known. 
Several  other  countries  have  also extended  assistance,  and  it  is only 
appropriate  that  the General  Assembly  should  commend  these  efforts  and  request 
others to extend  support  to Pakistan  to alleviate  the  suffering  of  the 
afflicted people. 
My delegation  is disappointed  that  Pakistan has  chosen  to make  an 
unwarranted  reference  to  the  so-called  Azad Jammu  and Kashmir  in its 
explanatory memorandum  contained  in the  annex  to document A/47/244.  India's 
position on  this matter  is well  known  and  reguires  no  reiteration.  I should 
only like  to  state  that  our  support  of  the  resolution  on emergency  assistance 
to Pakistan  is without  prejudice  to our position  on Jammu  and  Kashmir. 
Mr. MARKER  (Pakistan):  On behalf  of my  delegation,  I should  like to 
take this opportunity  to express  to you, Mr. President,  and  to the  Assembly 
our profound  thanks  for  the  consideration  and  adoption by consensus  of  the 
draft resolution  on emergency  assistance  to Pakistan.  I should  further  like 
to convey my  delegation's  deep  appreciation  to the members  of  the  General 
Committee  for  their  valuable  support  and  understanding  shown  in  recommending 
the inscription  of  a new  agenda  item  as well  as  its consideration  directly  in 
the plenary  Assembly. 
A/47/PV.28 
44 
(Mr. Marker. Pakistan) 
I wish to convey my delegation's special thanks to my friend, brother and 
colleague. Ambassador Mustafa Aksin, Permanent Representative of Turkey, for 
introducing the draft resolution, and also to all the delegations which 
sponsored it and those delegations which supported it. 
I especially wish to convey my delegation's deep appreciation and 
gratitude to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the 
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs for the measures they have 
already taken for coordinating relief measures as appropriate with the 
authorities in Pakistan. 
With reference to the observations made by the representative of India, I 
would reiterate Pakistan's well-known position that the issue of Jammu and 
Kashmir remains on the agenda of the Security Council awaiting a peaceful 
solution. 
The adoption of draft resolution A/47/L.2 is a clear manifestation of the 
international community's support for the people and the Government of 
Pakistan.  It is also a substantive demonstration of the spirit of solidarity 
and cooperation which permeates the membership of the United Nations whenever 
and wherever there are natural disasters of great magnitude.  We value this 
timely support and are convinced that it will contribute materially towards 
mitigating the devastating consequences of the unprecedented floods which have 
caused so much havoc in my country. 
The PRESIDENT:  May I take it that it is the wish of the General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 146? 
It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m. 
