UNITED'
NATIONS
General Assembly
A
PROVISIONAL
A/47lPV.43
4 November 1992
ENGLISH
Forty-seventh session
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 43rd MEETING
Held at Headquarters, New York,
on Wednesday, 21 October 1992, at 10 a.m.
President:
Mr. MAYORGA CORTES
{Vice-President)
(Nicaragua)
Earthquake in Colombia
Notification by the Secretary-General under article 12, paragraph 2,
of the Charter of the United Nations: Note by the
Secretary-General [7]
Report of the International Court of Justice [13]
(a) Report of the Court
(b) Report of the Secretary-General
Cooperation between the United Nations and the Asian-African Legal
Consultative Committee [20]
(a) Report of the Secretary-General
(b) Draft resolution
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages. The final text will
be printed in the Offic~al Records of the General Assembly.
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They should
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within
one week,
Services,
the record.
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference
room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of
92-61538
2210V (E)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
2
In the absence of the President, Mr. Mayorga Cortes (Nicaragua),
Vice-President.
took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
EARTHQUAKE IN COLOMBIA
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): May I, on behalf of
all the members of the Assembly, extend our deepest sympathy to the Government
and to the people of Colombia for the tragic loss of life and extensive
material damage that have resulted from the earthquake that recently struck
' I '
Colombia.
•
May I also express the hope that the international community will show
its solidarity and respond promptly and generously to any request for help.
Miss CASTANO (Colombia) (interpretation from Spanish): On behalf of
the Government and the people of Colombia,
I wish to express our sincere
thanks to you, Sir, for you:" words of solidarity in respect of the recent
natural disaster that has s:ruck my country.
I should like,
through you,
to
thank all those delegations that, during the past days, have expressed words
of encouragement and sympathy to us. All this has deepened our confidence in
international solidarity. Lastly, what you have just said, Sir, contributes
to and further strengthens the links of friendship that have always existed
between Nicaragua and Colombia.
AGENDA ITEM 7
NOTIFICATION BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL UNDER ARTICLE 12, PARAGRAPH 2, OF THE
CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS:
NO:r~ BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/471436)
The PRESIDENT (ino:erpretation from Spanish):
In connection with
this item,
the General Assenbly has before it a note by the Secretary-General
issued as document A/47/436.
May I
take it that the General Assembly takes note of that document?
It was so decided.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
3",,5
%b~ PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): May I take it that it
is the wish of the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 71
It was so decided.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library·A/47/PV.43
6
AGENDA ITEM 13
REPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE
(a)
(b)
REPORT OF THE COURT (Al47/4)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/47/444)
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): The Assembly will now
turn to the report of the International Court of Justice (A/47/4) covering the
periud 1 August 1991 to 31 July 1992.
In this connection the Assembly has
before it the report of the Secretary-General (A/47/444) on the
Secretary-Generalis Trust Fund to Assist States in the Settlement of Disputes
through the International Court of Justice.
May I
take it that the General Assembly takes notes of the report of the
International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish):
~ay I als~ take it
that the Gensral Assembly takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on
the Secretary-General's Trust Fund to Assist States in the Settlement of
Disputes through the International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish)~
! now call on
Sir Robart Yewdall Jennings, President of the International Court of Justice.
Sir Hobert JENNINGS (President of the International Court of
Justice):
I anl most grateful for this opportunity once again to address the
General Assembly on the occasion of the Assembly's co~sideration of the annual
report of the International Court of Justice.
I do not intend to repeat
anything that is already before the Assembly in the pages of the printed
report, but I should like to make some very brief remarks by way of comment on
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(~ HObert Jennings. President,
International Court of Justice)
what has been happening at The Hague during the last year, one of the first
years of the United Nations Decade of International Law.
I must begin by welcominq the continuing enlargement of the compulsory
jurisdiction of the Court, with significant additions to the number of
optional clause declarations and further withdrawals of reservations to the
jurisdictional clauses of treaties. Movement is steady, but it is progress
and not the persistent decline which marked an earlier period of the Court's
existence.
The establishment in 1989 by the Secretary-General of a Trust Fund to
Assist States in the Settlement of Disputes through the International Court of
Justice -
the Secretary-General's rep~rt on this is in front of us now -
to
which more than 30 States have contributed over half a million dollars, has
already become an important device for facilitating access to the Court.
Thus, in two cases already developing States have benefited from the Trust
Fund.
The growth in the jurisdictional reach of the Court continues to be
matched by the growth in its case load. Last year I was able to report to the
Assembly that we had a longer ease list than at any previous stage in the
history of the world Court. Since then we have been getting on with the task
of disposing of those outstanding cases and learning much from the - for us
unusual - experience of dealing with several of them at the same time.
I
should,
I
think, add one important item to the printed report, an item
concerning the Court's contentious jurisdiction; for on 11 September, after
the report had been compiled, a Chamber gave Judgment in the "Land, Island and
Maritima Frontier Dispute" between El Salvador and Honduras, Nicaragua
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library~ -~~----------------
A/47/PV.43
8
(Sir Robert Jennings, President,
International Court of Justice)
intervening. This, in the extent and variety of the questions to be resolved,
was the largest case ever submitted to The Hague. The sheer extent of the
judicial effort required to bring this dangerous dispute, with its long
history and vast array of documentation and argument, finally to Judgment iu
an accomplishment with which the Court has a right to feel particular
satisfaction.
In the course of dealing with the new volume and variety of work some
lessons have been learned about the different ways in which the Court - and,
indeed,
the procedures of the Court - can usefully assist Governments in the
solution of their problems. Let me tell the Assembly about this under four
headinqs.
First,
I should like to mention settlements out of court.
In dom~w"ic
courts it is quite usual for settlements to be made out of court, ordinarily
at some stage before the case comes on for hearing.
In such cases the
institution of proceedings is not necessarily a waste of time. On the
contrary, it may well supply the impulse to try to resolve the dispute by a
negotiated settlement.
Some similar experience is not unknown in the
International Court of Justice. There are, of course, situations in which a
case may be withdrawn in response to a change in the relevant political
relationships.
In such instances the dispute, if it has been resolved, is
resolved for reasons that may be independent of the pendency of the case. But
there are other situations in which it is,
I
think, possible to see that the
very pendency of the proceedings and the proceedings already undertaken
operated as a factor to encourage or promote the ultimate settlement.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
9-10
(Sir Ropert Jennipgs, President 6
International Court of Justice)
Let me give one very recent example. Recently a settlement was achieved
by Finland and Denmark in a case between them concerning rights of passage
through the Great Belt. The settlement was reached within just days, almost
hours, of the moment set for the commencement of the oral proceedings.
In an
earlier phase of the matter the Court had itself encouraged the parties to try
to negotiate a settlement. They duly so proceeded to negotiate, but failed to
agree at that stage, so the litigation continued its course. Extensive
written pleadings were submitted on the substantive issues o~ fact and law.
However,
the parties then resumed discussions, and this time succeeded at the
very last moment in reaching a settlement.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.43
11
(Sir Hobart Jennings. Presid~,
International Court of Justice)
It is a reasonable inference that their participation in the Court's
proceedings ~elating to the production and exchange of written pleadings,
together with the imminence of trial of the action if negotiations did not
succeed, helped in some way to generate a momentum which eventually brought
the negotiations to a successful head.
There is another, still pending, case where the Court encouraged the
trying of negotiations and accordingly allowed a period for negotiations
before fixing time-limits for written proceedings in the cas~. The parties in
that case have now together asked the Court for an extension of the time
allowed for negotiation.
I mention these recent experiences to show how the Court procedures can
sometimes form part of, and be a vector in, diplomatic negotiations. The two
processes are of course juridically distinct, but in practice they may be
employed complementarily and not necessarily on a basis of mutual
exclusivity.
It is of course the constant jurisprUdence of the Court that
jUdicial settlement is only an alternative to friendly settlement between the
parties themselves. Whenever the Court or its procedures can help in this
way,
the Court is,
in an important sense, still productively at work.
Secondly,
I want to talk about what might be called items of
international administrative law.
I recently had the privilege of listening to a Judge of the Court of
Justice of the European Communities at Luxembourg talking about his work there
as a Judge. Many of the problems were of c()urse familiar to any Judge of the
International Court of Justice.
In some waJ(s,
indeed,
the experience of the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
12
(Sir Robert Jennings, President,
International Court of Justice)
Hague Court is richer in its variety. But I was struck by one difference
between the kind of case that was most common at Luxembourg ,and rather less so
before the Hague Court.
The Luxembourg Court is frequently called upon to adjudge questions of
the juridical boundaries between different organs of the European Communities,
questions of whether an organ has or has not acted within the competence
conferred upon it by the constituent treaties. These are of course typical
questions of administrative law within any more or less deve10ped community.
It is therefore not at all surprising that such cases are a staple diet of the
Court of Justice of the European Communities.
By contrast, similar issues arise relatively rarely before the Hague
Court, or indeed in international law generally. There was, of course,
the
famous Expenses case,
the case concerning the Admission of a State to
membership of the United NatiOnS and the case over the Effect of awards of
compensation made by the United Nations Administratiye TribUnal -
these in the
early days of the present Court. No doubt the relative .paucity of such cases
before the Court is accounted for to some extent by the difference in the
levels of institutional development as between a national or a regional
community, on the one hand, and the general international community, on the
other.
As the degl~ee of cohesiveness of the international community intensifies,
or as its existing apparatus accelerates in its functioning, more issues as to
the jurisdictional boundaries between international organs may well fall for
jUdicial determination. Now, of course, such cases were touched upon in the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
13
(Sir Robert Jennings, President,
International Court of Justice)
preliminary phase of the cases of Libya against the United Kingdom and ~
against the United States of America arising out of the aerial incident at
Lockerbie.
Such issues could raise the classic problems of constitutional and
administrat.ive law, and in the case of the United Nations these issues can be
both fundamental and of the greatest practical importance:
the legal
relationship between political and legal apprI9c,iation, between the
Security Council and the Court, and when and to what extent the Court might or
should have powers of jUdicial review of administrative action or of political
decision.
In fact,
to put it shortly, what precisely is meant when the
Charter describes the Court as the principal judicial organ of the
U"'ited Nations.
It would not be right for me to attempt in any way to argue these
questions or to E 0=empt the answers that might Ultimately be given.
I only
wanted to draw attention to the problem and to say that these questions are
not simple, but complex questions of basic importance for the legal character
of the United Nations, and it is,
I
think, a gratifying sign of the maturity
of the system that they should be expected to be dealt with,
in some measure
at any rate, by the International Court of Justice, one way or the other.
Thirdly,
I should like to mention the question of advisory opinions.
This past year has, as I have already mentioned, been a busy one for the
Court. The printed report mentions 14 principal items concerning current
cases which were dealt with in one way or another by the Court or a Chamber
during this period. These items include three Judgements and three Orders
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library~/4?/PV.43
U
(Sir Robert JBnnings, President,
International Court of Justice)
embodying decisions of the kind that a~e made only after full oral
proceedings. They do not, however,
include any advisory opinions or requests
for advisory opinions.
Thinking of the proper sphere of advisory opinions of the Court,
I want
to recall again the wise words of the Secretary-General's report to the
General Assembly last 7ear~ in which he said that there are questions which
seem entirely political but which have a clearly legal component ane which
could usefully be referred to the Court for an advisory opinion if for any
reason the parties fail to refer the matter to the Court.
Quite how the competence to move for an advisory opinion might or might
not be extended - for instance,
the proposal that the Secretary-General
himself should in one way or another have such a competence - is obviously an
important matter but is not,
I would think, anything it is my business as
President of the Court to enter into debate about. But I do wish to leave
with the General Assembly my impression that there are many more legal
questions,
including legal components of major political problems,
that could
usefully be made the subject of requests for advisory opinions. As pointed
out in the statement read on my behalf at the Rio Conference in June,
the
court is t~ily equipped to assist in the development of a new law of
environmental protection, and one of th~ ways of doing that would of course be
by means of advisory opinions.
Finally,
I want to say just one word of direct relevance,
I
think,
to
this Decad~ of Interna~ional Law. The Judges of the Court, as the Assembly
well knows, are from many different parts of the world,
from different forms
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471~v•.43
15
(Sir Hobert JenPings« President,
l~nationalCourtof Justice)
of civilizatlon~1 from different cultures, and~ not least, from very different
legal systems.
The layman' s question about the Court is always the same:
how do you
manage to have a coherent and sensible and use~~l deliberation in those
circumstances?
Indeed, how do you manage to deg:ide anything?
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
16
(Sir Robert Jenningsc President,
International Court of Justice)
Th9 ~Bwer is that, in practice, this problem hardly arises. There is
disagre6ment and argument, of course, as indeed there should be. But it is
disagreement with a common understanding of the legal basis of the argument,
and a common understanding of the material and the autho~ities to be used.
This is because juridically we all speak one common language called public
international law.
It is indeed a common legal language and a universal
system. Our experience in the world Court, and that of generations of our
predecessors, proves that point. Apart from the quality of humanity itself,
which we all share,
international law is a language which in our experience
transcends different tongues, cultures, races and religions. And it is
because of this that,
impressions to the contrary notwithstanding, it is
simply not the case that either the size or the composition of the Court makes
for delay. As facts show,
the Court can move as quickly as is required in the
circumstances of a particular case.
1 wanted to mention this peculiar quality of international law as a
common and universal system because it is one of those tremendously
significant and important facts which are commonly not even noticed in the
world generally. And 1 know that there is no more appropriate forum than the
General Assembly in which to emphasize this quality and this importance Of our
system of international law, for there is no other body that gathers up more
comprehensively or more authoritatively our particular differences as well as
our common humanity. Not surprisingly,
therefore, it is the General Assembly
that has dedicated a Decade to the promotion and service of international
law. Let us therefore tell more people about its great quality of being a
common legal language for all of us, and the common property of us all.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library-~-------~_-----
A/471~V.43
17
Mr. CASTANEDA CORNEJO (El Salvador) (interpretation from Spanish):
Before turning to the item before us I wish to express to the people and the
Government of Colombia through their delegation, our solidarity and sympathy
with respect to the tragic consequences of the earthquake that recently struck
that country.
Turning to agenda item 13, "Report of the International Court of
Justice",
I have the honour to speak on behalf of Honduras and El Salvador at
a time when the United Nations system is being transformed and revitalized
with a view to improving its capacity and efficiency in the quest for
international peace and security.
At the forty-sixth session the Assembly heard
Sir Robert Yewdall Jennings, President of the International Court of Justice,
speak of the present and the future of that body in an international scenario
that is changing at a dizzying pace. He said that in the past the Court·s
role and function had been seen as being separate from those of the rest of
the United Nations system, but that this view had been overtaken by events;
changes in the system and the initiative on preventive diplomacy are creating
a political context in which the International Court of Justice can completely
fulfil its mandate.
We know that the International Court of Justice is the principal judicial
organ of the United Natiuns.
It is universal in nature, and its contribution
to the shaping of more highly developed international law - on the basis of
the jurisprudence resulting from its Judgments and its other contributions on
matters more political than legal, when it is called upon to offer a
non-binding advisory opinion on the law applicable to the legal aspects of a
given dispute - should be recognized. As the President of the Court said,
this process can help preventive diplomacy.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
18
(Mr. Castaneda Cornejo,
El Salvador)
Tb~ Ceurt has not been sufficiently used in contentious cases and
advisolry proceedings. Yet its activities have increased, and the new climate
of i~ternationa1 relations and the initiatives to improve and strengthen the
machinery of multilateral security lead us to foresee a further increase in
recourse to the World Court. This includes recourse on matters with a large
political component and those involving,
inter alia,
the environment, human
rights and the law of the sea, all of which come within the jurisdiction of
the Court. As we see it, that trend will strengthen confidence in the
judicial body and make the application of international law more effective.
It will codify the ideal of a universal legal system the acceptance of which
and compliance with whose decisions is mandatory, which is necessary for the
true democratization of international relations and in particular for
defending the interests of developing countries.
It seems to us that if the United Nations is now in a process of change
geared towards a global approach to international problems the increased
responsibilities will require greater coherence and greater coordination
between the components of the United Nations system,
including, of course,
the
International Court of Justice,
in order to make the institutions of
international relations responsive to the expectations of peoples and the
needs and requests of Governments, which remain the basic components of the
Organization. Therefore, as the action of the Court is determined by the
sovereign decisions of States, it is to be recommended that, as we read in
chapter IV of the report, entitled "The role of the Court":
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
19-20
(Mr. Castaneda~~,
El Salvador)
"'All ••• States should accept the general jurisdiction of the
International Court under Article 36 of its Statute, without any
reservation, before the end of the United Nations Decade of International
Law in the year 2000.· ..
(ALi7/4, para. 151)
One argument in favour of that recommendation is that all Member States
are committed to the implementation of the provisions of the Charter and thus,
automatically, of the Statute of the International Court of Justice, an
essential factor in the peaceful settlement of disputes through judicial
resolution by the Court, which we support unreservedly. This means providing
financial assistance to countries - mainly developing countries - which for
economic reasons are unable to have recourse to the Court.
In that
connection, we believe that wealthier States should contribute to and
strengthen the Trust Fund establishea to assist countries unable to meet th~
cost of submitting a dispute to the Court,
in line with the recommendation
contained in this year's report of the International Court of Justice.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- -.. - - - - - -
Al47/PV••3
21
(Mr. CastaPeda Cornejo,
El Salvador)
In general terms, we believe that the International Court of Justice is
playing a role - and one that could be enlarged - in the peaceful settlement
of disputes through legal means, acting as a complement to the peace-keeping
efforts of other United Nations organs. We also share the opinion that
greater use of the Court,
including requests for an advisory opinion by organs
that are mand~ted to do so, would help to generate greater confidence and
would strengthen the means and mechanisms for attaining peace,
in terms both
of prevelAtive diplomacy and of maintaining peace as set forth in the
Secreti'I,ry-General's report "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277) 8l1d in the report
of the International Court of Justice.
Chapter III of the report of the International Court of Justice,
concerning its judicial work, refers to its efforts in cases submitted by
Central American States to the Court:
"Military and Paramilitary Activities
in and against Nicaragua (Nicaragua v. United States of America); "Border and
Transborder Armed Actions (Nicaragua v, Honduras)"; and "Land, Island and
Maritime Frontier Dispute (El Salvador/Honduras: Nicaragua intervening)".
In
the first two cases,
the Republic of Nicaragua,
in the exercise of its
sovereign authority, decided to drop these cases - a decision that me~lts our
app~oval -
thus contributing to the elimination of an element of tension in
the subregion and promoting a process of strengthening fraternal relations of
cooperation among the Central American nations.
In connection with the dispute between El Salvador and Honduras, since
the report contains no information on the ruling handed down by the Court, we
believe that it is appropr~ute to emphasize its importance and its effects on
the Central American subrelion. As this forum is aware,
the final
jUdgment
was handed down on 11 September, bringing to a close a proceeding submitted to
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.~3
22
(Mr. Castaneda Corn3jo,
Cl Salvador)
the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice by the parties directly
concerned in accordance with the terms of the general peace Treaty signed by
the two countries in 1980.
We should like first of all to point out that resorting to a jUdicial
proceeding with confidence in the highest international tribunal and
expressing a commitment to comply with its ruling should be an example tu the
subregion as a whole and,
in particular# very encouraging to the States of the
region since, at this ~tage, all of us are committed to a process of
strengthening democracy. This democracy should be founded on the e~lstence of
and compliance with the law as the supreme organ governing co-existence
between its respective social bodies -
in short, on the establishment and
flourishing of a state of law.
If we try to achieve ~~is internally and the Governments of the area are
I
committed to making this a reality,
in order to be consistent we also need to
cover the international dimension by complying with existing commitments in
this sphere. Of course, in addition to complying in good faith with the terms
of international agreements - be they multilateral or bilateral -
there should
also be compliance with tho results of the jurisdictional function contained
in those agreements. This gives full validity to the principle that ensuring
legitimacy and respect for the State should be based on compliance with legal
norms, be they domestic or international.
To be more specific, a~ regards the above-mentioned ruling resolving an
age-old situation that was a hotbed of tension between Honduras and
El Salvador -
the non-delimitation of certain parts of the land border and a
sovereignty dispute over curtain islands and the legal status of the Gulf of
Fonseca in an effort to achieve full harmony in relations among States that
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
23
(Mr. Castaneda CQrnejQ,
El SalvadQr)
are nQt Qnly neighbQuring but fraternal -
the situatiQn was hindering the
achievement Qf integratiQn in Central America. This integratiQn is taking a
new fQrm tQday, because we see it as a way Qf promoting the economic and
social development of the region.
The Court's rUling has been an extremely important step, complementary to
the process of achieving stability and peace in the region. This means that
the future of Central America is now much more promising, especially since the
commitment of the Presidents of Honduras and El Salvador to comply with the
jUdgment.
In this connection,
in a joint communique of 29 Septemeber, signed
in San Salvador,
they stated:
"On the basis of the traditional relations ot friendship and
cooperation between El Salvador and HQnduras, and inspired by the
purposes of the Charters of the United Nations and of the Organization of
American States and by the fundamental principles of international law,
particularly that which refers to the peaceful settlement of disputes,
both Heads of State reiterate their decision to comply with the judgment
issued on 11 September 1992 by the International Court of Justice in
connection with the land,
island and maritime frontier dispute between
their respective countries."
They also reaffirmed:
"the resolve of their Government to respect and protect the fundamental
rights and freedoms 0; nationals residing in the border zones, and
committed themselves to making every possible effort to make the work of
the binational El Sal··~dor/Honduras Commission more flexible, a
Commission that was 3~lemn1y established on that occasion on the basis of
- - -
~
._.L_ ____"
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
24-25
(Mr. Castaneda Cornejo,
El Salya~)
the recognition of the fact that imp10mentinq this rulinq qenerates
special situations requirinq immediate attention for the prompt and
effective 6olution of problems.
"They expressed their convict.ion that the settlement of this dispute
offers favourable pros~ects for the broadeninq and strenqtheninq of the
bilateral links between them and for the reconstruction of the Central
American region for the benefit of its peoples. Thie will contr.ibute to
maintaininq peace 821d reqional stability",
The Governments of Honduras and El Salvador are qrateful for the many
demonstrations of support received from friendly countries, ¥hich are
contained in the statements of many Heads of State, ministers, and
representatives at the higLest level at this forty-seventh session of tb~
General Assembly of the U~~ted Nations. The way in which our two countries
have resolved a traditiona', conflict in a peaceful and civilized way should
serve as a model to all.
In conclusion, we wish to express our appreciation to the International
Court of Justice for its efforts in resolvinq Central American problems, and
we hope that the faith and confidence placed by our countries in that hiqhest
Court will serve as an encouragement to other States to accept the bindinq
I
jurisdiction of the Court in accordance with the principles and objectives of
the Charter and for the benefit of their peoples.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
26
Mr. PETROV (Bulgaria): Allow me, first of all,
to express our
deepest sympathy for and solidarity with the Government and the people of
Colombia with respect to the tragic earthquake that has hit that country.
At the outset,
I should like to express the appreciation and gratitude of
the Bulgarian delegation to Sir Hobart Jennings, President of the
International Court of Justice, for his excellent introduction of the Court's
report and for the very interesting thoughts and ideas he shared with u.s on
its ongoing activities and its future role in the United Nations system.
I cannot but agree with the opinion expressed by the Secretary-General in
his remarkable report "An Agenda for Peace" that
"The docket of the International Court of Justice has grown fuller
but it remains an under-used resource for the peaceful adjudication of
disputes".
(A/471277, para. 38)
Indeed, as we can see from chapter III - "Judicial Work of the Court" - of the
report (A/47/4), during the period under review the full Court had before it
13 cases, and one case was heard by a Chamber.
Compared with the Court's activity during the last decade,
this
represents a considerable increase. There is every reason to expect this
trend to continue to develop, because of the growing understanding among
Governments of the role that the International Court of Justice can play in
their relations with one another. This trend has manifested itself through
the growing ncmher of declarations of acceptance of the general jurisdiction
of the Court under paragraph 2 of article 36 of its Statute.
According to paragraph 16 of the report (A/47/4), as of 1 August 1992
56 States had made such declarations.
It is my pleasure to inform you that
Bulgaria was one of the three States that made the optional declaration during
the period under consideration. However,
the number of States that have
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
27
(Mr. PetrQv, Bulgaria)
accepted the general jurisdiction of ~he International Court Qf Justice shQuld
nQt be regarded as satisfactQry by any standard, because they represent less
than Qne third Qf all Parties to the Statute. TherefQre, we suppQrt the
recommendation of the Secretary-General that all Member States should accept
the general jurisdiction of the International Court before the end of the
United Nations Decade of InternatiQnal Law, in the year 1999.
AnQther reason for the expec~ed increase in the Court's business during
the years to come is the continuing tendency to withdraw reservations against
jurisdictiQnal clauses in multilateral treaties. My cQuntry took another
decisive step in this directiQn by withdrawing, on 24 June this year, its
reservations tQ jurisdictional clauses in cine important United Nations
CQnventiQns, mQst of which are in the field Qf the international protection of
human rights.
As the Secretary-General put it in his report "An Agenda for Peace", we
have entered a time of glob~l transitiQn whQse beginning war marked by the end
of the CQld war.
FQr Qur O~ganizatiQn it is a time Qf regained oppQrtunities
and alsQ a time of change. As members are aware, that repQrt Qf the
Secretary-General contains prQpQsals fQr a mQre active role tQ be played by
the principal Qrgans Qf the United Nations, as well as by Member States and
regiQnal QrganizatiQns,
in ~Qur main areas:
preventive diplQmacy,
peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building.
While the Security CQuncil is vested with the primary respQnsibility for
maintaining internatiQnal peace and security, each Qf the principal Qrgans Qf
the United NatiQns has a special rQle tQ play in these fQur areas.
In this
respect, we support the int:lgrated approach tQ internatiQnal security prQpQsed
by the Secretary-General in his repQrt.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
28
(Mr. PetrQv, BUlgaria)
It is primarily in the field Qf peacemakinq that the International Court
Qf Justice has much tQ cQntribute.
Judicial settlement is Qne Qf the means
fQr the peaceful settlement Qf disputes prQvided fQr in Article 33 Qf the
Charter. We share the cQnvictiQn Qf the President Qf the CQurt that he
expressed at the fQrty-sixth sessiQn Qf the General Assembly, and indeed again
at this session,
tQ the effect that the CQurt has a role tQ play in even the
mQst cQmplicated pQlitical disputes. Defusing crises Qr peacefully settling
disputes CQuld be facilitated by Qbtaining the CQurt's advisQry QpiniQn.
TherefQre, we share the QpiniQn Qf the Secretary-General that the Security
CQuncil shQuld make greater use Qf its powers under Articles 36 and 37 Qf the
Charter.
Bulgaria alsQ suppQrts the recQmmendation Qf the Secretary-General that
the General Assembly shQuld authQrize him, under Article 96 Qf the Charter to
request the CQurt to give advisQry QpiniQns Qn legal matters. We believe this
WQuld cQnsiderably strengthen the effectiveness of the Secretary-General's
wQrk in providing his gQod uffices Qr when acting as a conciliator.
In this
context, we fQund most helpful and cQnvincing the declaratiQn Qn the legal
implicatiQns Qf this prQposal made by the Legal Counsel Qf the United Nations,
Mr. Carl-August Fleischhauer, at the most reCEtnt sessiQn Qf the Charter
Committee.
The PRESIDENT (interpretatiQn from Spanish): We have heard the last
speaker in the debate Qn this item.
May I
take it that the Assembly decides to conclude this stage of its
consideration Qf agenda ite.n 131
It was SQ decided.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
'29-30
AGENDA ITEM 20
COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE ASIAN-AFRICAN LEGAL
CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE
(a)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/47/385)
(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (Al47/L.3)
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish):
In connection with
this item a draft resolution has been circulated in document A/47/L.3.
I now
call on the representative of Pakistan, who will introduce the draft
resolution in the course of his statement.
Mr. KAZI (Pakistal):
I should like at the outset to congratulate
the Secretary-General on his report, entitled "Cooperation between the United
Nations and the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee", contained in
document A/47/385, which gives a comprehensive overview of the work of the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC).
It will be recalled that the General Assembly, at its thirty-fifth
session, accorded observer status to the AALCC. At the thirty-sixth session,
the General Assembly, by its resolution 36/38 of 18 November 1981, requested
the Secretary-General to ca~ry out consultations with the Secretary-General of
the AALCC with a view to st~engthening further and widening the scope of
cooperation between the two organizations in the field of progressive
development and codification of international law and other areas of common
interest, and decided to in:lude in its agenda the item which is now under
consideration. '
1
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
31
(Mr. Raii, Pakistan)
In 1987, after iuten~ive con8ult~tions between the two s~cretaria~s, a
programme of c~operatlon w~~ drawn up which identified the following nine
specific areas:
cooperation framework; representation at meetings and
conferences; Sixth Committee matters;
law of the sea matt~rs; question of
refugees; efforts towards strengthening the role of the United Nations;
illicit traffic in narcotic drugs;
international economic cooperation for
development; and zones of peace and international cooperation.
Since then,
consultations between the two secretariats have been held regularly with a
view to exchanging information and identifying areas in which the work of the
AALCC could provide the necessary input in matters of interest to the United
Nations.
My delegation attaches great importance to the promotion and
strengthening of cooperation between the United Nations and the AALCC. We
shall welcome any initiative to enhance further the prospects of cooperation
between the two organizations. The useful role played by the AALCC on various
agenda items in the Sixth Committee -
issues regarding the law of the sea and
the work of the Preparatory Commission for the International Sea-Bed
Authority,
the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and other United
Nations bodies,
including the International Law Commission and the United
Nations Commission for International Trade Law (UNCITRAL)
- is highly
commendable. The AALCC has played a very important role and has contributed
much in the progressive development and codification of international law.
The areas of cooperation n~w cover matters in the economic and humanitarian
fields,
in addition to ~roqressive development and codification of
international law. We are hopeful that other avenues will open up for future
cooperation.
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryWf.7/PV.43
32
(Mr. Ka;j,~)
The thirty-first session of the AALCC was held at Islamabad, Pakistan,
from 25 January to 1 February 1992. The session was attended by senior
jurists,
judges, diplomats, ler 1 scholars and legal officials f~om 35 Asian
and African member States, observers from 12 non-member States and
representatives of the United Nations and other international organizations.
The experts held extensive discussions and consultations on a wide range of
issues ranging from questions of international law to economic,
trade and
humanitarian questions.
It is a matter of satisfaction to my delegation that during that session
the Consultative Committee adopted nine resolutions on topic~ such as the work
of the International Law Commission,
the status and treatment of refugees,
the
law of international rivers,
law of the sea matters,
the deportation of
Palestinians in violation of international law, partiCUlarly the 1949 Geneva
Convention,
the responsibility and accountability of former colonial Powers,
environmental issues, UNCITRAL matters and the Decade of International Law.
I now have the honour to introduce, on behalf of the following sponsors,
draft reso1l.\tion A/47/L.3, on "Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee", under agenda item 20: Australia,
China, Cyprus, Egypt, India, Indonesia,
the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq,
Japan, Kenya, Mauritius, Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria,
Pakistan,
the Philippines, Sri Lanka,
the Syrian Arab Republic and the United
Republic of Tanzania.
This year's draft resolution is similar to the one adopted at the
forty-fifth session of the General Assembly, but it has been updated.
In
paragraph 2 the draftresol~tion notes with satiSfaction the continuing
efforts of the Asian-Africa~ Legal Consultative Committee towards
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.. 43
33-35
(Hr. Kazi, Pakistan)
streng~ening the role of the United Nations and its various organs,
including
the International Court of Justice.. The resolution notes with appreciation
the decision of the Consultative Committee to participate actively in the
programmes of the United Nations Decade of International Law.
It requests the
Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session
a report on cooperation between the United Nations and the Consultative
Committee. Finally, it decides to include in the provisional agenda of its
forty-ninth session the item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Asian-African Lt.>qal Consultative Committee".
It is our sincere hope that the General Assembly will adopt draft
resolution Al47/L.3 without a vote.
Mr. ZARIF (Islamic Republic of Iran): Allow me to begin by joining
the previous speakers .~~ expressing our sincere sympathy to the Government and
the people of Colombia in respect of the earthquake that struck their
country.
I should also like to express my appreciation to the
Secretary-General for his report on "Cooperation Betwec4 the United Nations
and the Asian African Legal Consultative Committee",
in document Al47/385.
Upholding justice and respect for the principles of international law are
among the essential elements of a peaceful world, as envisaged by the founders
of the United Nations.
In order to realize these lofty objectives,
the
Charter of the United Nations has assigned the General Assembly a special role
in promoting international cooperation and encouraging the progressive
development of international law and its codification. As a result, over the
past 47 years, dozens of C04ventions and other international instruments
regulating various aspects of relations among States have been developed under
the auspices of the United 1ation~.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
36
(Mr. Zarif, Islamic
Republic of Iran)
We in Asia and Africa, eager to play an active role in promoting the rule
of law in inter-State relations and to participate in the codificat~on process
of international law and its progressive development, have established the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC), which is a unique
organization. Since its inception,
the AALCC has undertaken a number of
studies in the field of incernational legal matters of common concern to the
two continents. Moreover, it has functioned ~s an important forum for the
exchange of views and informati~n among its member States.
It has played a
significant role in exploring and harmonizing the needs, views and positions
of African and Asian countries concerning various aspects of the lawmaking
process at the international level.
Indeed, a common objective, namely, striving for progressive development
of international law and its codification,
links the two organizations.
It
was this common aim that led to the commencement of cooperation between the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee and the United Nations immediately
after the foundation of tho AALCC in 1956 - cooperation which continues to
this day and has proved to be fruitful and constructive.
For instance,
the
AALCC has undertaken a systematic and consistent examination of items on the
agenda of the Sixth Committee, as well as on that of the International Law
Commission,
from Asian and African perspectives.
Its views and
recommendations have provel useful to the representatives of the members of
,
the Consultative Committee and, directly or indirectly, have been reflected in
the proceedings of the lawr..aking organs of the United Nations.
The cooperation betweln the AALCC and the United Nations has been
consolidated and has found new dimensions in recent years. The Consultative
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV,.43
37
(Hr? Zarif. Islamic
Republic Qf Iran)
CQmmittee has included in ~ts prQgramme Qf prQjects and studies a numuer Qf
impQrtant items that are QA the agenda Qf the General Assembly,
including the
law Qf the sea,
internatiQnal prQtectiQn Qf refugees,
internatiQnal eCQnQmic
cQQperatiQn and illicit traffic in narcQtic drugs. MoreQver,
the
Secretary-General of the Consultative Committee, or his representatives, have
participated in and addressed the meetings of the Sixth Committee, as well as
the Preparatory Commission Qf the Law of the Sea. Likewise, representatives
frQm the Legal Office of the United Nations have pa~ticipated in and addressed
the annual meetings of the AALCC.
Significantly, cooper~tiQn between the two QrganizatiQns is not limited
tQ the lawmaking process a:one; rather, it CQvers other fields as well.
FQr
instance,
the CQnsultative Committee has undertaken studies to facilitate the
ratificatiQn process of conventions and taken initiatives to prQmote
disseminatiQn and wider appreciation of internatiQnal law among its members.
To this end, it has organi~ed seminars and workshops in cOQperatiQn with the
United Nations CQmmission ,~ International Trade Law and other bodies.
By the proclamation,
thrQugh General Assembly resolutiQn 44/23, Qf the
period 1990 to 1999 as the United Nations Decade of InternatiQnal Law, another
avenue for cooperation betveen the two organizations has been opened.
In this
context the Consultative C~~ittee has regularly submitted its views on tne
programme of activities for the Decade and has recently presented a report on
the role that it can play in this field, a report which is currently under
consideration by the Worki~9 Group concerned.
It has also carried out
specific studies devoted tJ enhancing the rQle of the International Court of
Justice, which is one of the objectives of the United Nations Decade of
InternatiQnal Law.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47J,PV.43
38
(Mr. Zarif, Islamic
Republic of Iran)
The Islamic Republic of Iran has proposed a week-long congress on public
international law to be organized during the next term of the programme of
activities of the Decade of International Law, a proposal that has received
general support within the pertinent Working Group. We believe that the
Consultative Committee can and should make valuable contributions to this
projectc
In conclusion, we feel that the prospects for future cooperation between
the United Nations and the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee are
quite bright. That is why the Islamic Republic of Iran is one of the sponsors
of the draft resolution in document A/47/L.3 on cooperation between the United
Nations and the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee, and expresses its
hope that the draft resolution can be adopted by consensus.
Mr. NASIER (Indonesia): At the outset, my delegation would like to
express its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his report in document
A/47/385 on cooperation between the United Nations and the Asian-African Legal
Consultative Committee.
Over three decades ago,
in 1955,
the newly independent States met in
Bandung to view the position of Asia and Africa and their peoples in the world
of their day and the contr:bution they could make to the promotion of world
peace and cooperation.
Th~ real significance of that historic Conference lies
in its being the first major Asian-African expression of assertion of identity
and quest for equality in a more universal and democratic international
community.
It is notewort:~y that these were the aspirations that focused the
outlook and guided the attitudes of the Asian and African peoples and States
from then on,
in all inter~ational fields,
inclUding the legal one. They
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
39-40
(Mr. Nasier. Indonesia)
provided the substance of, and gave impetus to, their demands for the
application of the basic principles of international law and the restructuring
of the international political and economic orders with a view to adapting
them to the requirements of the then nascent international community. Against
this backdrop,
the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC) was
established in 1956.
Following the era of decolonization,
the membership of that body has
grown three-fold.
It was iu this overall context that the need was felt to
adopt new rules of international law and clarify the existing ones.
Article 13 of the Charter of the United Nations requires the General Assembly
to initiate studies and make recommendations for the purpose of developing and
codifying international law.
Since then constant efforts have been made by
the specialized agencies of the United Nations, ad hoc committees, special
conferences,
inter-governmental and non-governmental organizations to frame
new laws. Thus,
there was a clear need for a coordinating body to guide the
framework of legislative endeavours.
It is in this connection that the AALCC
has a vital role to play. Through its numerous publications and discussions,
the Committee has brought together the continents of Asia and Africa by
providing a forum for the exchange of views and information on legal matters
of common concern to its member States.
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 35/2 of 13 October 1980,
the AALCC was accorded permanent observer status and is active in orienting
its programmes towards streDgthening its supportive role in the work of the
United Nations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
41
(Mr. Hasier. Indonesia)
The current work programme is reflective of that.
Following a series of
consultations between the secretariats of the two organizations, a programme
of cooperation was identified in nine specific areas, namely, cooperative
framework, representation at meetings and conferences, Sixth Committee
matters,
law of the sea issues,
the question of refugees, efforts towards
strengthening the role of the United Nations, illicit trafficking in narcotic
drugs,
international economic cooperation for development, and zones of peace
and international cooperation.
As the Committee has maintaQued a close cooperative framework with the
United Nations since 1987, consultations between the two secretariats are
conducted often on matters of common interest. To this end the Committee has
undertaken important tasks with a view to strengthening the role of the United
Nations.
In addition to the promotion of the development and codification of
international law,
the areas of cooperation now encompass matters in the
economic and humanitarian fields.
It is heartening to note the degree and extent of cooperation between the
United Nations and the Committee. The AALCC has been represented at various
meetings and conferences held under the au~pices of the United Nations and its
organs and specialized agencies,
including the sessions of the General
Assembly,
the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL),
the Preparatory Commission for the International Sea-Bed Authority and for the
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, and the Preparatory Committee
for the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development.
It was clear from the beginning that when the General Assembly declared
the period 1990 to 1999 the United Nations Decade of International Law,
the
Committee, as a unique regi,nal organization, would play a vital role in the
attainment and realization ~f the objectives set out for the Decade.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.43
42
(Mr. Nasier, Indonesia)
The Committee, whose very raison d'etre is the progressive development of
international law and its codification, has set forth a long-term programme in
its paper, specifying tJ1e activities to be undertaken and identifying the
number of issues involved.
In this regard its valuable contribution has
included the promotion and acceptance of, and respect for,
the principles of
international law;
the promotion of the means and methods of peaceful
settlement of disputes between States,
including resort to and full respect
for the international settlement of disputes;
the progressive development of
international law and its codification; and encouragement of the teaching,
study, dissemination and wider appreciation of international law. We are
confident that the Committee's endeavours will enrich the contributions of the
Decade.
It should be noted that the Committee maintains official relations with
the International Law Commission. The role of the AALCC, as a consultative
organization, is essentially advisory in character. Under article 3 (a) of
its statutes the AALCC keeps under constant review the matters under
consideration by the International Law Commission. The AALCC assists member
States in the task of preparing for plenipotentiary conferences, which are
convened for the adoption of a convention on the baais of the International
Law Commission texts. Moreover,
the AALCC also makes known to the Commission
the views of its member cO~ltries in Asia and Afric~.
Its current work
programme includes subjects that are pending on the agenda of the Sixth
Committee - namely,
the draft code of crimes against the peace and security of
mankind,
international liability for injurious consequences arising out of
acts not prohibited by international law, and State responsibility.
Of particular importance to the AALCC are the close cooperative links
between itself and UNCITRAI.. The AALCC has commented upon all of the major
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
43
(Mr. Nasier. Indonesia)
texts prepared by UNCITRAL during their preparation, and those comments have
influenced the final versions of those texts.
In this regard it is pertinent
to note that the Committee was represented at the UNCITRAL Congress on Uniform
Commercial Law in the Twenty-First Century, held at New York in May 1992 in
conjunction with the twenty··fifth session of UNCITRAL.
The item "Law of the sea" has been on the agenda of the AALCC since its
twelfth session. On Indonesia's initiative the Committee's work was initially
devoted to assisting Asian-African States in the then-preparatory work on the
third United Nations Confe~ence on the Law of the Sea. Later,
the Committee's
work was or:lented towards encouraging compromise solutions to the problems
confronting the Conference. Today the AALCC is active in urging its member
States to ratify the Convention in order to make possible its early
implementation.
Since the Convention on the Law of the Sea is the only
comprehensive legal instr~~ent to govern the oceans,
the AALCC's endeavours in
this field are commendable. At the thirty-first session it urged the
International Law Commission to consider inclUding in its agenda an item
entitled "Reservation for peaceful purposes of the international sea-bed area
and the high seas for marine scientific research."
It is recognized that,
apart from the negotiations within the law of the sea Conferen~.1,
the AALCC
has been the only forum to have devoted itself to this subject extensively
over a period of many years, and the presence of ~~erts at its sessions is
ample testimony to that fact.
Of special importance to developing countries is the question of
international economic coop~ration. Although the role of the AALCC is
primarily in the field of international law, its activities have been widened
to include its broader objectives as a forum for Asian-Africa
-:ooperation.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
44
(Mr. Nasier.
Indonesia)
In this regard the Committee's continuing involvement led to the establishment
of relations with the United Nations Commission on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), UNCITRAL and the Economic and Social Council.
In order to generate
a greater flow of capital and technology to the developing countries of the
Asian-African region,
the AALCC has prepared model bilateral agreements for
the promotion and protection of investments.
In this context the AALCC has
undertaken efforts to promote a wider appreciation of these model agreements
among member countries. Another activity in this field is the compilation of
relevant data to assist in the preparation of a legal -framework for industrial
joint ventures. One of the Committee'& major achievements is its scheme for
the settlement of disputes in economic and commercial transactions.
It should
be emphasized that since regional cooperation could be most conducive to
harnessing the resources of the countries of the region in the shape of
capital,
technology,
raw materials and manpo~er, three arbitration centres
have been established in, respectively, Kuala Lumpur, Cairo and Lagos. At
present the establishment of a similar regional arbitration centre in Tehran,
intended primarily for oil arbitration, is at an advanced stage.
It is pertinent to note that the AALCC has also prepared a feasibility
study on establishing a centre for the research and development of legal
regimes concerning the activities of developing countries. Thus, it is a
source of great satisfaction to my delegation that the Committee will continue
its endeavours to promote cooperation based on an appropriate framework that
would judiciously blend economic and legal aspects on which collaboration can
be achieved as a lasting instrument of growth.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library1J47/PV.43
45
(Mr. Nasier. Indonesia)
In a global environment where flashpointsof un~est persist throughout
the world,
the refugee.issue remains an outstandinq and unresolved problem.
In this connection my delegation is encouraged by the cooperation existing
between the Office of the United Nations Bi(.h Commissioner for Refugees
(UNBCR) and the AALCC and the AALCC' s efforts in the study of refugee law and
problems.
___ ,L_
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/4'i'IIPV.43
46
(Mr. Nasier, Indonesia)
We commend the workshop that tllle AALCC organized jointly with UNHCR in
New Delhi in 1991 on international refuge and humanitarian law to enhance the
knowledge of the member and non-member States of the region of the
international instruments governing refugees and their ratification,
in
particular the 1951 Conventlon and the 1967 Protocol relating to the status of
refugees among AALCC member States.
Turning now to the issue of illicit traffic in narcotic drugs,
this item
is a priority concern of the international community. My delegation has
always voiced concern on tha dangers of drug abuse and trafficking, which have
posed a serious threat to society morally and physically, and to the lives and
futures of children, especially as a result of the inereased demand in the
developed countries. We maintain that a high-level commitment to effective
and concerted action is necessary at the international,
regionial and national
levels. My delegation appreciates the Committee' s role in thilS field.
In
this regard the Committee p.:epared a study entitled "Internatilonal control of
narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances:
efforts within tha United
Nations", which was submitted on the fortieth anniversary of t~he Organization.
There is no doubt that environmental degradation and the threat of
ecological catastrophe has increasingly taken on growing urgency.
For the
developing process of the developing countries, environmental protection
should be viewed as integral.
In this context Indonesia has always extended
its unequivocal support to the strengthening of international co-operation and
multilateral efforts for th~ protection of the environment.
Thus we attach
great importance to the wort of the Committee in the field of the environment,
which through the preparati~n of studies and meetings of experts has
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
47
(Mr. Nasier, Indonesia)
contributed towards the promotion of a harmonious balance between the
environment and development
We appreciate the recent study undertaken on
cooperation between the Asian-African countries to ban the dumping of toxic
and other waste in their countries and to cooperate in the formulation of
regional or subregional conventions banning the dumping of toxic and other
waste.
Ever since the United nations adopted the Declaration on the Indian Ocean
as a Zone of Peace, my delegation has been acutely aware of the potential
benefits its implementation would bring for the littoral and hinterland
States, as well as for the external Powers. Considering its strategic
location, encompassing major sea-lanes vital to international trade and
communications, and the dynamics flowing from a multitude of regional and
extra-regional factors,
the importance of maintaining peace and stability in
the Indian Ocean is self-evident. To this end,
the AALCC has established
close cooperation with the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian
Ocean. We appreciate the ilclusion of the item "Elements of a legal
instrument on friendly and good-neighbourly relations of States in Asia and
the Pacific" on the Committee's work programme.
Indonesia and the non-aligned
States remain firmly committed to the convening of the long pending
International Conference on the Indian Ocean as early as possible as a sine
gua non for securing the objectives of the Convention. My delegation looks
forward to further deliberations on this item, which is scheduled for the
Committee's forthcoming session,
to be held at Kampala during February 1993.
In an era of global interdependence, new vistas have been opened up for
countries to work together 1n close cooperation as we strive for peace,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
48
(Mr. Nasier.
IndQnesia)
justice and develQpment.
In this cQntext,
the role Qf the AALCC Qver the past
36 years has established apQsition of its own in the internatiQnal cQmmunity
and has riqhtly cQmmanded respect and appreciatiQn of its work.
In this
re~ard my deleqation reaffirms its steadfast support fQr the strenqthening Qf
cOQperation between the AALCC and the United NatiQns in their future
activities. Above all, it has fostered and strengthened the spirit of the
Asian-African identity, which gave birth tQ the orqanization. With the
progress it has achieved so.far, we are confident that the AALCC will cQntinue
its service to the Asian-African community in wider fields to realize the
principles and objectives of the Bandung Conference.
Mr. ADALA (Kenya): At the outset I would associate my delegation
with the messages of condolence that have been expressed to the delegation Qf
ColQmbia on the lQSS Qf life and prQperty as a result Qf the earthquake a few
days agQ in that cQuntry.
It is 11 years since the General Assembly in its resQlutiQn 36/38 Qf
18 November 1981 requested the Secretary-General of the United NatiQns to
carry out consultations with the Secretary-General of the Asian-African Legal
Consultative CQmmittee (AALCC) with a view to strengthening further and
widening the scope of cooperation between the tWQ organizatiQns in certain
areas of commQn interest.
By 1984 the AALCC had ~on the full confidence of this Assembly, enabling
it to adopt a resolution co:nmending the AALCC for orienting its programme to
strengthen its supportive role to the work of the United Nations in wider
areas, and in 1987 drew up a further programme of cooperation that identifiecl
several specific areas for cooperation between the two secretariats.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl411PV.43
49-50
(Mr. 1\da1a. Kenya)
It is therefore with great pride and pleasure that I speak today on
behalf of the Kenya delegation to express our warm thanks and appreciation to
the Secretary-General of AALCC, Mr. F. X. Njenga, and the MLCC secretariat
for their outstanding work in promoting interregional as well as international
cooperation supportive of the efforts of the United Nations with a view to
strengthening the role of the United Nations in economic and humanitarian
matters.
As a developing country Kenya highly values the many studies and
workshops. as well as seminars, in areas oY concern to African and Asian
countries that have been organized by AALCC.
The AALCC secretariat has maintained high-profile representation at
United Nations-sponsored conferences. notably at meetings of the Preparatory
Committee of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development,
the
United Nations Committee on International Trade Law.
the Preparatory
Commission for the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea,
just to
mention but a few among those highlighted in the report of the
Secretary-General contained in document A/47/385 of 28 August 1992.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
51
(Mr. Adala, Ken~)
The Asian-African Leqal Consultativ& COllllllitte.'s study of refugee law,
the refugee problem and the principle of burden-sharing is worth special
mention, as is its paper on international control of narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances, submitted to the General Assembly on the occasion of
the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations. These are two areas in which
my country has had a great interest in the past few years as practical
problems that are becoming increasingly acute and that have serious social and
economic implications.
In conclusion, we wish the AALCC and its secretariat continued success in
its collaborative efforts with the United Nations as it continues to serve its
member States in their various fields of endeavour. We hope draft resolution
A/47/L.3, of which my delegation has the honour to be a sponsor, will enjoy
the Assembly's unanimous support.
Mr. JACQVIQIS (Cyprus): At the outset,
I wish to convey to the
Government and the peop10 of Colombia our deep sympathy and cur solidarity
with respect to the suffering and losses caused by the recent earthquake in
that country.
As always, Cyprus, a long-standing member of the Asian-African Legal
Consul~ative Committee (AALCC), warmly welcomes the consideration of the item
"Cooperation between the United Nations and the Asian-African Legal
Consultative Committee". Wl are especially pleased to be able to address this
item during the United Nations'Decade of International Law and at a time when
increasing significance is attached to the application of the rule of law and
the settlement of disputes through peaceful means. As a country that attaches
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
S2
(Mr. Jacoyides, Cypr~lS)
great value to the United Nations and international law and as an active
me~ber of the ~1~CC, Cyprus places high importance on cooparaticn between the
United Nations and the AALCC, orgauizations that operate at the universal and
regional levels respectively.
We take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the AALCC, and particularly
to its Secretary-General, Mr. Frank Njenga, its secretariat, and its Permanent
Observer Mission to the United Nations in New York for the valuable
contributions made by the AALCC in the field of international law and as in
other areas of common endeavour with the United Nations. The AALCC,
the
regional organization representing the legal perspectives of Asia and Africa,
has developed considerable and commendable activity at the United Nations.
We also wish to express appreciation to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations for his excellent report (A/47/385) on cooperation between the
United Nations and the AALCC. The report bears testimony to the continued
close and effective cooperation between the two organizations and the
commendable progress achievod during the period under review.
Since its establishmenc,
the AALCC has made important contributions in
~~e international legal field.
It has also made ~ontributions in other
diverse related areas such as international economic cooperation for
development, refugees, drugs and the environment, among others.
Indeed,
the
work of the AALCC is closely connected with the agenda of the General Assembly
and the work of the Organization.
This close association was rightfully marked by the granting of Permanent
Observer status to the AALCC at the thirty-fifth session of the General
Assembly,
in 1980. Through its participation in the sessions of the General
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
53
(Mr. JaQoyides, Cyprus)
Assembly and in the work of other bodies of the United Nations,
the Observer
Mission plays an important role in strengthening and widening the cooperation
between the two Organizations.
The AALCC has maintained its traditional close links with the Sixth
Committee,
the International Law Commission and the United Nations Commission
on International Trade Law, and has continued its efforts towarus
strengthening the role of the United Nations and its various organs,
including
the International Court of Justice.
We are therefore particularly pleased to note the attendance of the
Registrar of the International Court,
the Chairman of the Inte~national Law
Commission and the Director of the Codification Division of the Office of
Legal Affairs on behalf of the Legal Counsel at the thirty-first session of
the AALCC held at Islamabad, Pakistan, in 1992.
I was personally privileged
to attend several of its sessions,
including most recently those held at
Beijing and Cairo;
I can testify to their hiqh quality.
We wish also to highli~ht the meeting of legal advisers of States members
of the AALCC held at United Nations Head~~arters in 1991 during the
forty-sixth ses~ion of the General Assembly. Among the issues the meeting
considered was the peaceful settlement of disputes.
It heard a significant
address by the President of the International Court of Justice,
Sir Robert Jennings.
In his address the President referred to renewed support
for the Court in the General Assembly and emphasized the importance of
advisory opinions of the Court in preventive diplomacy and their usefulness in
clarifying the legal aspect; of political disputes between States.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
54
(Mr. Jacovides, Cyprus)
Cyprus attaches high importance to the role of the Court in the peaceful
settlement of disputes, and we support those views.
For our part, we have
accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court and were the first country
to contribute to the Secretary General's Trust Fund to Assist States in the
Settlement of Disputes through the International Court of Justice.
Having heard the President of the Court again today in the context of the
Assembly's consideration of agenda item 13,
I wish to pay a warm tribute to
him for his wise remarks, particularly those regarding public international
law as a universal system b~inging together diverse legal systems and
individuals and providing a common ~egal language. We also noted the emphasis
he again rightly placed on the potential of the Court's advisory jurisdiction
in clarifying the legal components of political disputes, a position which, as
I
just stated, we fully support.
The AALCC is to be comnended for its efforts in promoting the wider use
of the International Court of JusticG.
The proclamation by the General Assembly of the United Nations Decade of
International Law has given added significance to the cooperation between the
United Nations and the AALC:. We very much appreciate the decision of the
AALCC to participate actively in the programmes of the Decade, and we welcome
its contribution towards the realization of its objectives.
The AALCC has also made important contributions in the field of the law
of the sea. We recall the efforts it made during the Law of the Sea
Conference as well as its Fresent participation in the Preparatory Commission
for the International Sea-Bad Authority and for the International Tribunal for
the Law of the Sea, and we wish to commend the AALCC for the measures it is
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
55
(Mr. JacQyides, Cyprus)
taking for promoting ratifi(~ation and implementation of the 1982 United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Cyprus, which ratified the
Convention at an early stage, hopes that the current efforts for the universal
acceptance of the Convention will prove successful and that this major
law-making Treaty will soon come into force.
In conclusion, Cyprus highly appreciates the important progress made in
further strengthening and widening the scope of cooperation between the AALCC
and the United Nations in the field of the progressive development and
codification of international law and other areas of common interest, which
now cover a wide range of matters in the economic and humanitarian fields. We
look forward to further progress and cooperation between the two
organizations, which share the same objective, namely to achieve the primacy
of international law in the conduct of States and the prevalence of the rule
of law in international relations.
Cyprus is a sponsor of draft resolution A/47/L.3, which was ably
introduced this morning by the representative of Pakistan, and commends it for
unanimous adoption.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
56
Mr. SRI viyyong (China) (interpretation from Chinese): First of
all, please allow me, on behalf of the Chinese delegation,
to express to the
Government and the people of Colombia our deepest sympathy and condolences in
respect of the damage and suffering caused by the recent earthquake.
The Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee has existed for 36 years,
and since its establishment its membership has increased from seven to the
present 42.
It has become a unique intergovernmental and inte~regional
international organization exerting an important influence on the
international scene. Not only does it provide a forum for discussion,
consultation and cooperation among Asian and African countries on legal issues
and other questions of common concern, but it has also made important
contributions to the active promotion of the proqressive development and
codification of international law and better service in the field of
international peace and development.
Since the General Assembly invited the AALCC in 1980 to participate with
observer status in its meetings and work,
the cooperative relationship between
the two organizations has grown ever closer. A representative of the United
Nations Secretary-General participates in every annual session of the AALCC,
and the Committee also sends representatives to attend various meetings
throughout the United Nations system,
including the relevant meetings of the
General Assembly,
the International Law Commission, and the United Nations
Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL).
Here,
I should like to point out that the AALCC attaches partiCUlar
importance to cooperation with the International Law Commission in the field
of progressive development ~nd codification of international law. The AALCC
not only invites the Chairman of the Commission to participate in its annual
session to introduce the Commission's CUrl'ent work, but also includes
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
57
(Mr. Shi Jiyyong, China)
the working report of every session of the Commission as a fixed item on the
agenda of its annual sessio!!" Representativas gf the membe~ States of the
AALCC take an active part in the discussion on the work of the International
Law Commission on every subject.
In every session of the International Law
Commission,
the Secretary-General of the AALCC briefs the Commission on the
Committee's work. The AALCC and the Commission also have similar agenda
items. We commend the AALCC for having included in its current programme of
work the question of non-navigational uses of international watercourses, a
subject under consideration by the Commission.
In 1991, at its thirty-first session,
the Committee requested the
International Law Commissiotl to take up as a priority item the subject "Legal
aspects of the protection of the environment of areas not subject to national
jurisdiction:
global comments". The Commission attaches great importance to
this request.
In sum, it i i
the view of the Chinese delegation that
cooperation between the AALCC and the International Law Commission is
satisfactory.
The cooperation between the AALCC and UNCITRAL is also fruitful.
The
annual session of the AALCC has established a Subcommittee to discuss and
study the relevant subjects under considersation by UNCITRAL.
The AALCC
actively supports General Assembly resolution 44/23,
in which the Assembly,
inter alia, declares the period 1990-1999 as the United Nations Decade of
International Law.
The secretariat of the AALCC has prepared a paper
identifying a number of issJes involved in, and activities that may be taken
during,
the Decade.
In the first programme of activities of the United Nations Decade of
International Law,
the AALCC proposed sponsoring a workshop on joint ventures
in seabed mining.
The AALCC,
in cooperation with the United Nations High
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
58
(Mr. Shi Jiuyong, China)
Commissioner for Refugees, held a workshop on international refugee and
h~~anitarian la~ in October 1990; The aim of the workshop was to enhance the
awareness of the Government authorities of member and non-member States of the
region of the comprehensive character of international legal instruments
relevant to the issue of refugees and in particular to promote AALCC member
States' ratification of or accession to the 1951 Convention and the 1967
Protocol relating to the status of refugees.
The AALCC secretariat also actively attended most meetings of the
Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development.
In relevant m~etings and negotiations, i~ invited AALCC member
States to engage in informal consultations and thus to play an active role in
promoting mutual understanding among member States.
The Chinese delegation appreciates the efforts of the AALCC in stressing
the greater role that should be played by the International Court of Justice
in the peaceful settlement ~f international disputes and in the rule of law.
Recently,
the secretariat of the AALCC undertook the preparation of a study on
the enhanced utilization of the International Court of Justice in matters
relating to the pr~tection and preservation of the environment. A memorandum
outlining the basic approach of the study was submitted to the Registrar of
the International Court of Justice.
I am convinced that all States Members of
the United Nations will be interested in the study under preparation.
In conclusion, we note with satisfaction the strengthening of cooperation
between the United Nations and the AALCC. We hope that this effective
cooperation in the progressive development and codification of international
law and in other areas of common interest will continue to be strengthened so
as to make an active contribution in promoting friendly cooperation among
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library~J47/PV.43
59-60
(Mr. Shi Jiyyong, China)
States, maintaining international peace and security, promoting the common
prosperity of aaman society and establishinq a fair and reasonable new
international order on the basis of the five principles of peaceful
coexistence and in the spirit of the Bandunq Conference.
The Chinese Government has always attached importance to the work of the
AALCC.
Since 1983, when we became a formal member of the Committee, we have
actively participated in its annual sessions. We also successfully hosted its
twenty-ninth session,
in 1990, and have sent an official to work as Assistant
Secretary-General of the Committee and actively participated in the work of
the Committee secretariat. We will continue fully to support the Committee's
work,
to make active efforts to strengthen further its role and influence and
to promote close cooperation between the United Nations and the AALCC.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
61
Mr. YAMAMOTO (Japl_,4 First of all,
I should like to join previous
speakers in extending a message of sympathy and condolence to the Government
and people of Colombia for their suffering and for the damage caused by the
recent earthquake.
I deem it a great honour to have this opportunity to comment, on behalf
of my delegation, on agenda item 20, entitled "Cooperation between the United
Nations and the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee".
The importance of closer coordination between the United Nations and
regional organizations such as the African-Asian Legal Consultative Commi,ttee
(AALCC) cannot be emphasized too strongly. My delegation wishes to express
its appreciation to the Secretariat for the report contained in document
A/47/385, which provides useful information on the activities of the AALCC and
its cooperation with the United Nations. According to the report, commendable
progress has been achieved, under the excellent leadership of the
Secretary-General of the AALCC, Mr. Njenga,
towards enhancing cooperation
between the United Nations and the AALCC in a wide range of areas.
It is the view of the Japanese Government that the AALCC and similar
regional organizations can make a genuine contribution to strengthening the
functioning of the United Nations so as to ensure that it can respond to the
changing needs of the international community.
In fact,
the AALCC has
undertaken a number of programmes and initiatives to strengthen the role of
the United Nations and its various organs,
inclUding the International Court
of Justice.
The AALCC has also participated actively in the programmes of the United
Nations Decade of International Law.
Japan appreciates and supports the
ongoing efforts of the AALCC towards achieving the objectives of the Decade.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
62
(Mr. Yamamoto, Japan)
Further,
the ·~.~CC has been active in efforts relating to development and the
environment, and Japan hopes it will continue to contribute to this important
area.
It is essential that the international community should be able to
respond effectively to the new challenges that are constantly arising in
today's changing world.
I cannot but believe that internati~nal law will play
an ever greater role in efforts to meet those challenges. My delegation pays
a high tribute to the AALCC, which for more than three decades has been
playing an important role i.1 tb.e expansion and developmen"t of international
law throughout the Asian-African region.
Japan strongly hopes that with
greater cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations such
as the AALCC,
the rule of law will continue to expand throughout the world.
Lastly, it is our strong hope that the General Assembly will adopt the
draft resolution before us (A/47/L.3) without a vote.
Mr. ACHARYA (Nepal): Let me first of all express our heartfelt
condolences to the people of Colombia on the damage they have suffered as a
result of the recent earthc;pake.
At the outset,
I wish 11so to thank the Secretary-General for his
comprehensive report on cooperation between the United Nations and the
African-Asian Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC)
(A/47/385).
Nepal attaches considerable importance to the activities of the
international community in the area of the progressive codification of
international law. We believe that only a legal order that encompasses the
entire community of nations can provide the framework for effective
multilateral cooperation. Lt is in the interest of all States -
large and
small -
to work for and wit~in a coherent and viable system of law,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
63
(Mr. Acharya. Nepal)
impartially administered and enforced.
In the final analysis,
the rule of law
alone will ensure peace and stability for all.
Since its founding in 1956 as the Asian Legal Consultative Committee,
with limited membership,
the AALCC has grown to accommodate independent States
in Asia and Africa.
It has become a valuable foxum for the member States to
exchange views and coordinate positions in the area of the progressive
codification of international law and other areas of common interest.
I avail myself of this opportunity to pay a well-deserved tribute to the
small but dedicated secretariat of the Asian-African Legal Consultative
Committee for the high quality of its work. The notes and briefs the
secretariat prepares for the benefit of its members on selected items on the
agenda of the General Assembly greatly assist the participation of my
delegation in the deliberations on these items in the plenary meetings and the
relevant Committees.
The way the A~LCC has oriented its programmes, as referred to in
resolution 39/47, has enabled it, as a permanent observer,
to play a uniquely
valuable role in support of the work of the United Nations.
The range of issues that the AALCC is engaged in covers matters which are
currently under active consIderation by the Sixth Committee,
the Special
Committee on the Charter, ~e International Law Commission and the United
Nations Commission on International Trade Law.
It has done valuable work with
regard to the promotion of the ratification and implementation of the United
Nations Convention on the L~w of the Sea. Equally important have been its
contributions in the areas ~f international economic cooperation for
development and humanitarian matters.
l.
_
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
64-65
(Mr. Acha£ya, Nepal)
I wish to make sfecial mention of the AALCC studies on the role of the
United Nations, on the United Nation5 Decade of International Law and on the
possible wider use of the International Court of Justice.
The AALCC has been involved in the legal aspects ,of environmental issues
for many years now.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
66
(Mr. Acharya, Nepal)
In this reqard, mt7ntion should be made of the thirty-first session of the
Committee, held in January this year in Islamabad, Pakistan.
In accordance
with the decision taken at that session, AALCC submitted to the Preparatory
Committee of the United Nations Conference on Enviro~ent and Development
(UNCED) at its fourth session a statement of General Principles of
International Environmental Law.
In accordance with the mandate of the
Islamabad meetinq, AALCC has already submitted to its members a preliminary
study of the final results of UNCED. These will be of special assistance to
the members of the Committee in their assessment of UNCED and in the follow-up
of those decisions.
My deleqation views the productive cooperation between AALCC and the
United Nations as a qood example of cooperation with reqional arranqements.
As a sponsor of draft resolution Al47/L.3, we believe its adoption will be yet
another step towards enhancinq such fruitful relations in wider areas of
interest to the United Nations.
Mr. ERDENECHULUUN (Monqolia): On behalf of my deleqation,
I
join
preceding speakers in expressing feelings of profound sympathy to the
delegation of Colombia, whose country was recently struck by an earthquake
that resulted in loss of life and material damage.
The momentous developments that have taken place in the world have opened
up promising vistas in our common search for ways and means to solve the
pressinq problems of the day. As the international community strives to
capitalize on these opportu3ities and stand up to unprecedented challenges,
international law emerges as a pivotal instrument in building up the
structures of a new and just world order based on the principles of
cooperation, development and democracy.
---~~~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
67
(Mr. Erdenechuluun. Mongolia)
The progressive development and \:odification of international law and the
consistent and non-selective application of the existing norms are essential
in ensuring and strengthening the rule of law in international relations. The
magnitude of the task requires contributions from all sources.
It ia
gratifying to note in this context that ever since its inception 36 years ago
the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC) has been actively
lnvolved in the endeavours to promote acceptance of and respect for
international law. Especially valuable has been its role in expanding and
developing international la"
throughout the Asian and African regions,
thus
helpinq the newly independe~t nations of those two continents in their quest
for true political and economic independence.
One of the priority items on the agenda of the Committee over the year's
has been the study of ways to strengthen the role of the United Nations. The
importance of the subject is self-evident in the light of the increased
credibility and prestige of the world Organization and the ongoing efforts
further to revitalize its activities. My delegation welcomes all the
endeavours undertaken by the Committee in this direction and would encourage
it to continue its studies,
taking into account the imaginative and
thought-provoking proposals submitted by the Secretary-General in his report
"An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277).
The scope of cooperation between the United Nations and the Cow~ittee, so
elaborately described in the report of the Secretary-General in document
Al47/385, is impressive. The adoption of the programme of cooperation between
the Committee and the Unite3 Nations,
identifying nine specific areas of
interest, was an important step in improving cooperation and reciprocal
feedback between the two organizations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
68
(Mr. Erdenechuluun, Mongolia)
AALCC and its organs cover a wide range of topics,
including public
international law, economic relat~@no, ocean resources,
the problem of
refugees, and environmental protection. The Committee pays particular
attention to the work of the Sixth Committee of the General Assembly and
maintains close links with ~~e International Law Commission and the United
Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL). We hope that these
links of solid cooperatic~ between AALCC and the United Nations bodies
concerned will be maintained and strengthened in the future.
My delegation has taken note with appreciation of the active involvement
of AALCC in the programme of the United Nations Decade of International Law
and anticipates that the Committee will continue to contribute to the
programme of the Decade by instituting training programmes, scholarships and
seminars in cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized agencies.
Mongolia notes with satisfaction that of late the questions of
international economic cooperation for development have been gaining
prominence in the proceedings of the Committee. We support the consistent
position of AALCC of giving priority to items pertaining to the specific needs
and interests of the developing countries.
A special two-day meeting on the United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development (UNCED), convened during the thirty-first annual session of
AALCC, held in Islamabad earlier this year, was a timely initiative that
fostered the exchange of views on legal aspects of the UNCED Summit.
It is the hope of my d·~legation that :.t the forthcoming sessions of AALCC
questions of particular int!rest to us, such as the debt burden of developing
countries and legal aspects of privatization, will be taken up and that
further progress will be made in their consideration.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
69-70
(Mr. Erdenechuluunr Mongolia)
I wish to express my delegation's appreciation to Mr. Njenga,
the
Secretary-General of AALCC, and the staff of the Committee's secretariat for
their dedication and unremitting effort. The research briefs, studies and
comments on various questions of international law prepared by the secretariat
of the Committee serve as important background material for our work.
In conclusion, my deleyation expresses its hope that draft resolution
A/47/L.3, which Mongolia has the honour to co-sponsor, will command the
unanimous support of the Assembly.
Mr. KALPAGE (Sri Lanka): May I, at the outset, associate myself and
my deleqation with the exprossion5 of sympathy to
and Gover~~ent of
Colombia for the damage caused by the recent earthquake that affected that
country.
I am pleased to address this plenary meeting of the General Assembly on
agenda item 20, entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Asian-African Legal Consult~tive Committee". Sri Lanka, a founding member of
the Asian-African Legal Con3ultative Committee (AALCC), is very pleased to be
a sponsor,
together with a~umber of other Asian and African States, of draft
resolution A/47/L.3.
The creation of the As~an-African Legal Consultative Committee was one of
the outcomes of the Conference of Afro-AsianNations held in Bandung,
Indonesia,
in 1955. The Bandung Conference marked the beginning of what we
now know as the Non-Aligned Movement.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
71
(Mr. Kalpage. Sri Lanka)
The Asian-African ~egal Consultative Committee is a body with an
impressive history, a large membership, a vast geographical scope and a record
of work in several fields of international legal interest. Above all, it is
an organization with an important overall objective -
the promotion of greater
awareness in Africa and Asia of the many developments in the fields of public
and private international law.
I would like to speak briefly on the overall objective of the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee. This,
I believe, is to promote
among its member States a greater awareness of deve~opments in the many fields
of international law.
Such an objective is in itself wide in scope with its
own numerous ramifications.
In this context,
the AALCC has made a
contribution to the United Nationa programme on the Decade of International
Law.
I would like to address another more immediate aspect.
I am referring to the long-term responsibility that the AALCC has, and
must bear, of moving its vast membership of States collectively forward to the
stage at which they will all be in a position to participate effectively and
fully, after adequate consultation and coordination,
in the many and various
multilateral legal forums.
The process of consultation and coordination among States having a
measure of cOlmnonality of interest is fundamental to effective participation
in the international pa~limnentary diplosnacy and democracy that now obtain in
the many forums of the world community.
In such forums, positions and
argumentation must now derive, not from preconceived ideology and fixed
perspective, but rather from generally accepted principles and rules.
In such
forums, moreover,
the goveruinq procedure is the presentation of positions,
debate and negotiation towards a generally accepted conclusion.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
72
(Mr.
lalpagP. Sri LDDka)
The practice of consultation and coordination is one that other regional
groups with similar interests have already achieved and now regularly follow.
There has to be coordination in the collection and analysis of info~ation and
dissemination of results and consultation on positions to be presented, on
argumentation to be made and on the ensuing negotiations.
In this regard,
some regional groups have achieved a high degree of facility and
sophistication. This is, of coarse, an entirely legitimate achievement to be
admired.
Yet, it is true that, for those Qf us from Africa and Asia,
there are
many difficulties in the way of our achieving such a high degree of
consultation and coordination. These difficulties are further compounded by
the practical disadvantages with which we are still encumbered, certainly in
the legal field:
absenco of adequate access, or sometimes no access
whatsoever,
to legal documentation and legal periodicals,
to centres of legal
research and analysis, and to instant information facilities.
Furthermore, we
are disadvantaged when we face the far greater resources with which the States
Members of the United Nations with lauger delegations and permanent missions
are clearly blessed.
Thus, it is inevitable that for many of us member States of the AALCC,
the ultimate goal, namely, full and effective consultation and coordination in
the preparation of positions and supporting argumentation in debate and in
negotiation and presentation, is still a far distant goal.
It is also clear that if there are to be truly meaningful proceedings in
the many multilateral forums, all member States in all deliberative bodies
must stand on the same plat3au of awareness. This is particularly so in the
present world of international parliamentary diplomacy and democracy that the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
73-75
(Mr. Ealpage. Sri Lanka)
United Nations has come to represent.
It is a difficult goal. Yet, it is one
that we in the United Nations, and particularly we in the African-Asian Legal
Consultative Committee, must constantly strive to achieve.
Much has been done to '~is end by the AALCC. Many possibilities,
however, still remain to be explored. The cooperation and assistance of the
United Nations, and particularly of the Secretariat, would be invaluable in
these difficult circumstances in which we from Africa and Asia find
ourselves. With its cumulative knowledge - of the history and background of
subjects, of basic materials, of principal questions involved -
there is no
doubt that this would be useful.
It is to the United Nations, and in this
connection to the Secretariat, that we in the developing world, particularly
its smaller countries, must inevitably look.
Before Mr. Frank Njenga,
the Secretary-General of the AALCC,
leaves New
York f~r New Delhi,
I hope that it will be possible for him to hold serious
discussions with the Secretariat in the legal field.
These discussions may
include what could possibly be done to resolve the difficulties that we from
Africa and Asia undoubtedly face in many of the delibe~ative bodies of the
United Nations.
This is one reason among others why we member States of the AALCC and of
the United Nations ask once again, as we do biennially, for reaffirmation by
the General Assembly of the need, for both the AALCC and the United Nations,
of the continuance and strengthening of the cooperation between the United
Nations and the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee for the attainment
of what are in fact common ?bjectives.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
76
Mr. ORDZHONIKIDZE (Russian Federation) (interpretation from
Russian):
I should like at the ou~set to express to the people and Government
of Colombia our deep condolences in connection with the,earthquake that
devastated that country.
The delegation of the Russian Federation, which has for a number of years
been an observer in the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC), ia
pleased to note the development and intensification of cooperation between the
United Nations and that Committee.
In the interesting and informative reports submitted by the
Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of AALCC fiG
see reflected the history and traditions of that cooperation, which confirm,
in our view, a positive trend towards understanding the need for a uniform
approach to resolving problems at the national, regional and global levels.
By actively participating in the progressive development and codification
of international law, by promoting the attainment of universality in
multilateral conventions and by enhancing the role of the International Court
of Justice, AALCC is helpi~g to strengthen the role of the United Nations and
to achieve the Organization's global purposes.
It is making a unique and
valuable contribution to strengthening the role of international law in
solving the key problems of the present day.
AALCC also draws up specific programmes and carries out projects, fo~
exampie in the field of refugee law,
taking due account of regional
peCUliarities and needs. Within the limits of its competenc~, AALCC plays an
important role in drawing together the interests and concerns of States,
identifying regional priori:ies and presenting them in a global context.
AALCC also provides feedbaCK by supporting United Nations initiatives relevant
to its sphere of c~mpetence and adapting them to regional conditions.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
77
(Mr. Ordzhonikidze,
Russian Federation)
"Our delegation believes that considerable opportunities for improvement
exist in the area of cooperation between the United Nations and regional
organizations, both those of a general political bent and those that are
functional in nature.
In that connection we value highly the useful
experience that has been gained from the interaction between the United
Nations and the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee, and we think it
would be a good idea to make greater use of the experience thus gained for
developing international law and expanding the interaction between the United
Nations and regional organizations.
Sir David HANNAY (United Kingdom):
I am speaking on behalf of the
European Community and its member States to express our interest in the
activities of the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC). This
debate is an occasion to take stock of the Committee's contribution to and
cooperation with the United Nations. At the same time, we should not lose
sight of its important work in other fields, for example the law of
international trade, where we note the contribution of the regional
arbitration centres at Kuala Lumpur, Cairo and Lagos.
We look forward to hearing the statement by the Secretary-General of the
Committee, Mr. Frank Njenga. The Committee's secretariat continues to make a
most
important contribution to its work.
Both the report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the
statements we have heard today show the considerable range of activities that
are both topical and relevant to the work of the United Nations. Of
particular interest to the Assembly is the work connected with the items on
the agenda of the Sixth Committee, such as the United Nations Decade of
International Law. Many otner aspects of the AALCC's work, such as that
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
78
connected with refugees, are also directly relevant to the work of the United
(Sir Dayid Hann§Y' United Kingdom)
Nations and its agencies.
The European Community and its member States welcome the close
cooperation that exists between the United Nations and the AALCC, demonstrated
by the extent of participation of relevant United Nations bodies in the annual
sessions of the Committee, and demonstrated also by such events as the
workshop on "International Refugee and Humanitarian Law in the Asian-African
Region" which was organized jointly with the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugee~ (UNHCR) at New Delhi in 1991.
Since we last considered this item in the Assembly the Asian-African
Legal Consultative Committee has held two very successful sessions, at Cairo
in 1991 and at Islamabad in 1992. We are grateful to the Committee and to the
Governments of Egypt and Pacistan for the hospitality offered to observers,
inclUding those from the member States of the European Community. A
particularly happy asp6~t of the Committee's meetings is their openness to
participation by observers, and those from European Community member States
certainly hanefited greatly by their attendance.
Mr. SALEEM (India):
I should first like to convey, on behalf of the
people and Government of India, our deepest sympathies and heartfelt
condolences to the people and Government of Colombia in connection with the
hardships they are undergoing as a result of the recent earthquake in that
country.
My country greatly values the useful work being done by the Asian-African
Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC)
in the field of international law. The
AALCC is an intergovernmental organization of 45 member States that has had a
permanent observer statvs with the United Nations since 1980. Our late
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
79-80
(Mr. Saleem, India)
Prime Minister Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru was one of the initiators of the
organization, and the organization has its headquarters at Delhi. On this
occasion we should like to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General of the
AAL:C, Mr. Njenga, for his wise leadership.
The Committee has cooperative programmes with the United Nations in the
following nine areas:
cooperative framework; representation at meetings and
conferences; Sixth Committee matters; matters involving the law of the sea;
the question of refugees; efforts towards strengthening the role of the United
Nations;
the illicit traffi: in narcotic drugs;
international economic
cooperation for development; and zones of peace and international
cooperation.
Since 1987 the Committee has oriented its work programme to
accord priority to matters that are of current interest to the United Nations,
matters such as human rights,
the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, and internatio~al economic law.
As its contribution to the United Nations Decade of International Law the
AALCC prepared in 1985 a study on strengthening the role of the United Nati,ns
through rationalization of functional modalities, with special reference to
the General Assembly.
It has also pr~pared a set of recommendations on the
improvement of the functioning of the General Assembly.
To promote wider use of the International Court of Justice the AALCC has
prepared a study on the question of possible wider use of the Court by a
compromise when the parties so agree. Recently the Committee has undertaken
preparation of a study on tae enhanced utilization of the International Court
of Justice in matters relating to the protection and preservation of the
environment.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
81
(Mr, Saleem, India)
Pursuant to its programme of rendering assistance to its member States
for active participation in the work of the General Assembly, since 1982 the
Committee has prepared notes and comments on items before the Sixth Committee,
including the report of the International Law Commission.
The Committee continues to maintain its links with the International Law
Commission and has included in its current work programme the question of
non-navigational uses of international watercourses. The Committee also has
close collaboration with the United Nations Commission on International Trade
Law (UNCITRAL).
The Committee has considered the question of encouraging and facilitating
the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and
has urged its members States signatories to the Convention to ratify it in
order to allow its early implementation.
Since the eleventh special session of the General Assembly, held in 1980,
the Committee has concentrated on the question of international economic
cooperation for development. and to this end it has participated in the
sessions and meetings of the Economic and Social Council, UNCTAD and
UNCITRAL. The Committee has also prepared model bilateral agreements for the
promotion and protection of investments so as to generate a wider flow of
capital and technology to the developing countries in the Asian-African region.
The Committee is in the process of preparing a legal framework for
industrial joint ventures.
It has begun the compilation of relevant
information with the intention to prepare a legal guide on joint ventures
similar to that prepared by UNCITRAL on the drawing up of international
contracts for industrial wo:ks.
India is a sponsor of cesolution A/47/L.3, on cooperation between the
United Nations and the AALCC, now before us.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
82
Mr.
lWRQMA (Sierra Leone): Sadly, fate has once again struck the
people of Colombia, thi 3 time in the form of an earthquake. Not so long ago,
a landslide occurred in Colombia.
I
think the whole world recalls a young
girl being trapped in the mud.
It was her major concern that, despite the
desperate efforts being made to save her life, she was missing school. Fate
has again struck the people of Colombia, and we should like the Colombian
people to know that we share their grief and to express our condolences to
them.
Since its inception the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee
(AALCC) has played a yeoman's role in helping developing countries, and
African and Asian countries in particular,
to strengthen their legal
institutions, and in promoting the progressive development and codification of
international law.
As a close observer and benefactor of its studies, Sierra Leone would
like once again to pay tribute to the AALCC for its outstanding role in
promoting international law and tho rule of law in international relations.
Early this year,
in my capacity as Chairman of the International Law
Commission for its forty-third session,
I had the occasion and opportunity to
attend the thirty-sixth session of the AALCC in Islamabad. That session made
a very great impression on me, as it was the first time I had participated in
the work of the AALCC.
I was impressed not only by the range of topics
discussed - which included refugee law; Law-of-the-Sea matters;
non-navigational U$e of intarnational watercourses; and international economic
law,
including international trade law - but also, and more importantly, by
the high quality of the dis~ussions that ensued.
My delegation came away from that meeting very much impressed that the
AALCC was indeed making, as I have said, a significant contribution to the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
83
(Mr. Koroma, Sierra Leone)
promotion of international law and the strengtbening of the international
leqal order.
Cooperation between the AALCC and the United Nations was thus further
strengthened by the serious and comprehensive treatment given to the report of
the International Law Commission. The results of those discussions will be
taken into account when the Commission revisits those issues.
In this period of total and preventive diplomacy, my delegation is of the
view that both the International Court of Justice and tbe AALCC could make
genuine contributions in strengthening the role of the United Nations for the
maintenance of international peace and for the realization of its objectives.
My delegation therefore welcomes the close cooperation between the
International Court of Justice and the AALCC.
In this connection,
Sierra Leone would like to pay tribute to the President of the International
Court of Justice, George Yewdall Jennings, for the invaluable role the Court
has been playing under his presidency, and for his statement here this
morning.
The confidence of the international community in the International
Court of Justice has continued to grow, and this is no doubt partly due to the
sterling qualities of its mgmbership.
It is encouraging to note that
cooperation between the AALCC and the Court has continued to intensify, as
when the Court representative delivered a message at the Islamabad session of
the AALCC this year.
Finally,
the Sierra Leone delegation would like to express its
congratulations to the Gove~nment and people of Pakistan for the excellent
facilities that were placed at the disposal of the thirty-sixth session of the
AALCC in Islamabad, which in no small measure contributed to the success of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library!i
AI~1/PV.43
84,;,,85
(Mr. Koroma, Sierra Leone)
that session.. Smilarl]r,S::'9rra Leone lJ1Quld like to ;;Acknowledge the
outstMdinq performance of Mr. r. X. Njenga",
thet Secretary-General of the
Committee, his-dedicated staff and theAALCC MiSSi014 here in New York for
their continued assistance to the members of the Clj)mmittr.-a here at the
United Nations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
86
The PRESIDENT (interpretation fr~!ll Spanish):
I call now on
Mr. Frank X. Njenga, Secretary~General of the Asian-African Legal Consultative
Committee.
Mr. NJENGA {Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC»: At
the outset, I wish to extend our deep sympathy to the Governments and the
peoples of Egypt and Colombia on the tragic loss of life and property they
suffered in the earthquakes that recently struck their countries.
I should like, on behalf of the Asian-African Legal Consultative
Committee (AALCC) and on my own behalf,
to offer to Mr. Ganev our warmest
~ongratulations on his election to the p~esidency of the General Assembly at
its forty-seventh session. We are confident that with his experience and
wisdom the General Assembly will be able at its forty-seventh session to
achieve unprecedented success. Our congratulations go also to the other
members of the Burea~.
Never since the creation of the United Nations has mankind had such high
expectations and hope concerning the Organization. The initiatives launched
by the United Nations in different conflict zones of the world deserve full
support and encouragement.
I pledge to the Assembly the fullest cooperation
of the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee and its entire membership
with the United Nations in the fulfilment and realization of these hopes and
aspirations for international peace.
I wish to take this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Gha13. f~~ Ais active involvement in
the search for solutions in various arr',j
..: ~\)nflict in Africa, Asia, Central
America and Europe.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
87
(Mr. Njenga. AALCC)
I wish to tak6 this opportunity also to welcome the States that have
become Members of the United Nations since I last addressed the Assembly.
With the admission of those States,
the membership of the Organization can now
be said to be almost universal. Among those States are Azerbaijan,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, which are in
the Asian region. We extend to them our best wishes on their achievement of
sovereiqnty and on their membership of the international community. The AALCC
is of the firm conviction that they will play a siqnificant. role in the
realization of the objectiv9s of the United Nations and will further the cause
of the maintenance of international peace and security. Our Committee, at its
thirty-first session, held at Islamabad, Pakistan,
invited those States to
join the community of the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee.
I
therefore say that if they decide to join their sistsr States in the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee,
they will be warmly welcomed.
It will be recalled that at its forty-fifth session,
in 1991,
the General
Assembly, by its resolution 45/4, noted with satisfaction the progress
achieved during the previous five years towards enhancing the cooperation
between the AALCC and the United Nations and requested the Secretary-General
to submit to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session a report on
cooperation between the two organizations. That report is now before the
General Assembly in documenc A/47/385.
I wish to congratulate the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on that report, and I commend it
to the General Assembly.
I should like to note that AALCC' s work in support of the work of t'.·
United Nations has hitherto proceeded in three specific directions, namely:
inclusion of certain items ~nd topics under consideration by the United
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/41/PV.43
88
(Mr. Njenga, AALCC)
Nations in the work programme of the AALCC; strengthening of the United
NatioDs through promotion of the ratification and implementation of major
conventions, as veIl as through initiatives for the improvement of functional
modalities of the General Assembly and other organs,
including the wider use
of the International Court of Justice for the peaceful settlement of disputes;
and assistance to Governments of AALCC member States in their consideration of
the agenda items before the Sixtl\ Committee and of certain other topics in the
humanitarian and ficonomic fields,
through the preparation of briefs and
studies by tbe AALCC secretariat.
The Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee was established way back
in 1956.
It began with a modest membership of seven. Today its membership
has grown to 42, embracing the two continents of Asia and Africa. The
Committee's activities as envisaged in its statutes were initially focused on
the fo~ulatiun of legal principles and on providing advisory services to
member Governments On such issues.
Some of the topics on which the Committee
has made recommendations have included:
in 1961,
the principles concerning
the status and treatment of aliens; in 1964,
the issue of the legality of
nuclea~ tests; and,
in 1966, principle~ concerning the rights of refugees.
Recommendations have been made also on the question of immunity of States
in respect ef commercial transactions; principles concerning the extradition
of offenders taking refuge in the territory of another State; free legal aid;
dual nationality; enforcemelt of foreign judgements;
the service of process
and the recording of evidence in both civil and criminal matters; relief
against double taxation, and fiscal evasion;
the status of South West Africa;
the law of treaties; the law relating to international rivers;
review of the
United Nations Charter; principles of coexistence; and the law of outer space.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
89
(Mr. Njenga. AALCC)
An item on which AALCC's involvement has been both intensive and
extensive is the law of the sea. The Committee has made a significant
contribution to projecting and protecting the interests of the developing
world in this vital field. Mention may be made in this regard of the
evolution of the archipelagic concept and the concept of exclusive economic
zones, whose origin and development took place primarily through the efforts
of the AALCC.
Against that backdrop,
I should like to give a brief resume of the
current work programme of t~e AALCC. The thirty-first session of the
Committee was held at Islamabad, Pakistan,
in January this year. One of the
statutory functions of the Committee is to examine questions under
consideration by the International Law Commission. Over the years this has
helped establish a close relationship between the two organizations. The
Islamabad session was honoured by the participation of the then Chairman of
the International Law Commission, Ambassador Abdul Koroma, who gave a
comprehensive overview of the work currently being done by the Commission.
The AAtCC remains seized of two items on the agenda of the International Law
Commission, namely,
the non-navigational uses of international watercourses
and the draft code of crimes against the peace and security of mankind.
The AAtCC has a130 been following with keen interest the development of
international and humanitarian law relating to the status and treatment of
refugees. Apart from examining the question of State responsibility in that
context,
the Committee is n)w considering the novel concept of safety zones
for displaced persons withi~ their own country. The focus of the
deliberations has been on issues concerning the status of such safety zones
and their operational frame'lork in the context of international law on
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
gO
(Mt. Hjenga, AALCC)
refugees. The AlLCC secret~riat takes the view that the establishment of such
safety zones for displaced l'8rsons should be based on the consent of the
States concerned and should Dot violate, but should preserve,
the territorial
integrity of the State in which the safety zone is to be established.
Also on the AALCC secretariat's current work programme on refugees is the
preparation of model legislation on international refugee and humanitarian
law, which it is hoped will prove to be useful to some member States in the
drafting and adoption of legislation aimed at giving effect to the prcvisions
of both universal and regio~al instruments relating to the status of refugees.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV,43
91
(Mr. Njenga, AALCC)
After a careful analysis of the provisions of such international
instruments as the ConveX\tion relating to ~e Status of Refugees, 1951, and
the 1967 ~rotoc~l the.reto, and such regional Conventions as the Organization
of African Unity Convention concerning specific aspects of refugee problems in
Africa, 1969,
the Principles concerning treatment of refugees as adopted by
the AALCC during its Bangkok session in 1966 and the addenda thereto adopted
in 1971 and 1977,
the Cartagena Declaration; and other relevant international
instruments,
the secretariat of the AALCC is of the view that the scope of the
definition of the term "refugees" needs to be enlarged to conform to the
changed situation and to meet fresh challenges. The matter will be debated at
length at the forthcoming thirty-second session of the Committee in Kampala,
Uganda, next February.
The AALCC, as members are aware, has always attached significant
importance to the law of the sea; and its modest contribution to the work of
the Third United Rations CO.lference on the Law of the Sea is all too
well ·known to be recounted.
In the view of the secretariat of the AALCC,
the
United Rations Convention on the Law of the Sea is among the significant
achievements in the field of the progressive development of international law
and its codification.
In recent years,
the secretariat of the Committee has
been monitoring the progress of work in the Preparatory Commission for the
International SeBbed Authority and the Tribunal for the LoW of the Sea, as
well as the pace of ratification of the Convention.
It is a matter of
disappointment to us that p·:oqress in the process of ratification has been
slow,
It is, however, enco~raqinq that, of the 60 ratifications required,
only 8 remain to be deposited, 52 States havinq already deposited their
instruments of ratification. We hope many other States will now come forward
and ratify the Convention so that it can come into force.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43
92
(Mr. Njenga, AALCC)
The Committee, at its '~irty~first session. held early this year,
considered the report on the progress of work at the ninth session of the
Preparatory Commission and expressed the hope that the Preparatory
Commission's process would soon come to a conclusion. After due deliberation,
the Committee urged the International Law Commission (ILC)
to consider
including in its progranune I)f work an item entitled "Progressive development
of the concept of preservatIon for peaceful purposes with regard to the high
seas,
the international seabed area and marine scientific research". we hope
that this will be done by the ILC.
We in the secretariat .)f the AALCC commend and appreciate the efforts of
the Secretary-General of th~ United Nations to initiate informal consultations
aimed at ironing out the wrinkles and differences between the supporters of
the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the States that are reluctant to
ratify the Convention and facilitate its coming into force. While we commend
and appreciate the efforts ~f the Secretary-General of the United Nations to
convene informal consultations between the opponents and the proponents of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, we fervently hope that the
Secretary-General's initiative will bear fruit and that these informal
consultations will finally :onvince all States to ratify this important
Convention.
A short while ago,
I made reference to the mandate of the secretariat of
the Committee to monitor developments in the field of the law of the sea and
progress of work in the Preparatory Commission. The secretariat of the AALCC
is strongly opposed to the ~otion of any sort of alteration or amendment of
the Convention before it e~cers into force. We firmly believe that any
amendment of any provision ~f the Convention should be in accordance with the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
93
(Mr. Njepga, AALCC)
provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. While the
Convention is neither sacrosanct nor immutable and admits of amendments of its
provisions -
inclUding the provisions relating to the activities in the Area -
the procedure for amending the Convention is clearly spelled out and can only
be applied subsequently to the entry into force of the Convention. Thus,
the
initiative taken by the Secretary-General to commence a dialogue should not be
an obstacle but, rather, a spur to the ratification process.
During the fortieth session of the General Assembly, an AALCC study on
the question of the possible wider use of the International Court of Justice
by a compromis when the parties so agree was submitted and circulated to
Member States. The study, which focused attention on the advantages of using
the Court or its Special Chamber in preference to using ad hoc arbitral
tribunals, attracted considerable interest. As a follow-up, a colloquium on
the future role of the Court in disputes referred to it by Member States by
means of special agreement was held in October 1987 at United Nations
Headquarters. The then President of the Court,
the late Judge Nagendra Singh,
chaired the meetinq. The purpose of the colloquium was to provide
opportunities for in-depth explanation of the available procedures under the
revised rules of the Court for resolving disputes in matters referred under
special agreements, with special reference to the hearing of cases by a
Chamber of the Court at the request of the parties.
A meeting of the legal advisers of the member States of the AALCC,
convened at the United Nations in New York in November 1992, also considered
the issue of the peacefUl s!ttlement of disputes. The President of the
International Court of Justice, Sir Robert Jennings, addressed that meeting.
Sir Robert Jennings prefaced his address with the remark that he found renewed
support for the Court in the General Assembly and,
inter alia, emphasized the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
94
(Mr. Njenga. AALCC)
importance of the advisory opinions of the International Court of Justice as
an instrumE!nt of preventive diplomacy.
In our view, this process 1I0uld be
particularly useful in the development of international environmental law and
resolutions of disputes in this field.
Recently,
the secretariat undertook the preparation of a study on the
enhanced utilization of the International Court of Justice. The proposed
brief will study the enhanced role of the International Court of Justice in
matters relating to the protection and preservation of the environment. The
AALCC also intends to convene a meeting of the legal advisers of its member
States to discuss the item.
I have the honour to state that
Sir Robert Jennings, President of the International Court of Justice, has
consented to address this meeting of the legal advisers of the member States
of the Committee, which will be convened on Friday of this week, and will
share his views on the role of the Court in the settlement of environmental
disputes.
The environment is the common concern of mankind and it is in the
interest of the developing and the developed countries alike to ensure its
conservation and preservation.
It would be unrealistic to consider that we
have a perpetual lease on the environment.
Following the mandate of General
Assembly resolution 44/228 to convene the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development and to establish a Preparatory Committee t~
prepare for the Conference,
the secretariat of the AALCC was represented at
most of the sessions of that Preparatory Committee,
the Intergovernmental
Negotiating Committee on tll! Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the
Intergovernmental Negotiatilg Committee for a Framework Convention on
Biological Diversity.
In the course of its thirty-first session held at
Islamabad early this year,
the Committee adopted a statement of general
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.43
95
(Mr. Njenga, AALCC)
principles of international environmental law, which was later circulated
among the working documents of the final session of the Preparatory Committee
for the United Nations Conference on Environmen~ and Development held in
New York between 2 March and 3 April 1992, as document AlCONF.151/PC/WC~1II/5,
dated 5 March 1992. The primary objective was to assist member States of the
AALCC to prepare for that Conference.
The Secretary-General of the Committee participated in the Conference on
Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992.
The secretariat has prepared notes and comments on the outcome of the Rio
summit and analytical studip.s on the Framework Convention on Climate Change
and the Convention on BioloJical Diversity, which will be discussed later this
week in the meeting of the legal advisers.
Each passing year since the adoption of the Declaration on the
Establishment of a New International Economic Order and the Programme of
Action in 1974 has shown th~t efforts to build an equitable economic order
have met with unending problems. As a result,
the North-South dialogue is at
a crossroads. Meanwhile,
the problems of developing countries have
accumulated to the extent that many of them are on the brink of explosion due
to excruciating external debts.
We wish i~ this contex: to underline that the debt crisis of developing
countries is an issue facing most of the developing countries.
If the
prevailing situation leads to the collapse of the economies of the developing
countries,
the repercussions will have a devastating effect on the entire
international community.
T~e search for solutions,
therefore, must be of
concern to both the develop~d and the developing countries.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.43
96
(Mr. Njenga, AALCC)
It may be of interest for me to point out that for the last three years
t~e AALCC has taken up the issues concerning the debt burden of developing
countries. The deliberations within the Committee have led to the conclusion
that the United Nations should convene an international conference on debt.
The Committee has decided to give wide distribution to one of its
studies, entitled "Leqal Aspects of International Loan Agreements",
to the
entire membership ~f the Group of 17. We are willing to distribute the study
to any other interested State.
The Committee continues to work towards the formulation of norms and
legal principles relating to international debt rescheduling. The secI'etariat
of the AALCC is however of the firm conviction that rescheduling of debts is
not the exclusive or final answer and solution to the debt problem.
The prospects for peaca in the Middle East, which is one of our major
concerns, will remain elusive so long as the Israeli occupation of the
Palestinian land continues and the right of self-determination of the
Palestinian people is denied. The intifadah by the Palestinians in the
Israeli-occupied territories further demonstrates the legitimacy of their
demand.
In the meantime, Israel must be held responsible, under the fourth Geneva
Convention of 1949, for ensuring the protection of the Palestinians in the
occupied territories.
During its Singapore session,
in March 1988,
the
Committee decided to take u.-? an item entitled "Deportation of Palestinians in
violation of international law,
in particular the Geneva Convention of 1949".
The item has since then beol debated at each successive session of the
Committee.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.43.
97
(Mr. Njenga. AALCC)
We condemn unreservedly the policy currently being pursued by Israel of
deporting any person considered by it as a leader of the popular uprising of
the masse& in the occupied territories. Apart from the f·act that such
expulsions are illegal under tho Geneva Convention of 1949 and the
1977 Protocol thereto,
they constitute a futile effort to stem th~ tide of
destiny•. The mass uprising will not cease or die out until the root cause of
the problem is eradicated,
that is, until the legitimate right of the
Palestinian people to their own distinct identity within their own sovereign
St ~e is a reality. The Israelis should concern themselves more with the
cessation of their illegal and illegitimate occupation.
The AALCC proposes to organize jointly with the League of Arab States,
with which body it has entered into a cooperation agreement, a two-day
workshop in New Delhi to begin on Palestine Day, 27 November 1992. The
workshop will debate not only the question of the deportation of Palestinians
in viQ~ation of international law but also Israeli policy on the migration and
settlement of Jews in occupied territories, which is intended to affect the
demographic composition of the occupied territories.
It will also take up
other issues related to the ongoing peace process, which we strongly support.
Since economic issues came to the forefront in the United Nations in the
1960s and early 1970s,
the AALCC, consistent with its broader objectives as a
forum for Asian-African cooperation, has been called upon to address the legal
aspects of some of those issues.
In 1970, it established a standing
subcommittee on internation.ll trade law matters, entrusted with the task of
monitoring and reviewing legislative developments in the field of
international trade and development from the Afro-Asian perspective. Over the
years,
the trade law subcommittee has continued to provide legal inputs from
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47/PV.43
98
(Mr. Njenga. AALCC)
an Afro-Asian perspective in almost all the legislative works emanating from
the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) and the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
At the same time, an important project taken up by the AALCC at the
suggestion of UNCITRAL related to the formulation of standard model contracts
suited to the needs of the Asian-African countries has been in progress •. It
was aimed at establishing contractual modalities more evenly balanced between
the interests of the buyer and the seller than was the case with the standard
model contracts elaborated in the West.
Two standard contracts for sale
transactions in commodities and certain minerals, one on a f.o.b. basis and
the other on f.a.s.
terms, were adopted, and published by the Economic and
Social Council in 1977.
Subsequently, a standard contract on c.i.f. terms
applicable to light machinery and durable consumer qoods was prepared and
adopted.
In 1978,
the AALCC ado~ted an integrateq scheme for the settlement of
disputes arising out of economic and commercial transactions with and between
the countrieR of the Afro-Asian region. The scheme envisaged the
establishment of a non-profit network of regional centres of arbitration in
various parts of Asia and Africa as viable alternatives to the traditional
arbitral institutions in the West. These centres were to use the UNCITRAL
arbitration rules as thei~ institutional rules.
So far,
three regional
centres have been established,
in Kuala Lumpur, Cairo and Lagos. The
Kuala Lumpur and Cairo centres are now fully operational and administering
international cases. The C3iro centre has just recently -
this month - set up
a branch office in the port city of Alexandria devoted to maritime
arbitrations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
99
(Mr. Njenga. AALCC)
With a view to promoting a climate conducive to investment in its member
States,
the AALCC,
in 1985, adopted three models of bilateral agreements on
the promotion and protection of investments. These have since been widely
publicized. Further, with a view to promoting regional industrial cooperation
in the region,
in 1991 the AALCC adopted a legal quide on industrial joint
ventures in the Afro-Asian .~egion to assist parties in this region in
negotiating and concluding joint-venture agreements.
At one of its recent sessions, it was brought to the notice of the AALCC
that pressures were being exerted by international financial institutions and
certain industrialized countries on the developing countries to privatize
their public sector undertakings if they wished to be considered favourably
for financial assistance. As a result, some of the countries are carrying out
privatization programmes post haste.
In order to ensure that developing
countries, in their haste tu privatize, do not incur any detriment to their
vital economic interests, t~e AALCC has directed its secretariat to study the
legal aspects of privatization with the aim of preparing a quide to legal
aspects of privatization in Asia and Africa.
The world today is experiencing profound political and economic changes.
Derequlation and liberalization of national economies has become the watchword
in about 150 countries around the globe. These developments are likely to
entail substantial changes in national laws and regulations in the economic
field. As a response to these developments,
the AALCC has recently set up a
computerized data-collectio'l unit as an integral part of its secretariat to
serve as a storehouse for it.formation on the economic laws and regulations of
its member States.
The Asian-African Legal Corlsultative Committee is proud of its record in
the cooperation arrangements wit:h the United Nations in our conmon
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.43
100
(Mr. Njenga. AALCC)
endeavours. We shall spare no effort in enhancinq this cooperation and in the
establishment of a new international leqal order. The new international leqal
order must, however, afflrm such principles and norms of inter-State relations
as the sovereiqn equality of States; non-interference in the internal affairs
of other States; the non-use of force;
the peaceful settlement of disputes;
pacta sunt servanda; respec~. for human riqhts; the riqht to development;
the
protection and preservation of the environment of the qlobal commons; and tee
principle of the common heritaqe of mankind.
In our view, political and economic sovereignty are the hub of
inter-State relations, and ;.n an interdependent world the norms and rules
relatinq to common and mutu!l interests and needs require to be clearly spelt
out. Utopian as it may sound,
the objective of the new leqal world order
should be part of sach a new world order~
It therefore must establish global
equitable relations rather than a discriminatory international division of
labour and economic resources.
It must be consensual and not imposed. We,
for our part, will do our u~ost in the creation of such a just and equitable
new order.
On a personal note, since this item will next be discussed two years
hence,
this is my last opportunity to address this body as the
Secretary-General of the AA.CC, since my term of office expires e~rly in
1994. X therefore wish to 5eize this opportunity to express my profound
gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
to the Legal
Counsel, Mr. Carl-Auqust Fleischhauer, and to the staff of the Secretariat for
all the help and assistance they have extended to me durinq my term of office.
I
thank you, Mr. Presiient and representatives, for qiving me such a
patient hearinq.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl4.1/PV.43
101
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): We have heard the last
speaksr in the debate on this item.
T!:le General Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution Al47/L.3.
May I take it that the Genera~ Assembly adopts draft resolution Al47/L.3?
Draft resolution A/47/L.3 was adopted (resolution 47/6).
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): May I also take it
that it is the wish of the Assembly to conclude its consideration of aqenda
I
item 20?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library