UNITED·
NATIONS
-
A
PROVISIONAL
Al47/PV.42
4 November 1992
ENGLISH
Forty-seventh session
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
PROVISIONAL VER~IM RECORD OF THE 42nd MEETING
Held at Headquarters, New York,
on Friday, 16 October 1992, at 3 p.m.
President:
later:
}.Ir. AKSIN
(Vilt:e-President)
Mr. HAYES
(Vice-President)
(Turkey)
(Ireland)
Social Development:
situation and to youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family [93]
(continued)
(a) Questions relating to the world social
International Conference on ageing and celebration of the tenth
anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan of Action on
Ageing:
(i) Reports of the Secretary-General
(ii) Draft resolution
Programme of work
This record contains the oriqinal text of speeches delivered in English
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages. The final text will
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assemh12·
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They should
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, ~ithin
one week,
Services,
the l'ecord.
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference
room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of
92-61514
2139V (E)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
2-5
In the absence of the President, Hr, Akslp (Turkey), Vic~-President. took
the Chair.
The mee.ting was called to order at 3.15 p,m.
AGENDA ITEM 93 (~ontinued)
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT:
TO YOUTH.. AGEING.. DISABLED PERSONS AND THE FAMILY
(a) QUESTIONS RELATING TO THE KORLD SOCIAL SITUATION AND
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON AGEING AND CELEBRATION OF THE TENTH ~.!mlm;RSARY OF
THE ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PLAN OF ACTION ON AGEING:
(1)
REPORTS OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (Al471339 .. Al47/369)
(ii) DRAFT RESOLUTION (AI~7/L.5/Rev.l)
The PRESIPgNT: This afternoon the General Assembly..
in accordance
with the decision taken at its 3rd plenary meeting and pursuant to resol~tion
46/91.. is holding the fourth and last of the plenary meetings devoted to an
international conference on ageing and to celebrate the tenth anniversary of
the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing.. under sub-item (a)
of agenda item 93.
Mr. VAJPAYEE (India): Ageing is a global phenomenon and therefore
is of universal concern. The statistics on ageing are alarming.. and we are
perhaps moving towards an "age-quake.... as the representative of the Dominican
Republic warned us yesterday. The Secretary-Generales reports ..
"Implementation of the Internationa.l Plan of Action on Ageing" (1\/47/369) and
"Global targets on ageing for the year 2001:
a practical strategy" (A/471339)
are timely and informative and provide us with broad guidance for the tasks
ahead over the next decade. We agree with his assessment of the need for
continuing dialogue.. cooperation and initiative by all the agencies and
Governments concerned.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.42
6
(Mr, Vajpayee, India)
We know from the reports of the Secretary-General that by the year 2001
the world's population is expected to reach 6,3 billion, of which 10 pe~ cent
will be 60 years of age or older. More than 80 per cent of this population
will be in the developing world. This constitutes a challenge for all future
Governments and societies, and calls for changes, perhaps drastic, in social
attitudes as well as in governmental policies,
to meet ~ese new proble~s.
The first part of the next century vill see a dramatic increase in the number
of the aged. However, this will be occurring at a time when traditional
family structures are weakening with the increase in the number of women
seeking employment; many traditional old-ag~ support systems will be slowly
disappearinq, This is why it is of primary importance that we should look
into the situation urqently,
We cannot escape the fact that, as the proportion of senior citizens to
younqer people increases, worker-pensioner conflicts are likely to increase.
We fully support the remedial measures suqgested in the repo~t:
introducing
flexible workinq arranqements to enable older people and women to join the
work forc~; increasing the numbers of youn~ immiqrants; and increasing
individual preparations for old aqe,
includinq life-lonq education,
job
retraining, healthful lifestyles, savings, and security of family and
community ties.
~qeinq is a phenomeno~ which will affect everyone of us some day. With
aqeing, especially in the ~ears after 80, come a number of associated
problems, such as fracture~, loss of vision and other disabilities which
require constant care and attention. Even in the developing societies which
have strong family bonds, crends are likely to change 20 or 30 years hence.
All this requires a better financed and better coordinated system of help for
the aged and for their integration into, and qreater participation in, society.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
7
(Mr. Vajpayee, India)
The World Assembly on Ageing in 1982,
in which 120 countries
participated, adopted an InternationGl Plan of Action on Ageing. The Assembly
provided an occasion to assess the changed social scenario for the ca~e of the
aged and initiate programmes for their well-bei,ng. The Plan has served as a
biueprint for policies around the world in the last decade. But all its goals
have not been reached. While industrial countries have come to terms with
reality and have adopted national policies to help their senior citizens,
developing countries, perhaps because of their traditional age-support system
and fewer resources, have not been equally responsive. We need to act.
The targets on ageing for the next decade from 1992 to 2001 set out in
the Secretary-Genera1's report are ambitious and provide a good basis for
national Governments to follow.
The objectives are support for countries in
setting up their own national targets, and integrating "ageing" into national
and international developmental plans, while generating support for
community-based programmes. The other major target is research into the
subject,
including facilitation of closer global cooperation. On the ~ationa1
plane specifically, it calls for strengthening national coordination
mechanisms and national funding processes, data bases and training centres,
preventing discrimination with respect to older persons and promoting
intergenerational policies and
programming. These,
I agree, would promote
all-round "productive ageing".
India made a modest beginning very early in its Five-Year Plans to tackle
the problems of ageing. Among the initiatives taken were the establishment in
1950 of a training centre for the adult blind at Dehra Dun and inaugurating a
programme of old-age pensions for those elderly without means or support. The
Eighth Five-Year Plan 1992-1997 has also allocated some funds in the national
budget for the care of the aged.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.42
8
(Mr. Vajpayee. India)
The Indian Government has also constituted an interministerial committee
for the welfare of the aged. The Committee's terms of reference' are:
first,
to examine the recommendations of the round-table discussions on the care o~
the elderly organized by the ilia.ian Council of Medical Research and other
medical and family planning bodies, and suggest ways and means of implementing
them; secondly, to consider the draft national policy on care of the elderly
suggested at the round-table discussions and suggest a policy framework for
adoption; and, thirdly,
to suggest programmes for the care and protection of
the elderly,
in keeping with the changing socio-economic conditions, and also
for the utilization of their services and experience, with a view to
supplementing their income and channelizing their energies into community
support activities.
There hes been increasing social awareness in recent years in India of
the plight of the elderly destitute. This has also been due to media
participation. Most States in India operate some kind of social assistance
programmes, for which the qualifying ages vary from 55 to 65 years. The
United Nations report on the world ageing situation in 1991 cites under
country examples the Indian case, with the comment that, although the Indian
programme falls short of any optimum solutions, it demonstrates the country's
commitment and resolve to do something about the problem, and that, given its
economic priories and constraints as a developing country,
the Indian
programmes go far beyond those in many other developing countries, some of
which are much more economically prosperous.
India has also been favourably
cited for its tremendous achievements in controlling the problem of blindness,
especially among the aged.
India was the first country to set up eye camps,
where over a lO-year period 9.5 million cataract operations have been
performed.
-
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PVft42
9-10
(Mr. Yajp8Y8..e, India)
Indian society today 18 stroDglr supportive of its elder population, and
the extended family io the best illustration of this~
It i. ofteu compared to
thebanyan tree, with a strong supporting trunk and many subsidiary shoots.
The older generation within the extended family provides not only moral
support for the younger membsrs but also the f·abric which intertwines all
generations.
In fact,
they are a factor of stability in a strong family unit,
the basic structure of society.
-
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryWoIlIPV.42
11
(Mr. Vajp~e, India)
The Charter of Rights for the Aged that evolved last year contains a
crucial right -
the right to 1Iort. This is a fundamental right that is
observed daily in developing societies. What the aged in developing societies
need is a better funded system and a better coordinated plan to ensure that
people's right to work is not compromised as they age. Last year the
Secretary-General inaugu~ated the Banyan Fund, which is supported
voluntarily. That Fund, along with the Trust Fund, should focus on giving
suppo~t to the most needy.
It would also be useful to inaugurate more
research-oriented institutes OD ageing in Asia, which has more than half of
the world's population.
Ageing is a fact of life that affects every generation and every
society. Twentieth-century advances in science and medicine, while having
given mankind greater life expectancy, have also dramatically increased the
proportion of the aged among us. We can come to grips with this fact only
through understanding and cooperation, as it is unlikely that its consequences
will be confined within national borders.
For that reason we support the
comprehensive draft resolution containing the "Proclamation on Ageing",
submitted by the Dominican Republic on the occasion of the tenth annivers~ry
of the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing.
Mr. BARO (Senegal) (interpretation from French): The delegation of
Senegal has a special interest in taking part in this discussion, which is
part of the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the
International Plan of Action on Ageing.
Senegal, which had the privilege of
hosting,
from 10 to 14 December 1984,
the African Conference on Gerontology,
the first meeting of its type on African soil, attaches the greatest
importance to the need to deal with questions pertaining to the elderly.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.42
12
(Mr. Baro. Senegal)
This is why at the national level the Government of Senegal has adopted a
the abolition of income tax on pensions and exemptions from
number of measures in relation to the elderly. They include the granting. of
ad hoc assistance,
property tax for aged people the rental value of whose property is less than
CFAF 70,000, or approximately $230, which is at least twice the monthly rent
paid by a family. Furthermore,
they are over 45 years of age, retain the widow's pension in the event of
their remarrying.
the widoYs of deceased retired persons may, if
Our Goverument has al~o fostered the setting up of national organizations
for retired people and the aged, with branches throughout the country.
Members of these organizations have experience in all spheres of national
life, and they are involved in several development programmes, as well as in
training and joint-action units.
The most dynamic of these organizations is the National Federation of
Pensioners and the Elderly ~f Senegal, which includes retired people from the
private and public sectors, as well as other older people.
It, too, has
branches throughout the country, and it provides an ideal framework for
multidisciplinary joint ac~ion on all questions pertaining to the ageing of
the population.
We have also set up a national committee and regional committees on
ageing. These include representatives of technical Ministries, certain puhlic
and private institutions and elderly and retired people. The Committee's
functions include studying ways and means to improve the living conditions of
the elderly and suggesting measures to help us to cope with the economic and
social implications of ageing and the harmful effects of structural adjustment
policies on the living conditions of elderly people.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.42
13
(Mr. Baro, Senegal)
The .committees also take part in the planninq, development,
implementation and evaluation of proqrammes of activities for the annual
National Day of the Elderly, orqanized to inform the Seneqalese people about
issues pertaininq to aqeinq and heiqhten their awareness of the role and
special place of the elderly in society.
Amonq ·these important measures are policies that the Government of
Seneqal has pursued with a view to fosterinq conditions conducive to takinq
advantaqe of the knowledqe and know-how of the aqed and involvinq them further
in civil and moral education for the benefit of the younqer generation.
accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, our country is
takinq all the necessary steps to enhance the participation and involvement of
the elderly in the developDent proc~ss. This has enabled older women to play
a leadinq role in the informal sector,
dependence and helpinq to lessen the financial burden on the workinq
population.
thereby reducinq their oconomic
In
In the field of medical services, Government action has led to the
creation of a research and edu~ation unit, whose activities have made possible
a better understandinq of the bioloqical aqeinq process. Within the framework
the medical follow-up of
of the social qoal "Health for all by the year 2000",
elderly persons has been implemented. This has led to the settinq up of an
appropriate health-education proqramme,
services to the people and to traininq qeriatric care personnel.
to brinqinq primary health care
Those developments demonstrate that, despite its socio-economic
difficulties, Seneqal continues to do its utmost to protect the place of the
elderly in traditional society. Certainly there are still many challenqes to
be met, especially in health care, with the increase in the numbers of elderly
sufferinq from diabetes, heart disease and eye problems - not to mention the
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ . _ - - - - - -
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
14-15
(Mr. Baroe Senegal)
accelerated ageing of the rural population and the decline in agricultural
productivity resulting from the massive migration of the young.
This situation, which is to be found throughout Africa, is aggravated
everywhere by our modest means. Therefore, our efforts cannot be effective
without sustained international solidarity in the implementation, at the
national and regional leve~s, of the International Plan of Action on Ageing.
As regards regional co?peration, Senegal is the location of the
headquarters of the African Society of Gerontolclqy, which as representatives
know, was formed to cope with the current situation of the elderly on the
continent and to prepare for the ageing of the popUlation. According to the
Secretary-Generalis report (A/47/369), this will pose grave problems in the
next century. Therefore,
the delegation of Senegal would like to take this
opportl~uity to thank intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations that
are helping the African Society of Gerontology draw up programmes and projects
on ageing in Africa. The society needs consistent, substantial support if it
is to achieve its goal of establishing services for the aged and encouraging
African Governments to take initiatives in this sphere.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.42
16
(Mr. Baro. Senegal)
tn this regard it is desirable that the special United Nations Trust Fund
for Ageing provide funding for the African Society of Gerontology so that it
may become operational. We agree with the Secretary-General, who in his
report (Al47/369) rightly points out that for lack of new contributions the
Fund will not be in a position to meet requests for assistance made by
developing countries. That is why" the Senegalese delegation joins those who
have appealed to the international donor community to contribute generously to
the Fund.
We also hail the activities of the Banyan Fund Association, which,
is playing an important
although it is an autonomous and private organization,
role in exploring possibilities for gathering funds for developing countries.
The ageing of our populations has quickly become as worrying a problem as
development, especially since by the year 2005 persons aged 60 years or more
will comprise 10 per cent of the world's popula~ion, and the majority of them
will be living in developing countries.
these demographic changes in the third world, esp~cially in Africa,
innovative and concrete measures.
The social ana economic impact of
requires
Here it is interesting to note the role of the African Society of
G~rontolo9Y, a voluntary association encompassing people and organizations
faced with
concerned with the ageing of African populations. Nevertheless,
the broad scope of the current situation of the elderly in our continent and
the serious problems exacerbated by conflicts, extreme poverty,
from the land, waves of refugees and displaced persons and the deterioration
the Senegalese delegation believes that the creation of an
of health care,
Following the model of
African institute on ageing should be contemplated.
the Malta Institut~, and with sustained financial support, it could play a
crucial role in the protection and advancement of the elderly in Africa.
the exodus
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/P'I.42
11'
(Mr. Baroe Senegal)
The sizl! of the problem of the ageilng of the world's population and the
effective implementation of the International Plan of Action on Ageing require
a more inte~rated United Nations role for the advancement of the elderly. The
United Nations should ensure internationnl and multisectoral ~oardination in
the Plan's implementation. Therefore,
tbe third report on age!nq, which will
appear in 1997, should take into account this question of coordinating
activities in the implementation of the United Nations pxogramme in this
regard.
Further.more, major forthcoming meetings will have to take due account of
issues of agcitinq.
I have in mind here the International Year of the Family,
1994,
the International Conference on Population and Development in 1994,
the
world summit for social development, planned for the beginning of 1995, and
the World Conference on Women,
to be held in June 1995. These meetings should
allow for specific measures for the implemGntation of the United Nations
Principles for. Older Persons.
Senegal is a sponsor of draft resolution A/47/L.5/Rev.1, entitled
"Proclamation on Ageing".
It hopes that the General Assembly will unanimously
adopt this text, which gives a practical strategy for ageing for the decade
1992-2001.
Our delegation's full support for the draft resolution is based largely
on Senegal's dedication to defending values of traditional African society,
where the aged symbolize wisdom, constitute a source of inspiration and set an
example for the younger generation. These are values shared by the African
peoples in general. As the late Malian writer~ Arnadou Hampate Ba stated:
"Every time an old person dies a library goes up in flames".
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.42
18
Mr. ALVABEZ (Argentina) {interpretation from Spanish): The
,
delegation ~i the Argentine Republic would like at the outset,
through me,
to
thank the Chairman of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States,
the
Permanent Repres9ntative of Uruguay, for the remarks he made in his statement
yesterday on the pioneer attitude of our country regarding the rights of the
elderly.
Indeed, on 23 November 1948, a few months after announcing the Bill of
Rights for the Aged, which in 1949 was incorporated into the Constitution,
Mrs. Eva Peron, wife of the then President of Argentina, addressed to the
world, and in particular to the United Nations, a message in which, on behalf
of defenceless older people, she asked for international recognition of their
rights. There then began a long series of statements, specialized technical
work,
international cooperation and national efforts to make this aspiration a
reality.
Much time has elapsed and many changes have taken place since then.
Some
countries, such as Argentina, have seen an accelerated growth of their older
population because of the beneficial effect of greater life ezpectancy
accompanied by a low birth rate, which is depriving the elderly of proper
support and protection by the younger generation. Other societies have,
like
Argentina, had their policies on ageing adversely affected by the cumulative
effect of the deterioration in the terms of trade,
the external debt and the
unjust distribution of inc~me. Another problem results from the appearance in
recent decades of treatment of older persons involving separation from their
families, exclusion from the community and impersonal provision of assistance.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
19-20
(Mr. Alyarez, Argenti~)
The voice of the international community vas raised against all these
problems in 1982, when the International Plan of Action on Ageing vas
adopted. Ten years later the General Assembly is meeting to evaluate what has
been done,
to give impetus to new actions and p~rticu1arly to keep up the
concern of all countries of the painful problem of the ageing of mankind as a
whole.
It is not a matter of some countries being young and others being old,
nor of specific situations affecting one region or another:
the whole world,
according to the det~\led figures given here, discerns signs ~f great
demographic change with the dawn of the third millennium.
This reality, which affects all mankind, requires joint, consistent
responses.
Each country, each region and the international community as a
whole must give priority to solutions in the framework of comprehensive social
development policies.
It is important to include the social conditions of the
elderly in the agenda of the proposed world social summit for social
development,
the holding of which the Argentine Republic enthusiastically
supports.
Progress must also be made at the technical level, particularly on the
fact that all treatment of the elderly must be based on the values of family
and community solidarity. A good example has been given to us here by less
technically and economically developed countries which know how to keep a
place for the elderly in social life.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
21
(Mr. Alyarez, Argentini)
This compsls us to ponder the root causes of the difficulties in
It is not a lack of economic means nor the unfair
Those
integrating older persons into tb~ life of these societies that claim to be
the most developed, and that are precisely the ones with the greatest number
of elderly persons.
distribution of wealth that primarily impedes their integration.
problems, which are invariably present in the developing world and in large
segments of richer societies, put obstacles in the way of attending to the
elderly, but the problems of alienation and abandonment on the part of the
family and community should also be recalled. There is a cultural attitude
clearly indicated by ~e Secretary-General,
for the old and traditional merely because they are old and traditional, and
too much regard for change, what is novel and what is young, without regard to
their worth or defects. Where there is such a cultural attitude, it is but a
short step from disrepect for the old to the abandonment of elderly people.
Our societies must not take that step.
that seems to result in disrespect
To sum up,
the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the International
lead us to overcome the social and economic
Plan of Action on Ageing must
obstacles in the way of the elderly,
them as part of community values and, above all,
of the social and cultural aspects and ethical attitudes that prevent the
elderly from participating fully in the life of their peoples.
to improve professional attitudes towards
to propose a thorough review
In conclusion, our delegation firmly supports the proposed proclamation
on ageing that is before the Assembly for consideration, and we pledge our
most sincere efforts to give it practical effect.
Mr. MAKA (Zambia}: We are meeting to observe the tenth annivers~ry
of the adoption of the Intarnational Plan of Action on Ageing by the World
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
22
(Mr. MakD, Zambia)
Assembly on Ageing in 1982, which was endorse~ by the United Nations General
Assembly in December of that year. The international conference vill be
successful to the extent that it enhances national and international efforts
aimed at enabling older persons to lead full and productive lives in their
respective societies and, above all, at improving the quality of their lives.
It has been estimated that by the year 2001 the world population will be
6.3 billion, .and that one in every 10 persons will be 60 years of age or
older. Population ageing has been evident in developed countries and is
becoming increasingly so in developing countries. While indicative of an
improvement in the human condition, it has brought with it new challenges for
Governments, challenges that demand new policy approaches. These range from
the changing of attitudes to the provision of basic requirements, particularly
in health and housing.
Since the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing a lot of
work has been done by the United Nations system, Governments and interested
non-governmental organizations.
It is evident from the documentation before
us that the problem of ageing has no boundaries. The appreciation of the
impact of ageing on society in the past differed between the developed and the
developing countrles, basically because of the traditional family structure.
In developing countries such as my own, older people found refuge in the
extended family structure. The extended family structure was and still is a
good thing, which should be encouraged by Governments wherever it exists.
But, with increased urbanization, it has been proved that this approach can no
longer be sustained. This is a fact that we in Zambia have not only
recognized but that we must also address urgently, particularly as our
popUlation is one of the most highly urbanized in sub-Saharan Africa.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
23
(Mr. Maka, Zambia)
Because of the extended family structure, little has been done in my
So far only
country to address the special needs of our senior citizens.
These homes were established by the colonial
three homes e~ist for the aged.
Government to take care of the aged settlers. On independence the homes were
opened to all citizens and residents.
As in the case of dis~led persons, my Government is in the process of
overhauling legal and institutional mechanisms for improving the welfare of
the elderly members of our society. Through the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services, steps are being taken to build an information
data base, which is vital for proper policy formulation. Our approach is to
work very closely with the non-governmental organizations concerned with the
welfare of the elderly and to assist such organizations financially for the
from the
benefit of the aged.
public welfare assistance s~heme, which has been established as a safety net
to cushion the effects of the economic structural adjustment programme.
Thus the elderly are benefiting a great deal
The full protection and promotion of the human rights of the elderly is
our point of departure, because ~e recognize that it is the only way by which
improvements in the status of the elderly can be guaranteed. Protection of
these rights has to De ent=enchcd in appropriate legislation, which must be
followed by effective implementation.
As I have said, my Government is making a fresh start on issues relating
to the elderly. We therefore find our participation in this international
conference on ageing particularly valuable. We have found particularly
inspiring the experience gained by various countries and the United Nations in
the International Plan of Action on Ageing during
their efforts to implement
the decade 1982 to 1991. While recognizing that the goals of the Plan have
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
24-25
not been reached, we are encouraged that a firm foundation has at least been
laid for future action. The global information campaign on ageing mounted for
1992 and beyond has succeeded in raising public awareness, and this should
(Mr. Males. Zombia)
continue.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.42
26
(Mr. Maka. Zambi~)
The observance of 1 October as Internation&l Day for the Elderly, which
first,
for 1993, human
began last year, 1991, has also contributed to this public information
campaign. My delegation therefore supports the Secretary-General's proposal
that to promote the Day in the next three years activities be related to major
United·Nations conferences or events, as follows:
rights for older people and indigenous knowledge and skills of older persons
be related to the World Conference on Human Rights and to the observance of
International Year for cbe World's Indigenous People, both to take place in
in 1994 population ageing and development and ageing and the
1993; second,
family be related to the International Conference on Population and
in 1995 older
Development and the International Year of the Family;
women and international ~olidarity be the themes in relati~n to the Fourth
World Conference on Women and the tenth anniversary of International Youth
third,
Year.
My delegation has carefully studied the report of the Secretary-General
a practical strategy".
entitled "Global targets on ageing for the year 2001:
Our initial reaction is that the eight global
good basis for action at both the international and the national
targets identified provide a
levels.
In conclusion,
I would state what is indeed obvious:
the need for
adequate financial and other resources to translate the proposed targets into
The Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs, as the
action.
United Nations focal point on ageing, should accordingly be enabled to meet
the mandates assigned to it.
Developing countries will also need international assistance to implement
targets on ageing which they will have identified.
national
like my own, having a poor economy and expeiencing drought,
For a country
targets for the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.42
27
(Mr. Maka. Zambia)
elderly will only add to the many priority needs the Government will have
before it but which it will have no capacity to address due to financial
constraints. The generous assistance of the international community w~ll
therefore go a long way in enabling us to improve the welfare of our senior
citizens, as envisaged in the International Plan of Action on Ageing.
Mr. MARUYAMA (Japan): My delegation would like to join the previous
speakers in celebrating the tenth anniversary of the International Plan of
Action on Ageing.
It is a pleasure to be able to participate in the de~ate at
these special meetings of ~e General Assembly.
Ageing is a social development issue in which the United Nations has
played an important advocacy role.
In August 1982 the Plan of Action on
Age\ng was adopted at the World Assembly on Ageing, and was subsequently
endorsed by the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session. The Plan
provides basic policy guidelines for the international community to follow,
and has served to raise awareness as to the seriousness and complexity of the
problem at the national, regional and international levels.
To accelerate
implementation of the Inte:national Plan of Action on Ageing, at its
forty-sixth session the General Assembly called for a set of global targets on
t
ageing for the year 2001.
While Governments,
international organizations and non-governmental
organizations have been making strenuous efforts in this area,
their
achievements are being overshadowed by the rapidity with which the world
population is ageing.
The elderly are the fastest growing segment of the
world's population, and wi:h demographic change proceeding at such a pace it
is essential that the inte~national community renew its commi.tment to making
collaborative efforts to aidress the problem.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.42
28
(Mr. Maryyama, JapAn)
As a longer life span is a reflection of improvements in living
lives.. The employment and
conditions, a society must adjust its social and economic systems to ensure
that the aged lead healthy meaningful
participation in society of the elderly must be encouraged, and the systems
that provide education, social security and health care should be modified to
meet their needs. My delegation believes it is the responsibility of society
as ~ whole to ensure that the aged are active participants in the community,
that they do not become a marginalized group. Their experience and wisdom are
most valuable national assets and could be better utilized if they were
Society
integrated into the process of social and economic development.
should address the problem of ageing not only by trying to meet the immediate
material needs of the elderly but also by focusing on their psychological
needs. Opportunities to participate more actively in society help to give
them a sense of self-esteem and personal worth, and at t~e same time allow
younger generations to benefit from their experience and expertise.
In Japan, as a result of the improvement of medical and health care
the average life expectancy has risen to 80 years,
the highest in
standards,
the world. As a result, however, it is predicted that early in the next
century one out of four people in Japan will be over 65 years old. Naturally,
it is of the greatest importance to ensure that this expanding part of the
population live healthy, comfortable lives participating in and contributing
to society.
Committee on Ageing compos3d of the relevant Cabinet ministers,
Guidelines on Policy for a Society of Longevity, and strenuously promoted
measures based on them.
It was for this reason that the Government of Japan set up a
formulated the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
29-30
(Mr. Maru,yama, ~)
As the groving population ©f the elderly influences the social and
economic structure, each country vill have to explore approaches to the
prblem that take into account its own social, historical and economic
conditions. This is indeed a challenging task, but it poses especially great
difficulties for those countries with limited resources.
In order to
facilitate efforts at the national level,
therefore, it is import-ant to
identify the most common problems and concentrate international collaboration
on addressing them, so that every country viII be aided in formulating its
national programme.
My delegation notes that work on the issue of ageing, as it is closely
interconnected with other issues of social development# including the role of
the family, people with disabilities, aged women, poverty a1'1d human riqhts, is
going forward at a number of organizations within the United Nations system.
Because it is such a multi-faceted problem, comprehensive approaches will have
to be developed.
This issue is potentially the most
important we shall have to address in
the next century.
It is not the concern of one age group alone, but a
challenqe each of us must face sooner or later.
It has wide social
implications, and will affect future qenerations.
If we are to meet that
challenqe, it will require the concerted efforts of Governments,
local
communities, and international and non-qovernmental orqanizations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.42
31
Pril1ce DLAMINI (Swaziland):
I am pleased to take this opportunity
to address the Assembly once again on behalf of 'His Majesty King Mswati Ill,
the Government and the nation of the Kingdom of Swaziland.
The celebration of the tenth ~iversary of tue adoption of the
Interna~ional Plan of Action ,on Ageing has led to an international awareness
of the needs and problems of ageing persons. While yosterday ageing was
simply a function of time,
today it is influenced by economic frustration;
the
inaccessibility of jobs; chronic,
incurable diseasas; and other social
constraints. My country has not been spared the factors that influence
ageing. We,
too, are experiencing a rise in the ageing population due to
increased nutritional and medical awareness, which has resulted in a greater
life expectancy for our population.
While it is true that Swaziland is a traditional society and places great
emphasis on the role played by the extended family system, it goes without
saying that, due to urbanization and industrialization,
there has emerged a
group of elderly persons needing to receive care and assistance from the State
I
through non-governmental organizations, as a result of the disintegration of
the family unit.
Swaziland does not favour the philosophy or practice of
institutionalizing its ageing persons, particularly as this practice goes
totally against our culture and customs. Not only that, human experience has
shown that development that runs counter to the traditional and cultural
values of a particular society does not bear the intended fruits.
It is said that the virtues and advantages of urbanization and
industrialization are inseparable from the waning and stripping of certain
elements or features of our social and moral fibre,
to the detriment of both
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.42
32
(Pripce Dlamipi, Swazilapd)
our traditional and cultural norms. The breakdown of the family unit and the
resulting ostracism and neglect of the elderly, especially in our developing
countries, is being blamed on urbanization. Under no circumstances, unless it
is inevitable, should we encourage uprooting our seni~r citizens from their
familiar surroundings and placing them in strange and possibly hostile
environments.
As the Government is concerned about the needs of this segment of the
population - persons aged 65 and over - some help in terms of public
assistance is provided to those who are economically and financially
disadvantaged. Approximately 30,000 people in my country are currently
benefiting from this programme.
Apart from the Government, a variety of non-governmental organizations
offer various forms of assistance to the elderly. These organizations include
church groups,
the Association of Swaziland Retired Civil Servants and others
that address the requirements and problems of ageing persons by providing
material assistance to those in need. They make regular visits to the homes
of the elderly in rural areas, after having identified them through local
leaders. Assistance might take the form of repairs or of constructing new
homesteads with labour provided by community members,
inclUding our youth, as
members of scout troops and boys' brigades.
Community leaders at the grass-roots level, where the people are, are
familiar with the needs of the local population and are entrusted with the
responsibility of identifying the ageing and referring them to the nearest
appropriate social welfare ~ffice so that they may be registered for eventual
assistance. Working hand in hand with local authorities and non-governmental
organizations,
this system in Swaziland has proved efficient in identifying
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
33
(f£ipce DlaminiJ Swaziland)
and rendering &ssistance, ho~ever.meagre, to the elderly. We have been able
C~ offer some financial assistance to the nvn-qovernmental orqanizations
concerned.
Many ways of making the lives of ageing persons comfortable are
I
to the international community to assist countries,
envisaged, but lack of resources is both a constraint and a hindrance.
therefore appeal
especially developing countries such as Swaziland,
community and social workers, who would then be better equipped to deal with
In any event, we hope and believe that with the assis~ance of the
the issue.
international community we can and will eventually realize our goal of making
the twilight years of our senior citizens fulfilled, dignified and fruitful.
I
to train more of our
Society's neglect of the elderly is not only a human tragedy, one clearly
questionable on religious grounds, but also a sad example of ingratitude to
our parents, who invested so much in our upbringing to maturity. This cruel
and malicious attitude should be abandoned - and not only for our own sake, as
old age will surely catch up with us; it must be wiped out permanently, as it
negates all the virtues that mankind accrues to its honour.
Human history is that man has always lived and prospered by the sweat of
others and that he has always been reluctant to come to the rescue of those
The proof is in the dilly-dallying attitude of
who are less fortunate.
Governments and politicians towards the plight of those members of our
remember again that.
communities who suffer from disabilities. But we must
unlike mental and physical disabilities, problems that we all would like to
the process of ageing, a
believe cannot befall us, we are talking here about
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryiJ.'/~••2
34.-35
natural phelllomenon t;.hat nat.:ure CAJUlot~elp.but alloW' to take its course.
In
othe~ words, we are addr.e~sinc; this problem not only for those who are ~lready
elderly, but for us and all of humankind as wel1.*
(Prince D1amipi, Swazilapd)
~ Mr. Hayes (Ireland), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47/PV.42
36
(Prince D1amipi, Swaziland)
It would therefore be far-sighted of the Assembly and all the Governments
of the world to exert themselves to the muimwn in trying to resolve thE!
problem of ageing. With the passing of time,
those of us who debated this
item 10 years ago and at this conference will look back with pride and declare
with honour that solving the problems of the aged was indeed a worthwhile,
long-term investment.
Mrs. CA6TRQ DE BARISH (Costa Rica) (interpretation from Spanish):
In his statement on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean
States, its Chairman, Ambassador Ramiro Piriz Ballon, Permanent Representative
of Uruguay, expressed with eloquence, clarity and great sensitivity our
Group's thoughts about the important subject of ageing, as the Assembly began
its celebration of the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Plan of Action
on Ageing.
My delegation fully supports that statement,
in which we were rightly
reminded that one State member of our group, Argentina, emphasized with great
vision the importanc~ of this question and introduced a draft Declaration on
the Rights of the Elderly in 1948,
the year when the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights was adopted.
My delegation also wishe~ to emphasize how important it is,
in order to
respond to the needs of o~r region,
to establish in Latin America and the
Caribbean an institute on ageing like the one that already exists in Malta.
At this stage of the debate my delegation will speak of the most
vulnerable of the senior citizens, who as we know,
form a group that is in
itself vulnerable.
I refer in particular to older and elderly women and the
roles they have played in the family in various cultures and civilizations
since time immemorial.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
37
(Mrs. Castro de Barish,
Costa Rica)
Among the important landmarks of the 1990s, 1994 has been proclaimed the
International Year of the Family by the General Assembly. There is no doubt
that resolutions will be adopted based on initiatives and proposals responding
to the need to strengthen the family and the values on which it is founded and
that must sustain it. We must emphasize that in that basic social unit older
and elderly women have played and continue to play a very special role.
It is
also fitting to mention another aspect: within the social qro~p of older and
elderly men and women it is women who have the worst of a difficult, complex
situation, which had until recent years been ignored.
As has already been mentioned,
the ageing of populations is today a
world-wide phenomenon, pronounced in some parts of the world and incipient in
others. We believe it is necessary to focus on the role of older and elderly
women in the family and the situation in which millions of women live, mainly,
but not exclusively,
in developing countries.
The report prepared for the meeting of the Consultative Group on
"Middle-Aged and Older Women in Latin America and the Caribbean:
The Current
Situation and Its Political Consequences",
jointly organized by the American
Association of Retired Persons and the Pan-American Health Organization and
held in Washington, D.C.,
from 18 to 20 October 1988; containing some
important observations that help us understand the situation a little better.
It tells us:
"Little is known about the segment of the population that is made up
of older women - between ages 40 and 59 - and elderly women - aged 60 and
above -
in Latin America and the Caribbean. Although women over 40 years
of age constitute a relatively small percentage of the population -
from
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.42
38
(Mrs. Castro de Barish,
(;osta Rica)
9 per cent to 20 per cent -
in the countries of the reqion, absolute
fiqures are hiqh and a~e on the rise. Since the population of Latin
America and the Caribbean is relatively younq, little attention has been
paid so far to older and elderly women in research-related or
service-related activities. Only recently has work bequn to analyse
census statistics by sex and aqe, although services for women are still
oriented more towards maternity problems than towards chronic disease."
The study offers some important conclusions, such as the following:
"Older and elderly women play a key role in both economic
development and family stability in the region, much more so than one
would expect from their numbers. This is so much the case that if their
productive endeavours and their role as care-takers were suddenly taken
away,
the effect on the economy and social structure of the region would
be devastating."
Why are they so important? The central role of older and elderly women
is explained by the fact that at the same time as they serVG as the family's
economic and emotional base,
they have a series of relationships of dependency
with husband, father, brothers and sons. They have to balance the needs of
the family unit and the needs of its individuals, all the while holding a
subordinate position relative to the men in the household. There would seeEn
to be some truth in the belief that only in old age is a woman allowed to be
herself and to look after herself - if she is lucky, at that.
Another important conclusion of the study is that:
"Women's life expectancy is also increasing in the region, and it is
expected to exceed an average of 71 years in the year 2000."
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.42
39-40
(Mrs. Castro de Barish,
Costa Rica)
~hat figure, which is in accord ~ith statistics mentioned here by many
previous speakers, is forecast in spite of a workload twice or three times
that of most women of comparable age in the develo~8d countries and despite a
probable history of mUltiple pregnancies, chronic anaemia, non-existent
preventive care and inadequate medical services. This capacity of older and
elderly women in Latin America and the Caribbean to resist the enormous
physical and emotional pressures in their lives is one of the most interesting
and encouraging conclusions of the stUdy.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47/PV.42
41
(Mrs. Castro de Barish,
Costa Rica)
The research includes that of a small group of researchers who have begun
to focus on specific experiences which are universal among older and elderly
women;
they are trying to define and describe the qualities and
characteristics of these experiences, which include menopause and sexuality.
Widowhood,
though not universal, is quite common and has also been the object
of research; it seems to be a very fruitful line.
My delegation applauds the efforts of the Pan-American Health
Organization in promoting research on the situation and living conditions of
elderly women and their health needs and social services needs. We
acknowledge the tireless devotion to the problem shown by Ambassador
Julia Tavares de Alvarez, Alternate Representative of the Dominican Republic,
whose contribution to the agenda item on ageing has been amply recognized at
the United Nations.
Costa Rica associates itself with the purposes and concepts, as well as
the suggestions and guidelines, contained in document Al47/L.5/Rev.l, which we
have the honour of sponsoring, entitled "Proclamation on Ageing". We wish to
emphasize that joint efforts of the public and private sectors will be very
valuable in implementing the Proclamation and the International Plan of Action
on Ageing,
the anniversary of whose adoption we are celebrating, and we must
encourage an increase in such efforts. Here I refer specifically to the
important support from the recently created Banyan Fund for the efforts to
promote activities that will make it possible for older persons to remain both
socially and economically independent.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.42
42
(Mrs, Castro de Barish,
Costa Rica)
We hope that we can rely on the political will to face global ageing in
the coming decades, which
"will require a revolution in both thinking and feeling,"
(A/47/PV.39, p. 37)
I conclude by expressing Costa Rica's support for proclaiming 1999 -
the
start of the era of ageing, at the dawn of the new century -
the International
Year of Older Persons,
The PRESIDF.NT: We have heard the last speaker in the debate.
We shall now proceed to consider the draft resolution contained in
document A/47/L.5/Rev.l.
Mrs. TAVARES DE ALVAREZ (Dominican Republic) (interpretation from
Spanish): At the request of some delegations, having held consultations with
the other sponsors we have decided to propose ~wo amendments to the draft
resolution contained in document A/47/L.5/Rev,1.
The first amendment is to delete the first line of par&graph 1 (1) of the
annex, which reads:
"To intensify efforts to advance disarmament programmes and to
The paragraph will now read:
"... .
"To provide the irunense human and material resources now urgently
needed for adjustments to pumanity's coming of age, which can be
understood as a demographic phenomenon but also as a social, economic and
cultural one of great promise;",
The second amendment is paragraph 3,
the last paragraph of the annex,
It
is to insert after "Older Persons" the following words:
"from the resources of the regular budget for the 1998~'999 biennium and
from voluntary contributions,"
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.42
43
(Mrs. Tayares de Alvarez,
Dominican Republic)
The rest of the paragraph will remain as it stands.
I have given these
amendments in writing to the Secretariat.
I also wish to info~ the Assembly that the delegation of Viet Nam has
joined the sponsor of the draft resolution.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank all the delegations that
have offered their support and cooperation to make the "Proclamation on
Ageing" in 1992 a reality.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft
resolution in document A/47/L.5/Rev.1.
May I
take it that the Assembly decides to adopt resolution
A/47/L.5/Rev.l as orally amended by the representative of the Dominican
Republic?
Draft resolution A/47/L.5/Rey.1, as orally amended, was adopted
(resolution 47/5).
The PRESIDENT: The General Assembly haG thus concluded this
international conference on ageing, which has sought to consolidate a set of
targets on ageing for the year 2001 and to celebrate the tenth anniversary of
the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing.
I
therefore declare closed this special commemoration.
PROGRAMME OF WORK
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to inform representatives that the
Assembly will consider agenda item 148, "Emergency assistance to the
Philippines," on Wednesday, 21 October, as the last item in the afternoon.
The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library