INITED 
IATIONS 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.26 
15 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  26th MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Tuesday,  6 October  1992, at 10  a.m. 
President: 
later: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
Mr.  PHOOFOLO 
(Vice-President) 
Mr.  GANEV 
(President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Lesotho) 
(Bulgaria) 
General  debate  [9]  (continued) 
Statements  made by 
Mr.  Gurirab  (Namibia) 
Mr.  Romulo  (Philippines) 
Mr.  Ndolo Ayah  (Kenya) 
Mr.  Aitmatov  (Kyrgyzstan) 
Mr.  Carias  Zapata  (Honduras) 
Adoption  of  the  agenda and organization  of work:  second  report  of 
the General  Committee  [8]  (continued) 
Tentative  programme  of  work 
This record  contains  the original  text  of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
he printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
he sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
2Se_week, to  the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section, Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750,  2 United  Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy  of 
the record. 
92-61328  1648V  (E) 
A/47/PV.26 
2-5 
The meeting was  called  to order  at  10.25  a.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  9  (continued) 
GENERAL  DEBATE 
Mr. GURIRAB  (Namibia):  Since  its  inception  in  1945, the United 
Nations  has  spearheaded  humanity's  common yearning  for  a peaceful,  just and 
prosperous world,  a world  freed  at  last  from war,  caprice, greed  and other 
abominable  human  and  social  impulses. 
The brilliant  and  forward-looking  authors  of  the Charter  of  the United 
Nations  and  the  rest of  us who  are the beneficiaries  of  their  collective 
wisdom  and  imagination  have  reason  to hope  for  a firm  consolidation  of a 
democratic,  stable  and  compassionate  world  order, which would make  a clean 
break with  the past,  characterized  by  two unprecedented  and most  destructive 
world wars  in this  century. 
A/47/PV.26 
6 
(Mr. Gurirab.  Namibia) 
This world  order,  the optimists  proclaimed,  would  be governed  by  the  rule 
of law, respect  for  human  rights, universal  exercise  of  the  right  to 
self-determination,  recognition  of  the equality  of  all  nations, large  and 
small, and  sharing  among  the members  of  the human  family.  On  this basis  it 
was fair to expect  that  the great  achievements  in science  and  technology  could 
generously be utilized  to  assure  the  common  survival  of humanity,  protection 
of the environment  and  the unfettered  enjoyment  of  larger  freedoms  by  every 
individual on this planet  Earth. 
After  all, the  founding  fathers  themselves made  a solemn pledge  in the 
Charter 
"to save  succeeding generations  from  the  scourge  of war, which  twice  in 
our lifetime has brought  untold  sorrow  to  mankind". 
Their vision of  a peaceful  and harmonious world  and peoples' hopes  for  social 
advancement  and economic  prosperity  have had  a common  source:  total  revulsion 
against war, destruction  and  darkness. 
Forty-seven years  later,  reflecting  on  the  intervening years, we  note 
that the world  has witnessed  more, not  fewer,  incidents  of  just  and  unjust 
wars, regional  conflicts,  racial  and ethnic  strife,  acute  forms of  human 
suffering, environmental  degradation  and  an unmitigated  endangerment  of  life 
itself. 
Namibia joined  other member  States of  the Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries at its Summit  in Jakarta  in stating  that 
"the world  today  is  far  from being  a peaceful,  just  and  secure  place. 
Simmering  disputes, violent  conflicts,  aggression  and  foreign  occupation, 
interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States, policies  of hegemony  and 
domination,  ethnic  strife,  religious  intolerance,  new  forms  of  racism  and 
A/47/PV.26 
7 
(Mr. Gurirab. Namibia) 
narrowly conceived nationalism are major and dangerous obstacles to 
harmonious coexistence among States and peoples and have even led to the 
disintegration of States and societies." 
Nuclear conflagration, thank heavens, has not occurred, but the world is 
far from being a peaceful and secure place.  History does indeed repeat 
itself, at least some of the time, if not most of the time. 
Let me add to this assessment one more observation made in Jakarta by an 
eminent Asian leader.  His view, which is consistent with our own, was: 
"We must also ensure that the new world order to which the leaders of the 
industrialised countries often refer does not turn out to be but a new 
version of the same old patterns of domination of the strong over the 
weak and the rich over the poor." 
For the new world order to be universally acceptable, it should be genuine in 
its import and distinct from the old unjust and undemocratic order, and it 
should show a way forward towards greater human solidarity and cooperation. 
At this very moment, in South Africa, Somalia, Liberia, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Cambodia and various parts of the former Soviet Union and 
elsewhere in the world millions of victims languish in perpetual tragedy. 
This carnage includes innocent and defenceless men, women and children who are 
killed by guns or hunger.  The current state of world affairs hardly 
encourages confidence and optimism about our common future.  One need not be a 
cynic to hold this view. 
My delegation is delighted to see our illustrious Secretary-General 
occupying a lofty place in the United Nations Organization at this critical 
time of a changing global environment.  It was Africa's pride and 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali's own crowning personal achievement when he was 
unanimously elected last year as the first African Secretary-General of our 
A/47/PV.26 
8 
(Mr. Gurirab. Namibia) 
Organization. We  commend him  for his  courage  and  initiative  and  for  the manner 
in which he has  so ably  carried out his daunting tasks. 
Namibia welcomes  the  Secretary-General's  "Agenda  for  Peace".  Many of  the 
ideas and recommendations  contained  in it coincide with those emanating  from 
bodies such as the Organization  of African Unity  (OAU),  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, the Commonwealth  and others, notably  the Nordic  States, which  some 
time ago circulated  their  views  on  the United Nations  reform process. 
With this  in mind, Namibia  is alive to a suggestion made  from  this 
rostrum, and endorsed  by  other  delegations, that a special meeting  of  the 
Security Council be  convened  to consider  the Secretary-General's  proposals. If 
and when this  suggestion  is carried out and  the proposed meeting  takes place, 
we expect the Secretary-General  and the members  of  the Security  Council  to 
take into consideration  the  contributions  I have mentioned  and  to ensure  that 
the intended consultations  are  inclusive  and transparent.  There  ought to be a 
careful balance between  the need  for  a renewed  commitment  to  strengthen 
mechanisms for maintaining world peace  and  security, on  the one hand, and a 
focus on the burning  issues  of poverty  and other  forms  of  socio-economic 
injustice, on the other. 
In this  context, I should  like  to  refer  to a bold  initiative  taken by  the 
Secretary-General  of  the OAU, Mr. Salim Ahmed  Salim.  I have  in mind  his 
proposed creation of  an  institutional  mechanism, within  the OAU  General 
Secretariat, to deal promptly  and effectively with  conflict management, 
prevention and  resolution  in  respect of  the eruption of major  crises, similar 
to those now prevailing  in Somalia  and Liberia, in any African State. 
A/47/PV.26 
9-10 
(Mr. Gurirab.  Namibia) 
There  is also  a companion  set of proposals  in a package  entitled  "The 
Kampala  Document",  which  is the product  of  a meeting  held  last year  in 
Kampala,  Uganda,  devoted  to guestions  of  security,  stability,  development and 
co-operation  in Africa.  These proposals,  in our view,  are  serious  and 
practical  innovations  by Africans  themselves  to confront  major  political  and 
security  crises  as  and when  they occur  in any part  of Africa,  and we 
wholeheartedly  endorse  them. 
A/47/PV.26 
11 
(Mr. Gurirab, Namibia) 
The United  Nations  Charter  itself  devotes  its chapter VIII  to  regional 
arrangements or  agencies  for dealing with  issues  such as peace, security  and 
conflict, and encourages  appropriate  action which  is consistent with  the 
purposes and principles  of the United Nations.  The  current  Secretary-General 
himself lamented  the  fact that the  "cold war had  impaired  the proper 
activation of this  key provision  of  the Charter  and also  the  fact that", to 
paraphrase him,  rather  than helping  to  resolve  regional  conflicts  super-Powers 
actually managed  to exacerbate  them  for  their own  selfish  ends. 
Quite clearly, there  is a linkage between the priority  agendas  of the 
Secretaries-General  of  the United Nations  and of  the Organization of  African 
Unity, and this  is, as a matter  of  fact, in keeping with  the  long-standing 
co-operation between  the United Nations  and the Organization  of African Unity. 
Mr. President, at this  juncture  I should  like  to address  a few words  to 
you personally.  May  I begin by  stating  that your  own unanimous  election  and 
the critical  role  required  of your  office become  not only propitious  on the 
time-scale of  the global  agenda, as evidenced by  the  items  for  discussion 
during the current  session of the Assembly, but equally by  affording  an ideal 
opportunity to you boldly  and unambiguously  to articulate  the  concerns  and 
aspirations of  the poor  and developing Members  of  this  Organization. 
It gives me great pleasure, therefore, on behalf  of  the Government  and 
people of Namibia, to extend  congratulations  to you upon your  brilliant 
election.  I have  no doubt  in my mind  that, given your  diplomatic  skills  and 
vast practical  experience, our deliberations  will  be  crowned with  success. 
Our two friendly  countries  enjoy excellent  relations, and  I extend best wishes 
to you. 
To your predecessor, His Excellency  Mr. Shamir  S. Shihabi  of  the  Kingdom 
°f Saudi Arabia, I say many  congratulations  for  a job well  done, and  I should 
like to wish him great  success  and happiness  in his  future  endeavours. 
A/47/PV.26 
12 
(Mr. Gurirab. Namibia) 
The long cherished ideal of the universality of our Organization has been 
further enhanced as more and more new nations have joined its membership.  As 
this world becomes unavoidably interdependent and we collectively realize that 
the world is truly a global village, increasingly high expections are now 
being placed in the United Nations.  This is yet another reason why the 
Organization needs to be further revitalized and genuinely democratized. 
The world's contemporary challenges stemming from rapidly changing 
inter-State relations and social problems cannot be adequately dealt with by 
the United Nations without fundamental institutional and procedural reforms, 
including the revision of its Charter.  It is in this context that Namibia 
welcomes all the new Members and wishes them well, while assuring them of our 
desire to promote close co-operation with all of them in a spirit of 
friendship and peaceful coexistence. 
The Rio Earth Summit made the matter abundantly clear:  that global 
economic development and environmental protection go hand in hand. 
Development must be based on the sustainable utilization of the environment 
for the sake of this and all future generations. 
Namibia's Constitution contains a special provision on this crucial 
subject.  It states: 
"The State shall actively promote and maintain the welfare of the 
people by adopting, inter alia, policies aimed at ... the maintenance of 
ecosystems, essential ecological processes and biological diversity of 
Namibia and utilization of living natural resources on a sustainable 
basis for the benefit of all Namibians, both present and future; in 
particular, the Government shall provide measures against the dumping or 
recycling of foreign nuclear and toxic wastf on Namibian territory." 
A/47/PV.26 
13-15 
(Mr. Gurirab.  Namibia) 
Moreover,  it  further  charges  the  Ombudsman  with  the  duty 
"to investigate  complaints  concerning  the over-utilization  of  living 
natural  resources,  the  irrational  exploitation  of  non-renewable 
resources,  the degradation  and  destruction  of ecosystems  and  failure  to 
protect  the beauty  and  character  of  Namibia." 
Towards  implementing  environment-friendly  policies which  aim at 
sustainable development,  the Government  had,  prior  to the Rio Earth  Summit, 
adopted a "Green Plan"  for Namibia  that outlines  a comprehensive  framework  for 
development  in accordance  with  sustainable  environmental  principles.  The  Plan 
elaborates on  the Government's  approach  to our  ecological  challenges  and  the 
conscientious management  of our  natural  resources  and  national  assets. 
During the days  of  apartheid  colonialism  and  foreign  exploitation,  both 
renewable and non-renewable  resources  that provided  the very basis  of  the 
economy were  subjected  to  ruthless  plunder mainly  for the benefit  of 
foreigners.  The Government  has  taken  steps  to put  an end  to  this  disastrous 
situation.  Many  in the  developing world,  Namibia  foremost  among  them,  depend 
on these resources  for  daily  subsistence,  and unless  there  are going  to be 
alternatives  for  dealing with debilitating  problems  such as the debt  burden, 
the foreign exchange  dilemma  and  technological  backwardness, many of us are, 
sad to say, bound  to  remain  in a perpetual  state of poverty  and 
underdevelopment.  This would  in turn mean  further  degrading  the  environment 
and endangering  our very  existence. 
It follows  that what  is  required  now  is an undertaking  to speed  up 
implementation  of  Agenda  21, adopted  in Rio.  Its  financing,  it must  be 
stressed, is not  only  to  assist  the developing  countries  to fight  poverty  and 
create jobs but  equally  to protect  the ecosystem  itself, which  is very  vital 
for the survival  of  humankind. 
A/47/PV.26 
16 
(Mr. Gurirab.  NaminiM 
In the  same vein, let me  add  that Namibia, being  a dry,  semi-desert 
country, endorses  the proposed  convention  on combating desertification  and 
urges  that  the preparation  of  the  international  convention  on  desertification 
be undertaken  during  the current  session. 
This brings me  to the next  topic, namely  the current drought  and acute 
situation of hunger  and  suffering which has  afflicted  the whole  of the 
southern African  subregion.  Crop production,  livestock  farming  and our 
efforts  to become  food-sufficient  and  to achieve  security have  suffered 
severely.  The  Government  established  a National  Committee  on Drought to 
ensure,  inter  alia, better  coordination  and more  efficient  delivery of water 
and  food  to  the most needy  sections  of the population  and  the  sustenance of 
the  livestock  and game.  An  initial  amount of  120 million  rand was budgeted 
for  these vital schemes. 
Furthermore, in addition to these national  efforts, we have  also made a 
special  appeal  to the  international  community  and, generally  speaking, the 
response has been prompt  and helpful, for which Namibia  is  exceedingly 
grateful. 
A  regional  effort  is under way which  involves both  the  sharing of data 
and  the coordinating  of programmes  and communication  and  transport facilities, 
coupled with  the assistance  received  from  the United Nations  system, 
intergovernmental  and non-governmental  organizations  and  individuals  around 
the world. 
In this  cdnnection,  I should  like to express  a special word  of 
commendation  and  appreciation  to Sir Ketumile Masire, President of  the 
Republic  of  Botswana, and  to the  secretariat  of  Southern African  Development 
Coordination  Conference  (SADCC) for having  taken  timely  and decisive  steps 
A/47/PV.26 
17 
(Mr. Gurirab.  Namibia) 
with a view  to  sensitizing  and mobilizing  the  international  community  as to 
the plight of  all our peoples  in the  subregion  and  for co-sponsoring  an 
important conference  on  the  situation  in Geneva early  this year.  Of course, 
we all remain hopeful  that there will be early  and abundant  rains  this year, 
and in all subsequent  years, as this will, no doubt, mean  saving  lives.  I 
thought I should  also  add here  a point which, with each passing day, is 
becoming more  and more  clear  to all Namibians.  This has  to do with  finding, 
preserving, planning  and  distributing water  resources, as being perhaps  the 
single most precious  primary  commodity  needed  to keep us going  and  sustain 
life itself. 
The realization  that  the world  is a global village  and one  market-place 
with interlocking  financial  institutions  and  credit arrangements  underlines 
the internationalization  of  the world  economy. 
Namibia, being one  of  the poorest  countries  in the South, must  continue 
to raise its voice, in unison with other memoers  of  the non-aligned  movement 
and the rest of  the developing  countries, in favour  of  the  creation of  a new 
and just international  economic  order.  The  call  for global  economic 
restructuring and  reform  is a legitimate  demand, which  should  find  its place 
among the top priorities  on the  agenda of  this  and other  international  forums. 
The ending of  the  cold war, as  it is alleged,  and  the emergence  of a 
so-called new world  order, characterized  in part by  the  rapprochement  of  the 
nuclear Powers, have  engendered  a peculiar, new cilture  of economic  blackmail 
and sabotage.  Powerful  and  rich countries  have  lately  tended  to tamper with 
the sovereignty of weaker  and poorer  nations by using  the power  of the purse 
and by laying down  some  stringent  conditions.  This  is being  done  supposedly 
A/47/PV.26 
18 
(Mr. Gurirab. Namibia) 
to promote  democracy,  transparency  in governance  and public  accountability  a 
situation which  leads  to unilateral  and  often punitive  actions  just to prove a 
point.  To  us, it unfortunately  constitutes  an arbitrary  and  precipitous 
exercise  of power  and  judgement. 
As Mwalimu Julius  Nyerere, the  former  Chairman  of  the  South Commission, 
put  it recently  on another  occasion: 
"these  events  have had  two very  important  consequences  for  the South, and 
all  the countries  of  it.  First, they  increase  the urgency of  developing 
countries building  national  self-reliance  and  increasing  their  economic 
co-operation  in all  fields.  Secondly,  the triumphant West now believes 
that  its  success  in the  cold war gives  it the  right 
as well  as the 
untrammelled  power 
aggressively  to promote  its economic  and  political 
philosophy  throughout  the South. 
"Directly,  and  through  international  finance  and  trade  institutions 
controlled  by  the wealthy  States, and  sometimes by  embargoes  or even 
political  intervention,  the North  is therefore  forcing  developing 
countries  of  the  South  to conform  to the patterns  it designs. 
"At the  same time protectionism  of different  kinds  is  increasing in 
the North, and  our  separate weakness  is being used  to  ride  roughshod over 
our  opinions  in international  negotiations  as well  as  in  bilateral 
South-North  discussions." 
How can one  disagree  with  this poignant  observation? 
The  non-aligned  Movement 
which  represents  the majority  of  humankind 
is an  ideal  forum  for  the developing  countries within which  to plan and act 
together  on  issues, including  the  important  issues which preoccupy  the United 
Nations. 
A/47/PV.26 
19-20 
Allow me, once  again, to  cite Mwalimu's  wise  and  telling words when he 
(Mr. Gurirab.  Namibia) 
asserted  thus: 
"We need  a Movement  of  the  South  to  speak  for  the  rights  of the  countries 
of the South.  At present what we have  is the Non-Aligned  Movement, and 
for United Nations  negotiating  purposes 
the Group  of  77.  Why  then is 
there this  talk  of  the Non-Aligned  Movement  no  longer being needed?" 
This, I believe,  remains  the  inescapable  reality, whether  the world was or is 
bipolar or unipolar. 
A/47/PV.26 
21 
(Mr. Gurirab. Namibia) 
On  the  situation  in South Africa, Namibia expresses  support  for and 
solidarity  with  the  liberation movements  and all  the democratic  forces inside 
that violence-torn  neighbouring  country.  That  is why we  felt gratified, and 
participated  in the debate, when  the  issue of  the  raging violence  in South 
Africa was  brought  to the Security  Council  last July. 
Our  emphasis  in our  statement was  that, now that  the United Nations had 
become  engaged  in the  situation, its presence  should be prolonged  and the size 
of  its team  increased  in order  to monitor  the violence  and  assist  in the 
transition  to  a democratic, non-racial  and united  South Africa. For now, the 
situation  remains  explosive  and dangerous  and, therefore, warrants  the 
continuation  of  international  pressure  on the South African  Government. 
In the meantime, we  call  upon Chief Mangosuthu  Gatsha Buthelezi  of the 
Inkatha  Freedom  Party  to  rejoin Comrade Nelson Mandela, President de Klerk and 
his other  compatriots  in the negotiations, with  the establishment  and 
consolidation  of peace  as  the  first prerequisite,  and  the  adoption of a 
democratic  constitution  as the next  step in the  transition. 
For  the  first  time  in their history, our Angolan neighbours  went to the 
polls  on  29 and  30 September,  in multiparty  elections, to choose  a party and 
candidates who must now  install  a new Government.  It has  not been easy, but 
the  sheer will  and determination  of  the voters  and monitors  alike have 
confounded  many  a cynic who believed  that  it would  be  impossible  to hold free 
and  fair  elections  in Angola.  Namibia  sees  this  is a great  victory  for the 
Angolan people,-and  congratulates  them.  It also  congratulates  the  leaders of 
all  the political  parties  on believing  in their people's political  maturity 
and  accepting  the  final verdict  of  the ballot-box.  Namibia  once  again gives 
its  assurance  that  it will  continue  to work  closely with  the Government of the 
A/47/PV.26 
22 
(Mr. Gurirab.  Namibia) 
day in that  sisterly  and  friendly  country, on  the basis of  friendship  and  for 
the benefit of both  countries. 
The Government  of  President  Chissano  and RENAMO  finally  sat down  together 
in Rome and  signed  a ceasefire  agreement  to end  the  fighting  in Mozambique  and 
rebuild the country.  We  congratulate  both President  Joaquim  Chissano  and 
Mr. Afonso Dhlakama  on demonstrating  political will  and  for giving  the 
Mozambican people  hope  and  confidence  in their  future.  They deserve  our  full 
and hearty  congratulations  on  this momentous  achievement, and we wish  them 
further success  as they work  for  the adoption of  a  new constitution  and  for 
the restoration  of peace  and order  in their  country. 
Many helpers  and  interlocutors made  this  achievement possible.  They 
include the  Italian hosts  and,  in particular,  the United Nations.  But I 
should like  to commend  Presidents Mugabe  and Masire  for  their  mediation 
efforts, which have paid  off, to the great happiness of all Africans  and  their 
well-wishers around  the world.  There was one more  key player:  Mr. Pik Botha, 
the South African Foreign Minister, who was very  active during  the final, 
delicate hours, thereby  securing  the  signing of  the cease-fire  agreement. 
Namibia is also pleased  to  acknowledge  his  contribution. 
As regards  the  situation  in Somalia, Namibia  supports  the  request of 
President Abdou Diouf  of  the Republic  of  Senegal, current Chairman of  the 
Organization of African Unity  (OAU),  that  an  international  conference  on  the 
human disaster  in that African  country be  convened  as a matter  of  the  utmost 
urgency.  As  the United  Nations  Secretary-General  himself  has put it, 
"when  it comes  to death  and misery, no one  situation  takes priority  over 
another."  (A/47/1, para.  116) 
A/47/PV.26 
23 
(Mr.  Gurirab. Namihia) 
On the  situation  in Western  Sahara, Namibi  supports  the principle of 
self-determination  for  the Saharan people.  To  this end, we  endorse  the 
efforts  of  the Secretary-General  and his  Special  Representative  to remove all 
the obstacles  and help  resolve  disputes  about  the criteria  for eligibility to 
vote  in the  referendum,  and  thus  to advance  the process. 
Likewise, Namibia has  always  held  the view  that the  political 
aspirations,  and  in particular  the right  to self-determination,  of the 
Palestinian  people, led by  the Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO), are at 
the core of  the conflict  in the Middle  East.  Here we  include  the 
establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State, in accordance with Security 
Council  resolutions  242  (1967) and  338  (1973).  The  season  of peace  and 
dialogue  has  arrived.  In the present  circumstances, that  is the only viable 
and  sensible  game  in town.  If a face-to-face meeting between  the President of 
Syria  and  the Prime Minister  of  Israel will  give  further  impetus  to the Middle 
East peace process  and pave  the way  towards  a just, comprehensive  and lasting 
settlement, Namibia will  strongly  encourage  such  a historic  undertaking within 
the  framework  of  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967) and  338  (1973). 
Iran and  the United Arab Emirates 
two  sisterly  and  friendly 
neighbours  - ought not  to allow the present misunderstandings  to be magnified 
beyond  the confines  of  their bilateral  relations.  Rather, they  should resolve 
those misunderstandings  through dialogue  and by peaceful means. 
Happily, Kuwait  is going  ahead with  the consolidation  of peace  and the 
reconstruction of  the country.  Namibia expresses  its unswerving  solidarity 
with  its Kuwaiti  friends, and extends  best wishes  to  them. 
A/47/PV.26 
24-25 
(Mr. Gurirab.  Namibia) 
The carnage  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina  is but  the  latest  instance  of man's 
inhumanity  to man.  Whether  it takes place  under  the banner  of  the  notorious 
"ethnic cleansing" or  as  religious  retribution,  this ugly  tragedy  cannot be 
allowed to continue. 
In and  around  the Korean peninsula, we  see  steady movement by  all  the 
parties concerned  in  favour  of dialogue, while  de-emphasizing  confrontation 
and military  solutions.  This  is indeed  good  news  for world peace  and 
security. The  reunification  of Korea  is no  longer  an unthinkable  goal, as the 
North and the  South  of  that divided  nation earnestly  continue  to  regularise 
high-level meetings  and  to encourage  families  to  interact  freely. 
A/47/PV.26 
26 
(Mr. Gurirab.  Namibia) 
We urge  the Democratic  People's  Republic  of Korea  and  the Republic of Korea, 
with both of which Namibia maintains  excellent  diplomatic  and  cooperative 
relations,  to  remain engaged  in those  critical  discussions  until  an amicable 
and peaceful  solution  is  found. 
Peace  and  reconciliation  in Cambodia  are yet to be  realized.  Inspired by 
the  success  of  the United  Nations Transition Assistance  Group  (UNTAG) in 
Namibia, we hope  and pray  that  the ongoing United  Nations  Transitional 
Authority  in Cambodia  (UNTAC) operation  in that troubled  country, too, will be 
crowned with huge  success. 
In concluding my  statement, I would be  remiss  if  I did not give  an update 
to the General  Assembly  and  the Secretary-General  on the  outstanding  dispute 
between Namibia  and South Africa on Walvis  Bay  and  the offshore  islands.  As 
the matter  stands now, a joint  transitional  administration  of  a  limited 
duration will  be established  over  these  territories  on  1 November  1992.  It 
will  be  known  as the Joint Administrative  Authority  and headed by  two Chief 
Executives, one Namibian  and one South African.  In the meantime, the two 
Governments  will  keep  the negotiations  going on the core  issue  of 
re-integration,  in accordance with Security  Council  resolution  432  (1978). 
Finally, may  I also  inform  the Assembly  that Namibia became  the one 
hundred  and  fifth member  of  the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade  (GATT) 
on  15 September  1992  and  also  acceded  to the nuclear  non-proliferation  Treaty 
(NPT) and deposited  the  instruments  to this  effect with  the  designated 
authorities. 
Mr•  ROMULO  (Philippines):  It is with  special pleasure  that  the 
Government  and  the people  of  the Philippines  extend  to you, Sir, their warm 
felicitations  on your  assumption  of  the presidency  of  the General  Assembly at 
this  session.  You were  one of  the most prominent  and vigorous  advocates 
A/47/PV.26 
27 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
of freedom and  democracy  in your  country.  We  in the Philippines  watched  your 
struggle with  interest  and  sympathy,  and we  joined  the  rest of  the world  in 
applauding the  triumph  of  that  struggle  as  the triumph  of us all.  That 
triumph led to your  elevation  to the high office you now hold  in your  country 
and, now, to your  election  as President  of  the General  Assembly.  Your 
election, therefore,  is a source of  special  satisfaction  for us. 
At the  same  time, we  congratulate  your  predecessor. His  Excellency 
Ambassador Samir  S.  Shihabi  of  the Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, for his  excellent 
leadership in presiding  over  the Assembly  at  its  forty-sixth  session. 
My delegation  also warmly welcomes Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali.  He brings 
to his arduous  and exalted mission decades  of  experience  in and deep  insight 
into the relations  among  nations  and  the nature  and work  of  the United 
Nations.  In less  than  a year  in office, Mr. Boutros-Ghali  has  demonstrated 
not only an unflinching  devotion  to  the work  of our Organization but  also a 
keen sense of  the direction  it must  take  in dealing with  the  great 
international  issues  of our  time. 
Permit me  at  this point  to express  the heartfelt  appreciation  and 
gratitude of  the Philippine  Government  and of  the  Filipino  people  for  the 
generous assistance  extended  by  the members  of  the world  community  and 
international organizations  to the hundreds  of  thousands  of victims  of  floods 
and mud flows  from Mt. Pinatubo, whose  fury has described  by  scientists  as 
"the volcanic  eruption  of  the  century".  Their  dire prediction  is that 
Mt. Pinatubo's mud  flows, which have  already buried  towns  and villages  and 
turned the once  green  fields  of  Central  Luzon  into  a grey  and  desolate 
landscape, will  continue  its destruction  for  several more years.  As we  embark 
on large-scale  relief  and  rehabilitation  efforts  in the affected  areas, my 
A/47/PV.26 
28 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
Government would  like once more  to appeal  for assistance  from  the members of 
the  international  community  and  organizations  even  as we  thank  them  for the 
help  already  extended  since Mt. Pinatubo  erupted  in June 1991. 
We  hold  this  session of  the General  Assembly  at a moment  in history that 
has  seen the wave  of  democracy  and  national  freedom  sweep  the world  with 
astounding  and  unprecedented  rapidity.  This  is manifested  by, among others, 
the  roster  of  new countries  admitted  to the United  Nations  this year 
nations 
newly emerged  from  the confining  and oppressive  darkness of  totalitarian 
imperialism:  Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia  and Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, 
Kazakhstan, Krygyzstan,  the Republic  of Moldova, Slovenia, Tajikistan  and 
Turkmenistan.  This  list of new States, new Members  of  the United Nations, 
reads  like  a roll of honour  in the  annals of  freedom  in our  era.  We welcome 
them,  as we  also  do San Marino, to these halls. 
We  Filipinos  take pride  in having  been early  in the  ranks  of  democracy's 
march  in  recent history.  In 1986, through  the exercise  of people power, we 
restored  the  institutions  of democracy  in our  country.  This  democratic 
restoration  found both  fulfilment  and  renewed  strength  in the  national 
elections  our people  conducted  five months  ago and  in the peaceful  transfer of 
power  that  resulted  from  the  supreme  exercise  of  the democratic process. 
The very  fact of  that peaceful  transfer  of power  through  free  elections 
has  affirmed,  for  all  to  see, the political  stability  of  our  land  and, no 
doubt,  contributed  to  the climate of peace  and  stability  in our  region. 
In pursuance  of  national  stability  and peace, our  new  leadership, under 
President  Fidel V.  Ramos, has  embarked  on a policy  and mission  of 
reconciliation  among  our  people, closing  divisions, healing  wounds  and 
A/47/PV.26 
29-30 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
reaching out  to  all.  Among  the measures we have  taken  is the granting  of 
amnesty to those disaffected  groups which had  takan  the path of  rebellion 
of 
whatever  ideological  or  religious persuasion  they might be, to whatever 
organizational  or  ethnic  affiliation  they might belong. 
Elected  under  the banner  of people empowerment, our  new  leadership  has 
chosen, through  its policies, to  ride  the crest of  the wave of  economic 
liberalization  that has  inexorably  rolled  across  the world  and has, in so many 
nations, improved  so many  lives  in  so short  a time.  We have  chosen  this path 
for the same  reason others  have done 
because we believe  that  it is the best 
road to sustained  economic  growth  and  a better  life  for our people. 
A/47/PV.26 
31 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
Our  new  leadership,  immediately  upon  assuming  office,  committed  itself 
unequivocally  to the  liberalization  of our  trading  regime  and of  the  rules 
governing  investments  in our  country.  We have  removed  virtually  all 
foreign-exchange  controls,  thus  facilitating  the  international  movement of 
currency.  The  privatization  of  key public  industries  proceeds  apace. 
Consistent  with  the new primacy  of  commerce  and  economics  in relations between 
nations, we have placed  trade  and  economic  relations  at  the  top of our 
diplomatic  priorities. 
Only  a few weeks  ago,  in Jakarta,  the capital  city  of our  Indonesian 
neighbour, we  joined  the Non-Aligned  Movement,  in which  the Philippines  had 
been  an observer  for many  years.  Far  from being  rendered  irrelevant  by the 
end  of  the  cold war,  the Non-Aligned  Movement, we  found,  was  larger,  stronger 
and even more  relevant  than ever before.  Many  of  the  old  divisions  in the 
Movement  had  closed,  and  a new cohesion had been  found.  Moreover,  the 
Movement  had  turned more  of  its attention  to problems  of  trade,  finance, 
technology  and  all  those  other  things  that make  up economic  relations  between 
nations. 
The  end  of  the cold war may have greatly  diminished  the  likelihood  of 
worldwide  conflict  and global  cataclysm,  but  it has given  rise  to  new 
challenges  that  are  just  as  threatening  for  the peoples  of many  nations and 
regions,  even  as many  of  the old  issues  remain  unresolved. 
The weight  of  their  external  debt  continues  to crush  the  economies of 
many developing .countries,  including  those  countries,  like  the  Philippines, 
which  have made  strenuous  efforts  to pay  their  debts  religiously.  Surely, 
with  some  imagination  and  creativity,  and  a modicum  of good will  and 
A/47/PV.26 
32 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
enlightened  self-interest,  the nations  of  the world  can,  together,  arrive  at 
some solution that would  allow the debtor  countries  to develop  and get  out 
from under  the  crushing  burden  of  their  debt.  At  the very  least,  the  debtor 
countries should be given  access  to their  actual  and potential markets  without 
any artificial  restrictions,  to allow  them  to develop  their  economies  and 
improve the lives  of  their  peoples while  they  continue  to  service  their  debts 
from meagre  resources. 
More and more  of  the world's  nations  have  adhered  ever more  strongly  to 
the proposition  that  economic  liberalization  is vital  to the  improvement  of 
industrial productivity  and  the generation  of economic  growth.  And yet, most 
ironically, protectionist  barriers  continue  to  rise and  to hamper  the  flow of 
goods and services.  The world's peoples  call  upon  the  international 
community,  in particular  upon  the developed  countries,  to  lay aside  narrow 
self-interest  and push  forward  the Uruguay  Round  of multilateral  trade 
negotiations to a speedy  and  successful  conclusion. 
The formation  of  trading blocs  in some  areas has  aroused  the  apprehension 
of countries outside  those blocs with  respect  to their potential  for 
artificially diverting  trade  and  investment,  diversions  damaging  to the 
efficiency of  the global  economic  system.  We  in the Association  of  South-East 
Asian Nations  (ASEAN) have  committed  ourselves  to the  formation of  an ASEAN 
free trade area that would  facilitate  trade  among  ourselves.  But we  are 
determined to keep ourselves  open  to world  trade, on which  our  economies 
depend so much. 
A/47/PV.26 
33 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
Each  country  has  an  inalienable  right  to development.  And  the United 
Nations  has  a paramount  role  in seeing  to  it that  it is  realized.  The ongoing 
restructuring  and  revitalization process  in the economic  and  social  fields 
should  therefore  be geared  towards  the effective  discharge  of  this  role by the 
United  Nations  system. 
The  continuing  scourge  of poverty,  the  rapid  increase  in population, the 
uneven  rate of  economic  growth  among  countries  and  the  asymmetry  in the 
economic  and  social  structures  of nations, together  with  the dazzling  advances 
in transportation  and  communication,  have given  rise to  a new phenomenon of 
our  times:  the massive migration of  labour.  As one  of  the  largest  sources of 
this migration,  the Philippines  is convinced  that  it is now time  for  the 
international  community  to deal with  this phenomenon  no  longer  in haphazard 
and  isolated ways, but  on  a planned  and  strategic  basis  and  on  an 
international  scale. 
In so doing, we would  do well  to heed  the appeal  of  the  Secretary-General 
to accord  deeper  understanding  and  respect  to the  rights  and needs  of the more 
vulnerable  groups  of  society.  A  substantial  part  of  the migration  of labour 
is the  thousands  of young women  from many developing  countries  who  venture 
forth  to more  affluent  countries  in search of  a better  life  for  themselves and 
their  families, only  to fall victim  to unspeakable  abuse,  in many  cases to 
violence,  sometimes  ending  in death,  simply because  they  are women.  Roaming 
the  streets  of  the world  are  145 million  children 
homeless, hungry, 
neglected,  in mpst  cases victims  of  abuse  and mistreatment  by  adults. 
Thousands  of  the disabled  and  the ageing, particularly  in the  developing 
countries,  are  cast  away,  stripped  of  their  dignity,  from  the mainstream  of 
society. 
A/47/PV.26 
34 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
The untrammelled  population  growth  in many  regions, the profligate  use of 
the Earth's  resources  and  the pollution  of  the  land, water  and  air  have 
severely damaged  the Earth's  life-sustaining  ecology  in many places, 
threatening the  livelihoods  of  farmers  and  fishermen  and  the health of 
everyone.  It was  therefore  with  a keen  sense of hope  and high  expectations 
that the Philippines  participated  in the United  Nations  Conference  on 
Environment  and Development  in Rio  de Janeiro  last  June.  At  that  Conference, 
the collective will  of  the  international  community  was marshalled  at the 
highest level of  leadership  on behalf  of  the sustainable  development  of our 
Earth and its  resources.  The  Philippines  applauds  its  considerable 
achievements  and  remains  committed  to  its goals  and  ideals, as embodied  in 
Agenda 21, the  implementation  of which  requires  adequate  new and  additional 
financial resources. 
To carry  out on  a national  scale  the objectives  set  forth  in Agenda 21, 
my President has  created  the Philippine  Council  for  Sustainable  Development, 
which counts non-governmental  organizations  and, particularly,  the youth  among 
its members.  I am also pleased  to announce  that,  in observance  of  the 
International Year  for  the World's  Indigenous  People,  the Philippines  will 
host in April  next year  a Global Youth Earth  Summit 
or Global YES 
in 
cooperation with  the United  Nations  Environment  Programme's  Global Youth  Forum 
and with the  full endorsement  and  support  of  the United Nations  Development 
Programme, the United  Nations  Educational, Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization,  and  the  International  Labour  Organisation.  I appeal  to the 
world to support  this  undertaking. 
A/47/PV.26 
35 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippinas) 
The  cold war's  end has  lifted  a great pall of global  threat  from over the 
Earth  and  closed  a fundamental  division  in the  international  community.  It 
has  thus  opened  new vistas  of hope  for peace  and global  security,  directly 
leading  to major  advances  in some of  the world's  hitherto  intractable 
conflicts:  Afghanistan,  Cambodia,  the Middle  East, Central  America,  South 
Africa.  Nevertheless,  intra-regional  and  intra-national  conflicts  continue to 
ravage people's  lives  and homes. 
The  end of  super-Power  confrontation  and  the dissolution  of empires and 
blocs have  freed nations  and dismantled  tyrannies.  They have  also  unleashed 
age-old  hostilities  between  antagonistic  groups  and  released  them  to erupt in 
tragic violence.  These  conflicts, new and old, have  taken various  forms and 
dimensions. 
In the Middle  East, movement  in the peace process  has given  rise  to new, 
albeit modest, hopes.  However,  hope must be  tempered  still, as the basic 
cause of  conflict 
the denial of  a homeland  and  sovereignty  to the 
Palestinian  people 
remains  unresolved. 
A/47/PV.26 
36 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
In South Africa,  the  institutions  of  apartheid  have been dismantled,  a 
hopeful development  that  can be  attributed  in no  small measure  to the  resolute 
and patient  efforts  of  the United Nations  and  the  international  community.  We 
are heartened  that  the  stalled  negotiations  on  the  future of  that  country may 
finally get back  on  track with  the expected  resumption  of  the Convention  for a 
Democratic  South Africa.  In Somalia,  intertribal  warfare  conspires with  the 
cruelties of  nature  to  inflict  upon  the people  of  that  unhappy  land death by 
violence or  starvation.  The  people  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  specifically 
its Muslim population,  are  subjected  to the barbarity  of ethnic  cleansing  and 
the horrors of  fratricidal  war while  the  international  community  helplessly 
looks on.  Similar  forms,  if not  similar  degrees, of ethnic  violence  have 
erupted in some places  in the  former  Soviet  Union. 
In our own  region  of  South-East  Asia,  in Cambodia,  a peace  agreement 
painstakingly worked  out by  the United  Nations, the Association  of  South-East 
Asian Nations  (ASEAN),  other  interested  Governments  and  the  Cambodian 
factions themselves  has provided  for  and  led  to the mounting  of  the  largest 
peace-keeping  operation  of  the United  Nations  and  the  assumption  of one of  its 
gravest responsibilities,  the United  Nations  Transitional  Authority  for 
Cambodia,  to which  the Philippines  has  contributed  a contingent  of  policemen 
and naval observers.  However,  one of  the  factions  has, of  late, chosen  not  to 
participate  further  in the peace process  until  its  conditions,  some of which 
go beyond  the  terms of  the Paris peace  Agreement,  are met.  It  is now the 
responsibility  of  the  international  community  to ensure  that  the  fabric  of 
imminent peace  does  not  unravel  and  to place  the peace process  back  on  track. 
Conflicting  claims  in the South  China  Sea have given  rise  to  acute 
concern among  the  countries  involved  and other  States with  interests  in the 
A/47/PV.26 
37 
(Mr. Romulo. Philippines) 
area.  Last July the Foreign Ministers of ASEAN issued in Manila the ASEAN 
Declaration on the South China Sea, calling on all claimants to settle their 
disputes peacefully, pledging to embark on cooperative endeavours in the area 
and inviting all parties concerned to subscribe to the Declaration.  Dialogues 
have been taking place in the region involving officials and academicians from 
the claimant States and other interested parties.  It is our hope that these 
dialogues will help to avert misunderstanding and conflict and eventually lead 
to the day when this vast, vital and strategic portion of the sea can be 
transformed from an area of incipient tension into a region of enduring peace 
and cooperation.  All these fall squarely under the purposes and principles of 
the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation in South-East Asia, which the 
signatories, including the Philippines, are requesting the General Assembly to 
endorse at this session. 
Thus, even as the world welcomes the cold war's end and the march of 
freedom and democracy across the earth, in the relations among nations old 
wounds fester, break out and recur and new ones are opened.  And yet hopes run 
higher than they have ever done since the last great war.  These hopes are 
focused especially on the new possibilities for the United Nations in its 
mission of preventing war, making peace, keeping the peace and building for 
peace.  In this new era of opportunity it is both possible and imperative for 
the United Nations to discharge the role envisioned for it by the Charter as 
the primary keeper of peace and security in the world. 
It is therefore extremely fitting that in his first report on the work of 
the Organization our new Secretary-General dwells almost exclusively on this 
role of the United Nations and the opportunities opened for it by the historic 
changes of recent times. 
A/47/PV.26 
38 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
The Philippines  welcomes  the  Secretary-General's  report,  "An Agenda  for 
Peace  Preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and peace-keeping,"  and  is  studying 
it with great  attention.  We  commend  it to the world  for  serious 
consideration,  for  it  seeks  to bring  the United  Nations  back  to  its  roots  as 
an organization with  an effective  capacity  to make peace  and  keep  the peace. 
The report  is filled  with wise,  timely  and practical  prescriptions,  and I 
should like to  single out  a  few. 
We support  the  Secretary-General's  call  for  an enlarged  and more 
effective  role  for  the  International  Court of  Justice.  We  join the 
Secretary-General  in reaffirming  the Manila Declaration  on the  Peaceful 
Settlement of  International  Disputes,  as approved by  the General  Assembly.  We 
endorse his  recognition  of  the need  to  relieve  the economic  difficulties  of 
States that  are  affected  by  sanctions  imposed  on another  State  under 
Article 41 of  the  Charter. 
We commend  for  especially  close  consideration  the  Secretary-General's 
bold proposals  for giving  life to Chapter Vll  of  the Charter,  particularly 
Article 42, which  authorizes  the  Security  Council  to take military  action to 
maintain or  restore  international  peace  and  security,  and Article  43, which 
mandates Members  of  the United  Nations  to place  armed  forces  and  facilities  on 
call for this purpose. 
Granting  the United  Nations  increased  power  and greater  authority  for 
peace-keeping  and enforcement  action would  gain  stronger  support  from  the 
international  community  if the  Security  Council  could  function with  a greater 
degree of democracy  than heretofore.  Why,  for  example,  should  a region with 
approximately  15 per  cent  of  the world's  population  and  23 per  cent of  the 
total membership  of  the United  Nations  have  40 per  cent  representation  in the 
Security Council  this year, with  three  having  the power  of  veto? 
A/47/PV.26 
39 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
Clearly,  that  is a legitimate  guestion.  However,  the  composition  of the 
Security  Council  is but  one  of  the provisions  in the Charter  that  could stand 
improvement.  My  delegation  appreciates  current  efforts  to  restructure  and 
revitalize  the economic  and  social  sectors  of  the United  Nations  and  to reform 
both  the  General  Assembly  and  the Secretariat.  We note, however,  that such 
efforts  are often  limited  by a hesitation  to  review  the United Nations  Charter 
itself. 
Addressing  the work  of  the Special  Committee  on the Charter  and  the 
Strengthening  of  the Role of  the Organization  during  the  twenty-ninth  session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  then Philippine  Foreign  Minister, 
General  Carlos  P.  Romulo,  said: 
"At no  time  in history  has  it been more  clear  that  the many and 
closely  interrelated  global problems  that beset  us will  not yield to 
peacemeal  and  national  solutions.  The paramount  importance  of  the United 
Nations  as the  capstone  of human  society has been  reaffirmed  with  great 
force by  the momentous  events even of  this  single year.  The  design of a 
new world  economic  order,  the mobilizing  of world  agriculture,  a global 
approach  to population problems,  the equitable  redistribution  of world 
economic  resources,  the achievement  of disarmament  and peace 
all 
require  an ever more  effective  and more  efficient  world  Organization. 
"For  these  reasons,  it  is more  than ever  appropriate  that we are 
continuing  our  consideration  of  the  improvement  of  the United  Nations 
itself.  The  centrality  of  the United  Nations  is obvious  and 
inescapable.  The  increasing  value  of  the United  Nations  is  undoubted. 
But  its  rate of  adaptation  to  rapidly moving world  affairs  is  doubted; 
its  adequacy  to perform  the  functions  thrust  upon  it by  its Members, and 
simply  by  the urgent  course  of world  history,  is  doubted. 
A/47/PV.26 
40 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
"When we  began  this  discussion  in 1970, on the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of our world  Organization,  the effort  seemed  pertinent 
enough.  But  now,  as we  continue,  the  accelerating pace of  change  in the 
world  has  already  caught  up with  us and  threatens  to pass  us by.  The 
mechanisms  of  the United  Nations  are  increasingly  creaky  and primitive  in 
light  of  the  task of plenary management  that  the Organization  is 
increasingly  called  upon  to assume.  While  the prescience  of the  founders 
was  remarkable,  and  they  succeeded  in designing  a flexible  and  adaptable 
Organization with  a Charter  of enduring worth,  at the  same  time  it was 
wholly  impossible  for  them  to  anticipate  the  speed with which  events 
would  carry  us  into  the  interdependent  global  age  and  the  requirements 
that would be placed  on our world  body." 
A/47/PV.26 
41 
(Mr. Romulo.  Philippines) 
General  Romulo, who happened  to be my  father  and one  of  the  founders of 
the United  Nations, made  these  remarks  in 1974.  He might  as well be making 
them  today.  I do not wish  to state  the obvious, but  I know  that my  father's 
message  rings  loud  and  clear  in this Hall.  Let  us now proceed  to rectify the 
omissions  of  the past. 
Towards  this end,  the Philippine  delegation  submits  that  the time has 
come  for  the United Nations  to avail  itself  of  the provisions  of Article 109 
regarding  the convening  of  a General  Conference  to  review  the Charter.  My 
delegation  will  consult with  like-minded  Members  in the coming year with a 
view  to definitively  addressing  this proposal,  specifically  through a 
resolution  calling  for  such a review conference, which,  according  to the 
Charter  itself,  should have been placed  on the agenda of  the General  Assembly 
10 years  after  its  adoption  in 1945. 
We  are only  three years  shy of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  our 
Organization.  Its celebration, we believe, would  be  further  enhanced by the 
adoption  and  implementation  of  such  a resolution.  Through  it, we  hope to 
contribute  to the noble work  of making  the United  Nations  a truly  effective 
instrument,  as the  signatories  envisioned  it to be,  for  saving  "succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge of war" and  for promoting  "social  progress  and 
better  standards  of  life  in larger  freedom".  The  confluence  of  historic 
events  in our  time presents  us with  a unique  opportunity  to  fulfil  the mandate 
from  our  founders.  Let  us prove  ourselves  worthy  of  their  trust. 
Mr. NDOLO AYAH  (Kenya):  First  of  all, let me  join  the  other 
representatives  who have  spoken before me  in congratulating  you warmly. Sir, 
on your  unanimous  election  to the presidency  of  the  forty-seventh  session of 
the United  Nations  General  Assembly.  Your  election  to this high  office  is not 
only proof  of  the  confidence  which  the Assembly  has  in you, but  a great honour 
A/47/PV.26 
42 
(Mr. Ndolo Avah.  Kenya) 
as well to your  country,  Bulgaria.  We  are  confident  that, under your  able 
leadership, our  deliberations  will be  steered  to a successful  conclusion. 
I also wish  to pay  a tribute  to your predecessor. Ambassador  Samir 
Shihabi of Saudi Arabia,  for  the great  diplomatic  skills with which he 
successfully  led  the  forty-sixth  session. 
We are happy  to welcome  the  several Members  that  joined  our  Organization 
in the past year.  With  their  admission,  the United  Nations  has moved  once 
again closer  to the  realization  of  the principle  of  universality  of 
membership.  We  are encouraged  by  their  commitment  to  the principles  and 
objectives of  the Charter  and we  look  forward  to working  closely with  them  in 
the days ahead  in creating  a better  world  for mankind  through  this 
Organization.  Their  admission  comes  at a very  significant  moment  in the 
history of the United  Nations,  a time when our Organization  is undergoing 
revitalization  and  reorganization  and  is poised  to meet  the new  challenges  in 
the rapidly changing  international  scene.* 
The successes  of  the United Nations  and  the  important  contribution  that 
it is expected  to make  towards  the maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security will  in no  small measure  depend  on the efforts  of our  new 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali.  We  commend  him  for his  timely 
report, "An Agenda  for Peace",  in which he analyses  and offers  pragmatic 
recommendations  on ways  of  strengthening  and making more  efficient  the 
capacity of  the United Nations  for preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and 
peace-keeping. 
Security based  on  the old  theory of  deterrence  has  failed  to  guarantee 
mankind a world without  the  threat  of war  and nuclear  holocaust.  Kenya 
* 
Mr. Phoofolo  (Lesotho), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.26 
43 
(Mr. Ndolo  Ayah. Kenya) 
believes  that peace  is not merely  the  absence  of war but  the  absence of the 
threat  of war  or  of  the use  of  force  in international  relations  and  in all 
spheres  of  life  as well.  The  end  of  super-Power  rivalry  and  the demise of the 
cold-war  era offer  the world  a rare opportunity  not  only  to  reorganize 
international  relations but  also  to create  a peaceful  atmosphere  devoid of 
nuclear  threat.  Positive  steps have been  taken  in Geneva  in the Conference on 
Disarmament  through  the  successful  conclusion  of  the negotiations  on the 
chemical weapons  Convention.  Kenya  is happy  to be  among  the many  States which 
have  sponsored  a draft  resolution,  to be placed  before  this Assembly  at the 
current  session,  on chemical  and bacteriological  weapons  under  the  Convention 
on the prohibition  of the development,  production,  stockpiling  and use of 
chemical weapons. 
As  important  as all these developments  are, Kenya  still holds  to the view 
that  a comprehensive  test ban  is the only viable way of  stopping  the momentum 
of  the nuclear  arms  race.  It  is the most  appropriate  tool  for practical arms 
control  policies  geared  towards preventing  further  arms  escalation.  In this 
regard,  the  accession by China  and  France  to the non-proliferation  Treaty is a 
welcome  step  in the  right  direction. 
Kenya welcomed without  reservation  the collapse  of  the bipolar  structure 
of  the  cold war.  However,  the consequences  of  the change  have  been 
devastating  to  some and  catastrophic  to others.  One  thing  is clear.  The 
changes,  although  desired  and necessary,  have  come  in too  rapidly  for most. 
Consequently,  instead  of being  a triumph  for  democracy,  the  changes  now 
present  a serious  challenge,  not  only  for democracy  and  the  survival  of the 
democratic  institutions  they were meant  to strengthen,  but  also  a severe test 
of  the will  and  the  capacity  of  the United  Nations  and  its  institutions to 
respond  effectively  to the  resultant  crises. 
A/47/PV.26 
44-45 
(Mr. Ndolo  Ayah.  Kenya) 
Somalia  is a particularly  distressing  example.  In the words  of our 
Secretary-General,  as contained  in his  report  of  11 September  1992 on the work 
of this  Organization: 
"Somalia poses  a particularly  difficult  challenge  to the United 
Nations.  A means  must  be  found of  responding  to  the urgent  and 
overwhelming  needs  of  a population  increasingly  desperate  in the  face of 
widespread  hunger,  the  absence  of national  administration,  almost 
complete  destruction  of basic  infrastructure  and  acute  insecurity." 
(A/47/1, para.  145) 
As a neighbour  to Somalia,  Kenya has had  to bear more  than  its  fair  share 
of Somali  refugees, now  standing  at well over half  a million people.  Close to 
6 million out of  Somali's  population  of  7 million people  are  in  serious 
distress, with  some  2 million  condemned  to certain death before  this human 
tragedy is eventually brought  to a  conclusion. 
A/47/PV.26 
46 
(Mr. Ndolo Avah. Kenya) 
We thank the Secretary-General and his team for their tireless efforts in 
putting together a comprehensive and multifaceted programme of action covering 
humanitarian relief, the consolidation of a cease-fire, the reduction of 
organized violence and national reconciliation.  The United Nations 
Under-Secretary-General  for Humanitarian Affairs, Ambassador Jan Eliasson, has 
also done commendably well in coordinating United Nations assistance to 
Somalia.  Kenya still remains ready to offer the necessary facilities to 
United Nations agencies, and inter-governmental and non-governmental 
organizations to assist Somalia. 
While humanitarian assistance is of the utmost priority in the present 
circumstances, we in Kenya have not lost sight of the paramount importance of 
the need for a round table.  There is absolutely no alternative to dialogue. 
My President, His Excellency Daniel Arap Moi, has constantly reminded the 
Somali leaders that they must put the interests of the Somali people before 
their own narrow and personal interests.  Kenya will do whatever it can, along 
with its neighbours, to assist all Somali factions, without exclusion, to come 
together and discuss a durable solution to this tragedy. 
Elsewhere in Africa there have been encouraging trends of reconciliation 
and amicable solutions to ethnic or ideological conflicts, which have retarded 
progress for decades.  We salute the people of Mozambique and Angola for 
opting for dialogue to solve their differences. 
We also look forward to a peaceful solution, at long last, to the 
problems of Cambodia and divided Korea, and support the initiatives in Central 
America to solve their problems through the regional approach, as provided for 
in the Charter. 
A/47/PV.26 
47 
(Mr. Ndolo Ayah.  Kenya) 
The  situation  in the Middle  East  is still  far  from  settled.  However  we 
express cautious  optimism  at the  current  rounds of  talks  initiated  by 
Secretary of  State  James  Baker,  involving  the most  important  protagonists  in 
the Middle  East  conflict,  the  Palestinians. 
The developments  in South Africa  are  also of great  encouragement  to us. 
We look forward  to the  resumption  of  the Convention  for a Democratic  South 
Africa  (CODESA) talks  in order  to  accelerate movement  towards  genuine 
democracy in that  country. 
This  session of  the General  Assembly  is taking place  at a time of 
increased globalization  of  the world  economy with promising  opportunities  for 
all countries,  rich and poor.  Unfortunately  the benefits  accruing  from  this 
globalization  are not being  uniformly  distributed.  The economies  of  the 
developing countries  are  characterized  by  a mounting  debt  burden,  negative 
balance-of-payments  positions, declining  investments,  reduced  external 
creditworthiness,  and  a general  backsliding  in economic  development. 
The flow of  international  development  finance  to developing  countries, 
both official  and  commercial,  has  continued  to decline  at a time when more  is 
needed.  This has  resulted  in the net outflow of  resources  from  the  developing 
to the developed  countries.  In order  to reverse  this negative  trend,  the 
developed countries  and  the  international  financial  institutions  need to 
intensify their  efforts  to  increase  substantially  the  rate of  financial  flows 
to the developing  countries  on a continuous  and  assured basis. 
Donor  countries  which have not  done  so should make  every effort  to  reach 
the target of  0.7  per  cent  of  their gross  national  product  in official 
development  assistance  to  the developing  countries  as  set out  in the United 
Nations International  Development  Strategy.  Aid  conditionalities  and 
A/47/PV.26 
48 
(Mr. Ndolo Avah. Kenya) 
cross-conditionalities imposed on the developing countries by a number of 
donors should be lifted.  They are unrealistically stringent and 
counter-productive.  There is, therefore, urgent need for donors to re-examine 
their policies in international cooperation in order to avoid actions that 
hurt the already debt-ridden economies of the recipient countries. 
The external debt crisis of the developing countries is being exacerbated 
by volatile exchange rates and currency fluctuations, the collapse of 
commodity prices, a general deterioration in the terms of trade of the debtor 
countries and the domestic financial and economic policies of the creditor 
countries.  In an effort to lower inflation the creditor countries have 
adopted measures which have reduced opportunities for the exports of the 
developing countries and led to higher interest rates, further jeopardizing 
the ability of the debtor countries to meet their debt obligations. 
Kenya feels that any meaningful solution to the debt crisis must address 
the real causes of the problem with a view to obtaining a durable solution. 
We welcome the efforts taken by some members of the donor community to reduce 
or cancel the debts owed by the developing countries.  An effective and 
lasting solution to the debt problem of developing countries can be achieved 
only through measures directed towards the revitalization of the economic 
growth and development of the developing countries. 
Trade protectionism and the failure by the developed countries totally to 
observe international trade practices have also contributed to reduced market 
opportunities for the exports of the developing countries.  Protectionism, 
along with subsidies, has adversely affected the ability of the developing 
countries, particularly those in Africa, to earn badly needed foreign exchange 
and has resulted in developing countries losing some $500 billion a year. 
A/47/PV.26 
49 
(Mr. Ndolo Ayah.  Kenya) 
That is 10 times more  than  the  amount  of  foreign  assistance  granted  to  these 
countries.  The  situation  is worsened  by  the  steeply  declining prices  of 
commodities  on which many  developing  countries  are highly  dependent.  Since 
the collapse  of  the  International  Coffee Agreement  in 1989,  for  example, 
coffee-producing  countries  have  lost more  than  $10 billion. 
In order  to  reverse  this  unfavourable  trend,  the developed  countries 
should dismantle  protectionism  in world  trade  and  ensure  that  inward-looking 
regionalism  and economic  blocs  do not undermine  the multilateral  trading 
system.  There  is urgent  need  for  an early  and  successful  conclusion  of the 
Uruguay Round  of  the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade  (GATT) 
multilateral  trade  negotiations. 
The  liberalization  programmes  supported  by  the donor  community, 
especially  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) and  the World  Bank,  should 
balance between promoting  a market  for the  industrialized  countries  and making 
the exports of  developing  countries more  competitive  in the world  market. 
These programmes  should  also  support  processing  in the developing  countries  to 
give their products  a higher  added value  in order  to fetch more  in 
international markets. 
Some developing  countries,  including  Kenya, with  the  support  of  the  IMF 
and the World  Bank,  are  implementing  structural  adjustment  programmes.  While 
our countries  accept  the objectives  of  these  structural  adjustments,  the  rates 
and sometimes  the methods  of  implementation  advocated  by  the donor  community, 
particularly  the  IMF  and  the World  Bank,  are  out  of  step with our  political, 
economic  or  social  capacity  to absorb  them.  Kenya  is convinced  that  the 
sustainability  of  these programmes  cannot be guaranteed  unless  they  are 
compatible with political  and  social  situations  in the  recipient  countries. 
A/47/PV.26 
50 
(Mr. Ndolo Avah.  Kenya) 
Kenya believes  that peace,  security  and  stability  cannot be  assured  in 
the  face of  the  abject poverty  in which millions  of people  in  developing 
countries  live.  We  fully endorse  the position  of developing  countries  members 
of  the Group  of  77  that  the eradication  of poverty  constitutes  a major 
challenge  at the present  time.  That must be  the goal  in the  revitalization of 
growth  and  in sustainable  development  in developing  countries.  We  equally 
support  and  endorse  the  recommendation  of  the Economic  and  Social Council at 
its  1992  substantive  session  that  the General  Assembly  should  convene  a world 
summit  for  social  development  in 1995.  Such a conference  would  contribute to 
the  important  objective  of putting  people  at the centre  of  development  and 
international  cooperation.  Eradication  of poverty  is a national  objective in 
Kenya  and every effort  is being made  towards  that  end. 
A/47/PV.26 
51 
(Mr. Ndolo  Avah.  Kenya) 
Kenya,  like many  other  countries  in sub-Saharan  Africa, has had  its  share 
of drought  and  of  the  shortage  of  food, which have been  compounded  by  the 
refugee problem.  The persistent  critical  economic  and  social problems  in 
Africa, coupled with  the debt-burden,  declining  prices  of  commodities, 
vagaries of climate  and weather  conditions, environmental  degradation, 
population  increase,  and  social  as well  as political  effects  of  structural 
adjustment, have  all  added  to the deterioration  of  living  standards  and have 
frustrated efforts  for economic  recovery.  Almost  40 million people  in 
sub-Saharan Africa  are currently  faced with  the threat  of  starvation. 
The Government  of  Kenya  is most  appreciative  of  the  response  of the 
international  community  and  of  the bilateral  assistance  from  friendly 
countries, in the  face of  the  severe  drought  and  crop  failure  that gripped  our 
country.  The United  Nations  Department  of Humanitarian  Affairs  launched  a 
Special Appeal  for Kenya,  alongside  the Special  Emergency  Programme  for the 
Horn of Africa.  I wish  to  convey  the  thanks  and gratitude  of my  country  to 
the Secretary-General  for  this  timely  action  and particularly  for  releasing  to 
the United Nations  Children's  Fund  $2 million  from  the Central  Emergency 
Revolving Fund  for  the provision  of water, emergency  drugs, vaccines  and 
shelter in the north  and  north-eastern  areas  of Kenya.  We  should  like to make 
a further appeal  for  continued  assistance  in view  of  the overwhelming  flood of 
refugees and  the effect  of  the drought  in Kenya. 
The holding  of  the United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  in Rio  this year was  a clear  indication  of  the  concern  of  humanity 
for the state  of  the global  environment.  It Emphasized  the  fact  that  the 
continuing deterioration  of  the environment  is a serious  threat  to the 
survival of  the human  race  and  the planet  Earth.  The  agreements  reached  in 
A/47/PV.26 
52 
(Mr. Ndolo Avah. Kenya) 
Rio represent a remarkable achievement by any standard despite the fact that 
they did not meet all our hopes and expectations in all areas.  None the less, 
what is gratifying is that the results of the Rio Earth Summit, contained in 
the Rio Declaration and in Agenda 21, provide the basis for a new global 
partnership, embracing the rich and the poor. North and South, East and West. 
Noteworthy is the fact that, for the first time, the world community gave 
its united attention to the process of desertification, one of the problems 
facing the African continent and indeed Kenya.  This process has given rise to 
untold levels of poverty and it is time we had an international legal 
instrument that would focus on this scourge.  It is therefore pleasing to note 
that the Rio Conference called attention to the need to start work on an 
international convention on desertification, with special reference to Africa. 
In spite of what was accomplished at Rio, we cannot afford to be 
complacent.  Much more needs to be done.  The road from Rio will be longer and 
perhaps more challenging than the road to Rio.  Programmes need to be 
implemented and treaties put into force and strengthened. 
While Kenya is ready to pursue the objectives of sustainable development, 
we have to emphasize that a positive move on the part of developed countries 
is needed in the implementation of provisions regarding new and additional 
resources and technical assistance, as well the transfer of environmentally 
sound technologies, to enable developing countries to play their role. 
Indeed, at Rio, the developed countries reaffirmed their commitment to reach 
the accepted target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for official 
development aid to augment their aid programmes.  While this commitment is 
commendable, Kenya's view is that specific commitments should be spelt out, 
since the success and implementation of Agenda 21 will depend very heavily on 
A/47/PV.26 
53 
(Mr. Ndolo Ayah,  Kenya) 
the availability  of  finance.  We  also wish  to underscore  that  the 
implementation  of  sustainable  development  will be  futile  if  developed 
countries  and  financial  institutions  use  financial  considerations  as  an excuse 
for interfering  in the  internal  affairs  of developing  countries  or  as  an 
opportunity  to  introduce  conditionalities. 
The establishment  of  the Commission  for  Sustainable  Development  is 
important  since  it will  provide  a focal point  of  intergovernmental 
decision-making  to effect  the  integration  of  the environmental  and 
developmental  strategies  contained  in Agenda  21.  Kenya believes  that  the  only 
way for the new Commission  to be most  effective  in implementing  Agenda  21 
would be for  the General  Assembly  to  resist  any organizational  modalities  and 
mandates that would  create  unnecessarily  costly  and  large  bureaucratic 
machinery.  The  Commission  should  operate  as a functional  commission  of  the 
Economic and Social  Council  within  recognized  rules of procedure  and  should be 
elaborated  in the  context  of  the ongoing  revitalization  and  rationalization  of 
the Council.  The  policy  responsibilities  of  the Commission  must  be well 
defined to avoid  conflicts  with  other bodies.  It  should  be both  future- and 
development-oriented,  providing  a forum  for  the  review,  further  development 
and updating  of Agenda  21 in the  light  of  future  economic,  financial, 
technological,  legal  and  other  developments. 
At its  forty-sixth  session,  the General  Assembly  adopted  resolution 
46/164, accepting  the  idea of  convening  a United  Nations  conference  on  human 
settlements, possibly  in 1997, and  requested  the  Secretary-General  to  submit  a 
report on the  item.  My  delegation  fully  supports  this decision, which would 
offer a unique  opportunity  to evaluate  and  strengthen  the progress  of  Habitat, 
taking into  account  the  fact  that  urbanization  is one of  the  fundamental 
A/47/PV.26 
54-55 
(Mr. Ndolo Ayah.  Kenya) 
environmental  problems  that we  cannot  afford  to  overlook. 
Before  concluding,  let me  comment  briefly  on  the Decade  of  International 
Law.  At  its  forty-fifth  session,  the General  Assembly  declared  the  1990s to 
be  the United Nations  Decade  of  International  Law.  Respect  and  adherence by 
all  States  to the principles  and  norms of  international  law would  lead us to a 
more  orderly world  in which disputes  that may  arise  can be  resolved  by 
peaceful means.  All of  us must,  therefore, exert  every  effort  to ensure that 
the  aims of  the Decade  are promoted  and  that meaningful  programmes  are adopted 
so that  the Decade may become  a  reality. 
It would  also  be very  opportune  if,  in this Decade  of  International Law, 
the world were  to witness  not only  the coming  into  force  of  the Convention on 
the Law of  the Sea, but  also  its universal  acceptance  as the  comprehensive 
legal order  for the world  seas.  We  therefore  applaud  the  Secretary-General in 
these  efforts  aimed  at making  this  a reality  and we wish him well  and 
success.  We must, however, be very careful  that  universal  acceptance  of the 
Convention  will not mean unravelling  its core principle,  which  is that the 
high  seas  and  the  resources  therein  are  and  shall be exploited  for  the  common 
heritage  of  all  mankind. 
A/47/PV.26 
56 
Mr.  AITMATOV  (Kyrgyzstan)  (interpretation  from  Russian):  Allow me 
to express my  sincere  congratulations  to the President of  the current  General 
Assembly on his  election.  I should  also  like  to wish every  success  to  the 
Secretary-General  in his work. 
This session of  the General Assembly  is the  first one  for Kyrgyzstan, as 
it is for other  new United  Nations Member  States, and provides us with  a 
unique opportunity  to introduce  ourselves  us to the world  community  and  to 
express our vision of  future cooperation with the  organization. 
Kyrgyzstan emerged  as an  independent  State  at a turning point  in world 
history.  The  collapse  of totalitarianism  and profound  geopolitical  changes  in 
the territory  of  the  former  Soviet Union enabled my Republic  to seize  this 
historic opportunity  to establish  itself  as an independent  State.  Less than a 
month ago, we  celebrated  the  first anniversary  of our  independence. 
From the very  outset, we  saw no other  alternative  in using  the right of 
independent choice we obtained  than the establishment  of  a pluralistic 
democracy as the only means  of  creating  a decent  life  for  the  individual  by 
ensuring political, economic  and  spiritual  freedoms. 
The difficult process  of creating  a democratic  legal  State,  strengthening 
inter-ethnic harmony  and  social  accord  and building  the basis  for  a market 
economy is under way  in Kyrgyzstan.  Our  criteria are  the highest 
international  standards  for ensuring human  rights  and  freedoms, and we  are 
pursuing their  implementation  in all  areas of political  and  legislative 
activity.  These  standards  are  set forth  in the draft of our new  Constitution, 
which our Parliament  is soon  to discuss.  In the near  future, Kyrgyzstan will 
also adhere to major  international  agreements  on human rights. 
We appreciate  the  friendly view  taken abroad  of  the democratic  changes 
under way  in Kyrgyzstan. 
A/47/PV.26 
57 
(Mr. Aitmatov.  Kyrgyzstan) 
Kyrgyzstan  today  is  recognized  by  107  countries  the world  over,  and 
diplomatic  relations  have been  established  with more  than  50 of  them.  It has 
become  a member  of  the Conference  on Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  (CSCE),  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the World  Bank  and  other 
international  and  regional  institutions. 
Kyrgyzstan  is open  to  sound, mutually  beneficial  relations  and  ready for 
partnership  with  those  countries which  share  our  ideals  of  freedom  and 
democracy. 
We  attach great  importance  to maintaining  cooperation  within  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States.  The meeting  of Heads  of  State of  the 
Commonwealth,  which  took place  in Bishkek  recently, might  help  strengthen 
integration,  but  we  recognize  the different  situations  involved  and  the 
various  approaches  taken  to this  integration. 
On the  international  scene, Kyrgyzstan will  act  as peace-loving,  neutral, 
non-nuclear  State.  As  such, our  Republic  is ready  to  sign the Treaty  on the 
Non-Proliferation  of Nuclear  Weapons  and  to  tackle  other  issues  related  to the 
strengthening  of  strategic  and military  security. 
Our  meeting  takes place  at  a crucial  turning point  for  the  United 
Nations.  The process  of  searching  for  the most  adequate  and  appropriate 
principles  for  the Organization,  in keeping with  the  new,  changing  realities 
of  a post-confrontation  world,  is now under  way. 
Distortions  caused  by  totalitarianism  in the  sphere  of  interstate  and 
interethnic  relations  have  led to emergence  of  crisis  zones  in the vast  area 
stretching  from  the  former  Yugoslavia  to Central  Asia. 
We  support  the  ideas put  forward  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General, 
"An Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277),  aimed  at enhancing  the effectiveness  of 
A/47/PV.26 
58 
(Mr. Aitmatov,  Kyrgyzstan) 
preventive diplomacy, peacemaking  and peace-keeping.  We believe  that in order 
to prevent and settle  conflicts, it is necessary  to apply within  the  framework 
of international  law all existing mechanisms  of the United Nations  and  the 
CSCE.  The main thing  is the  timeliness  and  adequacy of  the steps  undertaken. 
Preventive diplomacy  and  timely  reaction  should be given top priority  in all 
peace-keeping efforts. 
We are especially  concerned  over maintaining  stability  in Central Asia. 
Kyrgyzstan advocates  constructive  steps  and a regional orientation  for 
maintaining peace  and  stability  in the  region. 
In this connection, we were greatly  interested by  a proposal  for 
organizing a forum  on  interaction  and confidence  in Asia  similar  to the 
all-European process put  forward yesterday by  the President  of Kazakhstan, 
Nursultan Mazarbayev,  in his  speech  to the General  Assembly. 
This forum, as we  see it, could help to adapt to Asian  realities  the vast 
experience accumulated  by world  and European organizations  in 
confidence-building measures  and mechanisms  for collective  security. 
Kyrgyzstan is now passing  through  a harsh economic  crisis, the  reasons 
for which are evident  and well-known.  The  situation has been aggravated  by 
natural disasters.  On two occasions  this year  an earthquake  and  a flood have 
led to the loss of human  lives  and  caused  enormous material  damage. 
Obviously, it would be  difficult  for us to overcome  all the problems of  the 
transitional period by ourselves. 
It is therefore  difficult  to overestimate  the  importance  of  the economic, 
financial, technical  and humanitarian  assistance provided  us by  the world 
community.  The  cooperation  of the United Nations  and  its specialized  agencies 
"ith a large group  of  countries  that became  full-fledged members only  recently 
A/47/PV.26 
59-60 
(Mr. Aitmatov.  Kyrgyzstan) 
is especially  valuable  both  from  the  standpoint  of  solving  their problems and 
with  respect  to  reforms  under way  in the Organization.  In general  terms, this 
relates  to  the effectiveness  of  the United  Nations  and of  its  system. 
We  appreciate  the activities  of  the United Nations  specialized  agencies, 
which,  through  an adequate  assessment  of  our  status  and  situation,  are active 
in setting  up programmes  in our  country.  The  upcoming  opening  in Bishkek of  a 
United  Nations  representative  office will promote  the  speedy  integration of 
Kyrgyzstan  into  international  economic,  technical,  scientific  and  humanitarian 
cooperation. 
Our  Republic  became  a United Nations member  at  a time of  renewal  and 
reforms.  We  are  in favour  of practical  steps  aimed  at enhancing  the 
effectiveness  of  this Organization  as the key  factor  in establishing  a new 
world  order. 
I take  this  opportunity  to confirm  that Kyrgyzstan will  adhere  strictly 
to the provisions  of  the Charter  and will make  its contribution  to the 
activities  of  the  Organization. 
A/47/PV.26 
61 
Mr.  CARIAS  ZAPATA  (Honduras)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  I wish 
to convey to Mr. Ganev  the most  sincere  congratulations  of  the Government of 
Honduras on his well-deserved  election to the presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh  session.  Through him we  should  also  like to 
extend our best wishes  to  the Bulgarian people, who, like other peoples  of 
Eastern Europe, are  today, after much effort  and  self-sacrifice, helping to 
keep alive the  flame  of  freedom, democracy  and progress  in that continent. 
To the new Members  of our  Organization, we extend  a most  cordial 
greeting.  We  are  fully  convinced  that through  the United Nations we  shall be 
able to establish growing  links of  friendship  and  cooperation. 
Our Organization  is grounded  on principles  of equality,  shared 
responsibilities, and  the promotion  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
hope that Serbia  and Montenegro  will  best  achieve  those objectives by meeting 
the legitimate expectations  of  the  international  community  that an end will be 
put to the war, persecution  and  intolerance  in the countries  of  former 
Yugoslavia, and  that  they will be  able  to become Members  of  this great  family 
of nations. 
Moreover, in a world  of  changing  realities, one which  is none the  less 
marked by its attachment  to universality  and peaceful  coexistence, my 
Government, like other  Central  American  countries, believes  that we  should 
open the way  for  the Republic  of China, with more  than  20 million  inhabitants 
and authorities  established  in Taipei, to participate  in the work of our 
Organization and  its  specialized  agencies  as that  country  does  in various 
regional forums  and  international  mechanisms.  Membership  in the United 
Nations does not constitute  diplomatic  recognition  of  sovereignty,  and  there 
have been and  are precedents  in the history  of the United  Nations  for  the 
simultaneous presence  of  countries which  are  in search of  their  historical 
A/47/PV.26 
62 
(Mr. Carias  Zapata. Honduras) 
unity but which, while  they  remain  separated,  have  not been denied  the 
opportunity  to make  their  contribution  to the  complex  fabric of  international 
relations  and obligations which bring  together  the peoples  of  the Earth 
through  the United  Nations. 
We  are beginning  a new era  in the  life of  this  Organization.  For us, the 
"Agenda  for Peace" of our  distinguished  Secretary-General  is a noteworthy 
effort  embodying  both vision  and  realism  that will  enable  us to make progress 
in forging  a more  secure  and prosperous world.  The  Government  of Honduras 
warmly  supports  the proposals  on preventive  diplomacy  and on  strengthening the 
logistical  and  financial  capacity of  the United  Nations  for peace-keeping and 
for peace-building  when peace  is threatened,  when peace has been breached, or 
when  the persistence  of  situations  of  confrontation make peace  vulnerable. 
In accordance  with  those  aims, Honduras  also urges greater  support for 
and use  of  the  international  organs  for  the  legal  settlement  of disputes such 
as the  International  Court  of Justice, which has  only  recently  handed  down a 
judgment  providing  a definitive  solution  to  a long-standing  border  dispute 
between El  Salvador  and Honduras.  The peoples  and Governments  of  both 
countries  intend  to comply  in good  faith with  this  judgement. 
Honduras  has  also decided  to  lend  its armed  forces  and police  for 
peace-keeping  missions  and  is at present  satisfactorily  participating  in the 
conciliation mission  in Western  Sahara of  the United  Nations Mission  for the 
Referendum  in Western  Sahara  (MINURSO). 
With  the end of  a bipolar world  and  of  the  cold war,  the  terrible threat 
of  a nuclear  holocaust  has  dissipated.  However,  atomic weapons  and other 
powerful  weapons  of mass destruction  continue  to overfill  the  arsenals of 
large  and medium-sized  Powers.  My  country  therefore  urges  those who  possess 
nuclear  weapons  to pursue,  and  as appropriate  to  initiate,  serious  and 
A/47/PV.26 
63 
(Mr. Carias  Zapata.  Honduras) 
verifiable programmes  for  the  reduction  and destruction  of  such weapons,  and 
the dismantling  of possible  vehicles  for  them.  We  also  urge  that  the 
non-proliferation Treaty  system  be made more general  and  strengthened,  with 
guarantees of verification;  this  applies  also  to the  regional  systems  such as 
the Treaty of Tlatelolco.  We  shall also  join in the broad movement  that  is 
being generated  at  this  session  towards  seeking and  achieving  the  prohibition 
of the development,  production,  stockpiling  and use of  chemical weapons. 
In the Persian  Gulf,  the  reasons  for the vigorous  response by  the 
international  community  in defence  of  the  sovereignty  and  legitimate  rights of 
Kuwait still  exist  in  several  respects.  More  than ever before, the United 
Nations should  redouble  its efforts  to bring  about  faithful  compliance  with 
the relevant  resolutions  of  the Security  Council  ensuring  an end to threats  of 
aggression and guaranteeing  for  the countries  of  the Gulf  an environment  of 
peace and a future  free of  coercion  and  uncertainty. 
In the Middle  East,  in southern Africa  and  in Cambodia,  processes  of 
peace and reconciliation  continue  to move  forward.  Candidly  acknowledging 
past injustices, trusting  in the mediating  efforts  of the United Nations, and 
convinced that  the  fruits of peace  are beneficial  to their populations, the 
leaders of all  the parties  involved  in these  conflicts  should  now more  than 
ever before  strive  to bring  about  eguitable  solutions  to the differences  that 
separate them,  in order  to guarantee  a speedy  restoration  in their  respective 
regions of  stable  and  secure  conditions  of good  neighbourliness.* 
The signing  of  the Chapultepec  Peace Agreements  in January  this year 
between the Government  of El  Salvador  and  representatives  from  the  insurgent 
The  President  returned  to  the Chair. 
A/47/PV.26 
64-65 
(Mr. Carias Zapata. Honduras) 
movement has brought an end to armed confrontation in our neighbouring country 
and has opened the way for a complete reconciliation in the spirit of freedom 
and democracy for the Salvadorian people.  Honduras associated itself in the 
well-deserved tribute paid to former Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar 
for his mediating efforts.  We have given and shall continue to give our full 
support to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in the fulfilment of the 
various stages of the peace agreement, including demobilization of formerly 
opposed forces and integration into civil and political life of the insurgents 
in a framework of complete legality. 
With peace in El Salvador, Central America, under the sign of democracy, 
is returning to the path of integration and development.  Our countries are 
aware of the countless challenges posed by the insufficiency of our productive 
infrastructure, poverty and inequalities.  But we also know that with 
dedication and vision, and especially with unity, we shall be able to overcome 
them. 
That is why the Tegucigalpa Protocol (A/46/829, annex III) of 
13 December 1991 has entered into force, establishing a system for Central 
America integration which, working in the summit meetings of Presidents of the 
Central American isthmus, will impart force and impetus to a broad movement 
towards integration.  Honduras hopes that the ever-stronger voice of Central 
America will be heard and that our region, a region of peace, democracy, 
freedom and development, will join and participate actively in the new forms 
of global interdependence that are taking shape on the eve of a new millenium. 
A/47/PV.26 
66 
(Mr. Carias  Zapata.  Honduras) 
For Honduras, an essential  part of  this  integrated  vision  is the 
formation and  implementation  of national, regional  and  international 
strategies to  fight poverty  and to overcome  long-standing  problems  that  strike 
hardest at children, women  and the  elderly. 
If we  justly  aspire  to economic  development, and to growing  expansion of 
trade in goods  and  services  originating  from  all continents, we  should 
likewise aspire  to, and  indeed make possible, real  improvement  in the  quality 
of life of the  inhabitants  of our  countries.  Enhanced  social well  being 
should not be conceived  of  as a generous  remedy  that may prove  insufficient  to 
the communities  receiving  it, but  rather  as a joint undertaking  to facilitate, 
through international  cooperation, conditions  for vocational  training  and 
better access  to the opportunities  that can be provided by open and growing 
economies. 
On 12 December  1991, in Central America, the Heads of State  and 
Government of the  seven  countries  of the  isthmus  assumed  that very  commitment, 
and, in the presence  of various  distinguished  figures  and executives  of the 
United Nations  and  regional  organizations, initiated  a coordinated  programme 
of human development with goals, objectives  and  resources  defined  for  the 
present decade  to culminate  in the year  2000. 
Those initiatives  of our  subregion  are universal  in conception.  That  is 
why Honduras, like Chile  and other  friendly  countries, will  continue  to give 
impetus to, and participate  in, the appropriate preparations  for  and  holding 
of a world conference  on  social  and human development  that may  serve  as a 
forum for reflection  and  initiatives  to effectively  set in motion 
international measures  and policies  in this  respect. 
In an ever more  integrated  world, our  countries, which  share not only  a 
rich cultural heritage  exemplified  by  the common use of  a single  language, but 
A/47/PV.26 
67 
(Mr. Carias  Zapata. Honduras* 
also  a democratic  and modern vision of  international  relations, are naturally 
seeking  to  strengthen  our  links  of  fraternal  friendship  and our presence in 
the world.  Those  are  the  fundamental  reasons  that  led us  to constitute  the 
Ibero-American  Conference, which,  following  its  founding  declaration  in 
Guadalajara,  signed  in July  1991 by  the Heads  of  State  and  Government  of the 
Hispanic-American  countries,  Brazil, Spain  and  Portugal, has  now  formally been 
constituted. 
Within  the  Ibero-American  Conference,  as a mechanism  for  interaction and 
cooperation,  we have been designing  programmes  of mutual benefit  primarily in 
the  fields of  education,  exchanges  of programmes  via  satellite,  the  creation 
of  an  indigenous  fund  and  the  launching  of  a broad  programme  of  exchanges of 
scholars  and  researchers. 
The  Summit  of Heads  of  State  and Government  held  in Madrid  this year also 
gave  support  to growing  and  leading  involvement  by our  countries  in a world 
programme  of human  development. 
Maintenance  of  an open multilateral  trading  system  is of vital  importance 
to the expansion  of world  trade  and  the economic  development  of  all 
countries.  For  that  reason we must  join our  efforts  to bring  about  the speedy 
culmination,  on  satisfactory  terms, of  the Uruguay  Round  of Multilateral Trade 
Negotiations.  Stagnation  of  the negotiating  process would  have  very  serious 
consequences  for world  trade  and would  affect  prospects  and  the  structural 
programmes  that many  developing  countries  have  undertaken  at the  cost of great 
sacrifice  to  find  our proper  place  in the trend  towards  large  trading blocs. 
This year  there has been  a dramatic  fall  in the prices  of  commodities 
essential  to our  economies.  This  leads us to  stress  the need  to bring about 
better  regulation  of  conditions  of  access guaranteeing  the growth of  sales of 
our  competitive  products  at  fair prices. 
A/47/PV.26 
68 
(Mr. Carias  Zapata.  Honduras) 
In this context we must  also,  in our  judgement,  strengthen  the  transfer 
of technology  for  industrial  development  and more  flexible  terms  in  financing 
the modernization  of  industrial plant  in developing  countries. 
The urgent  need  to  share  responsibilities  and  to act  together  to 
guarantee global  economic  stability  independently  of  the economic  and 
political power  of each  nation,  together  with  the growing  convergence  of views 
as to global priorities, were  clearly  and positively  demonstrated  at the Earth 
Summit held  in Rio  de  Janeiro. 
The Government  of Honduras  takes great  satisfaction  from  the  common 
reflection on urgent  environmental  problems  initiated  at  that  conference,  and 
we reiterate our  support  for  the principles  adopted  by  it and  for Agenda 21, 
which comprehensively  encompasses  a whole programme  of action  in the 
environmental  sphere  and  for  sustainable  development. 
We must persevere  in this direction.  The  deterioration  of nature must  be 
halted.  Together we  can design  conservation  strategies  that  allow  for the 
rational use of  natural  resources  to meet  the needs  of employment  and  the 
economic growth of our  populations.* 
The new strategy  of peace  is also necessarily  a new  strategy of 
development.  Only by growing  together  can we  survive; only by pooling  our 
efforts can we  secure  for  future generations  a better world  in harmony  and 
concord. 
The  President  returned  to  the Chair. 
A/47/PV.26 
69-70 
AGENDA  ITEM  8  (continued) 
ADOPTION  OF THE AGENDA AND ORGANIZATION  OF WORK:  SECOND REPORT OF THE GENERAL 
COMMITTEE  (A/47/250/Add.1) 
The PRESIDENT:  I now draw the attention  of  representatives  to the 
second  report  of  the General  Committee  (A/47/250/Add.l),  concerning  a request 
submitted  by Pakistan  for  the  inclusion  in the  agenda of  an additional  item as 
well  as a request  submitted  by the Secretary-General  also  for the  inclusion in 
the  agenda  of  an additional  item. 
In paragraph  1  (a) of  the  report,  the General  Committee  recommends  the 
inclusion  in the  agenda of  the current  session of  an additional  item entitled 
"Emergency  assistance  to  Pakistan". 
May  I take  it that  the General  Assembly  decides  to  include  in its agenda 
the additional  item  entitled  "Emergency  assistance  to  Pakistan"? 
It was  so  decided. 
The PRESIDENT:  In paragraph  1  (b) of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee  also  recommends  to the Assembly  that  this  item  should  be  considered 
directly  in plenary meeting. 
May  I take  it that the General Assembly  adopts  this  recommendation? 
It was  so  decided. 
The  PRESIDENT:  May  I also  take  it that  the  item  should  be 
considered  with priority  because of  its urgent  character? 
It was  so  decided. 
A/47/PV.26 
71 
The  PRESIDENT: 
In this  connection,  I should  like to  inform 
representatives  that  this  item will  be considered  on Wednesday,  7 October,  in 
the morning,  after we heard  the  last  speaker  in the general  debate  for  that 
meeting. 
Next,  I should  like  to draw  the attention  of  representatives  to 
paragraph 2 (a) of  the  report A/47/250/Add.l. 
The General  Committee  recommends  the  inclusion  in the agenda of  the 
current session  of  an additional  item entitled  "Programme  budget  for  the 
biennium 1990-1991". 
May I take  it that  the General Assembly  decides  to  include  in its  agenda 
the additional  item entitled  "Programme  budget  for the biennium  1990-1991". 
It was  so  decided. 
The PRESIDENT:  In paragraph  2  (b) of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee also  recommends  that  the  item be  allocated  to the Fifth  Committee. 
May I take  it that  the General  Assembly  adopts  that  recommendation  of 
the General  Committee? 
It was  so  decided. 
The  PRESIDENT:  The  Chairman of  the  Fifth Committee  will be 
informed of the decision  just  taken. 
I should  now  like  to draw the General  Assembly's  attention  to the  fact 
that, at its 3rd plenary meeting,  the Assembly  allocated  item  105,  "Programme 
planning", to the  Fifth  Committee,  on the understanding  that each programme  of 
the proposed  revisions  to  the medium-term  plan  should be  submitted  to plenary 
meeting or to the  appropriate  Main Committee  for  review. 
However, programme  4 was  not  included  in the  list of programmes  to be 
submitted to the Third  Committee  for  review. 
A/47/PV.26 
72 
(The President) 
May I therefore take it that it is the wish of the Assembly that 
programme 4 should also be submitted to the Third Committee for review? 
If I hear no objection, it will be so decided. 
It was so decided. 
The PRESIDENT:  The Chairman of the Third Committee will be 
informed of the decision just taken. 
TENTATIVE PROGRAMME OF WORK 
The PRESIDENT:  Members will recall that yesterday morning I 
outlined for them the tentative programme of work for the remainder of October. 
I should now like to inform members that the Pledging Conference for 
Development Activities will be held in the mornings of Tuesday, 3 November, 
and Wednesday, 4 November.  The Conference will be opened by the 
Secretary-General. 
I should also like to inform members that the announcement of voluntary 
contributions to the 1993 programmes of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for Refugees will take place on Monday, 16 November, in the morning, under my 
presidency. 
I should further like to inform members that the announcement of 
voluntary contributions to the 1993 programmes of the United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East will take place on 
Wednesday, 2 December, in the morning, also under my presidency. 
The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m. 
