UNITED 
NATIONS 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.51 
11 November  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  51st  MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Thursday,  29 October  1992, at  10  a.m. 
President! 
Mr.  PHOOFOLO 
(Vice-President) 
(Lesotho) 
Cooperation between  the United  Nations  and  the Organization  of 
American  States  [21] 
(a)  Report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(b)  Draft  resolution 
Cooperation between  the United  Nations  and  the League of Arab  States 
[29] 
(a)  Report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(b)  Draft  resolution 
This  record  contains  the original  text of  speeches  delivered  in  English 
and  interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text  will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assemblv. 
Corrections  should be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be  sent  under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one week,  to  the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services,  room DC2-750, 2 United Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the  record. 
92-61670  2476V  (E) 
A/47/PV.51 
1 (a-z) 
Programme of work 
Cooperation between the United Nations and the Latin American 
economic system [24] 
(a)  Report of the Secretary-General 
(b)  Draft resolution 
A/47/PV.51 
2-5 
In the absence of the President. Mr. Phoofolo (Lesotho). Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 10.45 a.m. 
AGENDA ITEM 21 
COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES 
(a)  REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/47/498 and Add.l) 
(b)  DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/47/L.13) 
The PRESIDENT:  I call on the representative of Honduras, to 
introduce the draft resolution. 
Mr. CUEVA (Honduras)(interpretation from Spanish):  It is an honour 
for me to address representatives at this forty-seventh session of the United 
Nations General Assembly, with the aim of introducing the draft resolution on 
agenda item 21, entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Organization of American States".  I am pleased to announce that the 
delegations of Canada, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago have joined the sponsors 
of the draft resolution. 
The inter-American system, the institutional origins of which go back to 
the last century, finds its most eloquent contemporaneous expression in the 
Organization of American States  (OAS), as the regional body fully identified 
with the principles and objectives of the United Nations itself. 
A/47/PV.51 
6 
(Mr. Cueva,  Honduras) 
The  Charter  of  the Organization  of American  States  (OAS) lays down  that 
none of  its provisions  shall be construed  as  impairing  the  rights  and  duties 
of  its member  States under  the Charter  of  the United Nations.  For  its  part. 
Chapter  VIII  of  the Charter  of  the United  Nations  refers  to  the  concept  of 
regional  arrangements, making  particular  reference  to  the peaceful  settlement 
of disputes,  an issue which has  long been,  and which  continues  to be,  an 
integral  part  of  the  inter-American  system. 
The  complementarity  between  the two organizations  is obvious,  and  all  the 
more  so  in present  circumstances, when  regionalism  is called  on  to play  an 
important  role  in the new world  order. 
In his  report  (A/45/499) of  14 September  1990, the  Secretary-General 
described  United Nations  cooperation  in the previous  two years with  the 
Organization  of American  States.  That  account  is testimony  to a great  deal of 
work, with practical  and highly  satisfactory  results. 
The  report  also  recognized  the effectiveness  of  the cooperation  between 
the  two organizations  with  respect  to the procedures  established  by  the 
Central  American  Presidents within  the  context  of  the  subregional  peace 
process, which  called  for  cooperation  between  the two organizations  to  ensure 
better  implementation  of  their  resolutions. 
Similarly,  document  A/47/498, the  Secretary-General's  report  of 
5 October  1992, tells  us  a great  deal  about  consultations  and  exchange  of 
information  between  the  two organizations  and  follow-up  action  on  the 
implementation  of  resolution  45/10 of  25 October  1990. 
The  report  refers  to  resolution  AG/RES.1126,  also  on cooperation  between 
the United  Nations  and  the Organization  of American  States,  adopted  by  the 
General  Assembly  of  the OAS on  8 June  1991, which  noted  with  satisfaction  that 
A/47/PV.51 
7 
(Mr. Cueva.  Honduras) 
the Secretaries-General  of  the two organizations  would  establish  an 
appropriate mechanism  for the  follow-up  of coordination between  the  two 
systems. 
In  support  of  such actions, a new  resolution  on  the  subject 
AG/RES.1119 
was  adopted by  the General  Assembly  of  the OAS  at  its 
twenty-second  regular  session.  In that  resolution,  the OAS General  Assembly 
recoinmended  that  negotiations  continue  for  finalizing  and  signing  an  agreement 
on cooperation  between  the general  secretariats.  To that  end  it was  agreed 
that periodic  meetings woul 1 be held between  the two  systems  for  the  purpose 
of  reviewing  and  appraising  progress  on  areas of priority  or on  mutually 
agreed  issues. 
It  is worth noting  that  the Organization  of American  States  continues  to 
be  represented  in the Support  Committee  and  the Policies  and  Projects 
Committee  and  intersectoral  meetings  of the Special  Plan of  Economic 
Cooperation  for Central  America,  established  by  resolution 42/231. 
In paragraph  9 of  resolution  45/10 the General  Assembly  requested  the 
Secretary-General  to  submit  to  it at  its  forty-seventh  session  a report  on 
cooperation  by  specialized  agencies  of  the United Nations  system with  the 
Organization  of American  States.  Responses  to that  request  include  the 
following.  The United  Nations Development  Programme  (UNDP) has  continued  to 
promote  active  collaboration with  OAS at both  the headquarters  and  field 
levels.  Examples  are  to be  found  in the  joint meetings  held  in March  and 
June  1992  in New York  to discuss  cooperation  in the  areas of human  resources, 
women  in development,  science  and  technology,  and environment.  Issues  such as 
drug  abuse  and disaster  preparedness  were  also  discussed. 
A/47/PV.51 
8 
(Mr. Cueva. Honduras) 
Through the Pan American Health Organization, the OAS acts as the 
executing agency for a project on health management for Central American 
countries, financed by UNDP and the Special Plan of Economic Cooperation. 
Various related projects are also being carried out in the context of the 
Development Programme for Displaced Persons, Refugees and Returnees. 
Praiseworthy, worthwhile projects are also being carried out jointly with 
the United Nations Environment Programme, the World Food Programme, the 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations Educational, Scientific 
and Cultural Organization, the International Monetary Fund and another seven 
international agencies. 
What I have said relates to the draft resolution that I am introducing, 
which reflects the consultations between the two organizations to establish 
better coordination of complementary activities. 
In this regard, I wish to highlight the results in three areas in 
particular!  first, an agreement to establish instruments and mechanisms which 
would intensify the exchange of information between the two bodies to ensure 
better coordination; secondly, the institution of  a flexible and expeditious 
process of identifying suitable programmes, projects and activities; and 
thirdly, the establishment of follow-up arrangements. 
The issues chosen for priority action, to be carried out by lead agencies 
of both organizations, were:  environment; drug abuse control; women and 
development; disaster prevention, mitigation and relief; rural development and 
agriculture; and Indian people and development. 
We are therefore absolutely confident that the natural complementarity of 
the two organizations will  oe expressed in mechanisms for consultation and 
A/47/PV.51 
9-10 
(Mr.  Cueva.  Honduras) 
coordination  that will gradually be perfected  as the number  of  activities 
grows. 
The  PRESIDENT:  In accordance  with General  Assembly  resolution 
253  (III),  of  16 October  1948, I now call upon  the Assistant  Secretary-General 
of  the  Organization  of American  States, Mr. Christopher  Thomas. 
Mr.  THOMAS  (Organization  of American  States):  The  Secretary-General 
of  the Organization  of American  States  (OAS),  Ambassador  Joao Clemente  Baena 
Scares, has  asked me  to express  to the President  his  slncerest  congratulations 
on his  unanimous  election  to preside over  the General Assembly  at  its 
forty-seventh  session.  He has  also  asked me  to present his greetings  to  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali.  I do  so also  in my  name. 
I  am very  appreciative  of  this opportunity  to address  the Assembly  on  the 
question  of  cooperation  and  coordination between our  systems, which  have 
attained  unprecedented  heights  over  the  last two years.  This  cooperation  was 
launched  anew  and given  an enhanced  profile when  the  first  OAS-United  Nations 
general meeting  on coordination  between  the two  systems  took place here  at 
United  Nations  Headquarters  from  15 to 17 May  1991.  This meeting,  which was 
inaugurated  by  the Secretaries-General  of  the OAS  and  the United  Nations 
brought  together  representatives  of  the general  secretariats  and  the 
specialized  agencies  of  the  inter-American  system  and  the United Nations.  The 
report  of  that  meeting  contained  recommendations  for  strengthening  and 
deepening  cooperation  and  coordination  between  the OAS  and  the United 
Nations.  The  report  (A/47/498) of  the  Secretary-General  of  the United  Nations 
to this  General  Assembly  on cooperation  between  the United Nations  and  the  OAS 
lists  the  numerous  activities  of  collaboration  that have  taken place  between 
agencies  of  the  two  systems  since  that historic  meeting. 
A/47/PV.51 
11 
(Mr. Thnmas. OAS) 
Subsequently, in response to a resolution on cooperation between the OAS 
and the United Nations, adopted at the twenty-first regular session of the 
General Assembly, held in Santiago, Chile, the Secretary-General of the OAS 
presented a report to the twenty-second regular session held this year in the 
Bahamas on that OAS-United Nations general meeting and on other aspects of 
cooperation between our two systems. 
The report describes the measures taken and consultations held towards 
the strengthening of cooperation and coordination between the OAS and the 
United Nations.  The policy context for those consultations was essentially 
framed by the Office of the Assistant Secretary-General of the OAS, and the 
Under-Secretary-General  for Special Political Questions, Regional Cooperation, 
Decolonization and Trusteeship of the United Nations.  I wish to place on 
record here my deep appreciation to Under-Secretary-General James Jonah and 
his staff for their collaboration. 
The Office of the Assistant Secretary-General also established close 
working relationships with the former Director-General for Development and 
International Economic Cooperation and the Assistant Administrator and 
Regional Director for Latin America and the Caribbean of the United Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP). 
As  a result of these measures and consultations, and as a follow-up to 
the conclusions and recommendations of the OAS-United Nations meeting, several 
specific collaborative activities have taken place. 
With respect to the specialized agencies, the former Director-General for 
Development and International Economic Cooperation, who, under the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations had responsibility for the operational 
activities for development, incorporating organizations and specialized 
A/47/PV.51 
12 
(Mr. Thomas.  OAS) 
agencies  of  the United Nations  system,  agreed  to  intensify  efforts  to  deepen 
and  expand  collaboration  between  the  specialized  agencies  of  the  two  systems. 
Collaboration  with  the Assistant  Administrator  and  Regional  Director  of 
the UNDP  for Latin  America  and  the Caribbean has  led  to an agreement  that  the 
Resident  Representatives  of  the UNDP, who, within  the United Nations  system 
function  as the United Nations  coordinators, would  establish  closer  contacts 
with  the Director  of  the Office of  the General  Secretariat  of  the OAS  in 
member  States with  a view to developing more  functional  coordination  in  their 
activities.  This  functional  cooperation  has  advanced  quite  significantly. 
I would  like  to highlight  here  some areas  in which  collaboration  between 
the OAS  and  the United Nations  has been most  effective.  In the  area of  drug 
abuse  control, collaboration between  the  Inter-American  Drug Abuse  Control 
Commission  (CICAD) of  the OAS  and  the  agencies  of  the United  Nations  system 
involved  in programmes  on drugs has been  substantial.  At a meeting  held 
recently  in Vienna between  representatives  of  the  Inter-American  Drug  Abuse 
Control  Commission  and  the International  Drug Control  Programme  of  the  United 
Nations,  a firm basis  for  long-term  cooperation  in programme  development 
between both  agencies was  laid. 
The  area of disaster  is another  in which  cooperation  between  the OAS  and 
the United Nations has helped  both  organizations  with  the  fulfilment  of  their 
mandates  in this  field.  The  Permanent  Council  of  the OAS has  recently  adopted 
a  resolution  on natural  disaster  reduction  for  sustainable  development,  in 
which,  inter  alia,  the  Secretary-General  of  the OAS was  requested  to  reiterate 
to the  Secretary-General  of  the United Nations  the  interest  of  the OAS  to 
collaborate  with  the United  Nations  system,  as well  as  specialized  regional 
and bilateral  development  assistance  agencies  in natural hazard  management 
activities,  to  save  lives  and  reduce  losses. 
A/47/PV.51 
13 
(Mr. Thomas. OAS) 
Also in the area of disaster management, an agreement was signed in March 
1992 between the General Secretariat of the OAS and the United Nations 
Development Programme, in which the UNDP provided substantial funds for  a 
programme in disaster management training being executed by the Executive 
Secretariat for Economic and Social Affairs of the OAS. 
The recommendations of the OAS-United Nations general meeting were 
directed essentially to collaboration in technical cooperation to countries 
that belong to both systems.  Other forms of collaboration between the OAS and 
the United Nations however have taken place to further the objectives of both 
organizations.  Most notable has been the cooperation between the OAS and the 
United Nations in bringing democracy to member States by providing assistance 
and observation missions for general elections in El Salvador, Nicaragua and 
Haiti. 
In the continuing political crisis in Haiti, collaboration between the 
two organizations was exemplified in the agreement of the General Assembly to 
support the resolutions of the meetings of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the 
OAS on Haiti.  Consequently, the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
agreed to send officials of the United Nations on the mission of the 
Secretary-General of the OAS to Haiti from 18 to 21 August 1992. 
With respect to humanitarian aid to Haiti, the Office of the Assisant 
Secretary-General has been collaborating with the Office of Humanitarian 
Affairs of the United Nations in the formulation of a comprehensive plan for 
humanitarian aid for Haiti.  As I speak to you today, a meeting is now taking 
place in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, in which technical personnel of both 
organizations are working together for the composition of this plan. 
A/47/PV.51 
14 
(Mr. Thomas. OAS) 
It  is the hope  of  all  our personnel  that  the plan will pave  the way  for 
the  consolidation  of  institutional  coordination between our  systems  in  the 
treatment  of  this  tragic human  situation. 
In his  annual  report  to the General  Assembly,  and  in his  report  entitled 
"An Agenda  for Peace",  Secretary-General  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  reaffirmed  the 
commitment  of  the United  Nations  to collaborate with  regional  organizations 
and highlighted  the  special  capability  of  these  organizations  in dealing  with 
the problems  of  their  region.  The  increasing  demands made on  the  resources  of 
both  the OAS  and  the United  Nations make  it  imperative  that  collaboration  be 
intensified.  As  the oldest  regional  organization  in the hemisphere,  the  OAS 
has  acquired  unique experience  in assisting  the development  of  countries  of 
this hemisphere.  In this  regard,  I draw the  attention of  this meeting  to  the 
offer by  the Chairman  of our  Permanent  Council  to the President  of  the 
Security  Council  for  increased  cooperation  in the  improvement  of  collective 
measures  for  the prevention  and  solution of  regional  conflicts. 
I would  like  to end with  the  reaffirmation  of  the OAS General  Secretariat 
to continue  to  seek ways  to collaborate with  the United  Nations  for  the 
achievement  of  the objectives  of both  organizations. 
The PRESIDENT!  The Assembly  will now take  a decision on  draft 
resolution A/47/L.13. 
I now call on  the  representative  of  the  Secretariat. 
Mr.  SUKHODREV  (Director  of  the Office  of General  Assembly  Affairs): 
I  should  like  to  inform members  that,  should  the General Assembly  adopt  draft 
resolution  A/47/L.13  concerning  the  cooperation between  the United  Nations  and 
the Organization  of  American  States,  the Secretary-General  does  not  anticipate 
that  any programme  budget  implications  would  arise. 
A/47/PV.51 
15 
The  PRESIDENT:  May  I take  it that  the Assembly  adopts  draft 
resolution  A/47/L.13? 
Draft  resolution  A/47/L.13 was  adopted  (resolution  47/11). 
The  PRESIDENT!  We have  concluded  this  stage  of  our  consideration  of 
agenda  item  21. 
A/47/PV.51 
16 
AGENDA  ITEM 29 
COOPERATION  BETWEEN THE UNITED  NATIONS  AND THE  LEAGUE OF ARAB  STATES 
(a)  REPORT OF THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/451) 
(b)  DRAFT  RESOLUTION  (A/47/L.12) 
The PRESIDENT;  I call on the  representative  of Oman,  to  introduce 
the draft  resolution. 
Mr. AL-SAMEEN  (Oman)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  It  is an honour 
and  a great pleasure  for me, as Chairman of  the Group of Arab  States  for  the 
current month,  to  speak  today,  in the context  of  agenda  item  29,  "Cooperation 
between  the United Nations  and the League of Arab States", and  introduce  the 
draft  resolution  contained  in document A/47/L.12. 
On behalf  of  the following  Arab States, sponsors  of  the draft 
resolution:  Algeria,  Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan,  Kuwait,  Lebanon, 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,  Syrian 
Arab  Repulic, Tunisia, United  Arab Emirates  and Yemen  I should  like  to  take 
this opportunity  to deal with  some of  the aspects  of  this draft  resolution  to 
which  the  secretariat  of  the League  as well  as  the United  Nations  attaches 
great  importance,  because  the draft  resolution, both  in  substance  and  aim, 
emphasizes  the need  to consolidate  and develop  the existing  ties of 
cooperation  between  the United Nations  and  the League  of Arab States,  in 
consonance with  the provisions  and goals of Chapter VIII of  the United  Nations 
Charter. 
The  draft  resolution  aims, both  in letter  and  spirit,  at promoting  and 
strengthening  the means, possibilities  and mechanisms  of  coordination  at  all 
A/47/PV.51 
17 
(Mr. Al-Sameen.  Oman) 
all  levels  of  cooperation between  the  two organizations,  especially  in the 
developmental,  economic,  political  and other  areas,  in line with  United 
Nations  resolutions  and  the  resolutions  of  the  summit  of  Arab  States  and 
Ministers  of  Foreign Affairs  of Arab  States.  This  stems  from  the  importance 
attached  by  the League  of Arab  States  to the discharge  of  its obligations  and 
undertakings  arising  from  its membership  of  the United  Nations, within  the 
context  of  the Organization's  Charter  and  the  rules  of  International  law. 
This  constant  Arab  approach  is quite  in evidence  in the Arab  States' 
unwavering  efforts  to  implement  United  Nations  resolutions  without 
selectivity,  in order  to  strengthen  international  legality  and ensure  the 
dominance  of harmony  and  cooperation  in tomorrow's world which  is now  taking 
shape with  all  its prospects, potentials  and  challenges.  We  do  that  in the 
strong belief  that  all  the States  of  the world  should  rise  to  the  level  of the 
collective  responsibility  of  all  towards  the  collective  security  of  all, the 
upholding  of  justice  and  the  rule of  law in an  integral  fashion,  on  a basis of 
interdependence,  without  discrimination  or  double  standards. 
In this  connection,  operative  paragraphs  4,  5 and  6 and  the  fourth,  fifth 
and  seventh preambular  paragraphs, by way of  example,  are  conclusive  proof  of 
the genuine  striving  by our  States  to strengthen  the peace process,  to  rebuild 
Lebanon,  to  find  a lasting,  just  and  comprehensive  solution  to  the  Arab-
Israeli  conflict  and  to the question  of  Palestine,  the  core of  the  conflict, 
to end  occupation  and  to eliminate  all  its  consequences,  so that  the  right of 
peoples  to  self-determination,  freedom  and  living  in peace  and  security  may be 
ensured. 
In conclusion,  I should  like  to  reaffirm  that  this  draft  resolution  deals 
with  all  aspects  of  cooperation,  coordination  and  consultation  between  the  two 
A/47/PV.51 
18-20 
(Mr. Al-Sameen.  Oman) 
Organizations, with  the aim of  achieving  the noble goals of  the Charters  of 
both Organizations  and of  creating  a climate  that would  lead  to  the  emergence 
of  a world  of  cooperation  and  freedom  from  conflict  in which people may  live 
in dignity  and enjoy  independence  in societies  that  are equal,  and 
interdependent  both  at  the  regional  level  and  throughout  the  world. 
I  call  upon members  to vote  in favour of  this draft  resolution. 
The PRESIDENT;  In accordance with General  Assembly  resolution 
477  (V), of  1 November  1950, I now call  on the Observer  of  the League of  Arab 
States. 
A/47/PV.51 
21 
Mr. NASR  (League of Arab  States)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  I 
should  like to  join previous  speakers  in congratulating Mr. Ganev  on  his 
election  to the presidency  of  this  session of  the General  Assembly,  which  is 
being held  at  a time of  far-reaching  changes  and great  challenge  for which  we 
are  trying  together  to  find  just and peaceful  solutions  to  in  line with  the 
principles  of  the Charter.  The election of our  President  to his  lofty post  is 
a  token of  the  international  community's  confidence  in his  abilities  and 
recognition of  the outstanding position of his  country,  Bulgaria,  amongst  the 
world's  nations. 
The  League  of Arab States, which was  created  in  1945  - a few months 
before  the creation of  the United Nations 
has  common  objectives  with  the 
United Nations, especially  in the  area of maintaining  international  peace  and 
security.  That  is why  it was only natural  that  the  two organizations  should 
have established  ties of  fruitful  cooperation  that have  expanded  and  deepened 
through  the years.  This  cooperation was  crowned by  the  signing  of  the  1989 
Agreement  of Co-operation between  the two organizations  on  the  coordination 
and  strengthening  of  their  relations  and  the broadening  of  their  scope  in line 
with  the  common  objectives  of both  their  Charters. 
The  League of Arab  States has been  and will  continue  to be  at  the 
forefront  of  activity  to  strengthen  the  role of  the United  Nations  and  to 
implement  its  resolutions  in all  spheres,  in particular  those  reaffirming 
peoples' rights  to  freedom,  sovereignty  and  dignity  in the exercise  of  their 
inalienable  right  to  self-determination,  especially  in our  region,  where  the 
Palestinian  people must  be  allowed  to enjoy  its  inalienable  right  to 
self-determination  and  the establishment  of  its own  independent  State,  to  put 
an end  to the  Israeli  occupation  of  all  occupied  Arab  territories,  and  to  have 
A/47/PV. 51 
22 
(Mr. Nasr. League  of Arab  States) 
a just  and  lasting peace.  He hope  that  these  resolutions will be  implemented 
in  a fair  and non-selective  manner  so as to ensure  for the United  Nations  the 
credibility  it deserves. 
We  in the League  of Arab  States have  taken note of  the  important  report 
by  the  Secretary-General  of  the United Nations, entitled  "An Agenda  for 
Peace",  in which he gives  an analysis  of  and  recommendations  on  the 
strengthening  of  the  role  and effectiveness  of  the United Nations  in the  areas 
of preventive  diplomacy,  peace-building  and peacemaking.  We  should  like,  in 
this  regard,  to express  our  appreciation  of  the  ideas  contained  in that 
report,  especially  those  regarding  cooperation  and  arrangements  with  regional 
organizations  pursuant  to the provisions  of Chapter VIII  of  the United  Nations 
Charter.  The  League of Arab States, for  its part,  commends  such  cooperation, 
especially  since,  in the past,  the cold war  sometimes prevented  us  from  taking 
advantage  of  the potential  of  such cooperation  and  thus hindered  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  some conflicts by  the means  envisaged  in the Charter. 
The  League of Arab  States has welcomed  this new  trend  and has  responded 
favourably  to the  invitation  extended  to  it and  other organizations  by  the 
Secretary-General  to participate  in a meeting  that was  convened  by  the 
Secretary-General  last February  in New York with  a view  to convincing  the 
parties  involved  in the  Somalian conflict  to agree  to a ceasefire.  In  this 
respect,  the League  of Arab  States wishes  to voice  its  support  for  the 
statement  issued by  the President  of  the Security  Council  on  16 October  1992, 
and  joins  iu appealing  to all parties  to the conflict  in Somalia  to  facilitate 
the humanitarian  aid mission  and  to  accept  the effective presence  of  the 
United  Nations  in Somalia.  The  League  also  expresses  its  support  for  the 
continued  efforts by the  Secretary-General  and  all  relevant  bodies,  despite 
A/47/PV.51 
23 
(Mr. Nasr. League  of  &rah  States) 
the many  difficulties,  to  find  the ways  and means  capable  of putting  an end  to 
bloodshed,  of  allowing  the humanitarian  assistance  to be provided  quickly  and 
of  finding  a. peaceful  solution  to the conflict  in Somalia. 
The  League  of Arab  States will  continue  to provide  assistance  to  the 
people  of  Somalia  and  to make  tireless  efforts  to end  this  tragedy,  acting  in 
coordination  and  cooperation  with United  Nations  efforts.  On  this  occasion, I 
should  like  to add  that  the League of Arab  States  is now preparing  to  send  a 
second medical  team  to the  capital  of  the northeastern  district  of  Somalia,  in 
addition  to  the  team  already present  in the General Hospital  of  Mogadishu. 
Here  again,  the League  is coordinating  with  the United  Nations. 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  item under  consideration,  in 
document  A/47/451, cites  the areas  of  cooperation  between  the  League  of  Arab 
States  and  the United  Nations  in the political, economic,  social,  cultural  and 
other  spheres.  I am duty-bound  here  to express  the gratitude  of  the  League 
and  its specialized  agencies  to the United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF) 
and other  relevant  bodies  of  the United  Nations,  as well  as to all  the 
specialized  agencies  of  the United  Nations  system,  for  the efforts  being  made 
to  strengthen  the ongoing  excellent  cooperation  that  has  existed  between  us 
since  1950, when  the League  of Arab  States  first  participated  in a United 
Nations  meeting. 
In this  connection,  I should  like  to  refer  to  certain  aspects  of 
cooperation  and  continued  coordination  between  the  League of Arab  States  and 
the United  Nations.  In Tunisia,  in early November,  there will  be  a high-level 
meeting,  in coordination  with UNICEF,  in which  the Secretary-General  of  the 
League  of Arab  States  and  the Arab ministers  responsible  for youth  will 
participate  with  a view  to establishing  common  bases  of  cooperation  between 
A/47/PV.51 
24 
(Mr. Nasr. League  of Arab  States) 
the League  and  the United  Nations  in protecting  children  in Arab  States.  We 
should  like to express  our gratitude  for the efforts made by UNICEF  in  this 
sphere. 
I  should  also  like to  refer  to the  consultations  currently  underway 
between  the League  of Arab States and  the United  Nations  to prepare  for  the 
meeting  to celebrate  the tenth  anniversary  of  the  first meeting  that was  held 
in Tunisia  in  1983, with  the aim of  reviewing  future  cooperation  between  the 
two organizations  and of  assessing  objectively  and  comprehensively  the 
cooperation  that has existed  over  the past  10 years, as well  as establishing  a 
scheme  for  cooperation  in the years  to come.  We hope  that  this meeting  will 
lead  to greater  coordination  between  the two organizations  and  the 
institutions  involved  in the establishment  and  implementation  of  joint 
programmes,  and  that  it will  take advantage  of Arab experience  and Arab  skills 
on the  international  and  the national  levels. 
I  should  also  like to  refer  to the  agreement  between  the League  of  Arab 
States  and  the  Secretariat  of  the United  Nations  to hold  a  joint meeting  next 
December  in Geneva, with  the participation  of many  specialized  agencies  of  the 
two organizations,  to establish  a common  plan  for effective  cooperation  and 
coordination  between  the  two organizations  in order  to implement  certain 
recommendations  submitted  by  the  Secretary-General  in his  report  "An  Agenda 
for Peace",  and  to  serve  the  common  objectives  of maintaining  international 
peace  and  security  and enhancing  economic  and  social  development. 
The Middle  East has  suffered  for  far  too  long  from  the  tribulations  of 
war,  acts  of  aggression  and  the occupation  of  territories  by  force.  For  many 
years  now,  the League  of Arab  States has  reaffirmed  time  and  again,  its  view 
that we must  find  a just  and  lasting  solution  to the Middle  East  problem  and 
A/47/PV.51 
25 
(Mr. Nasr. League  of Arab  States) 
the Palestinian  question,  and has  supported  efforts  to  free  the Middle  East 
region  from  all weapons  of mass  destruction,  especially  nuclear  weapons.  In 
this  regard,  I should  like to  reaffirm  that  the League  of Arab  States  welcomes 
all efforts made,  through  equitable  legally binding  commitments  to  apply  these 
agreements  fairly  to the entire  region.  Including  Israel,  in accordance  with 
the  same criteria,  especially  since  Israel has  so  far  refused  to  accede  to  the 
non-proliferation  Treaty. 
A/47/PV.51 
26 
(Mr. Nasr. League  of Arab  States) 
The  League of Arab  States has  repeatedly  urged  that  the Middle  East 
should  be  freed  from  all weapons  of mass destruction,  namely  chemical, 
biological  and nuclear weapons.  Last  September,  the League  declared  the 
readiness  of  the Arab  States  to deal with the Draft  Convention  on  Chemical 
Weapons  in the measure  of  Israel's  response  to  international  appeals  for  it to 
accede  to the Treaty  on the Non-Proliferation  of Nuclear Weapons  and  to place 
its nuclear  facilities  under  the  international  safeguards  regime  in  accordance 
with  Security  Council  resolution  487  (1981). 
The League has  followed  the preparatory work  for  the Conference  on  Human 
Rights planned  for next  year.  We  should  like  in this  respect  to pay  tribute 
to the  efforts  aimed  at the adoption of  a document  which would  take  into 
consideration  all  fundamental  human  rights and ensure  that  they  are  upheld, 
especially  the  rights  to self-determination,  freedom,  independence  and  to a 
life of dignity  and  security,  and  to ensure  the  implementation  of  all  human 
rights  conventions  relative  to armed  conflicts  anywhere  in the world. 
We  firmly hope  that  the United  Nations, with  its Charter  and  the  values 
it stands  for, will  be  the cornerstone  of  the new age, an age which, we hope, 
will  have  as  its highest  objectives  the primacy of peace,  law and  justice. 
Though  the  cold war, which  lasted  for decades, weakened  the  role of  the United 
Nations, we hope  that  the old bipolarity will be  replaced  now by  a much 
strengthened  role  for  the United Nations,  in order  for  the Organization  to be 
able  to perform  the  role envisaged  for  it  in the Charter,  and  thereby  usher  in 
a new era of genuine  respect  for  the  interests  and  the  rights of peoples  to 
justice, peace,  freedom,  dignity  and  equality. 
It  is  in this  context,  that  the League  of Arab  States views  the 
importance  of  the programme  proposed by  the Secretary-General  in the  "Agenda 
A/47/PV.51 
27 
(Mr. Nasr. League  of Af?'? States) 
for Peace", wherein he emphasized,  inter  alia,  the  responsibility  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the international  community  for peacemaking  and peace(cid:173)
keeping  and highlighted  the  importance  of closer  cooperation between  the 
United  Nations  and  international  and  regional  organizations  for  the 
achievement  of  common  objectives. 
In conclusion,  the League  of Arab  States  reiterates  its  support  for  the 
purposes  and principles  of  the United Nations  Charter  and wishes  the  United 
Nations  every  success  in its  search  for  solutions  to  the problems  and  crises 
that  it  faces up  to  in order  for  all  the world's  peoples  to enjoy  a  life of 
dignity,  freedom,  development  and prosperity.  We  reaffirm  our  determination 
to do our utmost  to ensure  closer  cooperation with  the United  Nations with  the 
aim of building  a better  world. 
The  PRESIDENT!  The Assembly will  now  take  a decision  on  draft 
resolution A/47/L.12. 
I  call on  the  representative  of  the  Secretariat. 
Mr.  SUKHODREV  (Director  of  the Office  of General  Assembly  Affairs): 
I  should  like to  inform members  that,  should  the General  Assembly  adopt  draft 
resolution  A/47/L.12  concerning  the  cooperation between  the United Nations  and 
the League  of Arab  States, the Secretary-General  does not  anticipate  that  any 
programme  budget  implications  would  arise. 
The  PRESIDENT;  We  shall  now begin  the voting process.  A  recorded 
vote has been  requested. 
A/47/PV.51 
28 
A  recorded  vote was  taken. 
In favour! 
Afghanistan,  Albania, Algeria, Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Bahamas, Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Barbados, Belgium,  Belize, Benin, Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil, Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso, 
Canada,  Cape Verde, Chile, China,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,  Denmark, Djibouti,  Ecuador, 
Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea, Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Finland, 
France, Gabon, Germany,  Ghana, Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,  Iceland, 
India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic Republic  o f ), Iraq,  Ireland, 
Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan, Jordan,  Kenya, Kuwait,  Lao  People's 
Democratic  Republic,  Latvia, Lebanon,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mexico, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of), Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru, Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar, Republic  of Korea, Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Sao 
Tome  and  Principe, Saudi Arabia,  Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Spain,  Sri Lanka,  Sudan, Suriname,  Swaziland, 
Sweden,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,  Togo, Trinidad  and 
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United  Arab Emirates, 
United  Kingdom  of Great  Britain  and Northern  Ireland,  United 
Republic  of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet  Nam,  Yemen 
Against! 
Israel, United  States of  America 
Abstaining:  San Marino 
Draft  resolution  A/47/L.12 was  adopted by  119 votes  to  2. with  1 
abstention  (resolution  47/12)* 
The  PRESIDENT!  Before  calling  on  those  representatives  wishing  to 
explain  their vote  after  the voting, may  I remind  delegations  that,  in 
accordance with General Assembly  decision  34/401, explanations  of vote  are 
limited  to  10 minutes  and  should be made by delegations  from  their  seats. 
Mr. CLIFF  (United  Kingdom):  I have  the honour  to  speak on behalf  of 
the European  Community  and  its member  States. 
* 
Subsequently,  the delegations  of Azerbaijan,  Lesotho, Mauritania, 
Mauritius, Mongolia, Mozambique  and Nigeria  advised  the  Secretariat  that  they 
had  intended  to vote  in  favour. 
A/47/PV.51 
29 
(Mr. Cliff. Pni^fiji Kingdom) 
While  we have voted  in  favour of  the  resolution  on cooperation  between 
the United  Nations  and  the League of Arab States  just  adopted,  we wish  to make 
a  few general  comments. 
We  fully  support  cooperation  between  the United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations,  including  those holding  observer  status.  The benefits  have 
been highlighted  by  the Secretary-General  in his  report  "An Agenda  for 
Peace".  We  are happy  to join  in expressions  of  support  and encouragement  for 
the  further  development  of  such cooperation within  the  framework  of  the United 
Nations  Charter. 
However, we would  prefer  that  resolutions  of  this  kind  deal with  the 
question  of  cooperation  in terms which  avoid  introducing  contentious 
elements.  In particular, with  regard  to operative paragraph  5 of 
resolution  47/12, which has  just been  adopted,  we wish  to draw  attention  to 
the need  to  avoid prejudicing  the  role of  the  Secretary-General  and  to  the 
fact  that  the Twelve have not  supported  all  the  resolutions  referred  to  in 
that  paragraph. 
With  regard  to operative  paragraph  12 of  the  resolution,  we would  like to 
state  again  that  its contents  should  not  serve  as a precedent  for  the  future. 
The United  Nations  should be  free  to make  use  of  the best  and most  economical 
expertise  available  to  it. 
Ms.  ESTEFAN  (United  States of America):  I regret  that  the  United 
States was obliged,  as  it has done  in the past  several  years, to vote  against 
this  resolution. 
The United  States  does  seek  to  support  the work  of  the Arab  League,  and 
does  support  increased  cooperation  between  the United  Nations  and  the  League 
of Arab  States.  The Arab  League played  a positive  role in the Gulf  crisis. 
A/47/PV.51 
30 
(Ms. Estefan. United  States) 
and my  Government  cooperated  with members  of  the League  to that  end.  The  Arab 
League's  tripartite  High  Committee  was  instrumental  in helping  settle  the 
conflict  in Lebanon,  and my  Government  cooperated  with members  of  the  League 
to  that  end  as well. 
However,  as we  stated  in each of  the preceding  several years, we  cannot 
support  a resolution which  includes  language  and  references  inconsistent  with 
fundamental  policies  of  the United  States Government  and which we  have 
consistently  opposed.  This  resolution  asks  the Secretary-General,  in 
operative  paragraph  5, to help  implement  United  Nations  resolutions  that  the 
United  States has opposed.  In the tenth preambular  paragraph,  the  resolution 
includes  reference  not  to United Nations-Arab  cooperation  but  to a  statement 
of  the  1980 Arab  Summit  which  contains  language  and  conclusions which  were 
unacceptable  not only  to  the United  States but  to many  other members  of  this 
Assembly  as well.  We  regret  that  the  sponsors  of  this  resolution  have  chosen 
to  include  these  references. 
A/47/PV. 51 
31 
(Ms. Estefan. Unit-o-^ states) 
We welcome the new sixth preambular paragraph, which welcomes the peace 
process begun at Madrid, but must register a reservation.  To single out and 
to characterize the core of the Middle East conflict as the question of 
Palestine is to simplify an exceedingly complex conflict involving Israel and 
the Arab States, as well as the Palestinians.  We would have preferred 
different language in this paragraph, just as we would have preferred to join 
in the consensus on the draft resolution with other members of the Assembly. 
Mr. TAYLOR (Canada):  Itself a member of regional organizations, 
Canada knows the value of effective cooperation between regional organizations 
and the United Nations system.  Accordingly, we support cooperation between 
the United Nations and the League of Arab States and voted in favour of the 
draft resolution.  We have reviewed the Secretary-General's report (A/47/451) 
and note that it gives examples of constructive cooperation between the two 
systems.  He want to see such beneficial cooperation continued. 
Nevertheless, we feel compelled to point out that Canada did not vote for 
some of the General Assembly resolutions referred to in paragraph 5.  The 
reference to those controversial issues is in part balanced by the new 
paragraph making positive reference to the current Middle East peace process, 
but we would like the cooperation between the United Nations and the League of 
Arab States, as well as the text of the resolution, to reflect the more 
positive situation that the peace process has engendered. 
Mr. FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (interpretation from Russian):  The 
delegation of the Russian Federation is in favour of combining the efforts of 
regional bodies and organizations with those of the United Nations, especially 
in the areas of ensuring security, conflict prevention and settlement and 
response to environmental and humanitarian emergencies.  Initial experience in 
A/47/PV.51 
32 
(Mr. Fedotov.  Russian  Federation) 
interaction between  regional  organizations  and  the United  Nations  is being 
gradually  accumulated  in Europe, Africa  and  a number  of other  regions. 
Therefore we  supported  the draft  resolution, which  is designed  to  promote 
cooperation between  the United Nations  and  the League  of Arab  States  as a 
regional  organization  in the  sense  of Chapter VIII  of  the Charter. 
At  the  same  time, the Russian  delegation  cannot  agree with  the  inclusion 
in the  resolution  of  outmoded  language pertaining  to the  substance  of  the 
Middle  East  settlement  which  does not  take  into account  the new  facts  of  life 
associated with  the emerging Middle  East peace process.  In particular,  we 
object  to  the provisions which  in fact  amount  to an  attempt  to distort  the 
agreed mandate  of  the Madrid  conference  by  including words  to the effect  that 
the core  of  a Middle  East  settlement  is the question  of Palestine, whereas  it 
is merely  one  of  the main  issues being  considered  as part  of  the Middle  East 
negotiation  process. 
Accordingly,  if this  language had been put  to  a  separate vote,  the 
delegation  of  Russia would  not have been  able  to  support  it. 
Mr. MALIK  (Iraq)  (interpretation  from Arabic):  My  delegation  has 
voted  in  favour  of draft  resolution A/47/L.12  on  the promotion  of  cooperation 
between  the United  Nations  and  the League  of Arab  States,  just  adopted  by  the 
Assembly.  This  is a resolution we have  consistently  supported  over  the years. 
However,  in view of  Iraq's  special  stance with  regard  to  the  so-called 
Middle  East peace process mentioned  in the  sixth preambular  paragraph,  Iraq 
wishes  to make  known  its reservations  with  regard  to that paragraph, which we 
would  like  to  see  reflected  in the  record. 
We would  have preferred  that  such an  issue  should  not  have been  injected 
into  the  resolution  so that we would  not have been  compelled  to voice  our 
reservations. 
A/47/PV.51 
33 
Mr. WIDE (Sweden):  I have the honour to speak on behalf of the five 
Nordic countries, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.  The Nordic 
countries voted in favour of the resolution just adopted by the General 
Assembly with the understanding that elements with political implications, in 
particular in paragraph 5, are not relevant to the issue and obviously cannot 
prejudice the position of the Nordic countries on the substantive matter 
referred to therein. 
Mr. HAMADA (Japan):  The delegation of Japan is well aware of the 
extremely valuable benefits to be derived from cooperation between the United 
Nations and the various organizations with observer status.  Japan thus 
welcomes and firmly supports the cooperation of the United Nations with the 
League of Arab States.  Consequently, Japan voted in favour of draft 
resolution A/47/L.12.  In doing so, Japan would like to place on record, 
however, its position concerning paragraph 5 of the draft resolution, which 
includes a reference to some United Nations resolutions which Japan did not 
support. 
Japan also wishes to draw attention to the need for efforts to limit the 
cost of such cooperation between the United Nations and the various 
organizations with observer status, in view of the current financial 
constraints. 
Ms. BIRD (Australia);  Australia has been a consistently strong 
supporter of instruments of regional cooperation and of cooperation between 
such bodies and the United Nations.  It is for this reason that Australia 
voted in favour of the resolution just adopted.  We do, however, have 
difficulties with paragraph 5, which refers to United Nations resolutions, 
some of which Australia has not supported. 
A/47/PV.51 
34-35 
(Ms. Bird.  Australia) 
Concerning  paragraph  12, while understanding  the  sentiment  expressed,  we 
consider  that  the United Nations  should  continue  to be mindful  of  the need  for 
merit,  efficiency  and economy  in the employment  of  staff.  This  principle 
applies  in all  resolutions where  considerations  of  this  kind  are  raised. 
As  a general  comment,  my  delegation  also hopes  that  the  resolutions 
adopted  in the Assembly  on Middle  East  items generally will  reflect  the more 
positive  situation  arising  from  the Middle  East peace process. 
Mr. HASSAN  (Sudan)  (interpretation  from  Arabic);  Sudan has voted  in 
favour of  draft  resolution  A/47/L.12  on cooperation between  the United  Nations 
and  the League  of Arab  States  in  line with  the unified  stance by  the League  of 
Arab  States with  regard  to  the draft  resolution  in general.  However,  my 
delegation  does have  reservations  with  regard  to the  sixth  preambular 
paragraph  of  the draft  resolution which  reads: 
"Welcoming  the peace process  concerning  the Middle  East, which 
commenced  in the  convening  of  the Madrid  conference  in 1991, with  a view 
to achieving  a comprehensive  and  just  settlement  of  the Middle  East 
conflict,  the core  of which  is the question  of  Palestine". 
A/47/PV.51 
36 
(Mr. Hassan.  Sudan) 
My  delegation's  reservations with  regard  to that paragraph  stem  from  the 
fact  that  it was  injected  into this draft  resolution  in an  inappropriate 
fashion.  The United Nations plays no  role whatsoever  in the peace  talks  now 
under way between certain Arab countries  and  Israel,  a  process  that  began  with 
the  convening  of  the Madrid  Conference  in 1991. 
The United  Nations  has been  excluded  deliberately  from  involvement  in 
that process,  starting with  the Madrid  Conference  and  the  talks  that 
followed.  This exclusion  of  the United  Nations was  insisted  upon by  certain 
parties  to  those  talks  for  reasons we do not  consider  to be  convincing.  The 
fact  is  involvement  by  the United Nations  in the  talks was  considered  to be 
detrimental  to the designs  of  those parties. 
That  is why we  can  find  no  justification whatsoever  for  the  injection of 
the paragraph  in this  draft  resolution, which has  to do with  cooperation 
between  the United  Nations  and  the League of Arab  States. 
My  delegation  is of  the view  that  the best  framework  for  the  just, 
comprehensive  and durable  settlement  of  the Middle  East  conflict  and  the  core 
issue  of  that  conflict,  the question  of Palestine  is the  convening  of  an 
international  peace  conference  under  the auspices  and  control  of  the United 
Nations.  He  feel  that  any attempt  to  settle  this  conflict  outside  the  context 
of  the United  Nations  can never  lead  to  a comprehensive,  just  and  durable 
settlement. 
Notwithstanding  our positive  vote on  the draft  resolution,  we wish  the 
record  to  reflect  our. reservations  with  regard  to this particular  paragraph. 
Mr.  JACOB  (Israel):  My  delegation  voted  against  the  draft 
resolution  just  adopted  for  reasons  that have  been  spelled  out  repeatedly  in 
our previous  statements  on  this  issue.  As  those  reasons have  already  been put 
A/47/PV.51 
37 
(Mr. Jacob.  Israel) 
on  record, we  shall not  repeat  them here.  Given  the bilateral  and 
multilateral  negotiations  currently under way between  Israel  and  its Arab 
neighbours,  all of which  are members  of  the League of Arab  States, we  feel 
that  restraint  at this  juncture  is more  appropriate. 
He  should  like, however,  to  refer  to the  tenth preambular  paragraph, 
which makes  reference  to the Arab Summit  Conference held  at Amman  in 
November  1980.  The Amman  Conference went  so far as to  criticize 
Security  Council  resolution  242  (1967) and the Camp David Accords, which  serve 
as the basis  for  the current peace process.  It  is regrettable  that  such a 
reference  is  included  in the  resolution. 
He  should  like also  to  refer  to paragraph  5, which  calls  for  the 
implementation  of  "United Nations  resolutions  relating  to the question of 
Palestine  and the  situation  in the Middle  East".  Israel has  consistently 
voted  against  these  resolutions because  they have never  constituted  any 
genuine  basis  for  a negotiated  and peaceful  settlement  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict.  Israel has  always  advocated  the principle  of direct  negotiations 
without  preconditions  as the only way to promote peace  in the  region,  and 
indeed  the  current  peace process  is based  on this principle. 
Furthermore,  the  sixth preambular  paragraph, while welcoming  the  current 
Middle  East peace process,  includes  language  that  is at variance with  the 
principles  set out  in the  sponsors' letter of  invitation  to Madrid  of 
18 October  1991.  In addition,  on the one hand  the resolution  includes 
references  to the Amman  Conference  and  to the aforementioned  resolutions  on 
the question  of Palestine  and  the  situation  in the Middle East, which  stand  in 
opposition  to any genuine  notion of peace.  On the other hand  the  resolution 
A/47/PV.51 
38 
(Mr. Jacob.  Israel) 
refers  to the Madrid  Conference, which  initiated  the  current  peace  process. 
Thus  the  resolution  clearly  contradicts  itself. 
We  should  like  to call upon  the members  of  the Arab  League  to  help 
promote  the Middle  East peace process.  Israel, for  its part,  is committed  to 
doing  its utmost  to bring  this process  to a fruitful  conclusion. 
Mr. TAKHT-RAVANCHI  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran voted  in favour of  the  resolution  just  adopted.  However,  my 
delegation would  like to express  its  reservations  on  the  sixth  preambular 
paragraph,  in line with our previous  position on  the  subject. 
Mr. ADENIJI  (Nigeria):  My  delegation  supports  all efforts  aimed  at 
strengthening  cooperation  between  the United  Nations  and various  regional 
organizations.  We believe  that  the United  Nations  has  a responsibility  in the 
present  context  of  the evolution  of  international  relations  to  encourage 
regional  organizations, especially where  they  take  initiatives  for  the 
strengthening  of  regional peace,  regional  security  and  regional  development. 
That  is why my  delegation  regrets  its unavoidable  absence when  the 
decision on this draft  resolution was  taken.  If my  delegation  had  been 
present, we would  certainly  have voted  in favour  of  it. 
The PRESIDENT;  He have  concluded  this  stage  of  our  consideration of 
agenda  item  29. 
A/47/PV.51 
39-40 
PROGRAMME  OF  HORK 
The  PRESIDENT:  Representatives will  recall  that on  5 and  14 October 
the President  of  the General Assembly  announced  our  tentative  programme  of 
work  of  the General  Assembly  for  the months  of  October  and November  and  the 
first week  of  December. 
The  President  has  requested me  to inform members  of  the  following 
additions  and changes  to our  tentative programme  of work. 
On Tuesday,  10 November,  in the morning,  the Assembly will  consider 
agenda  item  27, "Cooperation between  the United Nations  and  the  Organization 
of African Unity",  after hearing  an address by the President  of  the  Republic 
of  Zambia. 
On Friday,  20 November,  the Assembly will  consider  agenda  item 37, 
"Strengthening  of  the coordination  of humanitarian  emergency  assistance  of  the 
United  Nations". 
AGENDA  ITEM  24 
COOPERATION  BETHEEN  THE UNITED NATIONS  AND THE  LATIN AMERICAN  ECONOMIC  SYSTEM 
(a)  REPORT  OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/463) 
(b)  DRAFT  RESOLUTION  (A/47/L.7) 
The PRESIDENT!  The  report  of  the Secretary-General  has been  issued 
as document A/47/463. 
In this  connection  the Assembly  has before  it a draft  resolution  issued 
as document  A/47/L.7.  I call on  the representative  of Peru  to introduce  the 
draft  resolution. 
A/47/PV.51 
41 
Mr. LUNA  (Peru)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  I am pleased  to 
introduce  the draft  resolution  "Cooperation between  the United  Nations  and  the 
Latin American  Economic  System",  in document  A/47/L.7,  sponsored  by  27  States 
members  of  the Latin American  Economic  System  (SELA). 
The main objective  of  the draft  resolution  is to  strengthen  and  broaden 
cooperation between  the United  Nations  system  and  the Latin  American  Economic 
System.  This  cooperation meets  the need  to bring  to a variety  of  new  problems 
solutions  in keeping with  the global  vision of  the United  Nations  and  the 
specific  contributions  of  regional  groups.  In this way  the  draft  resolution 
seeks  to contribute  to the concrete  application  of  the objectives  of  the 
United Nations  in our  region. 
The emerging  international  order puts  into  a new perspective  the  role of 
regional mechanisms  of  consultation  and  teamwork  in the  economic  and  social 
fields. 
Two  simultaneous  and  apparently  contradictory  trends make  it even more 
essential  to define properly  the  linkage between  the world  Organization  and 
regional  bodies.  On the one hand,  the globalization  process  of  the 
international  economy  is becoming  irreversible, while  on  the  other,  the 
establishment  of  regional  economic  groupings  is gaining  impetus.  One  of the 
greatest  challenges  of  the  immediate  future  is that  of  developing  the  positive 
features  of both  trends while  avoiding  their pitfalls  and making  them work for 
the benefit  of  international  society  as a whole. 
Along  these  lines,  regional  mechanisms  like SELA  are  the  link  par 
excellence  between  the global  efforts  of  the  international  community  and  the 
practical  application  of measures  stemming  therefrom.  In  the  case  of  Latin 
America  and  the Caribbean,  the global  issues  now on the  international 
A/47/PV.51 
42 
(Mr. Luna.  Peru) 
agenda, which  call  for  a new  approach based  on  cooperation  and  understanding, 
have  in SELA  an  ideal vehicle  for progress  towards  international  teamwork. 
In this  context,  it  is SELA's historical  imperative  to  facilitate  and 
stimulate, with  an  integrated,  up-to-date  vision,  its States members'  efforts 
for political,  social  and economic  transformation  in order  to  foster  solid, 
prosperous  economies, expand  trade  and promote  investment.  In this way  Latin 
America  and  the Caribbean will be able to become  a region of  confluence, 
renewal  and  stimulation  of global  economic  and  financial  trends, in  accordance 
with  the visionary  spirit  of  SELA's  charter.  These  circumstances  of  global 
interdependence  highlight  in particular  the need  to continue  strengthening  the 
energizing  links  of  cooperation  between  the United Nations  and  the  Latin 
American  Economic  System. 
In the preambular  part  of  the draft  resolution before  the  Assembly, 
special  reference  is made  to the many different  activities  carried  out by  the 
Latin American  Economic  System  in concert with various  organs  of  the United 
Nations  system  and  also  to SELA's  implementation  of priority programmes  for 
the economic  development  of  the countries  of  the  region. 
The  operative  part  of  the draft  resolution  takes note with  satisfaction 
of  the  report  of  the Secretary-General  and urges  the Economic  Commission  for 
Latin America  and  the Caribbean  and  the United  Nations Development  Programme 
to broaden  and  deepen  their  coordination  and  support  activities with SELA.  It 
also  urges  the  specialized  agencies  and other organizations  and programmes  of 
the United  Nations  system  to  intensify  their  cooperation with  the  activities 
of  this  regional  body.  It requests  the  Secretary-General  of  the United 
Nations  and  the Permanent  Secretary of  SELA  to assess  jointly  the 
implementation  of  the  recently  signed  Agreement  on cooperation  and  to  report 
thereon  at  the  forty-eighth  session  of  the General  Assembly. 
A/47/PV.51 
43 
(Mr. Luna.  Peru) 
Since  this draft  resolution  is  free of  controversial  elements  and  since 
it also  embodies  the hopes  of the  countries  of Latin America  and  the  Caribbean 
for  the broadening  and  strengthening  of  cooperation between  the United  Nations 
and  SELA,  the delegation  of Peru,  on behalf  of  the  sponsors,  comprising  all 
the States members  of  SELA, hopes  that  the General  Assembly  will  adopt  it 
without  a vote. 
Mr. CAMPOS  (Chile)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  I should  like 
first  to express  the Chilean  delegation's  satisfaction  that  the  agenda of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session  once  again  takes  up  the 
important  item of  cooperation between  the United  Nations  system  and  regional 
bodies.  This morning we  shall  consider  United  Nations  cooperation  with the 
Organization  of American  States  (OAS),  the Latin American  Economic  system and 
organizations  of  other  regional  groups. 
As we have  already  stated  on various  occasions  and  at various  forums, my 
country  considers  it extremely  important  to  strengthen  the  existing bodies, 
which have  invaluable  experience,  trained  technical  staff,  reservoirs  of 
information  and  a distinguished  history.  At  the  same  time, we  have  expressed 
the need  to establish  linkages  between  regional  organizations  and  the United 
Nations  system with  the aim  of  using  resources  efficiently  and  thus making the 
international  bodies more  effective. 
With  these  considerations  in mind,  Chile  has  joined  the  sponsors  of the 
draft  resolution  introduced  by  the  representative  of Honduras  on  cooperation 
between  the Unite'd Nations  and  the Organization  of American  States.  By the 
same  token, we welcome  the  report  submitted  by the  Secretary-General  in 
document  A/47/498, which  contains  a detailed  account  of  the  activities  carried 
A/47/PV.51 
44-45 
(Mr. Campos.  Chile) 
out by various  agencies  of  the United  Nations  system  and  the Organization  of 
American  States. 
In this  connection my  delegation would  like  to highlight  the  fact  that  at 
the  twenty-second  session  of the General Assembly  of  the OAS, held  in May  of 
this year  in the Bahamas, a similar  decision was  adopted  that placed  on  record 
the  satisfaction  of members  at  the efforts made by both organizations  and 
called  for  the  Secretary-General  of our  regional  organization  to continue  to 
strengthen  cooperation with  the United Nations. 
We  are  delighted  to  see that these very  same elements  are embodied  in the 
draft  resolution  now before  the world  Organization.  We  feel  that  cooperation 
and  coordination between  the United  Nations  and  the OAS must be  stepped  up 
with  regard  to preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and peace-keeping  and,  most 
especially,  strengthening  democratic  systems  and  full  respect  for  human 
rights,  all of which are matters  to which my Government  gives  the highest 
priority. 
With  regard  to cooperation with  the Latin American  Economic  System,  my 
delegation  voiced  its  support  last year  for  the  terms of  the Agreement  signed 
between  the United Nations  and  SELA.  As we  indicated  then,  that  commitment 
would make  it possible  to open new channels  for expanding  the economic  and 
social  development  prograiranes of which our  region  is in such need  and  to 
strengthen  other  initiatives  that would  commit  both organizations  to working 
together. 
A/47/PV.51 
46 
(Mr. Campos.  Chile) 
In accordance with  the provisions of  resolution  46/12  the  Secretary-
General has  submitted  a comprehensive  report  on cooperation  between  the United 
Nations  and  the Latin American  Economic  System,  as well  as on other matters  in 
that  resolution. 
My  delegation wishes  to  thank  the Secretary-General  for his  report  in 
document  A/47/463, which  sets out  in detail  the cooperative  programmes  already 
carried  out  and  also  notes  the progress made  in building  ties between  the 
regional  and  the world  organizations.  We believe  that  the  report  is  fully in 
keeping with  the  requirements  of  requests  in the  resolution  adopted  at  the 
forty-sixth  session of  the General  Assembly,  held  in 1991. 
We  note with  satisfaction  that programmes  of  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  SELA have expanded  in  recent  times.  In keeping  with 
tradition,  the Economic  Commission  for Latin America  and  the Caribbean  (ECLAC) 
has  indeed played  a key  role  in attaining  this goal. 
We  urge  other bodies  throughout  the United  Nations  system  to pursue  and 
intensify  their  support  for  and  cooperation with  SELA  activities,  particularly 
the United Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP), with  a view  to  strengthening 
and broadening  support  for  those programmes  the Permanent  Secretary of  the 
Latin American  Economic  System  is carrying  out. 
When we  spoke  at  the  last  session  of  the General  Assembly  we  also made 
reference  to a programme  being  carried  out  in the Latin American  and  Caribbean 
region  involving  the United  Nations  Conference  on Trade  and  Development 
(UNCTAD),  ECLAC  and  SELA with  regard  to the Uruguay  Round, which  is  close  to 
completion. 
On that  occasion,  and given  the  successful  experience  gained  in  that 
programme,  my  delegation  wishes  to  support  the new programme  called 
A/47/PV. 51 
47 
(Mr. Campos.  Chile) 
"LATINTRADE",  mentioned  in paragraph  43 of  the  report  (A/47/463).  This 
programme  will  be  sponsored  by UNCTAD,  ECLAC  and  SELA,  and will  have  the 
backing  of UNDP  as well  as the  support,  in the  light of experience  gained,  of 
the  Inter-American  Development  Bank  (IDB) and  the  Ibero-American  Association 
of  Chambers  of  Commerce  representing  the private  sector. 
Hence my  country,  Chile, has decided  to join  the  sponsors  of  draft 
resolution A/47/L.7,  just  introduced  by the representative  of Peru.  We  hope 
that  the General  Assembly  will  adopt  it by consensus. 
Mr. VILLEGAS  (Mexico)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  The  delegation 
of Mexico  is pleased  to participate  in the discussion  on this  important  item 
for  the Latin American  and Caribbean  region and  this Organization.  Given  the 
shaky  state  of  the global  economy  Latin America  is once  again  confronted  with 
major  challenges.  The  upward  trend our  region had  recorded  over  the past 
biennium  is beginning  to  slow down, calling  into question whether  it can be 
sustained  and,  thus, the direction of  the enormous  efforts  exerted  in the  task. 
This  early erosion of gains made  is in large measure  the  result  of 
exogenous  factors.  It does not appear  that  the  international  economic 
environment  is at  all  favourable  to the development  of  the Latin  American 
economy.  After  a decade of adversity  the countries  of the  region have  devised 
short-term  policies  of  adjustment  and of economic  reform  that  any  developed 
country would  have had  difficulty  adopting.  The  imperative  of  joining  a 
dynamic  and  interdependent  world  system  gave  rise to encouraging  prospects 
amongst  us. 
In  this  context we have placed  special  emphasis  on policies  aimed  at open 
trade,  in the belief  that  this  sector has  a  key role  to play  in promoting 
growth.  Among  the numerous  risks  facing our  regional  economy, we  should  like 
to highlight  those posed  by  this  sector. 
A/47/PV.51 
48 
(Mr. Villoqas,  Maxico) 
For more  than  six years  the parties  to  the General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 
and Trade  (GATT) have been working  resolutely  to work  out  a consolidated  trade 
system  involving  the exchanging  not only of goods but  also of  services, a 
system which would  be beneficial  to all parties.  This  exercise  is now  facing 
its greatest  challenge.  The parties  concerned will have  to make  an  earnest 
effort  to break  the deadlock  and move  forward  in the negotiations, which  are 
the key  to the economic  future not  only of Latin America  and  the  Caribbean  but 
also of  the entire  world. 
Over  the  17 years  since  its  inception  the Latin American  Economic  System 
(SELA) has been playing  a  significant  catalytic  role  in  the processes  of 
regional  integration.  Its  function  to provide  analysis  and  to promote  joint 
efforts  has  contributed  to bringing  all  the  countries  of  this  development 
region  closer  together.  Through  its  forums of  consultation  and  coordination 
it has  facilitated  the  adoption  of consensus  positions  on  issues  of  great 
significance  to our  countries.  It has  also made  it possible  to  identify 
problems  of  concern  to our  societies  and  to  find  solutions  to  them. 
We  are pleased  to note  that  the Secretary-General's  report  on this  item 
indicates  that  relations  between  the Organization  and  SELA have  expanded  and 
deepened  in the past  12 months.  We welcome  the  fact  that  a growing  n\imber of 
agencies  in the  system  are becoming  involved  in these  activities. 
We wish  in particular  to highlight  the  fruitful  and  intensive work  which 
over  this period  has been  carried  out  jointly by  SELA  and  the  Economic 
Commission  for Latin America  and  the Caribbean  (ECLAC).  In this  context  the 
priority given  to  social  issues  in the  region 
through  specific  actions  such 
as  the establishment  of  networks  of  data banks  in this  regard 
is 
contributing  not  only  to consciousness-raising  on  these  issues but  also 
providing  a basis  for  the  adoption  of  appropriate  policies  and measures. 
A/47/PV.51 
49-50 
(Mr. Villeoas. Mexico) 
This  fruitful work  is being done  in cooperation with  a variety  of 
agencies,  such as  the United Nations Development  Programme  (UNDP), which  play 
a  leading  role  in technical  cooperation  in our  region.  Currently  a project 
covering  activities  of great  interest  to the countries  in our  region  is being 
analysed  together with UNDP, with  a view  to its  inclusion  in the  fifth 
programming  cycle. 
We  should  also  like  to highlight  the communication  and  cooperation  that 
has been established with bodies  throughout  the United Nations  system  dealing 
with matters  of  the greatest  importance  to us, such as the United  Nations 
Conference  on Trade  and Development  (UNCTAD),  the General Agreement  on Tariffs 
and Trade  (GATT) and  the United  Nations  Industrial  Development  Organization 
(UNIDO). 
With  regard  to population matters, positive  efforts have  also been made 
to become  actively  involved  in the preparations  for the  forthcoming  World 
Conference  on Population  and Development,  which we very much welcome. 
We believe  that  cooperation between  the Latin American  Economic  System 
and  this Organization  is of particular  relevance, given  the period  of 
transition being  experienced  in Latin America  and  the Caribbean.  It is 
important  that  such  cooperation be expanded  and  consolidated,  for  it  is 
directly  contributing  not only  to the efforts  at  integration  in the  region but 
also  to our programme  to  consolidate  and  spur development  and growth  in our 
countries. 
That  is the purpose  of  the draft  resolution  now before  the Assembly,  of 
which my  delegation  is a  sponsor. 
A/47/PV.51 
51 
Mr. HERNANDEZ (Dominican Republic) (interpretation from Spanish); 
In 1975, 25 Latin American and Caribbean countries met in Panama City to set 
up a permanent body to coordinate the region's positions on various issues 
vis-a-vis countries outside the region and international organizations.  Those 
countries  now 26  also decided that the body would organize cooperation 
between the countries of the region. 
The Latin American Economic System (SELA) was established as the first 
genuinely Latin American and Caribbean body, in response to the need of the 
entire region to realize its potential by defining its own identity.  It 
filled the gap in the structure of relations within Latin America and the 
Caribbean, there being no authentic regional body to enable the countries of 
the region to discuss their positions and take collective decisions in defence 
of their own interests. 
It is true that Latin America and the Caribbean form  a very heterogeneous 
region, that national conditions differ, that there are marked size 
differences between countries, and that economic structures and the volume of 
goods and services produced vary greatly.  It is also true that countries in 
the region are more or less vulnerable depending on their geographic 
position.  However, in their external relations, both economic and political, 
there are more elements uniting them than dividing them, as is seen in SELA, 
whose members take advantage of those unifying factors to work in concert to 
solve the problems that beset them. 
The sensitivity and efficiency of an international body may be defined 
by, inter alia, the promptness and speed with which an item, problem or point 
of special interest finds its way onto its agenda and programme of work. 
Topics such as economic security, economic aggression, and problems of 
A/47/PV.51 
52 
(Mr. Hernandez. Dominican Republic) 
external debt, as well as new items, such as transparency in international 
data and international trade in services, can be dealt with rapidly, and as 
has been demonstrated repeatedly, when they are most topical and in need of 
urgent action.  SELA is very sensitive and efficient, and is also thoroughly 
democratic and fair. 
Therefore, SELA has given tangible form to our region's determination to 
create new realities and put new life into relations within the region.  A 
constant feature of its multilateral actions has been the maintenance of its 
founding principles  equality, sovereignty, solidarity and independence and 
non-interference in internal affairs, on the basis of full respect for the 
economic, social and political systems freely chosen by peoples and States 
themselves  which gave birth to the organization and are its raison d'etre. 
There is today, as never before, confidence that Latin America and the 
Caribbean have made progress along the path of development, but they have 
discovered that there is still a great gap between reality and their 
legitimate expectations and unfulfilled potential.  We have had confidence in 
SELA since its foundation.  The system is trying to realize those legitimate 
expectations and the unfulfilled regional potential.  Given all that, and the 
need for close cooperation with the United Nations in accordance with what the 
Secretary-General says in his "Agenda for Peace" about cooperation with 
regional arrangements, our delegation not only supports, but is a sponsor of, 
draft resolution A/47/L.7, confident that cooperation between the two 
organizations will not only continue, but increase day by day. 
Mrs. ROCKEFELLER  (United States of America);  Last April President 
Bush told the Forum of the Americas, a group of 400 business leaders from 
North and South America, that the people of the Americas were well on the way 
A/47/PV.51 
53 
(Mrs. Rockefeller. Un^t-pd  States) 
"to  creating  something mankind  has  never  seen:  a hemishere wholly  free 
and  democratic, with prosperity  flowing  from  open  trade." 
The United  States, as a regional member  of  the Economic  Commission  for 
Latin  America  and  the Caribbean  (ECLAC),  has  an  interest  in  supporting 
cooperation  between  the United  Nations  and  the  Latin American  Economic  System 
(SELA).  We believe  that more  and more  this  cooperation will  contribute  to 
what  is a "quiet  revolution"  sweeping  the economy  of  the  region.  The  economic 
progress  that  is pulling  Latin America  out  of  a decade  of  debt,  capital  flight 
and  stagnation  indeed  amounts  to a quiet,  unpublicized  revolution.  This  has 
been  the  result  of brave  political  leadership  and  economic  wisdom  in many 
Latin  capitals. 
President  Bush's  Enterprise  for the Americas  Initiative  was  launched  to 
help  support  this  self-generated  commitment  to market-oriented  reforms 
undertaken by  the  leaders of Latin America.  In trade,  the  Initiative  is 
moving  towards  the  creation of  a liberalized  trading  system,  free  of barriers, 
in the western hemisphere.  In  investment,  it encourages  equity  investment  and 
the  return of  flight  capital, which will be  the  forms  of  financing  of  the 
future 
not  loans  that  create more  debt.  With  regard  to  foreign  debt,  it has 
already  seen  the  reduction  of  $263 million  in food-aid  debt,  among  other 
things.  The  Enterprise  for  the Americas  Initiative  is   firm  element  in 
economic  relations within  the  region,  and we  look  forward  to the  continued 
involvement  of ECLAC,  SELA  and  all  other parties  in  its potentials  and 
successes. 
This  "quiet  revolution"  that  I mentioned  is moving  the  countries  of  Latin 
America  towards market-driven  growth  and potential  prosperity.  Latin  America 
is emerging  from  the economic  crisis  of  the  1980s with  increased  prospects  for 
A/47/PV.51 
54-55 
(Mrs. Rockefeller. United States) 
sustained economic growth and stable democratic societies in which broader 
opportunities for participation are available throughout the population. 
The region's real gross domestic product grew by an estimated 
2.8 per cent in 1991, and it is projected to rise by 3.5 per cent in 1992. 
Inflation has fallen by two thirds, while official reserves have doubled. 
These figures rank the region very high among the regions forming the global 
economy. 
The United States desires increased ECLAC cooperation with other regional 
economic associations, such as SELA, in pursuit of continued market-driven 
growth in the region.  Latin America is the fastest growing regional market 
for United States exports; in 1991 such exports were more than double those of 
1986.  In turn, Latin America has become very attractive to United States 
direct investment, which doubled between 1986 and 1990.  Latin countries are 
increasingly entering the capital markets for new financing, and from 1989 to 
1992 they witnessed  a tenfold increase in new private capital flows  from 
$4 billion to some $40 billior.. 
The draft resolution before us urges continued support by ECLAC and 
United Nations specialized agencies for cooperation with SELA,  ECLAC will 
take on new importance, for two very strong reasons:  regional economic growth 
is vibrant, and the Secretary-General's reform will likely direct more 
functions to the regional economic commissions than ever before.  ECLAC will 
identify and assist more and more opportunities for economic growth.  It must 
therefore work in collaboration with other regional organizations, such as 
SELA, in the efficient pursuit of this goal. 
A/47/PV.51 
56 
(Mrs. Rockefenoi". United 
States of America) 
My delegation was pleased to participate in last April's ECLAC consensus 
resolution entitled "Restructuring and Revitalization of the United Nations in 
the Economic and Social Fields:  Role and Functions of the Economic Commission 
for Latin America and the Caribbean".  It endorsed the need for ongoing 
restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations system in the economic 
and social fields, and made concrete commitments to that effect.  It was 
undertaken at the behest of General Assembly resolution 46/235.  That 
resolution called for ECLAC, among the other regional commissions, to be 
enabled fully to play its role under the authority of the General Assembly and 
the Economic and Social Council, and for the strengthening of ECLAC's 
effectiveness. 
The United States delegation believes that the direction of ECLAC's 
reform resolution confirms the importance of economic liberalization and 
policy reform.  Cooperation between ECLAC and SELA should derive every benefit 
from that resolution, together with the relevant section of the report of the 
24th session of the Commission and the document entitled "Restructuring and 
revitalization of the United Nations in the Economic and Social Fields:  Role 
and Functions of ECLAC".  This direction promises  a useful, collaborative 
approach to cooperation on continuing economic liberalization and policy 
reform among the countries in the region. 
With increased cooperation between ECLAC and SELA, my delegation is 
confident that the liberalizing countries of Latin America will prosper in 
their new direction towards democracy-building, free enterprise development, 
and the rule of law. 
A/47/PV.51 
57 
The PRESIDENT;  The Assembly  will now take a decision  on  draft 
resolution A/47/L.7.  May  I take  it that the Assembly  adopts draft  resolution 
A/47/L.7? 
Draft  resolution  A/47/L.7 was  adopted  (resolution  47/13). 
The  PRESIDENT;  In accordance with General Assembly  resolution  35/3, 
of  13 October  1980, I now call  on the Observer  for the Latin American  Economic 
System. 
Mr. DE ROJAS  (Latin American  Economic  System  (SELA))  (interpretation 
from  Spanish):  On behalf  of  the Permanent  Secretariat  of  the Latin  American 
Economic  System  (SELA) I should  like  to express my profound  appreciation  to 
the  States members  of this Assembly  for  the  resolution  that has  just  been 
adopted  and  in particular  to the delegations  of Peru  and of  the other  Latin 
American  and Caribbean  countries  that  sponsored  it, and  those delegations  that 
supported  it. 
As  stated  in the  resolution, we  are  convinced  that  it will help  in 
broadening  and deepening  coordination  and mutual  support  activities  between 
the United  Nations  and  SELA, which  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/47/463) clearly  shows  are already  numerous.  In fact,  since  the  signing  of 
the Agreement  on cooperation between  the  two organizations  in October  last 
year  and  the  adoption of  resolution  46/12,  reaffirmed  today, we have  seen a 
vigorous  growth  in cooperative  activities  and  joint endeavours, not  only 
through  the  Economic  Commission  for Latin America  and  the Caribbean  (ECLAC) 
and various  departments  of  the Secretariat  in New York but  also with  other 
organizations  and  specialized  agencies within  the  system,  such  as the  United 
Nations  Conference  on Trade  and Development,  the United Nations  Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,  the United  Nations  Industrial 
Development  Organization,  the World  Intellectual  Property  Organization,  the 
A/47/PV.51 
58 
(Mr. De Rojasr  SELA) 
World  Health  Organization,  the United Nations  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the United Nations, the  International  Fund  for  Agricultural 
Development,  the Latin American  Institute  for Economic  and  Social  Planning  and 
the United  Nations  University. 
With  regard  to the United Nations  Development  Programme,  which  is  singled 
out  for  special  reference  in the  resolution, we  are happy  to  state  that  next 
week  the definitive  text  of  the new  regional  support  programme  for  SELA will 
be delivered,  fitting  in with  the  fifth programming  cycle.  The  document  has 
already been  the  subject  of  intensive  consultations  between  the Latin  American 
Bureau  of the programme  and  the SELA Permanent  Secretariat.  Hence, we  hope 
that with  the diligent  support  of  the Governments  in the  region  it will  very 
soon be adopted  and  implemented. 
The  Latin  American  Council,  the highest  body of  our  organization,  had its 
eighteenth  ordinary  annual meeting  just  a few weeks  ago, and  adopted  a series 
of decisions  in which  it was  shown  that  the Latin American  and  Caribbean 
countries  continue  to hope  that  SELA will  continue  its work  in  the  areas of 
debt  and  financing,  external  trade,  regional  integration,  environment  and 
development,  industrialization  and  technology,  and  social  development,  which 
are  also priority  items  on  the Assembly's  agenda. 
The  delegations  attending  the meeting  of  the  Latin American  Council  also 
showed  the great  interest  attached  by  their  Governments  in the  restructuring 
process  of  the United  Nations  in the  economic  and  social  spheres, which  has 
been  a focus  of  attention  at  the present  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
requested  the Permanent  Secretariat  to  follow closely  this process  in close 
contact  with  the delegations  in New York. 
A/47/PV.51 
59 
(Mr. De Roias.  SELA) 
The  Council  also  decided  to recommend  the Secretariat  to  continue 
providing  the  support  and  technical  assistance  required  by  the member  states 
of  the  system  and  to work  in cooperation with  them  in drawing  up  a  strategy 
for  action  in the medium  term  in all  international  economic  forums. 
The  Permanent  Secretary  of  SELA, Mr. Salvador  Arriola, will  be  in New 
York  next week  in order  to discuss with  the Secretary-General  ways  and means 
of  implementing  the  resolution  just  adopted,  and  also  to meet  the 
Administrator  and other  officials  of UNDP  in connection with  the new  regional 
programme.  He will make  use of his visit  to hold  consultations  with  the 
delegations  of  the States of the  region  and other  countries with  an  interest 
in SELA's work  in the main  subjects  that we  are working  on in the economic  and 
social  field, many  of which,  as I stated,  are at present  under  consideration 
by  the General  Assembly,  and also  to discuss  the  support  activities  the 
Permanent  Secretariat  will be continuing  to offer  to those  delegations  that 
request  them  and have  an interest  in our work. 
The PRESIDENT:  We have  concluded  this  stage of our  consideration  of 
agenda  item  24. 
The meeting was  adjourned  at  12.40  p.m. 
