General AS8embly
UNITED'
NATIONS
,
A
PROVISIONAL
A/47/PV.39
29 October 1992
ENGLISH
Forty-seventh session
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 39th MEETING
Held at Headquarters, New York,
on Thursday, 15 October 1992, at 10. a.m.
President:
Mr. HAYES
(Vice-President)
(Ireland)
Social Development:
situation and to youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family [93]
(continued)
(a) Questions relating to the world social
International" Conference on Ageing and celebration of the tenth
anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan of Action on
Ageing:
(i) Reports of the Secretary-General
(ii) Draft resolution
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English
text will
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages. The final
be printed in the Official Records of the General ~ssembly.
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They should
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within
one week,
Services,
the record.
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference
room DC2-750., 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of
92-61478
1951V (E)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.39
2
Iq the Absepce of the Presidept. Mr. Hayes (Ireland), Vice-President.
took the Chair.
The meeti"g was calle~ to order at 10.30 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 93 (continued)
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT:
TO YOUTH, AGEING, DISABLED PERSONS AND THE FAMILY
(a) QUESTIONS RELATING TO THE WORLD SOCIAL SITUATION AND
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON AGEING AND CELEBRATION OF THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF
THE ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PLAN OF ACTION ON AGEING:
(i) REPORTS OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/47/339, A/47/369)
(ii) DRAFT RESOLUTION (Al47/L.5/Rev.1)
The PRESIDENT: This morning,
the General Assembly,
in accordance
with the decieion taken at its 3T~ plenary meeting and pursuant to resolution
46/91, is holding the first of the plenary meetings devoted to an
international conference on ageing and to celebrate the tenth anniversary of
the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing, under sub-item (a)
of agenda item 93.
In this connection,
the Assembly has before it two reports of the
Secretary-General, one on global targets on ageing for the year 2001,
contained in document A/47/339, and the other on the implementation of the
International Plan of Action on Ageing, contained in document A/47/369. The
Assembly also has before it a draft resolution, which has been issued as
document Al47/L.5/Rev.1.
Mr. Ganev regrets not being present at this meeting, owing to other
pressing responsibilities, and he has asked me to deliver, on his behalf,
the
following statement on the occasion of the celebration of the tenth
anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing.
In the 10 years since the adoption of ~he International Plan of Action on
Ageing, over 100 million persons of the world population have become older
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.39
3
(The Preddont)
persons, in the sense that they have reached the age of 60 years or over.
Nearly 70 per cent of them live in developing countries. The increase in
those aged 80 and above will be the most striking -
from 1980 to 2001 the
number is projected to increase by 54 per cent, although during this time the
overall population is expected to increase by only 29 per cent.
It is
projected that by the middle of the second decade of the next century there
will be over 1 billion persons aged 60 and above.
The present debate offers an opportunity to examine the impact of an
ageing population on national life,
infrastructure .and resources.
It also
offers an opportunity for Member States to reaffirm their commitment to
international and multisectoral collaboration on ageinq in the decade ahead.
In the last 10 years the international community has witnessed the a~eing
of the world's population at a dramatic rate, which has a range of
far-reaching social, economic and developlrtental consequences.
In fact, it is
potentially one of the most serious socio-economic issues of the next decade.
It challenges both developed and developing countries.
It concerns each
stratum of society.
Ageing is otten viewed as an economic b~rden. The question is, on the
one hand, whether ageing is to become a problem, a burden upon the young, a
nightmare of escalating costs to support an increasingly dependent popUlation,
or, on the other hand, whether ageing is to be considered a celebration of the
twentieth century, a success story of reduced mortality rateG and increased
longevity. The kinds of public policies adopted will determine the way this
issue will unfold.
The responsibility for meeting the challenges posed by the increasing
rate of the ageing of the world's population is therefore not just for the
old:
it is a responsibility for us all.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.39
4
(The President)
While the International Plan of Action on Ageing provides a
multidimensional framework for a global programme, its success depends on the
actions taken by those responsible for its implementation: first and foremost,
Member States, which have responsibility for legislating and implementing
social programmes; and the non-governmental and other organizations both for
and of the elderly.
Progress in the implementation of the Plan of Action has been uneven in
different regions of the world and, on an international scale, unfortunately
not very impressive. Attention has tended to focus on awarenuss-raising and
advocacy, which in themselves are of cardinal ir~portance. Yet this has not
been sufficiently translated into actual programmes that have an impact on
old.er persons.
The major task for the decade 1992 to 2001 therefore lies in making the
implementation of tJ1e International Plan of Action on Ageing more effectivu in
the context of national priorities and on.the basis of available resources.
As the ageing issue is debated here today and tomorrow, special emphasis
must be placed on the responsibility of the Member States,
in partnership with
int~rnational organizations and non-governmental organizations,
to respond to
the ageing of populations. While the ageing of populations can be predicted
with relative certainty,
timely adjustment of social and economic
infrastructure is likely, regrettably,
to lag behind - seriously in many
places. Therein lies the challenge for individual countries and the
international community.
The 1982 World Assembly on Ageing was one of the first occasions when the
ageing issue and its global
impact and importance was addressed by the
international community. The consensus at that meeting was that something had
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
5
(T~e President)
to be done before it was too late. Let me conclude by sayinq that policies
and partnflrships,
ideas and initiative are imperative to set the future tone
on this issue as we enter into the next decade.
I now call on the Secretary-General of the United Nations, His Excellency
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL:
It qives me qreat pleasure to open this
special plenary meeting of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly.
This is the first time the Assembly has addressed,
in plenary,
the question of
population aqeinq.
It is therefore an important occasion.
I welcome
participatinq deleqations, and particularly the representatives of
orqanizations of the elderly.
Between 1950 and the year 2025 the world population is projected to
increase by a factor of three;
those aqed 60 and above, by a factor of six;
and those aqed 80 and above by a factor of 10. While the chanqes occurred
first in developed countries,
they are now beqinning to be felt in developinq
countries as well.
Population ageing is indeed an unprecedented demographic phenomenon.
It
has far-reaching ramifications. Work patterns, employment practice~, health
services, education and family policies are affected.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.39
6
(The Secretary-General)
Population ageing is ~~erefore a challenge to world society as much as to
national societies.
It is a highly &ppropriate issue for this Organization to
tackle.
Ten years ago, over a thousand delegates from 124 Member States gathered
at the World Assembly on Ageing,
in Vienna. The World Assembly adopted the
International Plan of Action on Ageing subsequently endorsed by the
General Assembly.
The United Nations has promoted the Plan and monitored its
implementation. The Secretariat formulated an Action Programme on Aging for
1992.
In adopting it, the General Assembly called for a practical strategy on
ageing for the next decade.
I commend to you the document "Global targets on
ageing for the year 2001".
The global targets seek to make effective use of existing
infrastructures, programmes and scheduled events for promoting implementation
of the Plan of Action in the years ahead. They identify opportunities for
integrating ageing into the mainstream of development. They aim to expand the
range of the United Nations Programme on Agei~g without incurring major
financial obligations. They are an attempt at divising a long-term practical
global strategy for ageing. We must test this strategy in the coming years.
It is a pleasant duty on the occasion of the tenth anniversary to thank
all those who have contributed to the United Nations Programme on Ageing.
Member States and their institutions and committees concerned with ageing have
been partners in a collective effort.
I pay tribute to the many
non-governmental organizations, associations of older persons, and research
and training institutions which have been so generous in their efforts.
I
acknowledge with satisfaction the increasing efforts of the specialized
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.39
7
(The Secretary-General)
agencies and bodies of the United Nations system to serve the needs of
Member States as effectively as possinle.
The decade ahead will need all our energies, expertise and good will as
we help each other adjust our thinking, planning, resource allocation and
practical actions for what is often called "the age of ageing".
On the occasion of the tenth anniversary it is also a particular pleasure
to greet the eminent personalities whom I have invited as my special guests to
observe the work of the plenary meetings.
Some of them participated in
drafting the International Plan of Action on Ageing and in preparing the draft
Global Targets on ageing for the year 2001. All have made a valuable
contribution to the United Nations Programme on Ageing at national or
international levels.
(spoke in Fren~)
The last decade has posed the whole question of ageing i~ new terms.
In
tIle past a shadow of commiseration had long veiled developed societies' view
of the elderly. One example of this, amon\l a thousand others, is
Victor Hugo's phrase "to grow old is see the fading of the light". On the
other hand, more traditional societies in the third world consider age more
favourably. The demographic evolution to which I referred a few moments ago
will undoubtedly once again, everywhere in the world, bring into prominence
this positive attitude towards age.
Perhaps one of the main objectives of our
programme for the coming decade is to share this conception of ageing, which
thus could well become universal.
The cult of youth,
this obsession that has so rightly been described by
the word "youthism" has it::;
inherent dangers.
It has of course made a certain
contribution to the dynami.m of modern societies, but it has also essentially
relegated to the background everything that is not young or can no longer
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.39
8
(The Seqretary-General)
pretend to be. There is no doubt that we have over-exulted a society in which
things do not take sufficient time to grow old,
in which people can no longer
afford to own up to the fact that they are growing old.
In the passage of
time,
in age,
in personal acceptance of age, we have something full of
promise - promise for everyone:
the benefit of experience, of nlaturity and of
knowledge and wisdom.
What is more,
this is full of promise for society at large, because it is
to be hoped that if more prominence is given to the elderly it will help us to
re-establish a balance in our own rhythms.
In particular, during the Rio
Conference it was quite clear that an excessive spirit of conquest might drag
the world to its perdition.
What we h~ve here is a minor psychological revolution:
to give time time
for itself. This means we must have a new approach to ourselves, a better
understanding of all ages of life, striking a balance between the spirit of
conquest and the spirit of maturity. Let us take the time to live. Let us
take the time to grow old.
The twentieth century has its shadows; it also has its light. Because of
the progress made in science and technology, it has succeeded in extending the
duration of life. This is a victory. But it will remain an imperfect victory
if at the same time we do not have a positive attitude towards aging.
These extra years we have won for ourselves should be full years -
that
is,
they should should be lseful to others,
they should be creative. They
should create the future. Only then will this victory be complete. We have
to work at this maturing process in the next 10 years.
I believe the main effort required is psychological.
I say "believe"
because I have no hard and fast ideas on this subject.
I hope I will in a few
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library--------------------- --------~
A/47/PV~39
9..,10
(the Secrfttary-General)
years time, particularly after your debates. May your work therefore be both
lively and fruitful. Good luck!
The PRESIDENT: Before I call on the first speaker for this morning
I should like to propose that the list of speakers in the debate be closed
today at 6 p.m.
If I hear no objection to this proposal, it will be so
decided.
I~ was so deciged~
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
11
The PRESIDENT:
I
therefore request those representatives wishing to
participate in this debate to inscribe themselves on the list of speakers as
soon as possible.
I call first on the representative of the United States of America,
Mr. Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services, who will speak
on behalf of the host country.
Mr. SQLLIVAN (United States of America):
It is my honour to speak
~s the representative of the host country. As always,
tbe United States
regards it a privilege to host the many representatives from all parts of the
world to the United Nations General Assembly.
As we commemorate the tenth anniversary of the United Nations World
Assembly on Ageing and the a~ Jtion of the Vienna International Plan of Action
on Ageing, let us remind ourp~lves that our efforts on behalf of our older
citizens have special me~ing beyond the economic and social concerns related
to our rapidly increasing ageing populatious, as important as these
considerations are.
Indeed, our efforts reflect our heartfelt appreciation and dedication to
the diqnit.y and well-being of those whose contributions and sacrifices have
inspired us and have enabled us to reach the levels .0£ progress in the human
condition we know today.
Our older citi.zens represent not only a link to the past but a vital
bridge to the future - in the depth of thei~ experiences and in their
lonqstanding adherence to the values representing the best traditions of our
nations and peoples.
At the time of the Wor-ld Assembly on Ageing 10 years ago, it was believed
that population ageing was primarily a phenomenon of the industrialized
nation. Or Europe, Asia, and North America.
In at least 30 such countries,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
12
o
(Mr. Sulliyanc United States)
5 per cent or more of the entire population is aged 60 or over, and the past
decade has witnessed intense public debate over issues directly related to
ageing populations, such as. income security and health care.
We now .realize that population ageing is a global phenomenon. Mortality
rates in most developing nations declined faster than expected over the past
decade, with the result that many such nations now have life expectancies
approaching - or even exceeding -
those of developed nations. With continuing
declines in fertility added to the equation, we have reached the point where
the older populations of developing nations are now growing much more rapidly
than those of the developed nations.
Of all the statistics I have seen relating to the growth of our older
populations,
the one that amazes me most is this:
two-thirds of all the men
and women who have lived beyond age 65 in the whole of human history are alive
today!
The rapidly increasing numbers of older citizens present our nations and
Governments with enormous new social and economic challenges.
Each nation has
its own unique ~roblems and will require policies and programmes tailored to
its own needs.
What clearly is in tne best interest of all nations, however,
is to
establish as a major goal dnd priority the maintenance and restoration of the
maximum degree of independence and self-sufficiency for each older citizen.
At the same time, we face the reality that public resources in most
nations are already strained and will likely be more so in the foreseeable
future.
The only viable course of action under these circumstances is to
broaden the base of support and to augment public resources from other
sources -
to develop ml~tually beneficial partnerships with private-sector
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
13
(Mr. SulliYanc United States)
businesses, foundations, civic and professional associations, and others - and
to energize and empower local communities.
This is pr&cisely the focus of a comprehensive new initiative launched
last year by my Government:
a brief synopsis of this programme because I believe its principles may be
applied in many nations.
the National Eldercare Campaiqn.
I will give you
The first component of our National Eldercare Campaign is public
awareness -
the process of making Americans aware of the changing demog~aphics
and their implications.
Secondly, in recoqnition of the fact that our traditional system of
social services cannot do the job alone, we are reaching out to mobilize
organizations that traditionally have not had ageing agendas, such as
business,
labor, religious, educational and civic organizations.
The third component is Project CARE,
the focus of which is to promote the
formation of local community coalitions to develop and implement action plans
to address the unmet needs of older persons in the community who are at risk
of losing their independence.
And, fourthly, we are encouraging Americans - esp~cially the majority of
oar older citizens who remain healthy and vigorous - to enroll as members of
our Eldercare Volunteer Corps, created last year to serve at-risk older
citizens.
In proclaiming Older Americans Month earlier this year, President Bush
said:
"The heart of a nation may well be judged by the amount of respect
they have helped to preserve the rich
it has for its elders. Together,
legacy of freedom we enjoy today. Through their creaLivity and hard
work,
they developed technology that enabled us to cross new frontiers in
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.39
14-15
space and science. What better way to thank o~r senior citizens than to
ensure they have access to the opportunities, servica~ and support they
.(Mr. Sulliyan, United States)
so richly deserve."
! offer my sincere appreciation to those responsible for the success of
the World Assembly on Ageinq and the implementation of the Vienna
Internationul Plan of Action on Aqeinq. On behalf of the people of the United
States,
I offer our most cordial g~od wishes to you all.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the representative of Mauritania, who
will speak on behalf of the Group of African States.
Mr. OOLD MOHAMED MAHMOUP (Mauritania) (interpretation from French):
I have already had the opportunity to express to Mr. Ganev and his
predecessor, Ambassador Samir Shihabi,
the congratulations and good wishes of
the Group of African States, on whose behalf I am honoured to take part in the
discussion on the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the
International Plan of Action on Ageing.
The African delegations were distressed to learn of the earthquake that
struck the sister republic of Egypt, killing several hundred people and
leavinq several thousand others wounded or homeless. We would like to convey
our condolences and our heartfelt sympathy to the families of the victims,
to
the fraternal Egyptian people,
to Ambassador Nabil Elaraby and to all the
other members of the Egyptian delegation.
The question of the ageing of the world population was addressed by the
Assel..bly for the first tim.! in 1948; but it is only since 1969 that it has
been regularly considered in the framework of the aqenda of our annual
sessions.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.39
16
(Mr. QuId Mohamed Mahmoud,
Mauritania)
The adoption of the Interuational Plan of Action Qn Ageing at the
thirty-seventh session of the General Assembly marked a high point in this
ongoing process.
In the 10 years since then there have been more and more
consciousness-raising initiatives and activities, but we must a~knowledge that
the Plan's major objectives have not been attained.
However,
the ageing of the population is now an established fact in most
industrial societies and i~ increasingly evident in the developing countries.
Statistics show that a million people reach the landmark age of 60 every
month, and it is projected that by the year 2025 the elderly will represent
14 per cent of the total world population. Medical advances and the
improvement of overall living conditions are responsible for this demographic
revolution.
Ageing is extending more and more to the developing countries.
In Africa
and everywhere else it will accelerate in the coming years. This demographic
change represents significant progress for mankind and a source of happiness
for millions of human beings.
It also provides a tremendous opportunity for
the younger generations to benefit directly from the experience and knowledge
of their elders, who can thus enlighten and enrich society and ensure a link
between two eras, with no break between the past and the present.
At the same time, elderly people have particular needs, and legitimately
expect them to be met. They have as much need for integration into social
life as they do for nutrition and health care, housing and recreation.
Even
in the affluent countries, where social assistance is highly developed,
those
needs are not always met, and many elderly people are completely abandoned.
In the developing countries social relationships play a significant role,
but the precarious economic and social situation affects all vulnerable
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.39
17
(Mr. Quld Moharned Mahmoud,
Mauritania)
groups, and particularly the elderly. This is true in A,frica, where
structural adjustment policies have weakened the infrastructures designed to
serve the elderly population and reduced the capacity for assistance in all
areas,
including taat of families caring for elderly people.
Such a situation i~ difficult to tolerate in view of the great esteem in
which elderly people are held in Africa. They are a point of reference and a
source of knowledge and wisdom. They are consulted on all the affairs of the
community, and great importance is attached to their advice and counsel.
In a world beset ~ith multiple crises, wars and increasing numbers of
natural disasters, such as drought and earthquakes, solidarity is essential in
all areas, and in particular vis-a-vis this population group, both out of
sense. of duty and because of the knowledge, wisdom and experience that the
oldest among us possess.
Such solidarity would serve to support the exercise
of responsibility by those who are no longer young, and would sustain them
through the ageing process.
The founding in 1989 of the African Society of Gerontology is a tribute
to the role of the elderly and their exceptional place in African society.
The danger now is that the economic depression is likely to test severely the
traditional structures of solidarity.
In Africa, as in other regions of the world, ageing is a fact that must
necessarily from now on be integrated into all development policies. As the
General Assembly recommended in resolution 46/94, national targets for the
year 2001 should be set. Those targets should take into account the
traditions and potential of each country, but they should also seek to meet
the needs of elderly people in all the regions of the world. The role of the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
18
(Mr. QuId MQharoed Mahmoud,
Mauritapia)
family,
the nucleus of society, should be bolstered and it~ resources
strengthened so that it may continua to care properly for the elderly.
National strategies benefiting elderly people will, however, remai~
limited unless they are supported by effective and active international
solidarity. That international solidarity should include the exchange of
experience and expertise, and above all reform of current economic
relatlonships that are detrimental to the developing countries. The
establishment of international cooperation would ease the situation of the
neediest countries and permit the implementation of programmes benefiting
elderly people. The scene would thus be set for fulfilling the principles of
the United Nations as spelled out in resolution 46/91.
In this framework and in this spirit, elderly people would be able to
live better lives and young people could more happily look forward to the
conditions awaiting them when they,
too, have the opportunity to grow old.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the representative of Turkey, who will
speak on behalf of the Group of Asian States.
Mr. AKSIN (Turkey):
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the
Asian Group on the occasion of these international meetings marking thp. tenth
anniversary of the World Assembly on Ageing and the adoption of the
International Plan of Action on Ageing.
The decline of mortality and improvements in medical care, coupled with
declining fertility, have dramatically changed the demographic structure of
societies. The ageing of populations is now a world-wide phenomenon.
As surveys indicate,
in the 75 years from 1950 to 2025 the world's
elderly population will have increased from 200 million to 1.2 billion -
that
is,
from 8 per cent to 14 per cent of the total popUlation of the Earth.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
19
One million persons cross the threshold of age 60 every month, 80 per cent of
them in developing countries. This revolutionary trend affects the social and
economic structure of societies and requires new national and international
(Mr. Aksin, Turke~)
responses.
The tenth anniversary of the World Assembly on Ageing and the adoption of
the International Plan of Action on Ageing are a good occasion to review the
progress made.
We are all aware that, despite its usefulness and the efforts
made at national and international levels,
the Plan has not been adequately
implemented, mainly due to economic and social problems affecting all
countries.
The International Day for the Elderly, 1 October, was celebrated for the
first time last year.
It has become a major event in honour of the world's
generation of wisdom, and has greatly contributed to an increased awareness of
ageing issues.
The International Plan of Action has a new companion document:
the
United Nations Principles for Older Persons. Adopted last year by the General
Assembly,
those principles of independence, participation, care,
self-fUlfilment and dignity for the elderly aim
"TO ADD LIFE TO THE YEARS THAT HAVE BEEN ADDED TO LIFE"
(resolution 46/91, annex)
Their implementation will ensure that ageing is productive for the elderly and
for societies.
The tenth anniversary of the World Assembly on Ageing and of ~ne adoption
of the International Plan of Action on Ageing also offers an appropriate
occasion for setting global targets on ageing for the yea~ 2001.
Such targets
can provide a pragmatic focus for the broad goals of the International Plan
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.39
20
(Mr. Akain, Turkey)
and h~lp in accelerating its implementation. The draft global targets are now
be~ore us. The Asian Group welcomes these targets and supports their adoption.
Respect for the elderly is a common feature of the culture of all the
Asian countries.
In Asian culture the elderly maintain their positions of
high esteem within the family and contribute to the family's welfare. By
remaining a part of the family,
the elderly have an opportunity to live their
lives in dignity and fulfilment. Any action by the United Nations to enhance
the position of the elderly in society will be given enthusiastic support by
the Asian Group.
Before concluding,
I should like to thank the national and international
organizatioDs which contributed to the process of developing both the
International Plan of Action on Ageing and the United Nations Principles for
Older Persons.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the representative of Armenia, who
will speak on behalf of the Group of Eastern European States.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl41/PV.39
21
ML....ARZOUHANIAH (Armenia) I
It is a pr5.vilege to speak t.oday on
behalf of the Eastern European States on this tenth anniversary of the United
Nations International Plan of Action on Ageing.
In the ten years since the
adoption of the Plan, we have witnessed an increase in worldwide awareness
that ageing is an issue that needs to be a part of the policy agendas of
member States.
Changing demographics have added an element of urgency to the programmes
which need to be adopted internationally.
In 1950,
there were 200 million
people aged 60 and over;
today ~ere are approximately 500 million, and in the
year 2025 that number will have increased to 1.2 billion. This dramatic
change in demogtaphics requires serious attention and the implementation of
proposals that benefit the elderly.
Concretely,
the Secretary-General has pointed out in his report "Global
targets on ageing for the year 2001:
a practical strategy" (A/47/339) that
progress needs to be made in the areas of national infrastructure reform,
health, housing,
family, education, social welfare and income security. We
support the recommendations outlined in this report. We would also like to
express our support today for the draft resolution "Proclamation on Ageing",
expressing hope in humanity'S coming of age. We agree wholeheartedly with the
i
ideas expressed in the resolution.
Reform of national infrastructures to develop and promote strategies on
ageing is particularly significant for the members of the Eastern European
Group. We have embarked u~on on a major programme of structural reforms,
including privatization, fiscal and monetary restructuring and price and trade
liberalization. The benefits of these reforms will begin to improve living
conditions significantly only after a difficult period, which may last several
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
22
(Mr. Arzoumanian. Armenia}
years. Of course the most vulnerable groups of society are the most severely
affected during these difficult times.
For us,
the elderly and the disabled
are the groups of people who need the most attention and for whom we are
working to create an effective social safety net.
We need to replace the pension and income-security plans established
under the formerly centrally planned economies, which as a result of the
staggering inflation rate in our region do not provide sufficient income
levels.
As these new social, economic and political systems are being created and
the laws of each country are being redrafted, it is important that policies
and programmes for the elderly and the disabled be integrated into the new
political and legal structures as ~hey are developed and that they be embraced
by the newly created social safety net.
Statistics show that life expectancy amongst the Eastern European
countries lags behind that in other countries in the industrial world.
To
confront this challenge, we must upgrade our health care systems.
Cardiovascular disease has been one of the most common health problems in the
countries of Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States. Much
has been learned about heart disease, and we must find ways to incorporate
these advances into treatment in our health care systems.
As we look to the future, we have reason to be optimistic about the
progress that can be made in promoting strategies and policies to improve the
quality of life for the elderly.
In the last few years, several developments
have contributed to increased international awareness and have paved the way
for progress.
In 1990,
the United Nations General Assembly designated
1 October as the International Day for the Elderly. This annual
acknowledgement will bring great~r visibility to the agenda of the ageing.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.39
23
(Mr. Arzoumanian. Armenia)
In addition, as a result of the International Plan of Action on Ageing,
several institutions and funds have been established which have already
yielded positive results and will no doubt continue to do so.
In 1988,
the
International Institute on Ageing, based in Malta, was founded.
It ha~ played
a major role in providing direction for global training initiatives on
ageing. The African Society of Gerontology, established in 1989, has a role
to play in the development and implementation of a regional programme on
ageing. A World Fund for Ageing, created by the Banyan Fund Association in
1991, will focus on promoting activities enabling the elderly to remain
independent and contribute to society. These are important new developments.
There is also the United Nations Trust Fund for the Ageing, which has
distributed over $1 million in. seed money to approximately 50 projects
involving training, needs assessment programmes and policy formation.
The
projects initially funded by the Trust Fund have attracted additional
resources from Governments, non-governmental organizations and foundations.
We would like to express our support not only for the United Nations Trust
Fund but also for all the non-governmental organizations that have contributed
time and money to programmes directed at the elderly. The importance of the
role of non-gove~nmental organizations cannot be underestimated. as their
support is often instrumental in the success of m~QY programmes.
Finally,
tribute should be paid to the United Nations Centre on Social
Development and Humanitarian Affairs, which has been the focal point and
coordinator of all international activity concerning the International Plan of
Action on Ageing. We commend the work of the Centre.
In conclusion, we are encouraged by the progress that has been made in
the last ten years.
It may not be as great as we would like, but that is
because the goals and ideals of the United Nations remain high.
I am certain
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
24-25
(Mr. Arzournanian, Armenia)
that at the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the International Plan of
Action on Ageing we will be celebrating even greater progress and concrete
aChievements.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the representative of Uruguay, who
will speak on b~half of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
Mr. PIRIZ BALLON (Uruguay): The Latin American and Caribbean Group
feels honoured to pa~ticipate in the celebration of the tenth anniversary of
the adoption of the International Plan of Action on Ageing, an issue to which
we attach great importance:. Our commitment is evidenced by ~~e fact that it
was a country of our region - Argentina -
that, with remarkable foresight,
called attention to this issue by introducing a draft Declaration of the
Rights of the Elderly as long ago as 1948.
From that time, a slow journey began in search of approaches to the issue
of ageing in its diverse dimensions. The World Assembly on Ageing held in
1982, resulting in the adoption of the International Plan of Action,
constitutes without doubt a milestone on this road.
That event, which we are celebrating today,
redefined the importance of
the issue of ageing, encouraging Governments to take measures to attain the
objectives established in the Plan,
thus leading to the establishment of
national mechanisms aimed a~ setting policies on this matter.
In spite of these positive aspects, we should not forget that one of the
major concerns of the Plan of Action -
that is,
to ensure attention to the
elderly in the areas of income, nutrition, housing and health - is still far
from being adequately addressed in developing countries.
In this respect, we
can say that the Plan suffered from a lack of realism.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
26
(Mr. Piriz Ballon. UruguQY)
Owing to the economic ~risi& of the 1980s - which still continues -
most countries of Latin America and the Caribbean public expenditure was
reduced in the social sector, hindering the implementation of measures to
improve the situation of the elderly, since that situation cannot be
from the economic environment.
in
isolated
On 1 October last year we celebrated for the first time the International
in view of the need
Day for the Elderly. We see this as an encouraging sign,
to draw the public's attention to the increase in the elderly population and
the economic and social consequences this may entail if we do not once and for
all understand that the elderly are not passive beings, but that they should
be considered as agents of development, with great productive potential and a
store of experience that should be used for the benefit of society.
Consequently, we regard it as necessary to give priority to public
information campaigns aimed at banishing once and for all the negative
stereotypes associated with the figure of the elderly person.
In this context, we wish to express our support for the recently created
Banyan Fund, which has among its objectives the promotion of activities to
enable the elderly to maintain their independence and contribute to society
within the context of the International Plan of Action on Ageing, using
private resources for this purpose. When we speak of this Fund, we must
mention the important part played in creating it by an eminent representative
of our region, Ambassador Julia A1varez of the Dominican Republic.
The demographic data available to us speak for themselves.
It is
estimated that in the year 2000 there will be 614 million aged people in the
world, of which 60 per cent will
live in developing countries.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.39
27
(Mr. piriz Ballon, UruSUQf,)
In 1980 there were more than 23 million elderiy people in Latin America
and the Caribbean, while the forecast is a total of 4C million for the year
2000 and 93 million for the year 2025. At the same time,
in Latin America,
life expectancy at birth will increase to 71.8 years in the period 2020 to
2025 by contrast with 51.2 years in the period 1950 to 1955.
These data show that Latin America has ceased to be a "young region", as
it was traditionally described, since it is undergoing an accelerated
demographic transition towards lower birth and mortality rates.
Many countries of our region will be facing rapid g~owth in thei~ ageing
populations witnout being properly prepared for this in terms of health care
and social services. The growth of their elderly populations will then
require more hum~ and material resources, as well as ~ better use of those
already existing.
Our countries will have to make a great effort to convert into something
positive what in different circumstances could be seen as a negative factor in
the process of development.
In order to attain this, greater international
assistance will be required, such as is offered by the United Nations Trust
Fund for Ageing.
At the same time, we should point out that the regional programme of the
Pan-American Health Organization,
though only recently created and with
limited resources, is playing an important role in assisting the countries of
the region to develop coherent programmes in which general health services are
incorporated, along with all social programmes focused on the welfare of this
sector of the population.
We also believe that it would be very important to create an institution
for ageing in Latin America and the Caribbean, similar to the one in Malta,
in
order to meet the needs of the region.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
28
(Mr. piriz BalloD. Uruguay)
An .' ~ortant aspect that should be mentioned is the situation of the
elderly woman. It is estimated that in the year 2025 there will be 604 millioa
women over the age of 60 in the world, and that in the less developed
countries 7G par cent of women will be living in poverty.
For this reason, we
agree with the Pan-American Health Organization regarding the need to promote
research into the living conditions of elderly women and their health and
social service needs.
In previous sessions of the General Assembly we approved the principles
of the United Nations for the ageing. The five basic no:~s underpinning those
principles are:
independence, participation, care, self- fulfillment and
dignity, and these are the central core of what we might describe as the human
rights of the ageing.
In order for them to have some practical force, we must create the
necessary conditions to enable them to be exercised effectively.
It is for
this reason that we support the target.s OD ageing for the year 2001 that have
been proposed.
The ageing of the population is an inevitable fact from which we must try
to draw the most positive aspects. Hence,
the need to redefine the position
of the elderly in our societies, fully involving them in the development
process.
This should be our commitment in order to ensure for all the productive
and dignified old age that we all deserve.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of Denmark, who will
speak on behalf of the Group of Western European and Other States.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA(47/PV.39
29~30
Mr. ~tQNS§N (Denmark):
I have the honour to speak today on behalf
of the Group of Western European and Other States in con~emorating the tenth
anniv£rsary of the World Assembly on Ageing and the adoption of the
International Plan of Action on Ageing.
The International Plan of Action, adopted by the World Assembly on Ageing
in Vienna in 1982 and endorsed by the General Assembly the same year, was the
first policy instrument on ageing adopted at ~ global level. United Nations
specialized agencies and b:~dies, governments, experts on the elderly and
non-governmental organizations participated in drafting the Plan in which
principles and recommendations on meeting the needs of the elderly were set
out. There can be no doubt that the World Assembly was instrumental in
raising awarene$S worldwide of an issue of growing importance -
the situation
of the elderly.
The population of the world is ageing rapidly. In the 75 years from 1950
to 2025,
the world's elderly population, defined as persons from 60 years and
older, will have increased from 200 million to 1.2 billion, or from 8 to 14
per cent of the total global population. The total world population will have
grown by a factor of little more than three and the elderly will have grown by
a factor of six.
The dramatic change in the demographic structure of society will have
significant consequences, which will have to be taken into account in the
overall social and economic p~.~nning.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
31
(Mr. Haakonsen, Denmark)
Last year the General Assembly took anob~er historic step in adoptinq the
United Nations Principles for Older Persons, whose purpose is
"To add life to the years that l,,-ve been added to life". (resolution
46/91, annex)
The Principles state that opportunities must be provided fo~ elderly people to
participate in and contribute to the ongoinq activities of society and that
the fullest possibla assistance must be given to ensure that the needs of the
aged are met. The Assembly also cal1&d for a pragmatic focus to be put on the
broad and ideal qoals of the Plan of Action,
in the form of global tarqets on
ageinq for the year 2001. These draft ~arqets are currently before the
Asserably. When adopted,
they will support national responses to the ageinq of
populations and qive further impetus to the implementation of the
International Plan of Action on Ageinq and the United Nations Principles for
Older Persons.
The PRESIDENT:
I. now call on the representative of the Dominican
Republic, who will introduce the draft resolution contained in document
A/471t. S/Rev.I.
Mrs. TAVARES de ALVAREZ (Dominican Republic) (interpretation from
Spanish): On behalf of the deleqations of Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, China, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Gambia, Grenada, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Jamaica, Mali, Malta, Morocco, Mongolia, Paraguay, Seneqal, Suriname, Turkey,
Uruguay and my own country, as well as the delegations that have joined the
list -
those of Cameroon, Chile, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Guatemala,
Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, India and Togo -
I have the honour of introducing,
for the consideration of the General Assembly,
the United Nations Proclamtion
on Ageing, which expresses hope in this new era in which mankind is achieving
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
32
(MIS, Tavares de Alyarez,
Dominican Republic)
maturity. The sponsors of the Proclamation sincerely hope that it will be
adopted unanimously.
We should like to offer the reasons underlying the appropriateness of and
the necessity for this Proclamation.
We are meeting when times are promising, but there is a limit to the
amount of time we have to fulfil the promise. One could sum up our situation
in a few words and a few numbers. The words offer promise, but the numbers
speak of limits.
Today,
in discussing older people, we use vivid words such as "out of the
mainstream", "productive", "wisdom", "experienced" and "intergenerational".
These terms are replacing our old, worn-out, antique, old-fashioned way of
speaking about the elderly. The new words represent the dawning of a new
consciousness about ageing and its implications for everyone, regardless of
age.
This has happened not a moment too soon, because the numbers suggest that
if we persist in our out-of-date frame of mind we shall not get the full
picture until it is too late. There is an "agequake" almost upon us, and we
had better see it for what it.
There is no lack of n~ers to measure the extent of the ageing of
populations. By the year 2001 more than 10 per cent of the world's population
will be ovpr 60. That figure will top 25 per cent in some places, Between
1950 and 2025,
the world's population'will have increased by a factor of
three,
the number of those 60 and above by a factor of six, and the number of
those over 80 -
the very elderly - by a factor of 10. Of those turning 60
every month, 80 per cent live in our third world.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.39
33
(Mrs. Tayares de Alyare2,
Dominican Republic)
One could cite numbers indefinitely, but after a while they become
mind-numbing. There is something that is more important:
to what do these
numbers add up? The answer is: a basic change in the nature of the population
of the world.
In no more than a few de~ades - whether in cities,
towns or
villages -
the range of people that one is likely to encounter will look very
different.
In fact,
the population mix will look as it has never looked
befora.
For better or for worse, this change will affect the pool of human
resources available to do the work of society, and it will alter the mixture
of social needs that we shall have to meet.
In other words, our institutions
are now organized to deal with a world that will soon pass.
The question then arises: what have we done, what are we doing and what
shall we do in the future to deal with this new world of ageing? One option
we do not have is to do little or nothing just because there is still time.
This is no more sensible than ignoring threats to the environment just because
they will not have destroyed all life on this planet by this time next year.
Ten years ago we began to take these numbers seriously.
In 1982 the
United Nations convened a World Assembly on Ageing. One hundred and
twenty-four nations met in Vienna at the first major conference on the ageing
of populations. That Assembly fulfilled its most basic·task:
to shine an
intense spotlight on a quiet, and so far relatively unnoticed, social
transformation.
The Assembly was especially impressive because in our developing
countries more immediate and pressing needs, such as the need to maintain a
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.39
34-35
(Mrs. Tayares de Alyarez,
Dominicap Republj&)
basic standard of living for all seqments of the population, often
overshadowed the first rumblings of an impending world "agequake".
The Assembly also sought to mobilize the world community to begin to move
from awareness to active commitment to the social requirements of a new age.
It produced an International Plan of Action on Aging, which we are justifiably
celebrating today.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.39
36
(Mrs. Tavares ;e Alvarez,
DQminican Republic)
Our celebratiQn relates not so much to the specifics of the Plan of
Action, but rather to its visionary spirit. This was, after all, sQmething Qf
an initial fQray into the new world of ageing, a first attempt to do what we
needed to dQ. We were carefully feeling our way, willing to make some
mistakes, eager to learn.
We have learned a great deal.
Permit me tQ suggest that Qne of the mQst
important things we have discovered is that drawing the world's attentiQn to
the issues of ageing is not the same thing as creating the pQlitical will tQ
deal with them.
For example, many of the Plan's prescriptiQns were expensive:
we asked national GQvernments to give mQney. Predictably, not nearly enQugh
funds were forthcoming. GQvernments dQ not generally allocate .nQney to build
reservoirs when they have all they can do to stem the flQod-waters that are
currently all around them.
Fending off hunger tOQk precedence over suppQrting
old age.
In our first large-scale attempt to deal with populatiQn ageing, we did
not SUfficiently distinguish between the awareness we had of the problem and
full consciousness Qf its implications. Awareness is tQ consciQusness as
political interest is to political actiQn. Knowing what results are needed is
not the same thing as being creatively stirred to the pQint of doing what is
necessary to achieve these ends.
As we shall be discussing at greater length this afternQon, Qur arsenal
of respQnses tQ the potential sQcial disruptiQn posed by glQbal ageing has
been considerably enlarged and diversified Qver the past decade. The new
nQtiQn of prQductive ageing,
the discQvery,
that is,
that Qlder people are an
excellent reSQurce that may be employed on their own behalf and to the benefit
of the whole of society, and the realizatiQn that Governments need to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA147/PV.39
37
(Mrs. Tayares de Alvarez,
Dominican Republic)
cooperate with non-governmental organizations and with the private sector
offer us a multitude of alternatives to th~ simple spending of more tax money
to achieve the same result.
But even these new and exciting possibilities will require that we
mobilize all of society's resources in a coordinated effort to deal
constructively with issues raised by global ageing.. Ageing in itself is not a
problem; it should be seen as a challenge. The real problem is creating and
creatively directing the necessary political will to take up this challenge
and meet it successfully. Ageing must be seen as an important, and urgent
matter deserving of attention. We need first to set in place the moral,
psychological and intellectual infrastructure that is essential before we dare
hope that any initiatives will have a broad and lasting effect.
Summoning the necessary political will to cope with global ageing in the
coming decades will require a revolution in both thinking and feeling. There
must be a change not only in what everyone perceives to be the place of the
elderly in the social fabric but also in what everyone believes that place
should be. Without such a change, we shall never be able to effect the
specific changes needed to adapt successfully to a new era of ageing.
In this respect the adoption of the United Nations Principles for Older
Persons last year (resolution 46/91) may have been the single most important
thing that we have done till now to put a human face on ageing. Basic changes
in society must be certified by the social institutions that count the most.
Social relationships will not change permanently unless those changes are
deeply embedded and universally recognized in the social matrix. These United
Nations Principles represent an essential step in that direction.
They begin
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library-----------~-_._._--
A/47/PV.39
38
(Mrs. Tavares de Alvarez,
Dominican Republic)
to provide the moral and social underpinnings for our struggle, affirming and
authenticating our goals.
In this spirit, we suggest that the International Day for the Elderly has
been such a success that the next and inevitable step is to declare a year for
the elderly. Since the true era of ageing will dawn along wit~ the beginning
of the new century, we propose that we declare the year 1999 as the
international year of the elderly.
We must continue to take with utmost seriousness issues raised by the
ageing of popu1ations. Let us not lull ourselves into thinking we are dealing
with something of secondary importance because DO one is firing bullets.
Anything that destabi1izes society can eventually !ead to armed conflict, even
if indirectly.
If we do not pay enough attention to the distant rumb1ings of
this "agequake", more ominous forces could ultimately shake the Earth. We can
face the future confidently and reasonably,
trying to foresee problems and
prevent them before they occur. Alternatively, we can ignore them, fail to
prevent them and try to solve them by force of arms.
The Proclamation we have introduced confirms the seriousness of our
intent. The prestige of this great body further authenticates our aims. The
Proclamation offers something tangible as the fruit of our labours at this
plenary meeting: it emphasizes the importance of older people in all societies
and underscores the global targets that we have set. W9 urge its unanimous
adoption by the Assembly.
The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library