UNITED'
NATIONS
General As.embly
A
PROVISIONAL
Al47/PV.45
11 November 1992
ENGLISH
Forty-seventh session
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 45th MEETING
Held at Headquarters, New York,
on ThursdaY6 22 October 1992, at 3 p.m.
President:
Mr. NANDOE
(Vice-President)
(Suriname)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency [14]
(continued)
(a) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the
Agency
(b) Draft resolution
This record contains the original text o~ speeches delivered in English
and interF~etations of speeches in the other languages. The final text will
be printed in the,Official Records of the General Assembly.
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They should
~e sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within
one week,
Services,
the record.
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference
room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of
92-61568
2275V (E)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl4.1IPV.4.5
2
In the absence of the President, Mr. NandQe (Suriname), Vice-President,
tQQk the Chair.
The meetipg was called to order at 3.15 p.mo
AGENDA ITEM 14 (continued)
REPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENEltGY AGENCY:
(a) NOTE BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL TRANSMITTING THE REPORT OF THE AGENCY
(Al411374)
·(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (Al47/L.9/Rev.1)
Mr.
JARHILO (Finland): The peaceful use of nuclear energy continues
tQ be faced with serious challenges. Preventing the prQliferatiQn Qf nuclear
weapQns has becQme more cQmplicated. The demands on International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards have increased. At the same time,
there is a
grQwinq awareness of the problems in the field of nuclear safety.
The International Atomic Energy Agency has had to cope with an increasing
wQrkload at a time of diminishinq financial means. My delegation wi~hes to
congratulate the Director General and his staff on their outstanding work
under demanding circumstances.
Finland concurs with the view expressed by the DirectQr General that the
Agency's programme mix as a whole CQuld be looked intQ in the light of recent
developments.
Such an exercise CQuld make it pQssible to revise the
priQrities of the Agency accordingly.
The mQst
impQrtant current endeavour in the field Qf nuclear safety is
the preparation of an international conventiQn. Safe, well-maintained and
well-managed use Qf nuclear energy will cQntinue tQ cQnstitute Qne Qf the main
sources of energy in Finland. However, nuclear safety is not Qnly a natiQnal
matter, but alsQ a subject of legitimate internatiQnal concern,
irrespective
of bQrders.
An early agreement Qn the conventiQn WQuld be a majQr achievement.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
3
(Mr. Karhilo, Fipland)
Views on the conventionts exact content and scope diverge, but the basic
interests are common.
In the Finnish view, its essence would bB a commitment
to internationally agreed safety principles. The primary ~6sponsi~ility for
safety would rest with national organi~ations. Jointly agreed principles
would create the necessa~y basis for national safety practices and better
quality control. The convention should also contain provisions for suitable
follow-up measures, fostering regular contacts and transparency in the
exchange of regulatory findings and operational data. These &re prerequisites
for a credible and effective control system.
Thus far,
the work on the convention has addressed civilian nuclea~ PQwar
plants, as this approach appears to offer the best possibilities for rapid
progress. However, management and disposal of radioactive waste,
including
waste from military use of nuclear energy, creates safety concerns as well.
While it is important at this stage to concentrate on civilian plants,
the
principle of international responsibility for handling of radioactive waste,
inclUding waste fronl military applications, should not be overlooked in the
future convention.
We note with satisfaction that the legitimacy of these concerns has been
acknowledged, for example,
in the nuclear safety working group of the Council
of the Baltic Sea States, an intergovernmental grouping that brings together
Finland, all the other littoral States of the Baltic Sea and the Commission of
the European Communities.
While it is vital to agree on a safety convention at an early date,
there
are even more urgent tasks ahead. The safety of old reactors in Eastern and
Central Europe is cf great concern. Every effort should be made to improve
the safety of risk-prone reactors pending their shut-down.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
4-5
(Hr. Karhilo, Finland)
Finnish o~qanizations are already engaged in this work, bilaterally as
well 08 multilaterally. Finland is particularly concerned about some of the
reactors in our immediate neighbourhood in the St. Petorsburg area and in the
Kola Peninsula.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.45
6
(Mr. Karhilo, Finland)
According to an agreement between the relevant Finnish and Russian
authorities, Finnish experts will assist in drawing up a plan of improvement
of the nuclear safety of Russian reactors in areas adjacent to Finland. More
than a million dollars have already been invested by Finland in this
cooperation. As part of this cooperation,
the Finnish Centre for Radiation
Safety will equip the Sosnovyi Bor and Kola Peninsula nuclear power plants
with INMARSAT-C telecommunications stations. More rapid and comprehensive
exchange of information in the event of an emergency is in everyone's interest.
Progress in arms control and disarmament,
including the Lisbon Protocol
on the multilateral implementation of the START Treaty and the subsequent
unilateral nuclea~ disarmament commitments by the United States and Russia,
enhances the prospects for an indefinite extension of the non-proliferation
Treaty. We also welcome the cooperation batween Russia and the United States
on commercial utilization of highly enriched Russian uranium in electricity
production as such uranium becomes redundant
through the process of
dismantling nuclear warheads.
Halting the spread of nuclear weapons is the main task for the parties to
the non-proliferation Treaty and a common endeavour of the member States of
the International· Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Finland's goal for the 1995
non-proliferation Treaty Conference is the indefinite extension of the life of
the Treaty.
As a strong supporter of the non-proliferation Treaty, Finland welcomes
the formal accession of China and France to the Treaty. We continue to urge
all countries not yet parties to accede to the Treaty so as to make it
universal by the time of its extension in 1995. We welcome the new safeguards
agreements, notably with South Africa, Argentina/Brazil,
the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea and Syria.
~---~~-- - - - -
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Mr, Karhilo, Finland)
Of special concern are the member States of the Commonwealth of
Independent States. We note with satisfaction the recent accession of
Uzbakistan and Azerbaijan to the non-proliferation Treaty as
non-nuclBar-weapon Stateso The commitments already undertaken in this respect
by Belarus, Ukraine and Kazakhstan lead us to ezpect that their accession will
not be long in coming. We have noted with satisfaction the recent statements
in the First Committee by Belarus and Ukraine reaffirming their intention to
accede to the non-proliferation Treaty in the very near future.
We note with concern that some 40 countries have yet to conclude
safeguards agreements. These agreements are not a formality. They are
required by the non-proliferation Treaty regardless of whether a State Party
conducts any peaceful activities or not. We continue to urge the countries
concerned to proceed to conclude the requisite agreements with the Agency as
soon as possible.
Turning to the implementation of Security Council resolutions 687 (1991),
707 (1991) and 715 (1991),
the Director General and his staff should be
commanded for the excellent work they have done, often under extremely
difficult conditions. We are confideut that the remaining essential tasks
will be performed in the same competent manner and in good cooperation with
the United Nations Special Commission.
The Iraqi case brought to light serious shortcomings in the present
safeguards system.
It is disconcerting to note that, while the IAEA performed
its duties fully in accordance with existing rules and practices, it was none
the less possible for Iraq ;0 engage in large-scale acti~iti9s aimed at
developing nuclear weapons. Moreover there was no certainty of discovery had
the inspections continued on the same basis.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA147/PV.45
8
(Mr. Karhi10, Finland)
We note with satisfaction that work to strengthen the safeguards system
has begun.
In our view the IAEA must be ~le to make full use of the mandate
given to it in the Statute and in the various safeguards agreements if
circumstances so require.
An important step towards st~engthening the non-proliferation regime is
the declaration by 27 cuuntries,
including Finland,
to follow the commonly
agreed Guidelines for Transfers of Nuclear-Related Dual-Use Equipment,
Material and Related Technology in their nuclear exports. These countries
have also decided henceforth to apply the so-called fu1l-scope-safeguards
principle as a condition for their nuclear supplies, a principle which Finland
and a number of other countries have been advocating for a long time.
Finland has recently become a member of the IAEA Board of Governors.
The
themes discussed in th~.s statement will be our main preoccupations during our
tenure on the Board. The Agency must continue to strengthen the safeguards
system, give impetus to improved nuclear safety and streamline its
organization so as to maintain its relevance and cost-effectiveness also in
the future. We trust that the Agency will be able to meet these new
challenges of a new era.
Mr. WLOSOWICZ (Poland): Both the report of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) for the year 1991 and the substantive statement of
Mr. Hans Blix, which provides information on the Agency's activities during
1992, give me a welcome opportunity to commend the positive role played by the
IAEA in enhancing further international cooperation in the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy and to emphasize its contribution to the strengthening of the
nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
9
(Mr. Wlosowicz, Poland)
Poland welcomes the recent accessions to the non-proliferation Treaty of
China, France and the Republic of South Africa as well as undertakings made by
Belarus, Kazakhstan and the Ukraine to accede to the Treaty in the near future
as non-nuclear States.
It is also gratifying that the major countries of
Latin America are now taking the final steps in the process of bringing into
force the Treaty of Tlatelolco. North Korea's fulfilment of its obligation to
conclude a safeguards agreement with the IAEA represents an important first
step in the right direction. Also,
the cooperation of the North Korean
authorities with the inspection teams so far is to be welcomed.
In the Middle East we are still witnessing the dismantling, under
United Nations auspices, of clandestine preparations to develop a
nuclear-weapons capability.
In this context we would like to note with
appreciation the determined actions of the Agency concerned with Iraq's
non-compliance with its nuclear-non-proliferation obligations. We commend the
IAEA in particular for its efforts in the implementation of the pertinent
Security Council resolutions. We support,
in particular,
the requirement that
Iraq should submit to the Agency a full and complete declaration of its
nuclear programme.
Poland accords top priority to the strengthening of the international
safeguards system, which underpins the whole non-proliferation regime. We
therefore welcome the confirmation by the member States of the IAEA at last
month's General Conference of their determination to continue efforts to
strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of the system. The decisions of
the Agency's Board of Governors that the members of the IAEA shall give
information as to their respective transfers of nuclear materials and
equipment are an important input to the safeguards system.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
10
(Mr. Wlosowicz, Poland)
Here I should like also to mention in this context the commendable
activities of the Zangger Committee and the Nuclear Suppliers Group, which are
concentrating on the guidelines for nuclear transfers.
We believe that the favourable changes in the international environment
should be properly reflected in decisions of the non-proliferation Treaty
Beview Conference in 1995. They should consolidate and further reinforce the
importance of the Treaty and in particular extend its validity indefinitely.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.4S
11
(Mr. Wlosowicz, Poland)
Nuclear safety remains one of our greatest concerns.
Poland supports all
international efforts aimed at upgrading the safe~y standards of old nuclear
installations still in oper~tion in Eastern and Central Europe. We welcome
the assistance offered in this regard by the countries possessing advanced
!
nuclear technologies and hope that their application will minimize risk to
life, health, and environment. We join others in urging that work on a
nuclear safety convention be continued and accelerated.
Poland is deeply co~~ittted to cooperation with the International Atomic
Energy Agency. Not only do we highly appreciate and share the Agency's lofty
goals, such as preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons, but we also
work together and benefit from that cooperation in many practical fields, such
as food prsservu~~~n, medicine, and the protection of the environment.
Applying nuclear anergy to reducing the emissions of carbon dioxide and
nitrogen oxide into the atmosphere and electron-beam flue-gases purification
has been the Agency's latest contribution to our programme of environmental
protection.
The activities of the International Atomic Energy AcJency, whiCh so fully
I
found their reflection in the report and statement of its Director General,
deserve our full appreciation.
It is also for this reason that we support tho
draft resolution on the report of the lAEA.
Mr. DEYANOV (Bulgaria):
I should like to associate the delegation
of Bulgaria with the other delegations that have expressed their appreciation
to the Director General of the International Atomic 2nergy Agency (IAEA),
Mr. Hans Blix, for his det,!.led and comprehensive statement and rgr the annual
report he introduced on th! operations of the Agency in 1991.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
12
(Mr. DeYanoy, Bulgaria)
As one of the founding members, Bulgaria has long been an active
supporter of the Agency, which remains an organization of critical importance
to the international community.
In the new situation in the world,
the lAEA
continues to play a vital role in fostering global peace and security and in
promoting cooperation on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. The Director
General and his staff deserve to be commended for their tireless efforts and
personal devotion to the task of adapting the Agency to the fundamental
changes and of responding adequately to the new challenges of our time.
The delegation of Bulgaria considers the annual report of the IAEA to be
a successful attempt to present a comprehensive and well-balanced analysis of
the Agency's activities in i991. The report clearly demonstrates that the
Agency has continued to fulfil its responsibilities, as provided for in its
statute and in the resolutions of the General Conference and the Board of
Governors.
As a Vice-Chairman of the Board of Governors, Bulgaria participated in
the process of detailed consideration and adoption of decisions related to
lAP-A activities during a period covered by its report. My delegation endorses
this report, as it faithfu~ly reflects the Agency's efforts to strengthen its
i
safeguards system,
improve the scope and the effectiveness of its nuclear
safety and nuclear cooperation programmes and serve as a major source of
techttical assistance to member States. Accordingly,
I wish to express the
strong support of my delegation for draft resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.1 on the
I
Agency's 1991 annual report,
introduced by Australia yesterday on behalf of a
number of sponsors,
including Bulgaria.
Bulgaria attaches par;icu1ar importance to the programmes Of the Agency
on developing standards an! providing assistance in ensuring nuclear and
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
13
(Mr. Deyanoy, Bulgaria)
radioactive safety. This is in line ~ith the commitment of the Statas
participatinq in the process of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in
Europe, as set forth in the 1992 Helsinki decisions,
to work to support the
technical cooperation proqrammes ot the lAEA aimed at enhancinq nuclear
safety. We consider the technical assistance regularly provided by the Aqency
to be instrumental in helpinq developinq countries, as well as countries in
transition,
to acquire the necessary expertise and support fOl' their national
proqrammes.
Havinq said this,
I cannot but share the concern expressed in the
Aqency's report about the decline in the number of pledqes towards the
Technical Assistance and Cooperation Fund tarqet. Notwithstandinq the
increase in the total value of resources,
the percentaqe of the tarqet met
throuqh pledqes declined from 85.3 per cent in 1990 to 78.4 per cent in 1991.
My de1eqation is afraid tha~ this may cause considerable difficulties for the
Aqency in carryinq out its programmes to render technical assistance to
countries in need. Despite its financial difficulties, Bulqaria has never
stopped makinq its contribution to the Technical Assistance and Cooperation
Fund of the Agency and expects that all otiler Member States will increase
their support for this Fund.
Bulqaria is amonq the countries th~t heavily rely on the use of nuclear
enarqy to meet most of their enerqy needs. Over 40 per cent of Bulqaria's
power-generatinq capacity .s being provided by the Kozloduy nuclear reactors.
The regular supply of the ~ount~y with such enerqy, and effective parallel
I
actions to improve nuclear s"fety standards, are major objectives of my
Government in advancing the country on the difficult road from a centrally
planned to a free-market economy.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
14
(Mr. DeYanQY, BUlgaria)
D~mocratic changes in ~astern and Central Europe have given rise ~o an
i~creased public interest in and insistence on so~ving problems of
.
nuclear-power-plant safety and of finding ways and means to ensure more
efficient use of energy in these countries.
Bulgaria is not an ex·:eption in this respect. Both the Parliament and a
nl~ber of environmental protection groups in my country are actively engaged
in joint actions with the r,overnment to promote higher standa~ds of nuclear
safety and to ensure a better performance of all the six reactor units at the
Kozloduy nuclear power plant. The Government of BUlgaria remains committ~d to
makinq further progress tow~rds this end,
f
irrespective of the financial and
logistic difficulties encountered in view of the serious economic challenges
that the country faces at present.
It may seem natural,
therefore, that to
accomplish this goal my Government relies to a certain extent on external
assistance both from other countries and from international organizations.
Bulgaria highly appreciates the work of the IAEA in implementing its
special project set up to examine the older type of Soviet-designed reactors -
the WWER 440 Model 230 - w~ich obviously need some improvements related to
nuclear safety. As reflec':gd in the annual report,
in 1991 the Agency
conducted under this project a review of the design concept of this type of
nuclear power plant. This review pointed to differences existing between
I
I
various nuclear plants of this type, which helped to confirm the importance of
carrying out plant-specifi.~ review missions in a number of Eastern European
countries concerned.
Operational safety ret,iew team missions have also been conducted under
this project in Bulgaria a; the Kozloduy nuclear power plant, particularly at
its four WWER-440/230 unit.i. Although none of the Kozloduy reactors is of the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
15
(Mr. Deyanoy, Bulgaria)
Chernobyl type,
these four units require further improvement if they are to
meet the hiqher nuclear standards applied in Europe. The other two units at
this plant are of a diffe~ent type - WHER-IOOO - which is not only a more
powerful nuclear reactor but also much safer, and more reliable. Additional
lAEA missions have ~eviewed the safety of our nuclea~ power plant aqainst
seismic hazards, emphasizi~q earthquake desiqn acceleration and the seismic
vulnerability of structure., and components important to safety.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
16
(Mr. DQyanoy. Bulgaria)
In the light of the results of the IAEA,missions,
the Bulgarian
Government has takan ~pecific measures and is now making serious efforts to
implement the recommenaations of the Agency experts. We are determined to do
our best to improve the nuclear safety of the Kozloduy power plant,
notwithstanding the fact that due to the scarcity of financial resources this
course of ~ction may cause some difficulties for the economy, as well as some
social tension because of cuts in other Government-sponsored programmes.
The steps taken by my Government have involved,
inter alia, a number of
radical actions, such as a provision~! shutdown of most of the reactor units
at the Kosloduy nuclear power plant to make the recommended safety
improvements. Bulgaria has received assistance for this purpose from the
World Association of Nuclear Operators and various national nuclear
authorities and societies that have developed specific projects to achieve a
drastic improvement in the operation of the reactors.
~he European Community
and the World Bank have also rendered extremely valuable financial support.
On behalf of my Government I should like to express the deep gratitude of
Bulgaria to the Governments and international organizations that have assisted
my country in this respect. We hope that this kind of cooperation will
continue in the future. Our objective is to ensure the safety of all nuclear
installations in Bulgaria, in order to protect the population and the
enviromnent in conformity with the relevant commitments as formulated in the
1992 Helsinki decisions.
We believe that with the detailed implementation of the European Energy
Charter the long-term ener~ situation in Central and Eastern Europe could be
significantly changed for the better.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
17
(Mr. DeYanQv, Bulgaria)
The work to develop a nuclear safety convention c.urrently under way in
the UBA is of great importance for improving the safety of nuclear power
plants while taking fully into account the specific needs of the countries
concerned. The results of the Conference on the Safety of Nuclear Power,
which reviewed safety issues at technical and policy-making level! and
formulated valuable recommendations for future acti.ons, provide fUl'ther useful
guidance in this area.
I should like to mention with appreciation the fact that bilateral
assistance from the Group of 7 and the Group of 24 States and the support
programmes initiated by the Commission of the European Communities,
the IAEA
and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development are already
under way. The programmes have so far focused on analysis, consulting and
training, but we hope that greater involvement in solving nuclear safety
deficiency problems will be forthcoming,
in terms both of providing the
necessary equipment and of ensuring substantial financial support.
We understand that, because of the scope and complexity of the issue, a
multilateral programme of action may also be needed to enhance the ongoing
bilateral assistance.
I wish to make special note of the important role
already being played in this respect by the European Commission, which is
responsible for coordinating the Group of 24 technical assistance on nuclear
safety - carried out with advice from the IAEA -
to Central and Eastern
European States.
My delegation shares the view that progress in improving the nuclear
safety of the reactors operating in Central and Eastern Europe can best ge
ensured in an environment of successful economic reforms,
including the
adoption of free market principles, freer trade and the creation of favourable
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
18
(Mr. Deyanov, Bulgaria)
conditions for investment. BUlgaria is committed to such a trunsformation and
has already taken a number of important steps in pursuing this process.
The recent progress in the field of nuclear disarmament and the increased
reliance of the United Nations on preventive diplomacy have highlighted
widespread concerns abou~ the danger from the proliferation of nuclear weapons
and their delivery systems. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT)
remains the most important building block in the international
regime designed to cope with this danger.
In the new international environment,
the Security Council could become
an effective forum for non-proliferation enforcement. As its primary
responsibility relates to the maintenance of international peace and security,
the Security Council is entitled to adopt, and should adopt, measures whose
basic objective is to curb proliferation and impose sanctions on States which
violate international agreements.
The international comn,unity now needs effective action to safeguard
nuclear material,
to detect in time, and pravent,
transfers of nuclear weapons
or their clandestine production. The fundamental role of the International
Atomic Energy Agency in this respect is well recognized and should be further
enhanced.
My delegation believes that nuclear cooperation should be conditional on
adherence to and strict compliance with the non-proliferation Treaty or other
equally binding bilateral or multilateral agreements. My country accepts such
a requirement as the basis for its own participation in this cooperation.
As a member of the Eu~lear Suppliers Group, BUlgaria is participating in
the current process of enhancing its export control guidelines and other
relevant instruments. The Bulgarian Government has adopted a decision to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
19
(Mr. Deyanoy, Bulgaria)
implement fully the new international arranqements agreed upon by the Nuclear
Suppliers Group in Warsaw this year, which are now a key element in Bulgaria's
export control policy. Full-scope safequards as a condition for nuclear
supply are an integral part of the common export policy of all Nuclear
Suppliers Group member States. We hope that other States will soon follow
suit.
BUlgaria believes that the IAEA's ability to fulfil its statutory
functions has to be further enhanced. The Agency must receive all the
necessary resources to strengthen its safequards regime, conduct special
inspections and refer unresolved cases of proliferation to the Security
Council.
In his statement to the Assembly yesterday, Mr. Hans Blix pointed out
~
that the Board of Governors of the IAEA had confirmed the Agency's right to
perform special inspections when there were reasons to believe that
installations or material that should have been declared had not been so
declared. We concur with the Director General that,
in the new safequards
system now taking shape in the Agency,
the information provided by the
inspected State must be supplemented by additional data from other States.
In this context, we consider that actions by the lAEA's principal organs
to implement the concept of universal reporting with respect to exports and
imports of nuclear material,
inventories, relevant nuclear-related equipment
and other non-nuclear material deserve every encouragement and further
development.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
20
(Mr. Deyanoy, Bulgaria)
Bulgaria welcomes the recent decisions taken by the Agency to strengthen
its safeguards system. My delegation is glad to note also that an appropriate
reference to these decisions is contained in draft resolution Al47/L.9/Rev.l,
on the Agency's report.
The results of the inspections carried out by the United Nations Special
Commission and the IAEA, which have proved Iraq's non-compliance with its
safeguards obligations und6r the non-proliferation Treatyg will serve as a
timely warning of the grave consequences that potential proliferators will
have to face in the future. This is a central point with respect to the
equally important chemical, biological and missile-technology areas also.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
21
(Mr. DeYanov, BUlgaria)
Bu19a~ia supported the resolution adopted by the thirty-sixtb General
Conference of the Agency dealing with Iraq's non-compliance with its
safeguards obligations.
Some formulations in these resolutioDs have found a
place in draft resolution L.9/Rev.1, submitted to the General Assembly.
In
this respect,
I wish to mention our appreciation of the strenuous efforts of
the Director General and h~s staff in the implementation of Security Council
resolutions 687 (1991), 707 (1991) and 715 (1991),
in particular the. detection
and destruction or otherwise rendering harmless of equipment and material that
could be used for nuclear weapons.
In conclusion,
I should like once again to confirm Bulgaria's strong
support for the International Atomic Energy Aqency.
It is our firm belief
that the Agency's cont~ibu~ion to ensuring the uses of nucloar energy for
peaceful purposes and to securing a stable operation of the nuclear
non-proliferation regime should receive well-deserved acclaim from the entire
I
international community.
Guided by those considerations, my delegation will vote in favour of
draft resolution Al47/L.9/Rev.l, concerning the 1991 annual report of the
International Atomic Energy Agency.
Mr. BURAVKIN (Belarus) (interpretation from Russian):
It has been
said many times from this rostrum that 1992 is a landmark year in many
respects. There is hope t'lat in world history it will be repeatedly referred
to as a year of enormously important political changes that gave mankind
unprecedented opportunitie~ for peaceful development, mutual understanding and
constructive cooperation.
For the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), an additional fact
that makes the year 1992 e~pecially important is that a half-century ago there
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- - - - - - - -_ ._ - - -
Al47/PV.45
22
(Mt. Buraykin, Belarus)"
occurred an event which led to the establishment of that organization~ the
first controlled nuclear reaction. That achievement determined in large
measure the subsequent fate of mankind and provided it with enormous
opportunitias bu~ at the same time, confronted it with a most difficult
challenge which could, if not met,
turn the powerful potential of the atom
into a tremendous evil and a threat to life on Earth.
There is nothing surprising in that, because any scientific achievement
is a blessing only when it is dedicated to benefiting mankind and promoting
human well-being.
Helpin~:to utilize atomic energy for the good of mankind is
the lofty mission entrusted to lAEA, and we should like to emphasize this
today. The extent to which this noble and very responsible mission is carried
out is,
to our mind,
the criterio:l by which we can appraise the work of the
Agency.
In paying tribute to the activities of the Agency, we in Belarus -
having by a quirk of fate become hostage to the horrible Chernobyl experiment,
which in the final analysis resulted from criminal neglect of human life, the
highest value on Earth - would like to focus our attention on lAEA's efforts
in the field of radiological protection.
In this connection, we express our full support for the Agency's
activities aimed at completing the review of the basic safety standards for
radiological protection. The drafting and adoption of a new version of those
standards is extremely impJrtant for the Republic of Belarus, especially in
the light of the current c~rrections being made in our state programme to
i
minimize the consequences of Chernobyl.
We are grateful to thJ Agency and to other international organizations
and individual States for ~he implementation of projects in radiolog~cal
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
23
(Mr. "Buravkin, Belarus)
protection that directly affect the interests of the population of Belarus.
As reqards the international Chernobyl project, representatives of Belarus
have repeatedly spoken of the contradictory nature of the conclusions "
concerninq the results of that project.
I should like to emphasize that our
view has not chanqed with the passinq of time; on the contrary, we are
becominq more and more convinced that it is correct. We must note with
concern and sadness even today that statistical data,
includinq those from
such an authoritative source as the World Health Orqanization (WHO), all show
an outbreak of oncoloqical disease durinq the post-Chernobyl period in the
stricken territories, especially amonq children.
It is enouqh to cite just
one fact:
oncoloqical disease of the thyroid qland amonq children is 22 times
as prevalent as it was five years ago.
The Chernobyl
tragedy has shown the entire world that a country which has
no atomic power plants of its own does not thereby remain safe from potential
and actual danger if other States have atomic power stations near its
borders. Therefore we are especially interested in expandinq the Agency's
programme for safety at all types of nuclear installations, especially nuclear
power stations.
In our view,
there is good reason to regard questions of
nuclear safety as priority questions, all the more so because incidents at
nuclear power stations unfortunately continue to take place. The latest one
took place last week at the Iqnalina power station, which is very close to
Belarus.
In 1991, as we can see from the report of the Director General,
the
Agency's information system received 139 reports on various incidents that
took place at nuclear installations. The statistics are rather alarming.
The Republic of Belarus unequivocally advocates the establishment of a
binding regime for nuclear safety. We support the current efforts under the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47lPV.45
24.-25
(Mr. Buraykin, Belarus)
auspices of the Age~cy to ~raft an international convention on the subject.
The conclusion of a convention would give us a unique opportunity to establish
an officially agreed international approach to all aspects of this problem.
A logical extension of the efforts designed to strengthen the
international nuclear-safety regime might be a verifiable international treaty
on ending the production of fissionable materials intended for military
purposes.
Its conclusion l'ould lead to t!1e establishment of a system for
additional verification of warheads and nuclear materials.
We share the concern of the international community over the problems of
monitoring nuclear weapons, .including weapon.s in the countries of the
Commonwealth of Independent· States (CIS), and we are taking steps to see to it
that there will be no such concern with regard to our country. We have
withdrawn all tactical weapons from ·the territory of Belarus, and we have
undertaken to withdraw strategic weapons as well.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.~5
26
(Mr. Buraykin, Belarus}
In our Republic there has been set up and 13 now operating a competent
national body,
the State Industrial Atomi~ Monitoring Agency~ to prevent the
spread of nuclear materials. However, we still need to develop legislative
and normative measures and establish the necessary managerial and re~latory
structures in the nuclear sphere, and we would be qrateful to lAEA for help in
that regard.
The delegation of the Republic of Belarus continues to take a flexible
approach to programmes of scientific and technical cooperation that entail a
redistribution of resources to meet changing priorities. We support the idea
of periodically renewing plans for scientific and technical cooperation on the
basis of consultations among the menmer States and the secretariat of IAEA.
We e~phasize that attention should be givon to the advisability of assiqning a
special priority to projects concerned with the consequences of the Chernobyl
disaster.
The Republic of Belarus recently celebrated the first anniversary of its
sovereignty. The first phase of our independent development is occurring
against the background of a severe economic crisis. The people of Belarus
have been confronted with tasks of unprecedented difficulty that were greatly
aggravated by the Chernobyl tragedy. Our Government is making intensive
efforts to improve the lives of people in the affected areas. Enormous
material and technical resources have been devoted to the construction of
housing in the so-called clean areas for those forced to evacuate the dan~er
zone. We have set standards more rigorous than those in other countries for
the radionuclide content of foodstuffs.
The organization of health care and
of agricultural production methods in the contaminated regions is being
improved.
Procedures are baing perfected for the deactivation of nuclear
materials and the burial of radioactive waste and deactivation products.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl41/PV.45
27
(Mr. Suraykin, Eelarus)
However, t~e experience gained from efforts undertaken at the national
level has clearly shown that the consequences of a nuclear catast~ophe can be
dealt with only through effective int~rnational cooperation. We wish to
express our sincere gratitude to all States and organizations that have
participated in such cooperation, and we hope that it ~ill continue and be
strengthened and enhanced.
I would emphasize once again that this would be in
the interest not only of our own people's future but of the future of all
mankind.
Mr. NEJE~LY (Czechoslovakia):
In the past year,
the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has been engaged in activities aimed at expanding
the nuclear non-proliferation regime and the IAEA safeguards system. The
Agency has contributed significantly to this. We have especially appreciated
the accession of France and China to the Treaty on the Nott-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which means that all five permanent members of the
Security Council have become parties to that Treaty. We have also appreciated
the accession by the Baltic States and the declaration by the Governments of
Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan in which they expressed their determination to
accede to the Treaty as nuclear-free States.
It is in the vital interest of
all States of our planet and their inhabitants that the NPT become universal.
We appeal to all the countries that have not yet ac~eded to the Treaty to do
so as soon as possible, and not later than 1995. The Government of the Czech
and Slovak Federal Republic is of the opinion that the period of validity of
the Treaty should be extended without any conditions and be unlimited after
1995. We expect that all States parties to the Treaty will fulfil their
obligations and that those of them that have not concluded safeguards
I
agreements with the IAEA will do so without delay.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- - - - - - - - - - - ---
A/47/PV.45
28
(~r. Nejedly, Czechoslovakia~
The Czech and Slovak FederQl Republic has noted with satisfaction the.
cooperation of South Africa with the IAEA in the implementation of the
safeguards ~greement and expectfl full implementation by the Democratic
People'~ Republic of Korea. We also appreciate the fact that a safeguards
agreement has been concluded by Syria and that one is being implemented by
Algeria.
We are determined fully to e~~ance measures to improve the control of
nuclear exports,
including the export of dual-use items. We support the
proposals of the lAEA secretariat for universal reporting of transfers of
nuclear material and equipment. We highly appreciate the efforts of the IAEA
Director General and inspection teams in Iraq, which are aimed ~t implementing
the relevant resolutions of the Security Council.
The Czech and Slovak Federal Republic fully approves the decisions of
IAEA bodies on the need to improve the efficiency of the safeguards system
and, at the same time,
to increase the efficient use of resources provided ~y
member States. We appreciate the work done by the IAEA s~cretariat and bodies
in this respect. The efforts to improve the efficiency of safeguards have to
be increased and, within that framework, made more consistent in their use of
the potential of the Standing Advisory Group on Safeguards Implementation and
the proposals submitted by member States in the Agency's respective bodies.
In this connection the Czechoslovak delegation wishes to recall the
proposal for the implementation of the so-called alternate safeguards system,
which was worked out in coo?eration with the Republic of Austria and submitted
by a Czechoslovak represent~tive at the session of the Committee of the Whole
of this year's IAEA General Conference.
In the opinion of Czechoslovak
experts, its implementation might lead both to increasing the efficiency and
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- - - - - - - - - - - -
Al47/PV.4S
29-30
(Mr. Hejedly. Czechoslovakia)
to decreasing the costs of the safeguards system. This proposal envisages the
implementation of new safeguardu ~laments for nuclear activities in compliance
with new requirements'
'l'6r the lAB1\. safeguards system. The costs would to a
large extent be covered by the savings realized through the rationalization of
the existing, highly complicated safeguards system. We are of the opinion
that at this time, when we feel the need to strengthen the system and are, at
the same time, aware of the insufficiency of available resources, this
proposal deserves due att~ntion by the res~ective IABA programmes as well as
of its secretariat.
Another main area of IABA activities, nuclear energy and its safety,
remains the focus of our attention and interest. The Czech and Slovak Federal
Republic, as a State with a comparatively extensive nuclear programme
heretofore based on the Soviet-made reactors of the VVER type, is highly
appreciative of the attention paid by the Agency to improving their
technological lovel and nuclear safety. Expert missions that have been
carried out, as well as those being considered, and other activities within
the programmes adopted by the IABA are appreciated as invaluable support for
our national economy. We see this not only from a purely technical point of
view, but also from the poi~t of view of the credibility of nuclear energy and
its acceptability to the general public.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
31
(Mr. Nejedly, Czechoslovakia)
Czechoslovakia is acting in the spirit of the conclusions reached by
leading experts at meetings in recent years, such as the Conference on the
greenhouse effect held at Toronto in 1988,
the fourteenth Congress of the
World Energy Conference, held at Montreal in 1989, and the symposium held in
Helsinki in 1991 on electricity and the environment. Our country is convinced
that technologically advanced and safe nuclear energy -
that is, using nuclear
reactors of today's most advanced technical level, whose fuel-cycle problems
have been resolved both conceptually and technologically,
including the
problems of processing and disposing of burnt-out nuclear fuel and radioactive
waste - represents an ecological contribution. Tangible evidence of this is
seen in the state of the environment in the neighbourhood of Czechoslovak
nuclear power plants in Jaslovske Bohunice and Kukovany on the one hand and in
the North Bohemian border area, with its open-pit lignite mines and its
thermal power plants, on the other.
In spite of the highest priority the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic
attaches to both those activities of the IAEA, we consider the problem of
technical assistance and cooperation to be a highly important issue. We are
aware that the insufficien_ attention being paid to the burning problems of
the less developed countries is a source of tension and suspicion in
North-South relations. Through its membership of the IAEA, and within its
possibilities, our country has been providing voluntary assistance through
prog~ammes of technical assistance and cooperation.
Allow me in conclusion to express our satisfaction with the report on the
activities of the IAEA for the reporting period, and to convey our
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
32
(Mr. Nejedly. Czechoslovakia)
appreciation to the Agency's Director General, Mr. Bans Blix. Despite the
existing financial crisi~ of the I AEA he has been able,
together with his
colleagues, to cope with the Agency's present demanding tasks pnd
requirements. We wish him and his colleagues much success in performing their
tasks.
Mr. PAK (Democratic People's Republic of Korea):
I
join the
Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in
recognizing that the lAEA has been carrying out its main mission, that of
accelerating the peaceful uses of atomic power.
In recent years,
the lAEA has
made sincere efforts to expand international cooperation in accelerating the
development and use of nuclear energy, which is badly needed for e~onomic
development,
in strengthening nuclear safety and safeguards, and in increasing
technical cooperation with developing countries.
The lAEA is engaged in positive cocperation with many regions and
countries in implementing the safeguards agreement and the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT),
in conformity with the desire of
the peoples of the world, who want to live in a ~uclear-weapon-free world in
this post-cold-war era. We-appreciate that.
Today,
the relations of cooperation between the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea and the IAEA are developing daily in the field of the
peaceful utilization of nuclear energy. Technical data and various other
kinds of information which the lAEA regularly provides us are useful in our
research on the development of nuclear energy and on the use of isotopes, as
well as for the establishment of a system of nuclear safety, Jrotection
against radiation, and safeguards.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.45
33
(Mr. Pat, Democratic People's
RQPublic of Korea)
At the third session of the fifth Supreme People's Assembly, which was
held in 1974,
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea adopted a law on
atomic power, whieb constitutes the basis of all activities for the peacefUl
uses of nuclear energy.
In accordance with that law we have engaged, with
broad use of radioactive rays and radioisotopes in various domainG of the
national economy, in research with a view to establishing a ~-oriented
plan of nuclear power development and to using nuclear energy in building a
self-reliant national economy.
In the context of that process, our scientists and technicians have the
capability to build and run on their own a pilot atomic power plant making use
of our own ~esources and technology. With that experience,
they are
continuing their efforts to put larger atomic power stations into operation by
the mid-1990s.
It is the consistent, principled policy of the Government of our republic
to carry out the denuclearization of the Korean peninSUla by earnestly
implementing the noble ideas and mission set out in the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
Since the June meeting of the Board of" Governors of the IAEA we have
accepted two rounds of ad hoc inspections of our nuclear facilities by the
Agency. Those were the second and third such ro~ds of inspections;
the
follow-up regulations of the nuclear safeguards agreement have been agreed
upon and carried out.
Even after three rounds of ad hoc inspections of our
nuclear facilities by the IAEA, we also provided members of the Agency with
every necessa~y accommodation to enable them to inspect any sites and
installations, regardless of the initial lists of nuclear facilities we
presented.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.45
34-35
(Mr. Pak. Democratic People's
Republic of Korea)
All these facts show that the more frequent the IAEA inspections of our
country's nuclear facilities,
the clearer the proof of the integrity of our
Government's plan for nuclear-power development.
Suspicion with respect to
our nuclear programme is disappearing.
All that must be done to carry out the denuclearization of the Korean
peninsula is to verify its status through the inspection of United States
nuclear weapons and nuclear bases in south Korea.
In fact,
the nuclear issue
has arisen with respect to the Korean peninsula only since the United States
deployment of nuclear weapons in south Korea. We who are under a constant
nuclear threat are in a position to do o~~ ~est to denuclearize the Korean
peninsula by implementing the north-south joint declar~tion on the
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
Many rounds of meetings of the North-South Joint Nuclear Control
Committee have taken place. but the Committee has so far failed to adopt rules
of inspection to verify the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. The
reason we see no progress in the work of the North-South Joint Nuclear Control
Committee is that the United States and the south Korean authorities oppose
the inclusion of United States nuclear weapons and nuclear bases in an
agreement for the implementation of the joint declaration and the rules of
inspection. And,
to make things worse.
they are raising a hue and cry over
"special inspections" and "inspections of the same number" of military bases,
bases which do not fall under the authority of the North-South Joint Nuclear
Control Committee, but which are supposed to be discussed in the North-South
Joint Military Committee.
In other words,
they are in a position to
complicate and delay the work of the North-South Joint Nuclear Control
Committee.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
36
(Mr. Pak, Democratic People's
~ublic of Korea)
The joint declaration on denuclearization, agreed upon by the north and
the south, is not being implemented because of the United States position to
maintain its nuclear bases in south Korea and the attitude of south Korea
which could nnt exercise its sovereignty.
Moreover,
the fact that there still exist United States nuclear weapons
in south Korea has been made public increases our feeling that it is urgent to
implement the north-south joint declaration on denuclearization.
Therefore, we would like tc urge the south Korean authorities, if they
really want the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula,
to shun any foreign
interference and come out at the negotiating table in favour of inclUding
United States nuclear weapons and nuclear bases in south Korea in the
follow-up agreement for the north-south joint declaration on denuclearization
and the rules of inspection.
We sincerely hope that the United States, which is directly responsible
for the nuclear issue in the Korean peninsula, will take favourable measures
so that the inspection of United States nuclear weapons and nuclear bases in
south Korea can take place.
We will continue to make every sincere effort to show the consistency of
the peaceful nuclear policy of the Government of our Republic through IAEA
inspections, and to accelerate the peaceful use of nuclear energy with the
technical cooperation of the IAEA and its member States.
We will be loyal to our obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty,
and, with patience and sincerity, will make active efforts to achieve the
immediate implementation of the joint declaration on the denuclearization of
the Korean peninSUla.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
37
Mr. ROBINSON (United States of America): On behalf of the United
States, my delegation wishes to express its strong support for the draft
resolution before the General Assembly today regarding the 1991 annual report
submitted by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). As my Government
has often stated,
the lAEA is an or9anization of critical importance to the
international community,
including the United States. As demonstrated in its
report to the General Assembly,
the Agency continues to play a vital role in
promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear ene~gy and in fostering international
p&ace and security. We would also like to commend Director General Bans Blix
and the lAEA secretariat for the diligence and commitment they have
demonstrated in carrying out the Agency's statutory responsibilities,
especially in regard to the imp1emen~0tion of the Security Council resolutions
dealing with Iraq.
The Agency's extensive, effective and unique system of safeguards
provides the f'oundation of international cooperation in the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy"
The safeguards system provides important assurances that
transfers of nuclear technology and information will not be diverted for
military purposes and thereby undermine international peace and 3tability.
In
the absence of the Agency's safeguards system, suspicion rather than trust
would dominate international nuclear trade. This in turn would likely lead to
a climate of tension rather than cooperation among States and place severe
constraints on international nuclear cooperation.
For the first time in the history of the IAEA safeguards system, a State
Party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT)
- Iraq -
was found to have violated its safeguards agreement with the IAEA by not
declaring and submitting nuclear material activities to the Agency's
inspection.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.~5
38-40
(Mr. RObinson, United States)
Following the conflict in the Gulf,
IAXA teams have been inspecting
Iraq's nuclear capabilities since May 1991 under the terms of United Nations
Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which is directed at eliminating
Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and the means to produce and use them.
With the assistance of the United Nations Special Commission,
the lAEA has
responded resourcefully and effectively to the challenges involved in
fulfilling its task in Iraq. Despite frustrating and sometimes even hazardous
conditions, Agency inspectors have shown courage and commitment in refusing to
be diverted from their goal. The IABA Board of Governors declared Iraq in
violation of its safeguards agreement at a special session in July 1991.
It
strongly condemned the Government of Iraq for not submitting nuclear material
and facilities in its clandestine uranium enrichment programme to the Agency's
inspection, and expressed its grave concern about evident deception and
obstruction of IAEA inspectors, who were denied access several times to sites
they wished to inspect.
In accordance with its statute,
the IAEA transmitted
its conclusions to the United Nations Security Council.
Apart from raising questions about the true scope of Iraq's nuclear
capabilities,
the inspections there have intensified efforts to take concrete
steps to strengthen the existing IAEA safeguards system. The IAEA Board of
Governors has recently reaffirmed the Agency's right to conduct special
inspections in States with comprehensive safeguards agreements. Similarly,
the Board has called upon States with comprehensive safeguards agreements to
provide early design information o~ ~lans for construction of new nuclear
facilities, as well as modifications to existing ones, as soon as those plans
are made.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
41
(Mr. Robinson, United States)
The Board has already given preliminary consideration to proposals on the
reporting of exports and imports of nuclear material and of certain equipment
and non-nuclear materials especially designed for use in nuclear activities.
The proposal remains an important Board agenda item.
In addition to all these measures,
the secretariat continues to review
its fundamental safeguards principles, criteria and procedures to improve
their efficiency and effectiveness, particularly in light of increasing
demands placed on it due to new safeguards agreements.
For example,
the
IAEA's Standing Advisory Group on Safeguards Implementation is considering a
range of other possible measures to enhance the safeguards system especially
with respect to the detection of undeclared nuclear activities.
With regard to the non-proliferation Treaty, at the same time that Iraq
was challenging the global norm against nuclear weapons proliferation, other
nations took concrete steps to preserve it. The United States welcoMed
South Africa's accession to the non-proliferation Treaty and conclusion of a
full-scope safeguards agreement with the Agency. We commend the IAEA for its
intensive efforts to implement a full-scope safeguards agreement with the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and we urge the latter to continue its
cooperation with the Agency,
France and the People's Republic of China have
also recently acceded to the non-proliferation Treaty. We also look forward
to the early conclusion of comprehensive safeguards agreements between the
lAEA and Argentina and Brazil, and with the newly independent States of the
former Soviet Union. These efforts are positive steps in favour of extending
the non-proliferation Treaty, which is the foundation of the international
non-proliferation regime.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
42
(Mr. RObinson, United States)
With regard to technical cooperation,
the 1991 IAEA annual report makes
clear the extent of the Agency's provision of technical assistance to the
developing world. The IAEA has assisted countries .in all aspects of the
application of peaceful nuclear science and technology,
from power planning
and development and waste management to assistance in non-power nuclear
technologies,
including those related to agricUltural and animal production,
food irradiation, nuclear medicine and more. This is an important role which
my Government continues to support strongly, and we encourage other IAEA
member States to do the same.
I come now to nuclear safety and radiological protection.
In reflecting
upon the Agency's accomplishments in nuclear safety and radiological
protection, we note with particular interest the ongoing project for
international asaistance in assessing the safety of older nuclear reactors,
which focuses on the Soviet-designed VVER-440/230 reactors. This project will
provide an important contribution to international efforts to improve the safe
operation of these reactors. My Government looks forward to the IAEA's
continuing efforts, in particular the evaluation of the graphite-moderated
reactors.
The IAEA is taking the lead on the elaboration of an international
nuclear safety convention. My Government believes that it is important that
such an instrument be broadly supported and should focus on nuclear power
reactors, which pose ·the greatest safety risks, and avoid an attempt to adopt
detailed technical rules or standards. The main value of a convention will be
its implementation provisions for a meeting of the parties to provide peer
review of compliance with a broad set of essential safety principles.
The IAEA recently convened a review conference for the Convention on the
Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, which concluded that the Convention
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library. Al471PV.45
43-45
(Mr. Robinson, U~ited States)
is adequate and acceptable in its current form and that no modifications to
its text or annexes is warranted. Although universal adherence to this
instrument has not been obtained as yet, my Government remains committed to
this end.
In closing, my Government wishes to commend the IAEA for its invaluable
contribution to international peace, security and welfare.
The United States
pledges its continuing support for the efforts of the !AEA.
Mr. ADEKANYE (Nigeria):
The Nigerian delegation wishes to express
its satisfaction with the annual report for 1991 of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA)
(A/47/374) on the activities of the Agency. We commend
the Director Ge~eral for his statement spelling out the challenges which the
Agency must confront in a rapidly changing world.
Today such challenges include the expansion of the Agency's role in
promoting international cooperation in nuclear science and technology. We are
pleased to note that in the past year the Agency's activities in the field of
nuclear applications were pursued with vigour and that the use of nuclear
techniques in food and agriculture, medicine and industry has continued to
grow, based on the needs and priorities of Member States.
On the African continent,
the impact of the Agency's assistance in the
search for lasting solutions to the continent's food problems is now widely
recognized. At its last session,
the General Conference urged that the Agency
intensify cooperation with other United Nations agencies such as the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Health
Organization (WHO), as well as the International Consultative Group on Food
Irradiation,
to prepare a detailed project proposal that would assist
developing countries in introducing commercial food irradiation.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library.A/47/PV. 45
46
(Mr. Adekanye, Nigeria)
For my country,
the contribu.tion of the Agency's technical assistance and
research contract programmes to our national development has remained a source
of satisfaction. We note, for example, that four recently completed projects,
covering the areas of nuclear science laboratories, nuclear analytical
techniques,
radioimmunoassay in animal production, and food irradiation, are
having a major impact. At the core of that assistance programme is the
transfer of nuclear technology and techniques. We look forward to an
intensification of the Agency's training programme as part of its contribution
to the development of our human resources so that the full benefits of such
transfers can truly be enjoyed.
Against this background, my delegation notes with concern the decline in
the percentage of the target for and contributions to the Technical Assistance
and Co-operation Fund. Now that targets have been agreed to for the period
1993-95, we urge renewed commitment from all Member States to pay their
contributions as a demonstration of their concrete support for the Agency's
technical assistance programme,
from which developing countries derive such
enormous benefits. The technical assistance programme should be funded
through assured and predictable resources.
A major instrument of the Agency's technical assistance to developing
countries is its regional cooperation programme.
In the African region,
the
African Regional Cooperative Agreement for Research, Development and Training
Related to Nuclear Science and Technology (AFRA) is gaining support as a
vehicle for the development of African economies.
AFRA membership has
increased by three during the year. This interest will grow as the
high-priority projects identified by AFRA States are expeditiously
implemented.
It is therefore our hope that greater support will continue to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library. Al47/PV.45
47
(Mr. Adekanye, Nigeria)
be given to AFRA States by the international community and the donor countries
to ensure the implementation of all AFRA projects.
My country has always accepted that safeguards constitute one of the
principal activities of the Agency and that an effective role in that area is
essential in strengthening confidence in the safeguards system, underpinning
the nuclear non-proliferation regime and promoting world peace. We have
therefore followed with great interest the Agency's efforts to meet the
challenges arising from increasing accession to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the application of IAEA safeguards.
We welcome the steps taken in the past year by the Agency in responding to
this growing demand for safeguards, as well as its determination to explore
additional avenues that would reinforce its obligations under international,
multilateral and regional agreements.
It is essential for the credibility of
the safeguards system that the Agency continue to be guided by the principles
of transparency and non-discrimination, efficiency and cost-effectiveness. As
we approach the 1995 non-proliferation Treaty review and extension Conference,
these principles will prove invaluable ~n confirming the Agency's functions
assigned under the Treaty.
My delegation notes that some of these principles of the Agency's
safeguards system have already been subjected to test in the course of the
Director General's implementation of General Assembly resolution 46/34 A on
South Africa's nuclear capabilities. His report on the verification of the
completeness of the inventory of South Africa's nuclear installations and
material has been read carefully by my delegation. We consider it to be a
milestone in the continuing efforts of African countries to establish a
nuclear-weapon-free zone on our continent. We note that,
in line with the
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.45
48
(Mr. Adekaqye, Nigeria)
d9cision of the General Conference at its last session,
the Director General
will continue to assist in that endeavour.
Cooperation between the Aqency and South Africa remains essential in
removing areas of doubt and restoring confidence in the peaceful nature of
South Africa's nuclear progr~ne. Such confidence would be further bolstered
if the stalled political and constitutional process were urgently revived so
that a non-racial democratic South Africa could resume its full participation
in the Agency's activities. We therefore urge the Government of South Af~ica
to complement the promised cooperation with the Agency by concrete action in
that regard.
The Rio Conference,
inclUding comv~itrnents under Agenda 21 as well as the
Framework Convention on Climatic Change signed on that occasion, signalled an
important role for the International Atomic Energy Agency as well as other
agencies in the United Nations system. The Agency must address, among other
issues, global concerns over the safety of nuclear installations world wide to
strengthen confidence in nuclear power.
Such a role goes beyond the
achievement of an international nuclear-safety culture to assistance in the
formulation of a convention on nuclear safety.
It encompasses the
strengthening of international nuclear liability, combining the Vienna and
Paris Conventions in the field of civil liability.
'We urge the Agency not to
relent in its endeavour to facilitate intergovernmental cooperation on these
important issues.
It is our hope,
too,
that all Member States will
participate actively in these efforts so as to ensure that all nuclear
installations world wide are indeed safe and well-regulated and pose no danger
to health and the environment.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/471PV.45
49
(Mr. Adekanye. Nigeria)
Permit me to turn to the associated issue of the disposal of nuclear and
radioactive waste. Whilst the Agency's assistance to developing countries in
strengthening radioactive waste management through the establishment of
efficient disposal facilities for waste arising from isotope applications i~
hospitals and industry is appreciated,
the transboundary movement of
high-level radioactive wastes has remained a source of major concern to my
country. Since the I~A adopted the Code of Practice on the International
Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste in 1990, many Member States,
including Ni~~ria, have stressed the need to translate the lofty objectives of
the Code into a legally binding instrument. Recent events in the world have
given added urgency to that need. Global concerns over transboundary movement
of such waste can only be addressed through transp~rency and multilateral
commitments.
In the meantime, we look forward to the outcome of the ongoing
efforts by the Agency in formulating internationally agreed radioactive waste
safety standards that will ~einforce current gains.
This year marks the thirty-fifth anniversary of the International Ato~ic
Energy Agency. During that period it has fostered international cooperation
in nucloar techniques ana applications and played a leading role in the area
of safeguards.
It remains the considered view of my country that neither of
the two roles should be,emphasized at the expense of the other. We therefore
supported the decision of the General Conference at its 1991 regular session
affirming that,
in order to fulfil the objectives of the Agency:
"an adequate balance should be achieved among the Agency's main
activities, having pt..
';ularly in mind 'safeguards and non-safeguards
activities."
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.45
SO
(Mr. Adekanye, Nigeria)
Progress has been made in implementing that decision. We are encouraged that
in the latest decision of the General Conference the enhancement of'the
Agency's technical cooperation activities through eftective programmes aimed
at improving the scientific and technological capabilities of developing
countries is once again stressed.
.
There is, however, an additional challenge on which little progress has
been made:
the need for the Aqency's decision-making organ,
the Board of
Governors,
to reflect the changed composition of the Agency's membership.
Since 1978 the issue of an increase in representation of two areas - Africa,
and the Middle East and South Asia - has engaged the attention of the Board of
Governors and the General Conference.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
·.
.Al47/PV.45
51
(Mr. Adekaoye, Nigeria)
We believe that the Agency cannot and should not stand apart from the powerful
cross-currents of reform and restructuring currently sweeping through the
entire United Nations system. Events on our continent in the nuclear field
make Africa's representation on that policy-making body a pressing necessity.
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to reaffirm its faith in the
International Atomic Energy Agency. By responding creatively to the changing
needs and priorities of Member States, especially developing countries, it has
contributed to the development of science and technology through new
technclc9ie~ end their ~pplications. It has not only strengthened the
non-proliferation regime and restored confidence in its safeguards system, but
has also continued to serve as a mechanism for intergovernmental cooperation
in nuclear science and technology.
My delegation is confident that the International Atomic Energy Agency
will continue to serve the interests of all its members. What the Agency
needs most is an unambiguous demonstration by all member States of their
commitment and political will to provide the Agency with the necessary
resources to perform,
in an efficient and cost-effective manner,
the tasks
entrusted to it under the Statute.
Mr. MONTANa (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish): Mr. Bans Blix
has presented to us a d~tailed overview of the important activities carried
out by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) over the last year. His
statement makes clear the increase in the Agency's growing tasks and
responsibilities and the major challenges it faces. As in previous years, my
delegation expresses its gratitude to Mr. Bliz for the information he has
provided, and assures him of Mexico's firm and continued support for his
leadership and for the work of the Agency. Along with the annual report of
,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
52
(Mr, Montano. Mexico)
the lAEA,
the statement by the Director General makes it possible for us to
make assessments of the Agency's work,
the range of its activities and the
difficulties - and opportunities -
that it will face from now ~n.
There can be no doubt that one of the first issues deserving our
attention is the financial situation of the Agency, which has not been spared
the difficulties besetting other members of the system of multilateral
organizations in obtaining in a timely manner and in sufficient quantity the
resources we are all obliged to contribute.
It is surprising that the growing
demands for bodies such as the IAEA to carry out new or more ambitious
activities are not accompanied by the necessary commitment to disburse the
resourceu to support these responsibilities. We appeal for an end to this
situation, which affects US all and is leading to an erosion in the ability of
the multilateral system as a whole to act.
Mexico has traditionally maintained that the IAEA is intrinsically a body
with two complementary objectives:
first, guaranteeing global security in the
use of nuclear power and materials by means of a system of safeguards system,
and, secondly, assisting development by promoting cooperation in the peaceful
uses of nuclear power. This is a dual function, which must not be changed or
thrown out of balance. As Mexico sees "it, any attempt, deliberate or
otherwise,
to alter this balance can only be to the detriment of the Agency
and the·support it receives from Member States.
In this context, we are concerned about the fact that as a result of the
financial difficulties the Agency is experiencing research contracts have been
seriously affected, as is clearly indicated in the Agency's report. These
contracts are the very core of the Agency's operations in promoting
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.45
53
(Mr. Montano, Mexico)
nuclear science and technology to solve problems in Member States annd are
perhaps ona of the most important cooperative efforts in the system.
Our concern is heightened when we consider the remarkable successes the
Agency has had in this area of its activities.
Programmes such as the
campaign to eradicate the New World Screwworm in North Africa, crop production
and environmental protection are clear examples of the Agency's constructive
potential in this field.
On the issue of safeguards, we also recognize the important work the
Agency has continued to carry out.
Its efforts in discharging its mandate
under Security Council resolutions have been laudable, but we continue to
maintain that those resolutions are, and must be, of an exceptional
character. The IAEA must keep unchanged its nature and ma~date as a technical
body, avoiding being politicized and not extrapolating axtraordinary cases as
if they were to become guidelines for the future.
The Mexican delegation would like to stress that security is a collective
responsibility. There are two fundamental
lessons to be drawn from the
activities of the IAEA under Security Council resolution 687 (1991).
The
first, which has already been the subject of a ruling by the Board of
Governors, is that a Member State failed to fulfil its safeguards
obligations. But the second, and perhaps the more important,
is that this
breach occurred because of the transfer of material and other resources.
In this context, although we are indeed grateful for the Agency's
decisions aimed at strengthening its safeguards system, we cannot fail to
point out that this is only a partial solution to a bigger problem that
requires the attention of the General Assembly. We ought to consider
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.45
54-55
(Mr. Montano, MexicQ)
tQgether the rQot causes Qf prQblems Qf pQssible nQn~cQmpliance safeguards,
and strengthen the undertakings designed t.Q aVQid them. The example Qf Iraq
should remind everYQne tQ be careful in the sale Qr transfer Qf materials or
technQlogy capable Qf being used fQr Qther than peaceful purposes.
At the same time, we should alsQ underline Qur cQnvictiQn that
strengthening the safeguards system must nQt adversely affect the sQvereign
rights Qf States. Once again, we think that the prQblem deserves brQadar,
in-depth cQnsideratiQn, ratr,er than merely fixing up prQblems Qnce they Qccur
Qr when there is suspiciQn Qf a breach.
The resQlutiQn Qn strengthening the effectiveness and imprQving the
efficiency of the safeguards system, which was apprQved by the General
CQnference Qf the IAEA on 25 September last as resQlution GC(XXXVI)/RES/586,
states clearly in its third preambulatQry paragraph that:
"Strengthening Qf the safeguards systen. shQuld not lead tQ a diminutiQn
of the resources available for technical assistance ~~d cQoperation and
••• shQuld be cQnsistent with the function Qf the Agancy tQ encQurage and
assist the develQpment and practical application Qf atQmic energy for
peaceful purpQses and with an adequate transfer Qf technolQgy".
In Qur view,
the references tQ strengthening the safeguards system contained
in draft resQlutiQn A/47/L.9/Rev.l exactly reflects this understanding.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.45
56
Mr. MALIK (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): The delegation of
the Republic of Iraq would like to make its contribution to the General
Asseubly's discussion of agenda item l~, entitled "Report of the International
Atomic Energy Agency".
We listened very attentively to the statement made yesterday afternoon by
Mr. Bans Blix,
the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA).
In order to put all the facts before the representatives here present
in the General Assembly concerning the question of Iraq's compliance with the
provisions of Security Council resolution 687 (1991) in the nuclear field,
I
should like to point out .that Iraq took a number of practical steps in
implementing the provisions stipulated in resolution 687 (1991).
I shall deal
with those provisions and measures in detail, as follows.
First, paragraph 11 of resolution 687 (1991)
invited Iraq to reaffirm
unconditionally its obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear weapons.
Iraq has implemented this paragraph through the Foreign
Minister's letter of 18 April 1991 to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and the President of the Security Council, wherein he stated:
"In accordance with paragraph 11 of resolution 687,
the Iraqi
Government reaffirms anew and unconditionally Iraq's obligations under
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of 1 July 1968."
Iraq also reaffirmed this undertaking in the Foreign Minister's letter to
the Secretary-General of the United Nations dated 7 July 1991, as well as his
letter of 28 August 1991~ which stated:
"Iraq reaffirms anew its full commitment to its international
obligations,
including the Treaty ,n the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons and the safeguards agreement with the IAEA."
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
I
A/471PV.45
57
(Mr. Malik. I~ag)
Secondly, paragraph 12 of resolution 687 (1991) requested that Iraq
should agree not to acquire or develop nuclear weapons or
nuclear-weapons-usable material or any subsystems or components or any
research, development, support or manufacturing facilities related to the
above.
Iraq implemented this provision in the following manner:
(a) The Foreign Minister addressed a letter to the Secretary-Gene~".l of
the United Nations on 18 April 1991, which stated:
"In accordance with paragraph 12 of resolution 687, Iraq
unconditionally agrees not to acquire or develop nuclear weapons or
nuclear-weapons-usable material or any subsystems or components or any
research, development, support or manufacturing facilities related to the
above-mentioned".
(b) The letter of the Foreign Minister addressed to the Director General
of the lAEA on 10 October 1991 reaffirmed anew this commitment.
It stated:
"I should like to reaffirm anew that Iraq has ceased all its nuclear
activities since the beginning of the aggression against it on the night
of 16 January 1991 and after the adoption of resolution 687 of 1991.
In
accordance with its obligations under the resolution, Iraq decided to
cease its nuclear programme".
The Foreign Minister went on to state in another paragraph of his letter:
"The Iraqi Government reaffirms anew that Iraq has never endeavoured
to acquire nuclear weapons,
that the political leadership in Iraq has
never at any time whatsoever made a decision to direct the research
carried out by the Iraqi scientists specialized in the fi~ld of atomic
energy towards the manufacturing of any form of nuclear weapons."
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al471PV.45
58-60
(Mr. Malik • ..Il:2g)
(c) The head of the Iraqi Atomic Energy Organization met with the head
of the nuclear inspection team, David Kaye, an American intelligQnca officer,
on 9 August 1991. During that meeting, he provided Mr. Kaye with a
comprehensive review of the research carried out by Iraq in the nuclear
field. He clarified that the Iraqi programme is not what some oth(!r parties
would like to portray as an attempt that may have been close to achieving its
objective, that is,
the acquisition of nuclear weapons.
In that review, he
set forth the reasons for Iraq's opting for the enrichment process while
renouncing the building of nuclear-power reactors. The head of the inspection
team,
in the course of that meeting, said that the Iraqi side was cooperative
~d that what his team had accomplished in its inspection round represented
the beginning of the end of finalizing the assessment of the size of the Iraqi
programme. He also said that the Iraqi programme in its current state does
not contain anything that could lead to the production of a nuclear weapon.
(d) The Iraqi Governor at the IAEA during the meeting of the Board of
Governors and the General Conference of the Agency on 6 May, 18 July and
20 September 1991 expounded fully the peaceful nature of the nuclear programme
in Iraq. Also,
the statement made by the permanent representative of Iraq to
the United Nations in the Security Council on 11 October 1991 and the letter
of the Chairman of the Iraqi side addressed to the head of the seventh nuclear
inspection team on 14 October 1991 all contained additional information that
reaffirm that commitment. That letter contained the following:
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
61
(Mr. Malik, Iraq)
The latter contained a reaffirmation of Iraq's renunciation of its
nuclear programme.
It also stated that research and studies into armamonts
had been made, but no political decision to manufacture nuclear weapons had
been taken. All the research and studies carried out were experimental in
nature and not aimed at the production of weapons. There is no programme for
the production of nuclear weapons or nuclear explosive devices.
Operative paragraph 12 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991) also
decided that Iraq should submit to the Secretary-General and the Director
General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) within 15 days of the
adoption of that resolution a declaration of the locations, amounts and types
of all nuclear-weapons-usable materials,
their components and manufacturing
facilities.
Iraq has implemented that provision by taking the following steps:
(a) The Iraqi Foreign Minister addressed letters to the United Nations
Secretary-General and the Director General of the IAEA on 18 April 1991,
27 Apr.il 1991, 7 July 1991, 10 July 1991, 12 August 1991 and 28 August 1991,
all of which contained information,
tables and annexes declaring the
locations, amounts and Itypes of all items and materials specified in operative
paragraph 12 of resolution 687 (1991), whether subject to Agency safeguards or
not.
In addition,
the letters contained answers to queries put by the IAEA
and lists of equipment and locations of interest to the Special Commission, as
well as clarifications with regard to the history and nature of the Iraqi
nuclear programme, which was devoted solely to peaceful purposes.
(b) Twenty-six letters were addressed by the Iraqi counterpart to the
heads of the inspection teams, containing answers to questions. put by the
heads of the teams as well as questions put by the IAEA.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
62
(Mr. Malik. Iraq)
(c) There are three records of the surrender of documents to the sixth
inspection team on 20 and 23 September 1991.
F~urthly, operative paragraph 12 of resolution 687 (1991) requested Iraq
to place all of its nuclear-weapons-usable materials under the exclusive
control, for custody and removal, of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Iraq has implemented that provision in the following manner:
(a) The Iraqi Foreign Minister addressed a letter to the United Nations
Secretary-General on 18 April 1991, in which he stated that "the Iraqi
Government agreed to place all its nuclGar-wG~pcns-uBablematerials under the
exclusive control of the International Atomic Energy Agency".
(b) The materials covered by resolution 687 (1991) were handed over to
the inspection teams. The teams carried out the following procedures:
all
nuclear materials were placed under Agency seal; parts singled out by the
teams were destroyed;
raw Russian fuel, as well as plutonium and uranium, were
moved outside Ir~q; two high-speed heavy cameras were removed from Iraq and
all hot cells were sealed,
rendering them harmless,
together with the
mechanical robot arms.
Fifthly, paragraph 12 of resolution 687 (1991) requested Iraq to accept,
in accurdance with the arrangements provided for in paragraph 13 of the
resolution, urgent on-site inspection and the destruction,
removal or
rendering harmless as appropriate of all items specified in paragraph 12.
That provision was implemented by Iraq in the following manner:
(a) The Foreign Minister addressed a letter to the United Nations
Secretary-General on 6 April 1991 which specified Iraq's acceptance of
resolution 687 (1991).
(b) The Foreign Minister addressed a letter to the United Nations
Secretary-General on 18 April 1991 in which he stated that the Iraqi
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
(Mr. Malik, Irag)
Government agreed to the arrangements set forth in paragraph 13 of
resolution 687 (1991).
(c) During the period from 15 May 1991 through mid-October 1992, 14
nuclear inspection teams visited Iraq. With the exception of the two teams
headed by David Kaye,
the American intelligence officer,
the teams carried out
their tasks in the country with the full cooperation of the Iraqi side. Among
the facilities provided to the teams by the Iraqi authorities are the
following:
logistical support; administrative and medical services;
technical
services,
that is, assistance in the destruction of equipment and machinery;
assistance in the transportation of unused fuel out of Iraq;
the placing of
all nuclear materials in one site to facilitate verification and monitoring
processes;
the provision of on-site headquarters for the inspection teams and
the handing-over of documents and plans;
the placing of equipment and
machinery at Al Twetha site-to facilitate the verification process. All the
inspection teams have commended the Iraqi side for its cooperation and its
provision of all data requested, as well as for giving serious and credible
answers to all their queries.
As for the problems that arose during the visits of the two teams headed
by David Raye,
they did arise from the conduct of the head of the two teams
and some of their members, who had intentionally created problems in order to
serve certain political objectives of the countries for which they "ork. The
second nuclear inspection team insisted on carrying out an inspection during
the Holy Feast of Sacrifice. The sixth nuclear inspection team went into the
administrative buildings of the Atomic Energy Board, stealing personnel files
of the employees and sending them to Washington and not to the Special
Commission.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library--~--------_._--
Al4i-lPV•.45
64-65
(Mr. Mali~R Irag)
Th"! French newspaper Liberation,
in its issue dated 22 October 1991,
quoting a doctor who was a member of the David Kaye team, reported that the
latter had purposely clashed with the Iraqi authorities to provide a cover for
a new American act of aggression against Iraq.
(d) All the nuclear inspection teams that visited Iraq inspected more
than 60 sites in all parts of the country. More than half of the sites
inspected were unrelated to the Iraqi nuclear programme. The inspection teams
spent 3,449 working days in Iraq, during which they carried out 2'19 inspection
visits,
including 106 visits and return visits to the sites of Iraq's nuclear
programme, 60 visits to support sites and 47 visits to sites totally unrelated
to the programme.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library----~---
~!471PV=45
66
(Mr. Malik, Iraq)
These included visits to the prison at Mousel,
the main sewage plant at
Baghdad, a civilian shelter and the fields of a privately owned field.
T11e
inspection teams have made 40 surprise visits and have taken 600 specimens for
radiation tests. They ha~e supervised the destruction of more than 2,000
items of materials and equipment and the demolition of buildings on 47,750
square metres, at AI-Ethir, Hatin, Tarmia and AI-Shourkat. The inspection
teams have sealed over 900 items of material, machinery and equipment and have
destroyed 4,000 tonnes of iron used in the EMIS programme.
Before the inspection teams carried out thei~ destruction procedur~s,
Iraq had voluntarily destroyed more than 26,000 items such as spare parts,
machines and other equipment, all of which were subsequently scrutinized by
the inspection teams themselvEs. We also destroyed large quantities of raw
materials,
including 1,500 tonnes of Margin steel.
Dr. Zefirero,
leader of the most recent nuclear inspection team, has
stated that the Iraqi nuclear programme has becr....~ "zero"; that is the whole
truth.
Mr. Blix may recall that in New York, on 12 March 1992,
the head of the
Iraqi atomic-energy organization furnished him with a document containing a
full and final report on Iraq's nuclear programme. We were told that this
report was sent to 150 experts and specialists all over the world. Mr. Blix
will,also recall that only 24 questions were put to us on that report) the
answers to those questions were either contained in the report itself or in
letters from the Iraqi side to the leaders of the inspection teams.
Sixth,
the Security Council resolutions asked Iraq to cease all nuclear
activities of any kind with the exception of the use of isotopes for medical,
agricultural and industrial purposes.
Iraq has implemented that request in
the following manner:
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.45
67
(Mr. Malik,....1!:E)
(a) Between 24 July to 10 October 1991,
the Foreign Minister addressed
five letters to the United Nations Secretary-General and the IAEA, in which he
~
t
made it clear that Iraq had ~enounced all nuclear activities and that its
previous activities no longer existed either on the practical or on the
scientific levels owing to the destruction inflicted on the Iraqi nuclear
facilities by the aggression of the coalition forces.
(b) The head of the Iraqi atomic-energy organization reaffirmed to the
leader of the fourth inspection team that, as a result of the total
destruction of its scientific facilities, Iraq had been rendered incapable of
continuing its scientific activities. The team members saw for themselves the
extent of the destruction inflicl~d on those facilities and agreed that they
have become unusable.
(c) The inspection teams that visiteC Iraq reported no activities
contravening these above obligations.
Seventh, Security Council resolutions asked Iraq to cease all movement
and destruction of materials or equipment related to nuclear weapons or to
other nuclear activities without notifying the Special Commission and
obtaining its prior approval.
Iraq has implemented this stipulation in the
following manner:
(a) On 28 August 1991,
the Foreign Minister addressed a letter to the
United Nations Secretary-General stating that Iraq had decided as of
28 June 1991 to cease the movement and destruction of all materials or
equipment related to Security Council resolution 687 (1991).
(b) The nuclear inspection teams that visited Iraq have verified this.
An agreement was reached with the third nuclear inspection team on moving some
equipment to other sites to facilitate the supervision of that equipment. The
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
68
(Mr. MaliJc, Irag)
equipment was transported under the supervision of members from the team. A
quantity of yellow salt 'tfas moved from Takrit to Al-Tw~itha at the request of
the seventh nuclear inspection team;
the mQve was verified by the eighth
inspection team. The seventh nuclear inspection team also requested that lots
of uranium dioxide be moved from site D to site C within Al-Tweitha. And Iraq
requested the movement of liquid wastes containing uranium from Kissek to the
AI-Jezira laboratory; approval was not obtained until Agency inspectors were
present for the move.
Iraq has implemented all this in a straightforward
manner and none of the inspection teams that visited Iraq has reported
anything to the contrary.
Eighth, Iraq has dealt in a positiv~ manner with the IAEA safeguards
agreement and its annexes.
Since November 1991, the competent authorities
have transmitted the required information, and subsequently this information
has b~en updated continuously.
In his statement to the Security Council on 11 March 1992 concerning
Security Council resolutions 707 (1991) and 715 (1991), Mr. Tariq Aziz, Deputy
Prime Minister of Iraq, reaffirmed that respect for Iraq's sovereignty,
security and its legitimate right to progress and science would create the
climate necessary for a just and equitable implementation of Iraq's
obligations under those two resolutions.
Ninth, in its resolution 687 (1991)
the Security Council
"Takes note that the actions to be taken by Iraq in paragraphs 8, 9,
10, 11, 12 and 13 of the present resolution represent steps towards the
goal of establishing in the Middle East a zone free from weapons of mass
destruction and all missiles for their delivery and the objective of a
global ban on chemical weapons".
(Security Council resolution 687 (1991),
para. 14)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.4S
69-70
(Mr. Malik, Irag)
Most regrettably,
the Secu~ity Council has totally ignored that paragraph
and has taken no steps towarda its implementation. To the contrary,
the
Council, in its resolution 'lIS (1991), postponed all movement towards the
establishment of such a zone pending the implementation of the future plan to
monitor Iraq's compliance with Security Council resolution 687 (1991). Thus,
the Security Council and the States that wield power over it have permitted
Israel tc increase its arsenal of weapons of mass destruction with impunity.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.45
71
(Hr. Halike Iraq)
It is also regrettable that the Security Council has not taken the
measures necessary fo~ the implementation of its resolution 487 (1981), which
demanded that Israel place its nuclear facilities under international control
after its aggression against the Iraqi Osirak reactor, which was for peaceful
purposes.
From the foregoing it becomes quite clear that Iraq has fully met its
obligations concerning the provisions of resolution 687 (1991). A number of
fair and objective statements by the heads of the inspection teams have
pointed out the cooperation by the Iraqi authorities. The reasons why some
ars raising doubts and levelling false accusations concerning Iraq's alleged
non-compliance with the provisions of the above-mentioned resolution are very
clear indeed. They have an ulterior political motive that has nothing to do
with the implemen.tation of the resolution.
The three permanent Western members of the Security Council,
foremost of
which is the United States of America, constantly, unreservedly and publicly
declare that they wish to change the political leadership of Iraq, despite the
fact that this runs blatantly counter to the Charter of the United Nations and
the content of the resolutions of the Security Council itself. The objective
of those three States is to blackmail Iraq and put it in the position of the
accused so as to use their trumped up charges in maintaining the unjust
economic embargo against the people of Iraq. They wish to take advantage of
the situation in order to be able to threaten the use of military force
against Iraq whenever they wish, realize their ii~egitimate wish to change the
regime in Iraq and destroy the Iraqi economy.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library-----------~_._ .._ - - - -
Al411PV.45
72
(Mr. Malik, Irag)
The people of Iraq have made great contributions to human civilization.
The mUl:leums of Europe are full of the achievements of this people's great
civilization. Abraham,
the father of all prophets, was one of them. Our
people invented writing and established the first legal system in the world
that determined rights and duties. Now this people is being subjected to a
blatant injustice. Huw lung- will this proud people put up with this
injustice, and how long will humanity tolerate it?
Placing these facts before the General Assembly,
the delegation of Iraq
hopes that all States will view objectively the steps taken by Iraq for the
implementation of the provisions of resolution 687 (1991) and that those
States will arrive at the right conclusion.
Iraq also hopes that all States
will work with us to lift the economic embargo against the people of Iraq
since all the causes for its imposition have cea~ed to exist,
in accordance
with the Security Council resolutions.
Mr. NEAGU (Romania) (interpretation from French): The report on the
activities of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) offers us a
convincing picture of the scope of the Agency's activities and the progress
made in tho implementation of its programmes. We should like to pay tribute
to the Director General and his secretariat for their success in taking on the
tasks that were entrusted to them in spite of a host of difficulties,
inclUding financial.
In view of the intrinsic links between the basic functions of the Agency,
we support the need to strengthen cooperation and technical assistance along
with activities for nuclear safeguards and safety,
thus guaranteeing better
and more fruitful international cooperation and enhancing the development of
peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA147/PV.45
73
(Mr. Neagu. Romania)
The Romanian Government is grateful to the Agency and its member States
for the technical assistance it has been prQvided in various forms.
International cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy is part and
parcel of our policy in the sphere of nuclear energy based on advanced
technology, such as in the case of the CANDU reactors. To this end, a major
contract was signed this year with partners in Canada and Italy for one of the
most important investment projects undertaken by our State, aiming at the
start of operations of the first part of the nuclea~ facility at Cernavoda in
1995.
Romania gives high priority to the Agency's activities for implementing
safeguards on the use of nuclear energy and improving the operation of its
safeguards system, which plays a key role in preventinq the proliferation of
nuclear weapons and contributes to the development of cooperation and
international trade with regard to nuclear material, eguipment and technology.
Our view on safeguards is clear: Romania is a Party to the
Non-Proliferation Treaty (~) and has agreed to its comprehensive safeguards
regime. By the same token, it has made comprehensive safeguards a condition
of any cooperation or provision of material in the nuclear sphere. Romania
has also sUbscribed to the guidelines of the group of nuclear exporters and
the guidelines on both nuclear transfers and the transfer of dual-purpose
nuclear material, equipment and technology.
Recent events have shown the need for sustained efforts in order to
strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime and make the NPT truly
universal.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
74-75
(Mr. Neagu, Romania)
ne role played by the Agency in the implementation of Security Council
resolution 687 (1991) confirmed the need to strengthen the safeguards system
and to qive the Agency the means to ensure that nuclear energy is used for
peaceful purposes only. We should like to commend the Director General and
his colleagues for the competent and efficient manner in which they have
carried out the complex missions entrusted to the Aqency by the Security
Council.
In a world which needs energy but is also concerned about pollution and
the deterioration of the environment, nuclear safety and radiation protection
should be qiven hiqh priority in the Aqency's programme. We attach special
attention to these activities, and we note with satisfaction th~t the expanded
proqramme on nuclear safety, adopted after the Chernobyl accident, has had
positive effects in science and technology and also in terms of the
credibility of nuclear energy amonq the public.
- - - - - - - - - - - -
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.45
76
(Mr, Neagu, Romania)
Because of the obvious importance of a convention on nuclear safety, we
have decided to take an active part in the preparation of a draft which would
fill gaps in intern~tionalrules and regulations and provide increased
protection for society and for the environment.
Like many other countries, Romania is seriously concerned over the
inadequate state of certain olde~ nuelea~ ~eaetors situated in the region. We
welcome the activities undertaken by the Agency to evaluate and improve the
safety of those reactors.
To shut them down completely would cause energy
problems in the countries that use them; but an accident could have disastrous
consequences for everyone.
Romania is resolved to see to it that the nuclear facility at Cernavoda
functions in conditions guaranteed to meet the highest international nuclear
safety standards. At the same time,
the Romanian Government will strengthen
its national body dealing with nuclear rules and regulations. We thank the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for the assistance recently given us
in this sphere, especially the recommendations of the group of experts which
visited Romania this year.
The Romanian Parliament has just ratified the Vienna Convention on civil
liability for nuclear damage and the Joint Protocol relating to the
Application of the Vienna Convention and the Paris Convention.
My delegation has become a sponsor of the draft resolution on the report
of the IAEA.
We feel that the draft reflects the current objectives and
concerns regarding the activities of the IAEA in an adequate and balanced
manner.
Since its establishment,
the IAEA has been very successful in carrying
out its noble task of ensuring promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear
energy while contributing to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons,
the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.4S
71
(Mr. Heagu, Romania)
safety ef nuclear installations,
the development of its member States through
technical assistance programmes, and international cooperation. Romania is
resolved to qive the Agency its full support so that it can discharge in an
ever improving manner its functions and responsibilities, which have already
assumed world-wide importance.
Mr. LEE (Republic of Korea): On behalf of the Government of the
Republic of Korea,
I should like to express my appreciation to Mr. Bans Blix,
Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for his
important statement yesterday afternoon introducing the 1991 annual report of
the Agency.
My delegation would also like ~o congratulate the Director General and
the secretariat of the IAEA on its thirty-fifth anniversary and commend their
hard work and significant contribution in promoting the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy and in preventing its "se for military purposes for more than
three decades.
We also welcome the admission of the Republics of Croatia, Slovenia and
Uzbekistan to membership of the IAEA at the thirty-sixth session of the
General Conference last month.
My delegation has noted with satiSfaction the Agency's accomplishments
over the last 12 months in both the promotional and the r.egulatory aspects of
its activities. One of the areas to which my Government attaches great
importance is non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the role of the IAEA in
implementing and strengthening the safeguards system.
Over the past year, significant developments have taken place in favour
of non-proliferation and the strengtheniug of safeguards.
In the field of
Don-proliferation,
the two declared nuclear-weapon States, China and France,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
78
(Mr, Lee. Republic of Korea)
have finally acceded to the non-proliferation Treaty (NPT), a welcome and
important step towards achieving a truly universal non-proliferation regime.
The newly independent States with siqnificant nuclear activities which
were part of the former Soviet Union, such as the Baltic States, Ukraine,
Kazakhstan and Belarus, are also expected to join the NPT as non-nuclear-
weapon States in the not-too-distant future,
The accession of more nuclear and non-nuclear States to the NPT augurs
well for the successful conclusion of the 1995 Review Conference to extend the
NPT.
Furthermore, Argentina and Brazil have agreed to open up their nuclear
activities to each other and to lAEA inspection. The Tlatelolco Treaty is
also likely to enter into force in the near future and render the entire area
of Latin America a nuclear-weapon-free-zone.
Regarding South Africa, last month the lAEA General Conference, after
~xamining the report of the Director General on the result of the lAEA's
thorouqh inspection and verification of all South Africa's nuclear
installations over the last year, decided to remove the item on South Africa's
nuclear capabilities from its agenda for the next session.
The Democratic People's Republic of Korea, after a delay of more than six
years, finally concluded a safeguards agreement with the lAEA, which entered
into force in May this year. Yet it would seem to be still too early for the
lAEA to make any judgement on the completeness and accuracy of the ~nitial
inventory report by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
I shall revert
to this issue later.
With respect to the strengthening of the lAEA safeguards system, my
delegation welcomes the measures taken by its Board of Governors, and
subsequently endorsed by the General Conference in Vienna,
to strengthen the
safeguards system and improve its effectiveness and cost efficiency.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
79-80
(Mr. Lee, Republic of Jorea)
My delegation also welcomes the Agency's reaffirmation of its existing
right to undertake special inspections, which could help the Agency deal with
any clandestine nuclear activities. The endorsement of the Director General's
proposal for the earlier provision of design information was also a welcome
achievement.
We also beli2ve that the proposed system of universal reporting of
exports and imports of nuc~ear material and sensitive equipment, which has yet
to be finalized through further consultations, could contribute to increasing
transparency and building confidence between both nuclear and non-Duclear
States.
We encourage the Agency to devise soon new proposals accommodating the
various concerns of the member States, making it possible for an efficient and
viable reporting regime based on the principles of non-discrimination and
universality to be put into effect at an early date.
In view of the increasing requirements of the Agency's safeguards
activities vis-a-vis States developing nuclear energy, and considering the
Agency's continued financial difficulties, it has become all the more
necessary and urgent to streamline and rationalize the Agency's safeguards
system. While fully supporting the Director General's effort to explore
desirable measures in this respect, my delegation believes that the
streamlining or cost-saving measures should be considered without sacrificing
the effectiveness of the safeguards system itself.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
81
(Mr. Lee, Republic of ~)
My Government is willing to contribute through active participation in
the process of consultation on this matter,
including participation in the
Standing Advisory Group on Safequards Implementation.
As Mr. B1ix pointed out in his statement, we are moving into a
post-cold-war world, when fewer resources might be used for military purposes,
including nuclear weapons - a development that favours non-proliferation at
the global level.
In this context, my delegation wishes once aqa~n to draw
the attention of the General Assembly to the initiatives and the commitment of
the Government of the Republic of Korea with respect to non-proliferation in
our part of the world.
In December last year,
following President Roh Tae Woo's November Peace
Initiative on a Non-Nuclear Korean Peninsula,
the South and the North of Korea
reached a historic agreement in the form of the Joint Declaration on the
Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. This inter-Korean agreement marked
a first step forward towards attaining non-proliferation of nuclear weapons on
the peninsula and promoting a new order of peace and stability in North-East
Asia. Notwithstanding this encouraging development,
the suspicions and
concerns surrounding North Korea's nuclear-development programme remain.
At the multilateral level, despite a visit by the Director General to the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and despite three lAEA inspections of
North Korea's nuclear installations and materials over the past five months,
what has transpired so far does not provide sufficient evidence to remove
suspicions about North Korea's nuclear programme.
At the bilateral level,
the South-North Joint Nuclear Control Commission,
at its ninth meeting in Panmunjom, which ended just this morning, failed to
produce agreement on the mutual inspection regime based on the principles of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
82
reciprocity and challenge inspection.
Thus~ the contention of the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea that it has neither the will nor the capability to
build nuclear weapons has yet to be verified at the multilateral and bilateral
(Mr. Lee, Republic of Korea)
levels.
During both the Board of Governors meeting last month and the IAEA
General Conference that followed, representatives of more than 20 Member
States expressed serious concern about North Korea's still-unverified nuclear
programme. They urged the authorities of the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea to continue to be cooperative with respect to IAEA inspections and to
agree to comprehensive reciprocal-inspection measures with a view to
implementing the. North-South agreement on denuclearization as soon as
possible.
In this connection, my delegation once again calls upon the
Democratic People's RepQblic of Korea to refrain from building or operating
reprocessing-related facilities,
in full compliance with the Joint Declaration
on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. The earlier remarks of the
representative of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea concerning the
causes of the stalemate in the South-North nuclear negotiations do not deserve
any comment from me or the. attention of the General Assembly as th9Y contained
not a single new, constructive or practical element.
Allow me to turn to the question of nuclear safety and the safe disposal
of radioactive waste, which comprises one of the most important aspects of the
promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Although individual States
are Ultimately responsible for the safety of their nuclear facilities,
international cooperation to ensure more effective and efficient nuclear
safety is more important now than it has ever been.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
83
(Mr. Lee, Republic ef Korea)
While appreciating the various initiatives of the lAEA secret~riat in
this regard, my delegation urges the Agency and the Member States cur~ently
engaged in the negotiations on the draft international con~ention ~n nuclear
safety to accelerate their efforts to reach consenS~5 at the earliest possible
date - hopefully by the next session of the lAEA General Conference.
We also welcome the initiative of the Agency and tt
,lrogress that has
been made thus far,
to work out a comprehensive series of internationally
agreed radioactive-waste safety standards and hope that phase I of the
programme will be completed by 1994, as envisaged. My Government is
considering making a financial contribution to facilitate the implementation
of the programme.
In this connection, as was recommended by the General
Conference, all States with nuclear-power development programmes are called
upon to make them fully available to the lAEA with a view to enhancing
operational safety.
Included here are Operational Safety Review Team
missions, Assessment of Safety Significant Events Team missions and the
incident reporting system.
We are increasingly concerned about the safety of nuclear-power reactors
in North-East Asia, where the most extensive nuclear-power programmes are
being developed and implemented. Recently my Gover~ent called upon the
countries in the region to give serious consideration to the establishment,
in
close cooperation with the IAEA, of a regional-cooperation programme in the
field of nuclear safety.
We urge the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to join the Regional
Co-operative Agreement for Research, Development and Training Related to
Nuclear Science and Technology and other regional nuclear-safety cooperation
programmes and also to mak~ use of the lAEA's services for the purpose of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library~l
{
ar
ible
s
on
d
ors
A/47/PV.45
84
(Mr. Lee, Republic of Korea)
upgrading the operational safety of indigenously developed nuclear reactors
that are already in operation or are under construction. Here I
include the
IAEA services such as those of the Operational Safety Review Team and the
Assessment of Safety Significant Events Team.
With respect to the promotional aspect of the Agency's mandate, my
delegation recognizes the recent initiatives and efforts of the IAEA and of
Member States to promote the peaceful application of nuclear science and
technology for the purposes of progress in medicine, agriculture and
industry - particularly in the areas of food irradiation and portable water
supply. My delegation calls upon the Agency and other relevant specialized
agencies,
international organizations and non-governmental organizations to
increase their joint efforts in this respect
- with particular emphasis on
technical assistance and cooperation to meet
the growing needs of the
developing world.
In a constantly changing world the IAEA and its member States should be
able to confront emerging needs and new challenges in the promotion of the
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. One such need is the necessity to control
the growing quantity of weapons-grade nuclear materials - plutonium and
enriched uranium - separated in the nuclear cycle or recovered from dismantled
,
e
1
on
in
nuclear weapons.
In his statement the Director General expressed concerns and made
suggestions about international measures to ensure the peaceful storage or use
of fissionable material recovered during the dismantling of nuclear weapons or
separated from spent fuel and about
the role that the IAEA can play in the
process. My delegation took note of these concerns and suggestions, and we
hope that the IAEA secretariat will initiate in-depth studies on this
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
8~
(Mr, Lee, RQPublic of KorQa)
important issue,vhich is qivinq rise to incroasinq international concern, and
that it vill come up vith proposals and options for consideration by the IABA
and the General Assemblf in the months ahead.
In conclusion, my deleqation vishes to reiterate the commitment of the
Government of the Republic of Korea to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and
its full support for and cooperation with the IAEA,
In this spirit, my
deleqation has become one of the sponsors of draft resolution Al47/L,9/Rev,l,
We hope that the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
86
Mr. GALAL (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic): At the outset, Sir,
allow me to express the satisfaction of the Egyptian delegation on the
important statement made by Mr. Bans Blix, Director General of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), in introducing the annual report of
the Agency. The tireless efforts by the Director General and the secretariat
of the Agency to discharge their respective responsibilities are the subject
of great satisfaction for us.
My delegation is completely satisfied with the adoption by th0 General
Conference of the Agency at its last session of the resolution concerning the
implementation of IAEA safeguards for the Middle East region, by consensus,
for the second year running.
The reiteration of this position by the members
of the General Conference supports our principled unwavering position on the
necessity of placing all nuclear installations in the Middle East under IAEA
comprehensive safeguards as an important confidence-building measure that
should make it possible to arrive at comprehensive and just solutions to the
intractable political problems of the Middle East region,
from which the
region has suffered for over four decades.
The IAEA plays an important role in promoting the system of
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. This role is recognized as a
fait accompli both at the international and the regional levels.
It is also
an essent 11 instrument of international movement
towards the elimination of
weapons of mass destruction that threaten not only the Middle East region, but
the very future of humanity the world over, and which affects most adversely
the aspirations of all peoples after security and stability.
Proceeding from this, Egypt welcomes the constructive steps taken by the
Agency recently with a view to ridding the safeguards regime and monitoring
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
87
(Mr, %a1a1, Egypt)
system of certain shortcomings and ensuring the implementation of the
obligations under the non-proliferation Treaty.
The fact that the Agency has taken such steps attests to the flexibility
of its system and its ability to keep pace with the many international changes
that have become the predominant features of our period. These measures
strengthen our confidence in the ability of the Agency to discharge it~
responsibilities.
The adherence and commitment to the non-proliferation Treaty by most
members of the international community is such that statements have been made
in the General Assembly requesting the extension of the duration of the Treaty
as an urgent need,
in order to spare the world the grave dangers posed by the
proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. This
prompts us to ask the international community to rise with the same degree of
commitment and deal with the failure of achieving the universality of the
Treaty despite the 25 years that have passed since it entered into force.
The
credibility of the measures adopted by the Agency to tighten the safeguards
regime and monitoring system would be of limited scope so long as there are
States that act at will outside the provisions of the non-proliferation Treaty.
In this context,
the context of regional disarmament, ons must stress the
importance of the accession by all the States of the Middle East~ without
exception to the non-proliferation Treaty or the IAEA safeguards system, since
t
this,
in our estimation, is the best way to dissipate the sense of danger and
insecurity that still hovers over the region, obstructs the peace efforts and
makes every attempt at moving forward fall short of expectations.
The use of nuclear power for peaceful purposes is among the legitimate
objectives of every country of the world, particularly the developing
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
88
(Mr. Galal. Egypt)
countries that could find therein the appropriate means to improve their
economies, catch up with the world's economic growth and ensure the well-being
of their peoples.
Before concluding my statement,
I should like to commend the lAEA's
activities in providing technical assistance to developing countries in the
use of nuclear power for peaceful purposes. We sincerely hope that this
positive cooperation will continue in line with the legitimate requirements of
this group of countries.
The PRESIDENT:
I shall now call on those representatives who wish
to explain their votes or positions before the votin~. May I
remind
delegations that,
in accordance with General Assembly decision ~4/401,
explanations of vote ara limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations fram their seats.
Mr. MALIK (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): The deleqation of
the Republic of Iraq would like to explain its vote on the draft resolution
contained in doc,xment A/47/L.9/Rev.l. First, Iraq is very keen not to
politicize the work of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) or af any
other United Nations agency.
Secondly,
the eighth preambular paragraph and operative paragraph 6 of
the draft resolution are an unnecessary insertion in the draft by a limited
and well-known number of Western countries with a view to singling out Iraq
and making it appear to be a violator of the international resolutions and
agreements. As I explained to you in detail in my statement a short while
ago, we have carried out our obligations vis-a-vis the provisions of Security
Council reSOlution 687 (1991)
in the nuclear field. You have undoubtedly
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibrarylV47/PV.45
89-90
(Mr. MaUk, Irag)
noticed tha~ the Director General of the Agency, Mr. Bliz, did not complain
about My failure on our part to implement these provisions. But. the aim of
some Western countries has been to exploit this topic among others, for
political ends which include the continuation of the inhuman blockade imposed
on tha IraC!i people in order to starve them.
Thirdly, we in Iraq are against the use of double standards in dealings
with countries, a viewpoint which is shared by' a large number of countries.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW41/PV.45
91
(Mr. Malik, Irag)
It would indeed be qood to have one single agreed standard that is
applied to all countries without exception. Doubtless., -representatives have
noted that the decisions by the General Conference of the IAEA this year
contain no reference to the fact that Israel possesses nuclear weapons, nor to
the nuclear threat posed by Israel. Nor has there been any reference to the
fact that Israel has not acceded to the non-proliferation Treaty as requested
by Security Council resolution 487 (1981).
Are not these double standards?
Is this not discrimination?
For those reasons,
the delegation of Iraq finds it extremely difficul.t to
accept the preambular paragraph 8 and the operative paragraph 6 of the draft
resolution.
On this occasion I should like to express my personal appreciation to
Ambassador Paul O'Sullivan of Australia for his spirit of cooperation in
discussing this draft resolution.
Mr. ODEH (Jordan) (interpretation from Arabic): Before the vote on
draft resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.l, on the report of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA), my delegation wishes to express its satisfaction at the
responsible international change reflected in this draft resolution in order
to protect mankind's life and health and the safety of its environment.
I am in duty bound to express my thanks to the Agency for its noble and
important role, which it performs in the interests of all mankind. However,
my delegation regrets that the draft resolution is not balanced because in its
preambular part it refers to one country of the Middle East region and fails
to refer to another, Israel, which possesses a number of nuclear facilities
and has not acceded to the non-proliferation Treaty to this day.
Israel still
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.45
92
(Mr. Odeh, Jordan)
refuses to place its nuclear facilities under the Agency's safeguards, which
runs counter to the international reorientation I have r~ferred to.
I should like to draw attention to paragraph 14 ef Security Council
resolution 687 (1991), which stipulates that measures to be taken in
accordance with that resolution represent, inter alia, steps towards the goal
of ridding the Middle East of weapons of mass destruction.
Therefore the least we expect of the draft resolution now before us,
which refers to a certain country in our region, is that it should refer also
to the other country. Reason might accept discrimination between one country
and another that possess nuclear weapons according to their political regimes
and their ability to control their nuclear weapons. But reason does not
accept discrimination between countries possessing nuclear facilities in tf!rms
of the danger emanating from refusal to place those facilities under the
safeguards and control of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Leakage of
nuclear radiation in a givan country has nothing to do with its political
regime. The danger to mankind and its environment that might result from
radiation has nothing to do with the source of that danger.
Thus my delegation cannot feel completely satisfied with a draft
resolution that ignores the Iraeli nuclear facilities - one of which is but
20 miles distant from population centres in Jordan - particularly when the
Chernobyl disaster is still vivid in our minds.
For those reasons my delegation is obliged to abstain in the vote on the
draft resolution now under consideration, even though we appreciate the
efforts of the International Atomic Energy Agency and its good faith with
regard to the protection of mankind, its health and its environment.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.45
93
Mr. AL-HADDAP (Yemen) (interpretation from Arabic):
I wish to
express deepest thanks to the Director General of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) for the extremely useful statement w~ heard yesterday
here in the Assembly.
My delegation has studied the Agency's annual report for 1991. My
country deeply appreciates the efforts of Mr. Hans Blix and his colleagues.
We agree that it is necessary to increase the peaceful uses of nuclear energy
in all areas of development.
My delegation was hoping to be able to support the draft resolution in
document A/47/L.9/Rev.1. However, it feels that all resolutions must be
balanced and non-discriminatory. That is why we are obliged to abstain in the
vote on that draft resolution.
Israel's nuclear installations are not
mentioned in it, and that is true of other subjects treated in the draft
resolution.
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to announce that the following
countries have become sponsors of draft resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.1: Estonia,
Lithuania, Samoa and Togo.
The Assembly wil now take a decision on draft resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.1.
Separate votes have been requested on the eighth preambular paragraph and
the sixth paragraph of that draft resolution.
Is there any objection to that
request?
It appears not.
I shall therefore put those paragraphs to the vote
first.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the eighth preambular paragraph
of draft reSOlution A/47/L.9/Rev.I. A recorded vote has been requested.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.45
94-95
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania o Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia,
Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Thailand, Togo, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Iraq
Abstaining:
Algeria, Cameroon, Cuba, Ghana, Malaysia, Mexico, Myamllar,
Sudan, Ugand~, Yemen
Preambular paragraph 8 was adopted by 123 votes to 1. with IQ
abstentions. *
*
Subsequently the delegation of Nicaragua advised the Secretariat
that it had intended to vote in favour.
- - - - - - - - - -
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
96
The PRESIDENT:
I now put to the vote operative paragraph 6 of draft
resolution Al47/L.9/Rev.l. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia,
Comoros, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Oatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Thailand, Togo, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Iraq
Abstaining: Algeria. Cameroon, Cuba, Ghana, Malaysia, Mexico, Myanmar,
Sudan, Uganda, Yemen
Operative paragraph 6 was retained by 124 votes to 1, with
10 abstentions ••
•
Subsequently the delegations of Gambia and Nicaragua advised the
Secretariat that they had intended to vote in favour.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
97
The PRESIDENT:
I now put to the vote draft resolution
A/47/L.9/Rev.l as a whole. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Dar':ssalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Uonduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic p Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho,-Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe
Against:
None
Abstaining: Cuba, Iraq, Jordan, Sudan, Yemen
Draft resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.l was adopted by 146 votes to none, with
5 abstentions (resolution 47/8).*
advised the Secretariat that they had intended to vote in favour.
Subsequently the delegations of Benin, Nicaragua and Paraguay
*
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.45
98
The PRESIDENT:
I shall now call On thoso representatives who wish
to explain their votes. May I
remind delegations that,
in accordance with
General Assembly decision 34/401, explanations of vote are limited to 10
minutes and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. SALAS (Mexico)(interpretation from Spanish): The delegation of
Mexico voted in favour of draft resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.l because we consider
that it is of the utmost importance to support the work of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and reaffirm our confidence in the role the IAEA
plays in promoting the peaceful use of atomic energy. As we all know,
the
General Assembly for many years sought to express the international
community's support for the IAEA's work without singling out any of its
activities. While we support the intent of paragraphs 4 and 5, we feel that
their inclusion for the first time in the resolution is not necessary,
particularly in the light of the last preambular paragraph, which refers to
specific decisions of the Agency. We are concerned about the trend to cite
isolated decisions of the General Conference and make special reference to
them in General Assembly resolutions.
Similarly, our abstention in the separate votes on the eighth preambular
paragraph and operative paragraph 6 reflect our reservations about the
practice of singling out certain practices of the Agency, however important
they may be. This type of selectivity undermines the delicate balance that
should exist in the work of the Agency.
It does so to the detriment of the
importance attached to other activities, such as those concerning the IAEA's
technical cooperation.
The delegation of Mexico regrets the fact that at a time when a growing
number of resolutions are being adopted by consensus in the Assembly, on this
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47/PV.45
99-100
(Mr. Salas, Mexico)
subject we are moving backwards. This is of no benofit to the General
Assembly.or the IAEA. We hope that this situation will not recur in the
future.
Mr. HUJICA CANTELAR (Cuba)(interpretation from Spanish): The
delegation of Cuba wishes to explain its position on draft resolution
A/47/L.9/Rev.l concerning the report of the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA).
In general,
the resolution we have just adopted contains a set of ideas
concerning the work of the IAEA which our country fully endorses, because of
the importance Cuba attaches to the work of the Agency, with which we have had
fruitful cooperation in the framework of current programmes for the use of
nuclear energy and technology for peaceful purposes for the country's
economic, social and scientific development. Accordingly, my delegation
welcomes the resolution's positive tone concerning the strengthening of the
lAEA's technical cooperation, which is so important for developing countries.
However,
the delegation of Cuba cannot support some of the references
which appear in the resolution,
references which led it to abstain in the vote
on those paragraphs.
In particular, my delegation wishes to state its
reservations concerning the endorsement in operative paragraph 6 of Security
Council resolution 687 (1991). Cuba had an opportunity to state its reasons
for voting against that resolution as a non-permanent member of the Council
when the resolution was adopted;
those reasons are still valid, and therefore
we could not vote for that paragraph.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl41/PV.45
101
(Mr. Mujica Cantelar. Cuba)
For these reasons,
in my Clelegat!)n's opinion,
the resolution lacks the
necessary balance. As a result, despite the fact that we endorse many of the
elements it contains, we considered it necessary to abstain.
Mr. HASSAN (Sudan): My delegation has just abstained in the vote on
draft resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.l for the following reasons.
Firstly,
though this draft resolution contains some positive and
constructive paragrr}.'t-:;s, bo.th in the preambular and operati'T~ parts, my
dGlegation still finds it unbalanced, because there is no mention at all of
Israel's nuclear capabilities or its non-adherence to the non-proliferation
Treaty and the safeguards systems. A draft resolution of such paramount
importance should be comprehensive, non-discriminatory, balanced, and
impartial. Unfortunately, this is not the case with draft resolution
A.47/L.9/Rev.l.,
Secondly,
the draft resolution refers in two paragraphs to Iraq's
non-compliance ~ith its safeguards and non-prolife~ation obligations. To our
understanding and knowledge, Iraq has accepted Security Council resolution
687 (1991) and is in compliance with its implementation.
A draft resolution on the report of the International Atomic Energy
Agency should not be politicized and should be very objective. Unfortunately,
this is not the case with draft resolution ~J47/L.9/Rev.1. For these reasons,
my delegation abstained.
Mr. BAAH (Ghana): My delegation views with concern the report of
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and draft resolution
A/47/L.9/Rev.l, which contains ideas that Ghana endorses.
The usefulness of the development of nuclear-energy technology is of
great impo1:tM, ~e to Ghana. However,
t~.i! delegation of Ghana could not support
the eighth preambular paragraph or operative paragraph 6, on which it
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.45
102
(Mr. Baah. Ghana)
abstained because it feels that the draft resolution is unbalanced and leaves
something to be desired.
The PRESIDENT:
I shall now call on those representatives who wish
to speak in exercise of the right of reply.
May I
remind members that,
in accordance with General Assembly decision
34/401, statements i~ exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes
for the first intervention and to five min~tes for the second and should ba
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. KIM (Democratic People's Republic of Korea): With reference to
the south Korean statement,
I wish to make our position clear.
The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula and the nuclear suspicion that
remains unresolved stem from the deployment of United States nuclear weapons
in south Korea. Therefore,
fundamental
to resolving the nuclear issue on the
Korean peninsula are the withdrawal of United States nuclear weapons from
south Korea,
the inspection of the nuclear bases in south Korea, and the
removal of the sorious apprehensions of our nation, which has been under
nuclear threat during the last 30 years.
To this end, it is urgent to adopt an agreement and regulations on
inspection under the joint declaration of the denuclearization of the Korean
peninsula and to inspect United States nuclear weapons and bases in south
Korea. The north-south Joint Nuclear Control Committee, although it has met
several times, has not yet adopted regulations on inspection to verify the
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, nor has it carried out an inspection
of the United States nuclear weapons and bases in south Korea. This is due to
the fact that the south Korean authorities are not in a position to take
action to include the nuclear bases and weapons in the regu1ations on
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.45
103
(Mr. Kim, ~emocratic People's
Republic of Korea)
inspection or to exercise its sovereign right regarding the question of the
United States nuclear woapons and bases.
In the meeting with the south side, our side asked whether er not the
United States nuclear weapons would be withdrawn from south Korea, but they
said that we should refer this matter to Pentagon officials in Washington.
It
is most deplorable that the south Korean authorities do not have a say in the
presence of nuclear weapons from l)~~r countries that are now on their own
soil" nor can they verify the withdrawal of these nuclear weapons.
At the twenty-fourth South Korea-United States annual security meeting
recently held in Washington,
the United States and south Korean authorities
agreed in principle to resume next year the "Team Splrit" joint military
exercises" which are well known as nuclear exercises.
Such provocative
nuclear manoeuvres cannot hut be considered as an intentional act aimed at
hampering the process of peace and reconciliation on the Korean peninsula and
at blocking the implementation of the Declaration of the Denuclearization of
the Korean Peninsula.
Judging from the fact that the "Team Spirit" military
e~ercises were suspended before the inspection of our area by the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), it is all the more unjustifiable to
resume them at & time when nuclear inspection is under way.
If the south Korean authorities are really concerned about the future of
the Korean peninsula and interested in realizing its denuclearization,
they
should take an independent position, stand free from outside forces, and
respond as soon as possible by adopting the regulations on inspection, so that
the overall inspection of United States nuclear weapons and bases can be done
as agreed upon by the north and the south.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.. 45
104
(Mr. Kim, Democratic People's
Republic of Korea)
As far as we are concerned, we have declared time and again that we have
no nuclear weapons nor any intention or capacity to make them.. We have no
need to produce them.
It is our firm intention, in line with our invariable
anti-nuclear peace policy,
to use nuclear energy only for peaceful purposes
and not to develop nuclear weapons. The truth of the peaceful nuclear policy
of our Government and the will to denuclearization have already been proved by
several ad hoc inspections by the IAEA. After the third ad hoc inspection,
the inspection team, at its request, was given opportunities to inspect two
places not included in the initial declaration. We do what we say, and we
never speak empty words.
We will remain loyal to our obligations to the Non-Proliferation Treaty
and, with patience and sincerity, make every possible effort to implement the
Joint Declaration of the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.
Mr. LEE (Repriblic of Korea):
I
thank you, Mr. President, for
allowing me to speak at this late hour in exercise of the right of reply.
My delegation listened carefully to the usual remarks made by the
preceding speaker in the expectation of finding some new, constructive or
practicable elements which deserved my comment. Having failed to do so,
I see
no need to make further comments on his remarks, even for the sake of the
record.
Th? PRESIDENT: May I
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 141
It was so decided.
The meetinq rose at 6.45 p.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library