UNITED'
NATIONS
General Assembly
A
PROVISIONAL
A/471PV.49
11 November 1992
ENGLISH
w
a_
*821
§'§• •
Forty-seventh session
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
PROVISIONAL VEaBATIM RECORD OF THE 49th MEETING
Held at Headquarters, New York,
on Wednesday, 28 October 1992, at 10.00 a.m.
President:
later:
Mr. GANEV
Mr. HAYES
(Vice-President)
(Bulgaria)
(Ireland)
Coordination of the activities uf the United Nations and the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe: draft resolution
[140]
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages. The final text will
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembly.
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They should
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within
one week,
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference
Serv~ces, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of
the record.
92-61640
9159V (E)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/J!7/PV.49
2
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 140
COORD!NATION OF TEE ACTIVITIES OF TEE UNITED NATIONS A.~ THE CONFERENCE ON
SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE: DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/47/L.l1)
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of Czechoslovakia,
to introduce draft resolution A/47/L.ll.
Mr. SUCHANEK (Czechoslovakia): The Czech and Slovak Federal
Republic, current Chairman-in-Office of the Council of the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), but acting here in its national
capacity, proposed that agenda item 140, "Coordination of the activities
of the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe", be included in the General Assembly's agenda at this session.
Let me take this opportunity to thank all those who supported the
proposal,
those who are ready to contribute to today's discussion and
those who sponsored the draft resolution.
Let me also express my satisfaction at having the opportunity to
address the United Nations on a CSC~-re1ated matter.
If X am not
mistaken,
this is the first time that we are dealing directly here with
this Euro-At1antic body, now expanded to the Asian region and today
encompassing 52 participating States.
Today I am speaking here as the representative of the Czech and
Slovak Federal Republic. As members already know,
the process of the
dissolution of my country has started and should soon lead to new
constitutional arrangements and the creation of two independent States, as
of 1 January 1993. Let me express the hope that both new States, which
will respect and assume all the obligations and commitments of the Czech
and Slovak Federal Republic, will be admitted as Members of the United
Nations as soon as possible.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
3
(Mr. SuchQnek, Czechoslovakia)
The collaps9 of communist regimes in our part of the world and the end of
the cold-war, hipolar confrontation have, unfortunately, also brought about
new dimensions of insecurity. The ongoing period of transition is accompanied
by n~~erous threats to stability and regional security, to social peace,
to
human rights and funda~ental freedoms,
to democratic institutions and to the
rule of law.
New problems and crise21 and the subsequent reactions of various
international bodies as instruments of crisis management have brought about a
wave of criticism and scepticism as to their capabilities to cope with these
problems individually or collectively.
As the representative of Czechoslovakia - a Member of the United Nations
and a participating State of the CSCE -
I must say that both institutions,
the
United Nations and the CSCE, have actively met these new challenges and are
trying in the most responsible manner -
though sometimes not without lagging
behind developments -
to find adequate responses for today and for the
future.
The scope, complexity and newness of the problems in this rather
fluid state of internal development in both institutions might be our only
excuse when facing criticism in this respect.
In our CSCE region, both the United Nations and the CSCE, among others,
are dealing with the same problems with increased intensity, usually from
their own perspectives but in tandem. Without appropriate cooperation and
coordination,
these activities might bring counter-productive results and be
seen or interpreted - or even misused -
to create some sort of unhealthy
competition.
In the worst case they might compromise all the efforts of the
international community and,
to a certain degree, even the organizations
themselves.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
4-5
(Mr, Suchan9k, Czechoslovakia)
Therefore, we are of the op,inion that the new tasks of the international
comm~nity, the United Nations and the CSCE, require clearer rel~tions and
closer contacts, as well as enhanced cooperation, coordination and concerted
action between the United Nations system and the CSCE~
The basic approach of the United Nations to these new challenge~ is
reflected most appropriately in the report of t,he Secretary-General uAn Agenda
for Peace", The Czech and Slovak Federal Republic shares the view that the
state of world and European affairs makes it urgent to revitalize the
possibilities already envisaged in the United Nations Charter. and calls for
regional arrangements and organizations to be given a more active and
effective role in dealing with reqional problems by making use of their
potenti~l for taking on additional responsibilities 1?S a matter of
decentralization and cooperation with the United Nations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/4'J1?V.49
6
(Mr. Suchanek. C2echoslov~kig)
The basic approach of the CSCE is reflected in the Helsinki 1992 Summit
~..N:zwnel!1t "TheCha119nges of Change" (A/47/361.. annex). The question of
interaction between different international bodies, and moat of all between
the United Nations and the CSC8, acquired a new dimension for the CSCE
countries after the Helsinki Summit. At that Summit Heads of State or
Government declarea their anderstanding that the CSCE is a regional
arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter -
the
rights and responsibilities of the United Naticns Security Council remaining
unaffected in their entirety - and as such provides an important link between
European and global security.
The CSCE participating States are,
inter alia, of the opinion that it
will be essential for the success of efforts to foster democratic changes
within the CSCE framework to increase cooperation with other European and
transatlantic organizations and institutions. We also believe that a lasting
and peaceful order will be built on mutually reinforcing institutions, each
with its own area of action and responsibility.
The Helsinki Suwmit also opened the way to completely new spheres of CSCE
activity in the field of conflict prev.ention and conflict management,
including CSCE peace-keeping, and initiatives further to enhance mechanisms
for the peaceful settlement of disputes,
thus opening up new areas of
cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE. The new CSCE Forum for
Security Cooperation represents a further development in this sense.
The CSCE's vast experience in promoting and monitoring the implementation
of international standards and CSCE commitments, especially in the field of
human rights and democratic values and institutions, has been complemented by
new elements of early warning and preventive diplomacy,
including setting up
the post of the CSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities 3 by which
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
7
(Lit. SuchQnek, Cz@chosloY3ida)
the CSCE hopes further to strongthen its capabili.ties to promote and to
monito~ the implementation of the already well-established CSCE standards. We
ccnsidcr that these aspects provide fundamental criteria for assessing the
activities of Governments in tllcir relations towards other countries or
towardB their own citizens.
The viability of n~w, emerging CSCE conflict-prevention and
conflict-manaqement capabilities should and will be proven by time and in
practice. The more and more complex and universal character of this flexible
formation, working on the basis of consensus, destines it to play an important
role matters arising in the vast CSCE area reaching beyond Europe itself. To
open itself up to these new vistas of cooperation with the United Nations,
the
CSCB will also have to address institutional and organizational aspects of its
development so as to achieve, step by step, greater compatibility with the
United Nations.
In his statement at the current session of the ijeneral Assembly,
the
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic,
Mr. Moravcik, stressed that this year's discussion on the issue of cooperation
between the United Nations and the CSCE could develop on two levels:
first,
the conceptual level,
to clarify the fundamental political meaning of
coordination, both in the immediate future and in the medium and long term;
and, secondly,
the practical, concrete level, where the activities of the tuo
institutions have already begun to overlap, making it possible to draw
conclusions.
This discussion has already started in both the United Nations and the
CSCE~ but, because it is at the initial stage of the first exchanges of ideas,
we cannot be more specific on concrete forms of cooperation and coordination,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library------------------------
Al47JPV.49
8
(Mr. Suchanek, Czechoslovakia)
or on any formal patterns of relatiollships between the .United Nations and the
CSCE. Only through inbensive discussions will it be possible to produce more
specific ideas and proposa)~ for a division of labour between these two
bodies, for mechanisms and techniques of consultation, harmonization of
approaches, complementarity,
joint or supportive undertakings,
the exchange of
information, and so on. These ideas might then be reflected in a report by
the Secretary-General to the General Assembly at its next session, as
indicated in draft resolution A/47/L.ll.
The draft resolution, entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe", was worked out in
intensive cooperation with the delegations of member States of the CSCE and
with many otber States.
It was submitted to the General Assembly by the
following 35 Member States: Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Belgium, BUlgaria, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malt.a,
Netherlands r Norway, Poland, Portugal, ~epublic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine~ United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and United States of America. All these initial sponsors
are CSCE members, which should by no means be seen as an effort to egclude
States from other geographical regions or arrangements. The following
additional States have indicated their interest and have become sponsors:
Canada, Croatia, Japan, Kazakhstan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania and Slovenia.
The sponsors of the draft resolution bore in mind that the discussion of
the agenda item this year represents only the very beginning of its
consideration.
It was drafted,
therefore,
in general and fully acceptable
terms,
trying to express the political importance of the item for regional
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.49
9-1.0
(Mr. SUchanek« Czechoslovakia)
seeu~ity and the need for enhanced cooperation and coordination between the
United Nations and the CSCE.
The delegation of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, speaking on
behalf of the sponsors, commends the draft resolution for adopticn and
expresses the hope that in view of its non-controversial character it will be
adopted by consensus.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
11
Mr. BREITENSTEIN (Finland):
For almost two decades the Conference
on Security and Cooperation {C§CE) helped ease the pain of the division of
Europe into two antagonisti~ blocs. At the same time,
the process begun in
Helsinki helped plant and nurture the seeds that in time sprouted through the
cracks to break apart the concrete walls of Europe's division.
From the very beginning Finland lent the process not only the name of its
capital but its full political support. A neutral State 'on the cutting edge
of confrontation, Finland had a vital interest in moderating East-West
tensions in any way it could.
In the new Europe, East-West tensions have
given way to hope and cooperation, but also to despair and destruction.
Finland sees and seeks a vital role for the CSCE in managing both the promises
and problems of post-cold war change in our part of the world.
This summer the highest political leaders of the participating States
returned to the birthplace of the Helsinki process to take stock and to look
ahead. Reaffirming the commitments to the Charter of the United Nations,
the
leaders declared their understanding that the CSCE is a regional arrangement
in the sense of Chapter VII! of the Charter.
They went on to state that as
such the CSCE provides an important link between European and global security,
and pledged that the CSCE will work closely with the United Nations,
especially in preventing and settling conflicts.
When the capacity of the United Nations to keep the peace and prevent
conflicts has been stretched to the limit, it is natural that the capacities
of others are looked into. We applaud the Secretary-General's repeated calls
for closer cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and
regional organizations.
The CSCE decision with respect to Chapter VIII of the
Charter is fully in line with the concept of mutually supportive roles for the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
12
(Mr. Breitenstein, Finland)
United Nations and regional organizations, as set out in his report "Agenda
for Peace". Keeping in mind the unique CSCE experience of conceptualizing,
negotiating and implementing confidence-building measures, we strongly support
the Secretary-General's suggestion of periodic consultations between the
United Nations and regional arrangements on such measures. We look forward to
his early follow-up to this.
In order to meet the new post-cold-war challenges which Europe faces,
the
Helsinki Swm~it of the CSCE put in place a comprehensive programme of conflict
prevention and crisis management,
including early warning, peace-keeping and
the peaceful settlement of disputes. The continuing carnage in some corners
of the extended CSCE area has made it abundantly clear that the CSCE needed
instruments that can turn it from a promoter of change into a manager of
conflict and change.
My Government welcomes the strengthening of the executive capability of
~he CSCE; both in terms of the Council and of the Committee of Senior
Officials. Likewise,
the establishment of the post of the CSCE High
Commissioner on National Minorities was not only necessary but long overdue.
We count on his active engagement in providing early warning and taking early
action in regard to tensions involving national minority issues which might
develop into a conflict within the CSCE area.
The Helsinki Summit decided that peace-keeping constitutes an important
element of CSCE ~onflict prevention and management.
CSCE peace-keeping does
not entail enforcement action, and it requires the consent of the parties
directly concerned. According to the Charter,
the peaceful settlement of
disputes is one of the main functions of regional arrangements. Here again,
new mechanisms within the CSCE could serve as an inspiration beyond the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/4'1/PV.49
13
(~Breitenstein, Finland)
region. Finland,
like the other Nordic countries, is of the view that
regional arrangements should concentrate on further developing such methods of
peaceful settlement as would ensure mandatory involvement by a third. party.
The results of the CSCE meeting of, experts on the peaceful settlement of
disputes, held in Geneva earlier this month, were also a step forward.
With regard to the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia,
the CSCE is
assisting the peace efforts o'f the United Nations and those of the European
Community in various ways.
In particular,
the CSCE seeks to prevent the
conflicts in Croatia, as well as in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
from spreading to
other parts of the former Yugoslavia. Accordingly, CSCE missions will be
monitoring the situation in the relevant areas.
Under the auspices of the Minsk Conference,
the CSCE has shouldered a
major role in attempts to. settle the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan
over Nagorny-Karabakh.
It is also involved in Moldova and Georgia.
In all of
these cases, close cooperation with the United Nations continues to be a
necessity.
We can only regret that the optimism which pervaded Europe only a short
while ago has been tempered by the fury of open conflict and aggression. War,
mindless destruction and wholesale violation of human rights have returned to
Europe under the guise of "ethnic cleansing".
The challenges which these conflicts pose may sometimes seem enormous;
indeed,
they sometimes are enormous. But they must not be seen as impossible
to overcome. Coordinated efforts by the United Nations and the CSCE as well
as ether European and transatlantic institutions are now required.
Inactivity
by the international community would be unforgivable.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
14-15
(Mr. Breitenstein, Fin~)
My delegation welcomes the initiative of Czechoslovakia, current
Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE Council, in putting the question of cooperation
between the United Nations and the CSCE on the agenda for this session. We
are among the sponsors of draft Tesolution A/47/L.ll,
just introduced by the
representative of the Czech and ~lGvak Federal Republic. We look forward to
its adoption by consensus.
The draft resolution stresses the n~ed for enhan~ed cooperation and
cooruination between the CSCE and the United Nations and requests the
•
Secretary-General to report thereon next autumn. We look forward to this
report from the Secretary-General.
In the meantime, it would in our view be useful
to discuss cooperation
between the CSCE and the United Nations in an appropriate United Nations
forum. The idea has already been put forward in the Charter Committee tha~
representatives of established regional organizations be invited to present
their views on various aspects of cooperation between the United Nations and
their respective organizations. We are in favour of this and will take it up
again when the Charter Committee reconvenes in February.
Let me close by quoting the Secretary-General on the subject at hand in
his report "An Agenda for Peace":
"regional action as a matter of decentralization, delegation and
cooperation with United Nations efforts could not only lighten the burden
of the [Security] Council but also contribute to a deeper sense of
participation, consensus and democratization in international affairs".
(A/47/277, para. 64)
We could not agree more.
The CSCE is beginning to shoulder its share of the
burden.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.49
16
~ (United States of America): On behalf of the
United States,
I am pleased to speak in support of the draft resolution
introduced by the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic regarding cooperation
between the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE).
At the Helsinki CSCE follow-up meeting which ended in July,
the CSCE
issued a document entitled "The Challenges of Change". The document reflects
the recognition by the CSCE participating States of the fact that, while our
world has changed, our principles have not. We look to the Helsinki document
as a programme to enhance our capabilities for concerted action and to
intensify our cooperation for democracy, prosperity and equal rights of
security.
The CSCE mandate for security and cooperati~n is broad. The United
States has always supported the CSCE as a vehicle for advancing human rights
and for promoting the growth of democratic institutions. Keeping and
restoring peace begins with exactly these endeavours. We now look to the CSCE
as well to facilitate increased dialogue and cooperation among its members and
to prevent and resolve conflicts.
In the Helsinki document,
the CSCE participating States reaffirmed their
commitment to the Charter of the United Nations and declared that the CSCE is
a regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United Nations
Charter. The CSCE mechanisms created in Helsinki are already being employed
in places such as the former Yugoslavia and Nagorny-Karabakh. Cooperation and
coordination in these locations are necessary elements if the CSCE and the
United Nations are to be effective in achieving their common goals.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.. 49
17
(Mrs. Rockefeller,
United Stat~)
We welcome the initiative of Czechoslovakia, as CSCE Chairman-in-Office,
in calling for enhanced cooperation and coordination between the CSCE and the
United Nations. We believe that the request for a report from the
Secretary-General on United Nations-CSCE cooperation and the inclusion on the
agenda of the forty-eighth session of the Assembly of an item related to such
cooperation will advance the commitm~nts made by the CSCE participating States
in Helsinki.
Mr. RICHARDSON (United Kingdom):
I am delighted to have the honour
to speak OIl behalf of the European Community and its member States on the
subject of cooperation between the United Nations and the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). We welcome the initiative taken by
the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic as current Cbairman-in-Office of the
CSCE,
in proposing this new item for the agenda of the General Assembly.
This initiative is a timely one. At the Helsinki summit earlier this
year, Heads of Government nf the participating States of the CSCE declared
their understanding that the CSCE is a regional arrangement under Chapter VIII
of the United Nations Charter. That step, which reflects the developing role
and responsibilities of the CSCE, was supported by the European Community and
its member States.
It is a step which is very much in line with the ideas on
the mutually supportive roles of the United Nations and regional organizations
set out by the Secretary-General in "An Agenda for Peace".
The CSCE was born during the period of the cold war. Many of the
challenges it faces now, often springing from rival nationalisms and ethnic
conflict, are very different from those that prevailed then. At Helsinki,
the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
18
(Mr. Richards~,
United Kingdom)
British Prime Minister, speaking as President of the Council of Ministers of
the European Communities, warned against the CSCE being a bystander, a
hand-wringing onlooker to Europe's quarrels,
It must develop the means and
the will to act before a crisis escalates into armed conflict.
The Helsinki summit approved a number of measures designed to make the
CSCE more effective:
the establishment of the post of CSCE High Commissioner
for National Minorities, for example.
to provide early warning of ethnic
conflict and to promote the early settlement of such conflicts. The CSCE can
now undertake peace-keeping, a~ area in which it clearly has much to profit
from the experience of the United Nations. Participating States of the CSCE
regularly assess and monitor each other's implementation of CSCE commitments,
including in the vital areas of democracy and human rights.
Initiatives are
now under discussion within the CSCF. to establish more effective mechanisms
for the peaceful settlement of disputes in the areas of s4bitration and
conciliation.
In the area of preventive diplomacy in particular,
the United Nations and
the CSCE can support and reinforce each other.
In a number of crisis areas -
the former Yugoslavia,
the conflict in and around Nagorny-Karabakh# Moldova,
and Georgia -
the CSCE is playing a part alongside the United Nations.
IXl the
case of the conflict in and around Nagorny-Karabakh the CSCE has taken the
lead in the search for a settlement.
In the former Yugoslavia it has
supported and complemented the efforts of both the United Nations and the
European Community.
It has dispatched long-term missions to the territories
of Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina, and to the former Yugoslav republic of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
19
(Mr. Richardson,
United Kingdom)
Macedonia, and it has shared in the investigation of human rights abuses and
in assisting neighbouring States in the rigorous enforcement of United Nations
sanctions through the deployment of sanctions-assistance missions. The troika
of the CSCE is represented on the Steering Committee of the International
Conference on the former Yugoslavia.
There can be no doubting the scale of the challenges facing the
peacemakers in these and other newly arising conflicts. Whether they come
from the United Nations or from the CSCE, or indeed from the European
Community.
they face an uphill task. Mutually supporting endeavours are
beginning to emerge. The precise balance may differ from problem to problem.
Clearly,
there is an ever present need to guard against duplication, and
coordination is vital, as those who proposed this agenda item rightly
perceived. But there is more than enough work to go round.
We warmly welcome the debate which has been initiated here. We
anticipate that it will be pursued further in future sessions, and we should
like to see the Secretary-General provide a report on cooperation and
coordination between the two organizations in time for the next session of the
General Assembly.
As I have already indicated,
there is likely to be increasing room for
fruitful cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE in underpinning
stability within the CSCE area.
Such stability is vital to world peace, and
it is right that the General Assembly should focus on and encourage
cooperation between the two organizations.
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
20
Mr. OSVALD (Sweden): Let me at the outset take this opportunity to
congratulate Brazil, Djibouti, New Zealand, Pakistan and Spain on their
election to seats on the Security Council for the period 1993 to 1994.
I am
convinced that all five countries will make a valuable contribution to the
work of the Security Council for the benefit of all the Members of the United
Nations. My Government has also asked me to convey especially to New Zealand
and Spain our best wishes for every success in their important task.
The extension and intensification of cooperation between the United
Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) is an
issue of political importance and some urgency.
It is also an issue with a
number of unresolved practical implications which need to be addressed.
The complex problems we are now facing in some parts of Europe in the
wake of the collapse of communism require us to develop in a very concrete way
the elements of what has been called a network for European security. This is
basically what the CSCE is about today. Old structures and interrelationships
need to be adjusted and complemented by fresh initiatives in order to enable
us to come to grips with new problems.
In this context,
increased cooperation and coordination between the
United Nations and the CSCE is highly desirable.
The initiative of the Czech
and Slovak Federal Republic to propose a special item on the agenda of the
General Assembly to discuss cooperation between the United Nations and the
CSCE is therefore very timely.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW471PV.49
21
(Mr. Osvald, Sweden)
In his recent report "An Agenda for Peace" the Secretary-General rightly
highlighted the potential for increased cooperation between the United Nations
and regional arrangements, as envisaged in the Charter.
Sweden has followed
with interest and appreciation the recent examples of interaction between the
United Nations and various regional organizations, groups of States and
individual States in tackling difficult problems in Somalia, Cambodia,
El Salvador, Nicaragua and the former Yugoslavia. We fully share the
Secretary-General's view that this potential should be utilized more fully now
that the cold war has given way to a new era of opportunity.
The CSCE States, for their part, declared last July their understanding
that theCSCE is a regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the
Charter of the United Nations and as such provides an important link between
European,
transatlantic and global security. This decision is, of course,
without prejudice to the unique competence of the United Nations as the global
guardian of international peace and security. As the CSCE States put it in
the 1992 Helsinki Document,
"The rights and responsibilities of the United Nations Security Council
remain unaffected in their entirety."
(A/47/361, annex, p. 42)
The basis for strengthening the coordination and cooperation between the
United Nations and the CSCE has thus been laid.
It should now be compleme~ted
by increased practical cooperation. We already have some examples of mutual
reinforcement, such as the CSCE's active support for the International
Conference on the former Yugoslavia, and the practical cooperation on the
ground between the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the European
Community Monitoring Mission,
in which some CSCE countries are participating.
The CSCE is also making a valuable contribution to the efforts to prevent
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library----------------.----------
A/47/PV.49
22
(Mr. Osvald, Sweden)
the conflict from spreading into Kosovo, Vojvodina and Sandjak~as well as
into Macedonia and neighbouring countries. Together with others,
the CSCE is
also assisting neighbouring countries in implementing the United Nations
sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro through a series of missions.
In
addition,
there have been contacts between the United Nations and the CSCE in
the area that is known in the CSCE as the human dimension.
These experiences, and the challenges of the crises that are before us,
compel us to go further. There is a great need for flexibility and practical
thinking.
The balance between different elements in the international n~twork
of mutually reinforcing institutions is not given once and for all; neither is
the division of tasks and responsibilities.
In our joint efforts to maintain
and strengthen peace in the CSCE area, we must always be open to new
approaches and be prepared to devise the modalities of cooperation so as best
to meet the exigencies of each particular situation.
When Sweden assumes the chairmanship of the CSCE Council of Ministers in
December my Government intends to work for the further enhancement of the
capacity of the CSCE in the areas of conflict prevention and crisis management
and, when appropriate,
in cooperation with international organizations,
especially the United Nations.
I am confident that we may draw on the
Organization's unique role and experience in the fields of peacemaking and
peace-keeping.
I also trust that the CSCE, for its part, can contribute to
United Nations efforts to maintain peace and security by, for example,
providing early warning and information on problems of common concern, or by
lending appropriate assistance to efforts to prevent and solve conflicts and
to promote the ideals of d~mocracy and human rights, which are basic tenets of
the CSCE process.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
23
(Mr. Osvald, Sweden)
It is our hope that the question of the interaction between the United
Nations and the CSCE will be addressed at the forthcominq meetinq of the
Council of Ministers of the CSCE,
to be held in Stockholm On 14-15 December.
As Chairman-in-Offi(!e of the CSCE next year, Sweden will contribute to the
best of its ability to the practical development of a structured relationship
between the United Nations and the CSCE.
For example, it might be desirable
to consider further how to achieve a rationnl division of labou~ between the
United Nations and the CSCE in various types of missions. Maybe we can arrive
at some rules of thumb in this respect, or we should at least make sure that
regular exchange of information takes place so that each party, each
interlocking institution, is aware of what the other is doing.
To sum up, we believe that flexibility, coordination and mutual presence
are key aspects of the relationship between the United Nations and the CSCE.
We would welcome a report from the Secretary-General on this subject at the
next session ot the General Assembly, as requ~sted in the draft resolution, of
which Sweden has the pleasure to be a sponsor.
Mr. CAMILLERI (Malta): The subject of regional cooperation is
attracting particula~ attention at the current session of the General
Assembly. This is in recognition of the fact that, as the Secretary-General
has pointed out ,in his report, "An Agenda for Peace",
the new international
situation has opened up renewed opportunities for linkages between action at
the regional and the wider international levels, especially in the context of
efforts towards safeguarding global peace and security.
The discussions that have taken place in plenary meeting under item 10 of
the agenda, and in the Sixth Committee# in connection with the report of the
Charter Committee, have already started to explore the many promising yet
complex aspects arising from the enhanced role of regional cooperation.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al4i1PV.49
24
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta)
These aspects are perhaps most sharply brought out in a consideration of
the item before us today:
coordination of activities between the CSCE and the
United Nations. The CSCE has been in existence for almost 20 years. Yet it
is only at this session that it has been found necessary and appropriate for
an item on cooperation between the CSCE and the United Nations to be placed
for the first time on the agenda of the General Assembly.
In his report, "An Agonda for Peace",
the Secretary-General reflects upon
the fact that for over 45 years, until very lately,
the notion of cooperation
at the regional ~~val was sometimes conceived more as an alternative than as a
complement to action at the wider,
international level.
Nowhere perhaps is the changed role of regional organizations better
highlighted than in the case of the CSCE. Conceived, and effectively
developed, as a device of peaceful coexistence in the cold-war era,
the CSCE
is today dramatically and most successfully transforming itself into a tool of
peaceful cooperation,
in an era when commonly snared objectives are defined in
terms of democracy, prosperity and an equal right to security.
Other regional organizations,
in Asia, Latin America and Africa, have of
course also f.ound in the new world order enhanced opportunities for promoting
cooperation at the regional leval as part of the wider,
international effort
to strengthen democracy, prosperity and security. Yet in the case of other
regional organizations the process was essentially one of evolution, not
transformation.
It is only in Europe, primarily through the CSCE,
that
cooperation at the regional level has had radically to adapt policies and
structures originally aimed at r, w:::.aining the tensions of bipolarity to the
challenges of pursuing commonly defined objectives.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al4iIPV'.49
25
(Mr. Carnilleri, Malta)
Aftar an initial period of hesitation, members of the CSCE have shown
themselves deeply conscious of the nature and potantial of the transformation
that has occurred in their organization.
It is for this reason that, as one
of its first acts of renewal,
in Helsinki last July,
the CSCE formally
declared itself an "arrangement" under Chapter VIII of the Charter of the
United Nations. Malta was foremost among those that proposed and promoted
this declaration. We saw in this move a necessary affirmation of the changed
role and purpose of the CSCE ~ a role and purpose that now closely reflect the
essential principles and o~jectives of the Charter and the new spirit of
international cooperation.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/4.'1iPV.49
26
(Mr. Caroilleri, Malt~)
An awareness of its new-found purpose, first laid out in the 1990 Charter
of Paris and more clearly elaborated in this year's Helsinki decisions, is
therefore one of the strengths of the CSCE. Another strength lies in the
flexible and wide-ranging methods and structures that it has carried with it
through the process of transformation.
For over two decades 'the CSCE slowly
and painstakingly sought to develop innovative modalities for action in an
extensive number of areas -
including confidence- and security-building
measures in the military field, action for the protection of human rights,
procedures for the peaceful settlement of disputes, measures for economic and
other cooperation, provision for action at the subregional level, and many
others.
Even in an embryonic form,
these modalities proved effective in serving
the purposes of the old world order. Transformed and revitalized,
they can
certainly be harnessed more effectively in the service of the new. The
accelerated programme of institution-building which was launched at the
Helsinki summit this year could indeed not have taken place in the absence of
a secure foundation rooted in years of experience.
Two aspects of the CSCE's accumulated experience in the promotion of
action at the regional level are,
in this context, of special and universal
relevance.
In the first instance,
there is recognition of the fact that the
pursuit of peace and security is a multidimensional exercise involving action
not only in the military field but also in the economic, social, humanitarian
and other fields. The Sec~etary-General forcefully and effectively underlines
this point in his two reports, one entitled "An Agenda for Peace" and the
other on the work of the Organization for 1992. The experience of the CSCE
provides practical confirmation of this reality.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
AJ47/pv.49
27
(Mr. Carnilleri, Malta)
A second relevant aspect of the CSCE experience concerns the issue of
collective action as it relates to the question of State sovereignty.
In an
increasingly interdependent world,
the notion of sovereignty could readily
give rise to misplaced sensitivities. The CSCE experience teaches us that
even in the context of a bipolar world - and much more in a world dedicated to
democracy, prosperity and sha~ed security -
the notion of sovereignty cannot
be permitted to stand inexorably in the way of collective action, especially
in such areas as the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The immense upheavals that have taken place in Europe over the last few
years are the conditioning factors in the transformation which is taking place
in the CSCE, as indeed they have been the catalyst for the emergence of a
whole new order in international relations. The challenges, dangers and risks
accompanying these welcome upheavals are, understandably, felt nowhere more
than within the European region itself, where the old dragons of ethnic hatred
and national rivalries have been unleashed through the s&ne processes that
have ushered in freedom and democracy.
It is in this context that the CSCE has concentrated much of its
new-found enthusiasm for institution-building. on the objectives of preventive
diplomacy and conflict resolution.
The new experiments which were launched in
Helsinki, especially through the creation of a post of High Commissioner for
National Minorities,
the empowering of the CSCE to conduct peace-keeping
operations, and the setting up of a Forum for Security Cooperation, were bold
and far-reaching. They now need to be nurtured through a formative process
which, among other things, will have to flesh out practical issues ranging
from questions of coordination and cooperation with other organizations, both
regional and global,
to more mundane but equally important questions relating
to the financing and management of peace-keeping operations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.49
28
(Mr. Caroilleri. Malta)
One can readily see in all these developments a special relevance to the
ongoing debate within the United Nations regarding many of the issues raised
by the Secretary-General in his "Agenda for Peace", where questions relating
to preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping are assigned a high priority.
It is
for this reason that my delegation sees this year's discussion of the item on
the coordination of activities between the CSCE and the United Nations as the
beginning of a necessary process - a process which offers encouraging
prospects for future development but which must not be forced too quickly
through its present formative stage.
In this spirit, my delegation supports the draft resolution on this
subject which has been presented by the representative of Czechoslovakia and
which,
together with other members of the CSCE, we are indeed most happy to
sponsor.
Mr. GRAF ZU RANTZAU (Germany):
I have the honour to speak as a
member of the present Troika of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in
Europe (CSCE). My delegation and my GOvernment fully share the views
expressed by the Presidency of the Eut'opean Community earlier today. During
its chai~manship of the CSCE, Germany made particular efforts to establish a
relationship between the United Nations and the CSCE. We wanted to contribute
to creating favourable conditions in a new field of cooperation which will
certainly gain increased importance in the context of the Secretary-General's
report "An Agenda for Peace".
In a time of increased challenge to a world in
transition, peace and stability will increasingly depend on strengthened
coordination and cooperation between the United Nations and the various
regional organizations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al471PV.49
29
(Mr. Graf zu Rantzau, GermanY)
The CSCE played a key role in ovarcoming the cold war and in bringing
about the change towa~ds democracy in Europe. Within its framework the
Germans, in 1990, regained their national unity. The same year,
the Charter
of Paris laid the groundwork for creating a community of free and democratic
nations from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
The CSCE considers itself a regional arrangement within the meaning of
Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter.
It bears special responsibility
for strengthening security in Europe. There is no rivalry or competition -
the mandates of the CSCE and the United Nations complement each other.
the adoption of the Helsinki Final Act,
the purpo~es and principles of the United Nations Charter.
preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and conflict resolution, both
the United Nations and the CSCE find themselves in a process of evolution.
has become all the more necessary to lay the groundwork for cooperation and
coordination on a permanent basis.
Since
the CSCE has helped gain currency for
In the fields of
It
The efforts of the CSCE notwithstanding, we are still quite far away from
the European order of peace which Germany has always championed. The dramatic
change in Europe has brought with it social tension, economic downturn,
intolerance# xenophobia and aggressive nationalism, all of which underscore
the necessity to enforce the values to which all participating States
subscribe. To this end,
the CSCE has created a body of instruments founded on
mutual responsibility.
Procedures for conflict prevention and crisis management within the CSCE
framework, as adopted this summer in Helsinki, tie in with the instruments I
have mentioned. Missions dispatched by the CSCE and the impending activities
of the High Commissioner for National Minorities make it possible to identify
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.49
30
(Mr. Graf zu Rantzau, Germany)
causes of conflict at an early stage and to support efforts towards their
resolution. We all know that there is no room for complacency. The
instruments the CSCE has created for itself in Helsinki must be imbued with
life and must be used sensibly.
For the first time in decades, a war is raging in the CSCE region, which
demonstrates daily in a most dramatic fashion the need to improve and develop
the peace-keeping potential of existinq organizations,
including the CSCE.
Germany welcomes the draft resolution - which it is co-sponsoring - concerning
the coordination of the activities of the United Nations and the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe. We are looking forward to the report of
the Secretary-General and shall actively participate in further discussions.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al471PV.49
31
Mr. HUSLID (Norway): Let me start by saying how much we appreciate
the initiative taken by the Czech and S10vak Federal Republic, as
Chairman-in-Office of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
(CSCE),
in proposing this new item on the agenda of the General Assembly.
At the Helsinki Summit in July this year,
the participating States,
reaffirming their commitment to the Charter of the United Nations as
subscribed to by them, declared their understanding that the CSCE is a
regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United Nations
Charter and, as such, provides an important link between European and global
security.
I should think that this is something that should be noted with
satisfaction here in the General Assembly also.
The CSCE, as the all-European institution, has a vital role to play in
achieving a more peaceful and stable Europe.
The conflict potential of the
1990s includes, as we know, unfortunately, militant nationalism, xenophobia
and intolerance. They pose the gravest threat to our common security.
In
order to deal with these new security problems, it is of the utmost importance
to have effective mechanisms for crisis management and conflict prevention.
The CSCE Helsinki follow-up meeting did important work in this area, as
reflected in the document adopted at the meeting. Thus,
the establishment of
a CSCE peace-keeping capability represented an important step forward. This
is an area in which the CSCE has much to learn from the United Nations.
The option of peace-keeping activities of various kinds should,
in our
view, be a key element of the overall conflict-prevention and
crisis-management capability of the CSCE, and would be a useful supplement to
the peace-keeping role of the United Nations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.49
32
(Mr. Huslid. Norway)
The participating States regularly assess and monitor each other's
implementation of CSCE commitm~nts, including in the vital areas of democracy
and human rightsm To this end,
the CSCE h~s further developed structures to
ensure political management of crises and has created new instruments of
conflict prevention ~,d crisis management. The CSCE's capacities in the field
of early warning will be strengthened, in particular by the activities of the
newly established office of High Commissioner on National Minorities.
The United Nations and the CSCE can support and reinforce each other also
in the area of preventive diplomacy.
The CSCE has supported the efforts of the United Nations in the tragic
conflict in the former Yugoslavia, as we all know. The Norwegian Ambassador,
Mr. Tore Bogh, has been charged with the task of heading long-term missions to
the Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina. The CSCE has also shared in the
investigation of human rights abuses and in assisting neighbouring States in
the rigorous enforcement of United Nations sanctions through the deployment of
sanctions-assistance missions.
I should like to mention one item to which we attach great importance.
Security and stability have,
in our view, obvious environmental dimensions.
In several parts of the CSCE area, environmental hazards stemming from
defence-related installations and activities are real and pressing concerns.
Multilateral dialogue and cooperative action in this field is urgently
required, as a complement to bilateral and multilateral efforts undertaken by
the United Nations.
The peacemakers of today are facing a big challenge.
The United Nations
and the CSCE have already established fruitful cooperation in this field.
I
am convinced that the area of cooperation between the two organizations will
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.49
33
(M!:.. Huslid, Norway)
expand and will lead to mutual benefit in a world which needs concerted action
and the promotion of comprehensive security.
As one of the sponsors of the draf~ resolution on this item, we very much
lQok forward to receivinq the Secretary-General's report on this aqenda item
before next year's session of the General Assembly.
Mr. HOHENFELLNER (Austria): Austria supports the
Secretary-General's view - expreslsed in "An Aqenda for Peace" that:
"reqional arranqements ••• in many cases possess a potential that should
be utilized" (A/471277, para. 64)
Recent experience has shown that the contributions of reqional arranqements
are essential prerequisites for meetinq the tremendous challenqes to the
international community in connection with the preservation and restoration of
international peace and security. Reqional action could indeed in many cases
result in a deeper sense of participation, consensus and democratization in
international affairs.
Austria therefore welcomes the consideration of the new item
"Coordination of the activities of the United Nations and the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe".
Indeed,
the participatinq States in this reqional arranqement, which
encon~asses 52 countries and a reqion from Vancouver to Vladivostok, have
alr'eady stated,
in the Helsinki Final Act of 1975, their full and active
support for the United Nations and for the enhancement of its role and
effectiveness in strenqtheninq international peace, security and justice, and
expressed their common will to act in conformity with the purposes and
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
Thus the CSCE was created in
a ~pirit of cooperation and support for the United Nations and with a desire
to complement the activities of the United Nations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/47/PV.49
34-35
(Mr. Hohenfellner. Austria)
From the heginning,
the participating States of the CSCE have implemented
many of their commitments regarding economic and environmental cooperation in
the- framework of the Economic Commission for Europe.•
The CSCE has played an important role in bringing about political changes
in Central and Eastern Europe by promoting human rights and fundamental
freedoms as well as democratic values and institutions. After the breakdown
of communism in Central and Eastern Europe and the end of the East-West
conflict,
the European security architecture is undergoing profound changes.
A concept of cooperative security is emerging, with the CSCE as its broadest
platform.
At the Helsinki Summit on 9 and 10 July 1992, this understanding was
underlined by the participating States, which declared that the CSCE was a
regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United Nations
Charter and, as such, would provide an important link between European and
global security.
Clearly,
the main fields for future cooperation between the United
Nations and the CSCE will be in preventive diplomacy, peacemaking,
peace-keeping, and security matters.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/47/PV.49
36
(Mr. Bohenfellner, Austria)
The decisions taken at this year's CSCE summit established new
instruments of conflict prevention. The CSCE Committee of Senior Officials has
created a mechanism for monitoring potential conflicts and the possibility of
taking preventive measures. Fact-finding and rapporteur missions can also be,
and have already been, used as instruments of conflict prevention and crisis
management; one of them is <;he mission to Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina. The
goal of this mission is to prevent a further expansion of the war in former
Yugoslavia and to guarantee a basic standard of human rights within these
regions. A similar mission has been sent by the CSCE to Macedonia.
The
findings of these missions will be transmitted on the basis of a decision of
the Committee of Senior Officials to the Geneva Conference,
thereby
dovetailing with the relevant United Nations efforts. Other examples of CSCE
activities in conflict prevention and crisis management are the Minsk peace
process regarding Nagorny-Karabakh and the efforts concerning the situation in
Transnistra, Moldava. There,
too,
the endeavours of the United Nations and
the CSCE can be most efficient when they are mutually supportive.
An important result of the Helsinki summit was the definition of general
criteria for CSCE peace-keeping operations.
Such CSCE peace-keeping could be
conducted in cooperation with other regional and transatlantic organizations.
Certainly,
the CSCE will benefit greatly from the experience and
expertise of the United Nations in this area, which, until recently was a
monopoly of the United Nations. This is another field which clearly
demonstrates the need for a concrete mechanism for coordination and
cooperation.
The ongoing negotiati~ns in the framework of the CSCE Forum for Security
Cooperation,
in Vienna, are particularly relevant for the development of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
37
(Mr. Hohenfellner. Austrig)
confidence and security building, as well as disarmament. Also in these
security matters a steady e~~change of information would be of interest both to
the United Nations and to the CSCE.
The enlarged tasks and increased activities of the CSCE require enhanced
coordination and cooperation with the United Nations. The time may have come
to reinforce this relations11ip,
to mutual benefit, by establishing a
structured liaison mechanis13. Given the fact that most of the relevant CSCE
bodies are established in Vienna, and also considering.the proximity of the
CSCE secretariat in Prague to the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human
Rights in Warsaw,
the United Nations Headquarters in Vienna would offer the
most efficient location for such a liaison mechanism.
In an era when, finally,
the potential of Chapter VIII of the Charter can
be utilized it is time to take concrete steps to bring about the mutually and
globally advantageous effects of increased coordination and cooperation.
Mr. BATIQUK (Ukra.ne) (interpretation from Russian): The upheavals
of the past few years have significantly changed the world political landscape
and have put an end to a long era of mutual distrust and of confrontation
between blocs. What is emerging is a new type of relationship based on peace,
partnership, democracy and trust.
Today the evidence of )ur own eyes convinces us that the successes of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) are helpful in solving
the problems faced by the United Nations and that the achievements of the
United Nations are revivifying the pan-European process.
As an East European St!te, Ukraine is a consistent advocate of real
action aimed at achieving t~e unification of Europe, overcoming the remnants
of mistrust and suspicion and finding speedy solutions to the conflicts which
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/~7/PV.49
38
(Mr. Batiouk. Ukraine)
have disturbed our European home~ This is all the more so because stability
in Europe~ as history has rtlpeatedly reminded us, will determine to a
significant extent the political climate all over the world. The cllange from
military stability based on confrontation to stability in the new pan-European
post-confrontation dimension is a major trend in today'S world. But its
realization will not be simple, nor will it be painless, because everything
new is born in travail.
Ukraine, which does not separate its security from that of Europe as a
whole, feels deep concern at the fact that in our region there have arisen a
numbor of conflicts in which the basic principles of CSCE are being trampled,
obligations in the area of human rights and fundamental
freedoms are being
violated and the peaceful d3velopment of new democratic States is threatened.
This is demonstrated by the tragic events in former Yugoslavia and some areas
of the former Soviet Union.
Ukraine's contribution to the establishment of a system of collective
security in Europe is one of the major aspects ~,~ :~S foreign policy. We feel
that participation in such a system is the most reliable guarantee of our
national sovereignty, as well as a safeguard for the security of all new
democratic States. As we see it, such a system should be universal and
all-encompassing. Attempts to establish military-political structures of any
kind on a regional or subre}ional basis in the circumstanceB of today'c Europe
are fraught with the threat of a return to the 010 bloc mentality.
For that reason, we attach great importance to increasing the role of the
United Nations in maintaining peace and to the new pan-European security
system, which includes elements that are being developed or improved at the
present time. One of these key elements is CSCE.
Its strengthening
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
39-40
and further institutionalization and the new machinery established by the
Chaxter of Paris are of enor.mous significance and are absolutely necessa~y,
first and foremost in the area~ of conflict prevention, dispute settlement and
(Mr. Batiouk. Ukr~~q}
crisis situations.
A significant step tow\rds ensuring security in Europe exclusively
tnrougu political means on a collective basis was the decision adopted on
10 July of this year at the summit meeting of States memb~rs of CSCE to
establish a forum on cooper~tion in the sphere of security. We have thus
begun work on establishing a flexible system in the European region for the
pacific settlement of disputes and for conciliation with the aid of
independent arbitration bodies on ~e basis of the norms of international law.
Ukraine will actively ~romote the establishment of CSCE institutions that
will serve as pan-European ~entres to coordi~ate positions, approaches and
activities and to find universally acceptable solutions to today'S European
and global problems in close cooperation with other organizations, especially
the United Nations.
At a time when new opp~rtunities have opened up, regional agreements or
bodies can provide useful service combining their activities with the purposes
and principles of the Charte~ of the United Nations, and basing their
relationship with the United Nations, particularly with the Security Council,
on Chapter VIII of the Charter.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
41
(Mr. Batiouk, Ukraine)
Cooperation in various areas between the United Nations and regional
organizations is nothing new. The San Francisco Confer( -'lce, which drafted the
Charter of the United Nations, emphasized the importance of regional
agreements or bodies for solving problems pertaining to the maintenance of
international peace and security.
In practical terms such cooperation has already been developing for a
long time in many parts of the world•. The United Nations and CSCE have now
felt it necessary to coordinate the activities of the two systems, and it is
gratifying that the item now before us has been formulated in just this way.
As regards Europe, CSCE and the United Nations complement each other and
should act together, setting an example for problem-solving.
Even though the United Nations is much older than CSCE, it can still
borrow from the latter's experience.
For example,
in CSCE we have found a
much fairer approach to solving the problem of apportioning the contributions
of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics than the approach currently
being recommended in the United Nations.
Since the Helsinki summit in July 1992, CSCE has begun to serve as a
mechanism for solving European problems by reconciling the parties before they
resort to violence. The decisions taken at the Helsinki summit have provided
the pan-European process with a large variety ef peacemaking instruments
ranging from fact-finding missions to peace-keeping operations, also making
use, if necessary, of the potential of such international organizations as the
European Community,
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the
Western European Union (WEU).
At the same time,
the new problems confronting CSCE today require not
only the active use of regional peacemaking instruments but also closer
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
42
(Mr. Batiouk, Ukraine)
relations with the United Nations. We are convinced that coordinating the
efforts of the United Nations a».d CSCE, which is a regional arrangement within
the meaning of Chapter VIII ot the Charter of the United Nations, can and must
lead to finding effective solutions for conflict and crisis settlement in the
European region. Only then will it be possible to have a reliable
relationship between security in Europe and global security.
Draft resolution A/47/L.ll, of which Ukraine is a sponsor, is intended to
give practical implementation to the provisions of Ch~pter VIII of the
Charter, which makes clear the importance of close cooperation between the
United Nations and regional arrangements and organizations in crisis
prevention and settlement.
Our country, regarding participation in European structures as one of the
most important areas of its foreign policy, is prepared for the closest
possible cooperation in establishing fruitful relations between the United
Nations and CSCE.
The PRE~IDENT:
I should like to propose that the list of speakers
in the debate on agenda item 140 should be closed now.
It was so decided.
Mr. TURK (Slovenia): The current consideration by the General
Assembly of questions relating to the coordination of the activities of tha
United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
calls for at least two preliminary comments ••
*
Mr. Hayes (Ireland), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
43
(Mr. TUrk. Sloyenia)
The first comment concerns the original idea of regional arrangements as
enshrined in Articles 52 to 54 of the United Nations Charter, which clearly
envisage a role for the regional organizations within the broader framework of
the United Nations. According to Article 52,
"Nothing in the present Charter precludes the existence of regional
arrangements or agencies".
Moreover,
the Charter deliberately avoids any definition of regional
arrangements,
thus allowing for very useful flexibility. This feature is
important and is duly recognized in the Secretary-General's report "An Agenda
for Peace",
in paragraph 61.
The wording of Articles 52 to 54 of the Charter clearly puts the main
accent on the role of regional arrangements in matters falling within the
competence of the Security Council. However, it does not,
in fact,
limit the
role of regional arrangements to such matters. Flexibility has been envisaged
from the time when the United Nations was created.
It is important to accept
the fact that the nature of regional arrangements may change-over time -
in
the context of changed circumstances.
Some regional arrangements may become
obsolete, while others may gain completely new roles and competence which go
beyond the original design.
The CSCE is a very good example of such a change.
Its recent Summit
Declaration and decisions adopted in Helsinki on 10 July 1992 demonstrate the
wide scope of the recent change in Europe and the consequent attempt to adjust
Europe's most representative regional arrangement to the new circumstances.
This leads me to the second preliminary observation concerning the
interpretation of Articles 52 to 54 of the Charter:
how should the United
Nations utilize the potential of regional arrangements in the changing
international environment?
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW471!?V.49
44
(Mr. TUrk, Slovenia)
An interpretation which would limit this potential to the framework
defined in Article 53 of the Charter -
that is, utilization of regional
arrangements by the Security Council for enforcement action - would certainly
fall short of actual needs.
In order fully to utilize the potential of these
arrangements and to achie,re the maximum effect it is necessary to develop a
continuous and productive dialogue focused on those issues which can be best
understood within the regional arrangements. Full advantage must be taken of
the fact that regional arrangements, as a rule, provide an important
opportunity for understanding local circumstances,
the roots and the history
of a given problem, and possible solutions.
It is not necessary that such a
dialogue with regional arrangements be made contingent upon any formal
stipulation. The important requirement here is that it be conducted in
accordance with the principles of the Charter an~ that it yield proper and
practical results. The relationship between t'h~ Un'="ted Nations and regional
institutions should not be seen as one of subordination but, rather, as one of
cooperation and dialogue.
As mentioned earlier,
the expanding role of the CSCE process expressed
the nature of change within that regional arrangement. The 1992 Helsinki
Document, entitled "The Challenges of Change", expresses all those
characteristics of change. Heads of State and Government of the CSCE
participating countries have placed a large part of their expectations on the
future development of institutional mechanisms of the CSCE process; on methods
of preventive diplomacy; on expanded action in the field of human rights and
democracy,
including questions relating to minorities; on economic
cooperation; and on the protection of the environment. All this has made the
CSCE agenda very ambitious and p~omising, and also similar to the agenda
before the United Nations.
--~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_.._------
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
45
(Mr. TUrk, Slovenia)
Clearly, much of this new CSCE agenda is still at the level of relatively
general iaeas or at the initial stage of institutional evolution. Moreover,
"
CSCE has not always been able to succeed in its efforts to translate its
objectives and principles into effective international action. Efforts made
in the overall context of the Balkan crisis and in other crises in the CSCE
area provide examples of the difficulties encountered. The President of the
Presidency of Slovenia, Mr. Milan KuMan,
in his address to the General
Assenmly on 24 Septeltiber 1992, offered an analysis of the limited success of
the CSCE in dealing with the Balkan crisis and suggested certain measures
which might help in finding a solution. We believe that coordination between
the CSCE and the United Nations is important in this context.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
46
(Mr. Turk, SlQvenia)
Turning again to more general questions of coordination between the CSCE
and the United Nations,
the delegation of Slovenia agrees wi.th the approach to
these questions outlined a few weeks ago, in the context of the general debate
by his excellency Mr. Jozef Moravcik, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech
and Slovak Federal Republic. and current Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE
Council of Ministers, who suggested that the discussion on the issue should
develop at two levels:
first, on the conceptual level,
to clarify the
fundamental political meaning of coordination, both in the immediate future
and in the light of medium and long-term prospects; and. secondly, on the
practical and concrete level.
that is,
those cases where these activities of
the United Nations and the CSCE have already begun to overlap. and to draw
conclusions from such overlapping. While we generally agree with the approach
outlined by Minister Moravcik we wish to point out that the discussion should
concentrate on the issues arising at the level of concrete activities which
will.
in turn. help in devising appropriate approaches at the more general,
i.e •• conceptual level.
Let us take only two examples. While considering various security
questions concerning the CSCE area,
the Security Council could take full
advantage of the analyses and opinions developed within the CSCE framework. To
that effect. it might be useful to invite the representative of the
Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE Council of Ministers to participate in
deliberations of the Security Council concerning those situations in the CSCE
area that are under consideration by the Security Council.
The General
Assembly could. while considering any situation in the CSCE area. pay
particular attention to the opinions that might be expressed by the
representative of the Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE Council of Ministers.
Another specific example relates to activities in the field of human rights
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
47
(Mr. Turk, Slovenia)
where increasing attention is placed - within both the United Nations and the
CSCE - on the issues affecting national minorities.
It is interesting that
the CSCE participating States have agreed on the establishment of the office
of High Commissioner on National Minorities. Undoubtedly,
the future high
commissioner will be able to draw from experience accumulated in United
Nations action in the field of human rights,
in particular in such domains as
fact-finding and reporting on human rights violations.
It seems,
therefore,
that cooperation between the High Commissioner and the United Nations Centre
for Human Rights in Genev& and various United Nations expert bodies would be
of great value to the CSCE High Commissioner.-
An additional thought which might be considered as relevant,
in
particular with regard to the latter of the two examples- the one concerning
human rights and minorities - would be recogniti~n of the need to expand the
analytical infractructure, general knowledge of the issues at hand, and
Secretariat assistance to the newly established organs or to other organs that
have been recently endowed with ambitious tasks and serious workloads.
Fulfilment of such tasks will not be possible without a ~ertain amount of
investment and without mobilization of additional human resources.
It would
probably be premature to discuss these aspects of the increased international
agenda at this stage. However, we believe that at some point they should be
considered in the context of discussions on coordination between the United
Nations and the CSCE. Let me conclude by saying that Sloveniua joins with
pleasure the other sponsors of the draft resolution on coordination between
the United Nations and the CSCE proposed by the delegation of Czechoslovakia.
Mr. FLOREAN (Romania): The Romanian delegation welcomes the
initiative of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic to include on the agenda
of the current session of the General Assembly the item entitled:
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
48
(Mr. Florean. Romania)
"Coordination of the activities of the United Nations and the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe".
Indeed, in the context of new trends in
the international arena as a result of the cessation of the cold war,
the
question of interaction between the United Nations and the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) has become very topical and acquired
a new dimension, especially after the CSCE Summit in Helsinki in early July
1992. This has been underlined by the representatives of many countries, both
in the general debate in the plenary of the General Assembly and in the
present debate.
In this connection, a valuable source of inspiration and
reflection is the important report of the Secretary-General "An Agenda for
Peace", in which is highlighted the cooperation between the United Nations and
regional arrangements and organizations. The ideas expressed in the report of
the Secretary-General reflect the need for both the United Nations and
regional organizations to play a greater role in the field of the maintenance
of international peace and security,
in particular through preventive
diplomacy. There is no doubt that the time has come to revitalize Chapter
VIII of the Charter by ex&~ining practical ways and means to encourage
recourse to regional organizations and, their cooperation with the United
Nations in the prevention and settlement of regional conflicts.
As was very rightly pointed out in the report of the Secretary-General:
"regional arrangements or agencies in many cases possess a potential that
should be utilized in serving the functions covered in this report:
preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and post-conflict
peace-building. Under the Charter,
the Security Council has and will
continue to have primary responsibility for maintaining international
peace and security, but regional action as a matter of decentralization,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47.1PV.49
49-50
(Mr. Florean, Romania)
delegation and cooperation with United Nations efforts could not only
lighten the burden of the Council but also contribute to a deeper sense
of participation, consensus and democratization in international
affairs".
(A/47/277? para. 64)
The consultations envisaged between the United Nations and regional
organizations can greatly contribute to building international consensus on
the nature ofi a problem or group of problems and the measures required to
address them. This is particularly true in the post-cold-war period when
regional organizations can play a crucial role in the field of international
peace and security if their activities and functioning are conce~ved and
undertaken in conformity with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter.
In this regard, my delegation shares the hope expressed by other
delegations that in the future the CSCE will be more effective in the
prevention of conflicts in Europe. The Helsinki document adopted in July this
year clearly recognizes that the CSCE is a regional arrangement according to
Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter that provides an important link
between European and global security. We are encouraged in this sense by the
fact that the set of major agreements signed or entered into force this year
at the European level -
the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe
(CFE),
the Vienna Document,
the Helsinki Final Act on Conventional Armed
Forces, and the open skies Treaty - have laid the foundation for lasting
cooperation and stability on the Continent. At the same time,
the opening in
Vienna in September 1992 of the Forum for Security Cooperation launches a
further stage in the dialogue among the CSCE participating States in their
joint endeavour for increased security and stability for each and every
country in the Euro-Atlantic area.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
51
(Mr. Florean, Romania)
The outcome of Romania's important efforts to restore and consolidate
democracy in our country will be closely linked with the international
environment, stability and security, both at the European and at the global
level.
In order to contribute to the strengthening of that stability and
security, Romania is actively developing relations of cooperation with all
countries on the continent and in particular with its neighbours. Romanian
foreign policy is pursued along irrevocable lines defined within the
Euro-Atlantic space and its viable institutions. Simultaneously, we are
increasing our contribution to building up the Euro-Atlantic community of
values and a new continental security order. Romania is engaged in
negotiations on an association agreement with the European Community which is
about to be conclud9d, and on a cooperation agreement with the European Free
Trade Association.
At the bilateral level, Romania recently signed new treaties free of
ideological clauses with France, Germany, Bulgaria, Spain, Greece and Estonia;
negotiations are under way with other States, with the same aim.
My delegation would like to stress that Romania is also developing its
relationships with regional organizations from other continents, mindful of
their contribution to the maintainance of international peace and security.
We value the activities of the Organization of American States,
in which
Romania is an observer, as well as the efforts of the Organization for African
Unity,
the Association of South-East Asian Nations and the League of Arab
States to promote cooperation in their respective regions.
In fact,
the item we are discussing today is just one of a series of
similar subjects before the General Assembly.
I have !.n mind the items
concerning the organizations I have just mentioned, as well as the item
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
52
(Mr. Florean, Romania)
devoted to cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of the
Islamic Conference.
The Forum created at the Helsinki ~,ummit is a siqnificant step towards
implementation and verification of existing
ensuring, as part of an overall approach, resolute concentration of political
attention at the regional level on security issues.
It provides for efforts
in areas such as arms control and disarmament, confidence- and
security-building measures,
treaties in this field, conversion of military complexes, and the
establishment of flexible forms of cooperation with other European and
Euro-Atlantic structures. The CSCE Forum for security through cooperation
should seek balanced solutions which would benefit general European security,
the security of all subregions of Europe and the security of all participant
States.
All these activites and efforts are conceived as an integral part of
world security and of United Nations endeavours in that direction.
as we said,
In fact,
the security of any country of the region is inconceivable today
except as a result of harmonious interaction among the United Nations,
CSCE,
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Western European Union,
the
along with increased efforts at the subregional level.
That is why the initiative of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic to
bring before the General Assembly the subject of coordinating the activities
of the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
is very useful and of high topicality.
Romania is a sponsor of the draft resolution submitted on this matter,
which emphasizes that the new tasks before the CSCE require enhanced
coordination and cooperation with international organizations, in particular
with the United Nations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
53
(Mr. Fiorean. Romania)
Our delegation is fully convinced, having seen the spirit of today's
debate and the great interest shown by many delegations which have advanced
ideas stimulating further reflection,
that the conclusions that will come from
the consideration of this item will be very useful for the Secretary-General
as he prepares the report on this item to be submitted to the General Assembly
at its fourty-eighth session.
We are confident that, by opening today a new way for exploring the best
means for harmonious interaction between the United Nations and the CSCE, we
will all together be contributing to the creation of a universal system of
collective security and to the enhancement of the effectiveness of the world
Organization.
Mrs. FRECHETTE (Canada): The draft resolution before us today
addresses the issue of cooperation between the United Nations and the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). The draft
resolution, of which Canada is a sponsor, reflects the growing expectation -
indeed,
the growing reality -
that regional organizations will in the future
be mandated to carry out and be capable of carrying out greater peace and
security functions such as peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building.
Already the proliferation of tensions and conflicts across Europe has
tested the mutually supportive efforts of the CSCE and the United Nations.
In
the former Yugoslavia,
in the conflict in Nagorny-Karabakh,
in Moldova and in
Georgia,
the CSCE currently plays a key role alongside the United Nations.
In
the specific case of Nagorny-Karabakh,
the CSCE has taken a lead role in the
search for a settlement.
In its 1992 Helsinki document,
the CSCE declared itself a regional
arrangement within the framework of Chapter VIII of the United Nations
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.49
54
(Mrs. Frechette, Canada)
Charter. The definition of the CSCE's role within the broader context of the
Charter is particularly important.
Canada has always envisaged a close relationship between the CSCE and the
a relationship in which the CSCE reinforces regionally United
United Nations:
Nations peace and security efforts as well as broader United Nations efforts
on democracy and human rights.
Within the CSCE, our efforts have been concentrated on developing the
means for effective conflict-management mechanisms by establishing a range of
instruments from fact-finding and good offices to mediation. Canada pioneered
the idea of CSCE peace-keeping as a necessary element in the spectrum of CSCE
conflict-management mechanisms. We have sought with other CSCE partners to
strengthen commitments on minorities, tolerance and democratic development.
We believe this approach complements the type of conflict-management proposals
outlined in "An Agenda for Peace".
Documentation of the CSCE recognizes the primacy of United Nations
Charter commitments and the centrality of the United Nations role in
peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building. The CSCE's role in support of
the United Nations is especially important when one considers the recent
establishment of a framework for CSCE peace-keeping: CSCE peace-keeping will
be undertaken with due regard for the responsibilities of the United Nations
in this field.
It is Canada's belief that that the CSCE's Y~st effective work in terms
of conflict management can likely be accomplished in the area of preventive
diplomacy. The CSCE provides a flexible instrument for the quick dispatch of
fact-finding and observer missions, as shown by the manner in which the CSCE
was able in early September quickly to mobilize observers to detention camps
in Bosnia and Herzegovina and expeditiously report its findings.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
55
(Mrs. Frechette, Canada)
My delegation welcomes the initiative taken by the Czech and Slovak
Federal Republic, as current Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE,
in proposing this
new agenda item for the General Assembly.
The initiative is very much in line
with the ideas espoused by the Secretary-General on the mutually supportive
roles of the United Nations and regional organizations,
ideas which are set
out in "An Agenda for Peace". Thus, we welcome the debate which has been
initiated today.
In a statement to this Assembly earlier this month, my delegation offered
suggestions for establishing practical ties between the United Nations and
regional organizations with a view to developing a shared sense of commitment
to global peace, security and development. We anticipate that the debate
initiated here today will be pursued further in future sessions.
It is our
hope that these discussions will help develop tangible ways for the United
Nations to forge links with regional organizations.
a
te, Canada}
ext of the
SCE and the
ally United
5 efforts
ing the
i
range of
l pioneered
un of CSCE
~ners to
.opment.
. proposals
ons
upport of
:::ent
?ing will
Nations
.n terms
'entive
patch of
he CSCE
n camps
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
56
Mr. WLOSOWICZ (Poland): After the initial enthusiasm following the
fundamental transformations in the world, the international ~ommunity soon
realized that it had to adjust itself, its structures and its institutions to
the new situation.
In various parts Gf the world those profound changes have
been accompanied by instability, outbreaks of local conflicts and the
unleashing of extreme nationalism.
Such developments seriously challenge the
existing systems of collective security. The disappearance of the immediate
threat of a global military conflict has also considerably changed the
perception of security. Not only has it become more regional-oriented, but it
now also encompasses other, mainly non-military, aspects.
As the number and complexity of challenges have increased,
the
international community - above all the United Nations - has begun
consideration of ways and means to strengthen its ability to respond to them
more quickly and in a more comprehensive manner. A number of regional
organizations, as well as groups of States, have followed suit. Multiple and
parallel efforts have been made to deal with the same tensions or conflicts.
Since similar developments have also taken place in Europe,
emerged that it would be advisable to coordinate the efforts and activities of
the organizations involved - in this case the United Nations and the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
Poland values highly the example of coordination initiated by the London
Conference concerning the conflict in the former Yugoslavia.
the idea has
In this connection,
Today,
thanks to the Czech and Slovak Feder~l Republic, which formulated
the idea and initiated the process of its inclusion on the agenda of the
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, we have an opportunity to
consider certain aspo~ts of the coordination of activities of the United
Nations and the CSCE.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47/PV,49
57
(Mr, Wlosowicz, Polapd)
The present political climate permits a more effective exercise of th~
United Nations function of preserving global peace and security. This task of
the United Nations has to be consolidated. However,
the Organization cannot,
for practical reasons, assume full responsibility for dealing with each and
every regional conflict. Therefore, a regionalization of efforts seems to be
required.
Paragraph 25 of the Helsinki Summit Declaration should be seen in this
context. That is also consistent with section VII of "An Agenda for Peace",
in particular with paragraph 64, which speaks of decentralization, delegation
and cooperation, and a contribution to a deeper sense of participation,
consensus and democratization in international affairs.
Poland supports efforts to develop and strengthen cooperation between the
United Nations and regional organizations or arrangements. As the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland, Mr. Krzysz~~! Skubisze~ki,
stated in the general debate, such harmonious and constructive i~taraction
might well constitute an important element in making the United Nations more
effective in the field of peace and security.
In this connection, he
suggested that
"In crisis situations, where several organizations are acting
simultar'-ously, it could be advisable to set up, on an ad-hoc basis, a
single cuordinati:.ng framework",
thus helping
"to avoid duplication, overlapping or dissifation of efforts."
(A/47/PV.7, p. 79)
The United Nations should observe closely the development of CSCE
mechanisms and structures, especially those for peaceful settlement of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
58
(Mr. WIQSQwicz. PQland)
disputes, such as the new prQcedures agreed upQn at the CSCE meeting in Geneva
this month, as well as thQse fQr cQnflict prevention and crisis management.
I
WQuld like to recall that the CSCE has dispatched, or is about to dispatch, a
number Qf missions - fact-finding,
rappQrteur and monitoring missiQns -
in the
former Yugoslavia, Moldova, southern Ossetia and Nagorny-Karabakh.
CSCE
peace-keeping operatiQns are also envisaged.
One could anticipate that new types of relatiQnships between the Security
Council and other United Nations institutions on the one hand and the CSCE on
the other will emerge. A regular assessment of the evolution of relations
between the United Nations and the CSCE would serve the purpose of their
optimal shaping and use. This would not imply any direct dependence of the
CSCE on the United Nations, but would simply constitute a means of channelling
information Qn matters of interest to both the CSCE and the United NatiQns.
Other regiQnal arrangements and organizations might also consider using this
experience. Consequently,
the General Assembly might appeal to other regional
organizations to contemplate the possibility of tightening their liaisQn with
the United Nations,
taking into account the CSCE experience.
It has to be stated clearly that the purpose of this decentralization is
tQ use the most efficient means tQ solve regiQnal problems.
In many instances
regional means may prQve to be adequate. We believe that the CSCE has the
necessary potential to address complex issues in a satisfactory manner. This
WQuld also lighten the burden on the United Nations structures.
The CSCE, as a regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the
Charter, is establishing a pattern of relationships with other EurOpeatl and
transatlantic organisms. This is also conducive to the emergence Qf an
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
59-60
(Mr. WlosQwiez, Poland)
efficient system of European security - for example, a system of mutually
reinforcing European institutions. The way in which European institutions
handle this issue may also be of interest to the United Nations, as well as to
other regions.
Mr. LOZINSKIY (Russian Federation) (interpretation from Russian):
The question of cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) is particularly
timely today.
CSCE is destined to become a leading pan-European organization
and a centre for coordinating the interests of European States in the
political, economic, humanitarian, ,environmental and other areas.
The decisions taken at the Helsinki meeting of Heads of State and
Government of member StctGS of CSCE imbue the pan-European p~ocess with new
substantive content in all major areas of its activity.
In CSCE we are
establishing and putting into operation machinery for conflict and crisis
prevention and settlement through collective efforts.
The proclamation of CSCE as a regional arrangement within the meaning of
Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations necessitates close
coordination between the two organizations in peace-keeping.
At the present stage the most important questions in cooperation between
the United Nations and eSCE are urgent practical questions pertaining first
and foremost to the need for settling the increasing and extremely painfUl
conflicts in the European region, as well as in Asian countries of the
Commonwealth of Independent States. The experience of international
peace-keeping activities in Yugoslavia, Nagorny-Karabakh, South Ossetia,
Abkhazia and the Dniester region shows that the effectiveness of the efforts
undertaken will depend to a great extent on the degree of coordination and
cooperation between various international structures.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PVe 49
61
(Mr. Lozinskiy. Russian Federation)
Of course, the subject of cooperation between the United Natio~8 and CSCE
should not be limited to peacemaking activities, although they are its major
aspect. There is considerable pGtential for joint action in other areas as
well:
the protection of human rights and the promotion of democratic
institutions and a market economy in countries which are in a period of
transition.
Accordingly, we might consider granting CSCE Observer status in the
thereby enabling representatives of the Conference to
United Nations,
participate in the work of the General Assembly and its subsidiary organs and
also promoting harmony in the growing cooperation between the two
organizations.
A central element of the interaction, as we see it, should be mutual
support in maintaining peace and security in Europe and throughout the world.
It seems essential that the rights and obligations of the united Nations
Security Council should remain fully inviolable and that its capabilities
should be increased through the growing potential of CSCE.
One of the key areas of such cooperation is that of CSCE peace-keeping
operations, which should be carried out with due regard for the role of the
United Nations, in full conformity with the purposes and principles of its
Charter. At Russia's initiative, the Helsinki decisions included a provision
pursuant to which the Chairman of the Council of CSCE will fully inform the
Security Council of CSC& peace-keeping missions.
In our view, in conducting such operations, it would be appropriate to
take maximum account of the wealth of experience accumulated in the conduct of
such operations by the United Nations. To that end, we believe it useful to
hold a workinq meeting between experts of CSCE and the United Nations in order
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV~49
62
(Mr. Lozinskiy, Russian Federation)
to exchange relevant information. Obviously, we should also consider the
broa~er participation in this work of experts from other international
organizations, in particular the Commonwealth of Independent States, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization,
the European Community and the Western European
Union.
In the future, we might perhaps think also about conducting joint
United Nations-CSCE peace-keeping operations in the European region.
Also timely is the issue of combining United Nations and CSCE peacemaking
missions.
It is no secret that in a number of cases some overlapping of those
missions has been found. We believe that there is some justification for
establishing, on the basis of the Vienna Conflict Prevention Centre, an
appropriate coordination mechanism to achieve some sort of division of labour
between the United Nations and CSCE.
In the future, we might also consider
putting into practice instructions or recommendations of the United Nations to
eSCE as a regional organization in peace-keeping matters.
There is Cl. perceived need to strengthen cooperation through CSCE's Office
for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, headquartered at Warsaw, and the
United Nations Commission on Human Rights. A broader and more efficient
exchange of information between them will help to enhance the effectiveness of
their work.
Another promising area for interaction between the United Nations and
CSCE might be cooperation between CSCE's Economic Forum, which is part of the
Committee of Senior Officials, and the United Nations Enonomic Commission for
Europe,
in particular with a view to assisting States members of CSCE in
carrying out economic reforms. We would deem it appropriate for United
Nations experts to participate in the work of the meeting of the CSCE Economic
Forum to be held at Prague from 16 to 18 March 1993.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
63
(Mr. L02inskiy. Russian Federation)
Also of gr~at importance ~oul~ be the establishment of a regular exchange
of information between the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the
CSCE secretariat.
It seems useful to include items pertaining to basic areas
of CSCE activity in the agenda of various United Nations organs on a regular
basis. We might also consider est~~lishing it as a practice that the Chairman
of CSCE should make statements at the sessions of the General Assembly and
appointing plenipotentiary representatives of CSCE to United Nations
Headquarters at New York and of the United Nations to the CSCE secretariat at
Prague.
We are convinced that the adoption of the General Assembly resolution on
this item (Al47/L.ll), of which the Russian Federation is a sponsor, will be
an important step in setting into motion machinery for cooperation and
coordination between the two organizations.
Mr. ERDeS (Hungary) (interpretation from French): The Conference on
Security and Co-operation in Europe (CSCE) has come a long way from the
Helsinki Final Act in 1915 to the Helsinki Document of 1992.
In the 1992
Document,
the Heads of State or Government of the States participating in CSCE
declared that they consider the Conference to be a regional arrangement in the
sense of Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Over the past 17 years of its existence,
the Helsinki process has become
an integral part of European relations and an indispensable and inseparable
component of them.
Following a process of detente that began in the early
1970s, and in the conditions that have prevailed in a Europe affected by the
Yalta divisions and living in the shadow of the nuclear threat,
the leaders of
35 countries signed a comprehensive document, unique of its kind, covering
political, security, economic, environmental, humanitarian and human-rights
issues,
thus encomp~ssing every possible dimension of security.
In
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.49
64-65
(Mr. Erdos, Hungar~)
retrospect, it may seem paradoxical that it was precisely a bipolar Europe,
subject to an ideological confrontation unequaled in history, that was the
first among the regions of the world to be able to achieve such a degree of
consensus and cooperation, which, while not serving as a model or a gauge,
co~ld become a source of inspiration for the other continents of our world.
The decalogue of principles of the Final Act governing relations among
the participating States has become a true code of conduct for pan-European
cooperation.
In this context,
I should like in particular to point out that
the Document signed at the Finnish capital over a decade and a half ago has
proved to be a useful tool in the efforts to break through the spiritual and
physical ramparts surrounding the closed societies of Eastern Europe - efforts
which ultimately led to th~ crumbling of those fossilized structures.
Contrary to everyone's expectations,
the Helsinki Final Act thus became a tool
not for freezing but for negating the socio-political status quo that emerged
from the Yalta accords. Today we must fully recognize these undeniable
historic merits of CSCE.
The Helsinki process played an irreplaceable role in the early 1980s,
when the Follow-up Meeting and the Expert Meeting of CSCE served, despite the
ups and downs of the period,
to maintain the East-West dialogue. The adoption
of the Charter of Paris for a New Europe in November 1990, proclaiming the
vision of a free, united, democratic and prosperous Europe, already reflected
the winds of change that were sweeping the old totalitarian structures from
the continent.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Libraryliar that,
ptlightin
lited Nati
A stud
II interna
~ere of a
jilar pro
lrld and r
Hungar:
ilUL.11,
:a General
A/47 /PV .49
66
(Mr. Erdos, Hungary)
The participants in the CSCE have, since the beginning of the process,
been fully aware of the close links between peace and security in Europe and
in the world.
They have on more than one occasion affirmed their full support
for the United Nations and for the strengthening of its role and its
effectiveness in consolidating international peace, security and justice.
In
the Paris Charter,
the participants in the CSCE reiterated their commitment
to
the United Nations and emphasized the commonality of the destinies of their
own nations and of all the nations the world over.
The expressed their
solidarity with all the other countries of the world and declared themselves
ready to embark with them on a joint effort to protect and promote common,
fundamental human values.
The historic changes that have taken place in the world, particularly in
Europe, have created fundamentally new conditions for the CSCE to operate.
Since it began,
the Helsinki process has demonstrated its ability to be
flexible,
to adapt and to innovate.
Today, now that the cold war is over,
Chapter VIII of the Charter is regaining its true meaning and its place in the
armamentarium available to the United Nations for settling conflicts.
Regional agreements and bodies can now play a primary role in the
settlement of local conflicts. We believe that the CSCE is a high-quality
instrument whose capabilities are still to be explored and which will be
capable of rising to the new challenges and of bringing its own, stabilizing
contribution to bear in its own region.
The latest international developments have made coordination and
cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE even more imperative.
I
need mention as an example only the activities of the United Nations and the
CSCE in the former Yugoslavia,
in the Karabakh region and in Georgia.
It is
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.49
67
(Mr. Erdos, Hungary)
clear that, with the re~italization of United Nations acti~ities and the
spotlighting of the regional organizations, we must accord ourselves the
necessary means to harmonize the sometimes simultaneous operations of the
United Nations and the CSCE in order to avoid duplication and to ensure that
the steps they take complement each other effectively.
A study of these issues would have a beneficial effect on the capacity of
the international community to respond to the demands that await it in the
sphere of activity of the CSCE, but it would also make it easier to solve the
similar problems which are arising or will arise in all other parts of the
world and require the support of other regional organizations or arrangements.
Hungary, a sponsor of the draft resolution contained in document
A/47/L.ll, which has just been introduced by Czechoslovakia,
recommends it to
the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library