NITED 
ATIONS 
General Assembly 
UH  I'ifv^.r'R'^ 
I'  ,^5  c. S^ v.;-....>-
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.53 
13 November  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD  OF THE  53rd  MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Monday,  2 November  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President; 
Mr.  GANEV 
later; 
later; 
Mr.  JESUS 
(Vice-President) 
Mr.  ELHOUDERI 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Cape Verde) 
(Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya) 
Report  of  the United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  [79]  (continued) 
(a)  Report  of  the  Conference 
(b)  Report  of  the  Secretary-General 
Tentative  programme  of work 
This  record  contains  the original  text  of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one week,  to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61718  2527-28V  (E) 
A/47/PV.53 
1 (a-z) 
Organization of work 
Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development  [79] (continued) 
(a)  Report of the Conference 
(b)  Report of the Secretary-General 
A/47/PV.53 
2-5 
The meeting was  called  to order  at  3.35  p.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM 79  (continued) 
REPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS  CONFERENCE  ON ENVIRONMENT  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(a)  REPORT  OF THE  CONFERENCE  (A/CONF.151/26, vols. I-IV  and vol.  Il/Corr.l) 
(b)  REPORT  OF THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/598  and  Add.l) 
The  PRESIDENT!  May  I remind members  that,  in accordance with  the 
decision  taken  this morning,  the  list of  speakers  in the debate  on this  item 
will be closed  today at  5 p.m.  I therefore  request  those  representatives 
wishing  to participate  in the debate  to  inscribe  their  names on the  list  of 
speakers  as  soon as possible. 
A/47/PV.53 
6 
Mr. LEE  (Republic  of  Korea)!  Last June  in Rio world  leaders 
established  a long path  into the  future,  a future which has yet  to  reveal 
itself  to us today.  This  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly 
represents  one of  the  first major milestones  on  that path,  and  after we have 
passed  it we  shall be one  step closer  to knowing what  lies  ahead  for  future 
generations.  We  shall have  a better  idea of our  collective  ability  to 
generate  the global partnership  needed  to protect  the world  and  its people, 
and we  shall understand  the  level of  commitment  and  the  level of  compromise 
necessary  to embark  on a truly  universal  effort  in support  of  sustainable 
development. 
The  Earth  Summit  demonstrated  the many  challenges  involved  in bridging 
the differences between nations.  Nevertheless,  the  resulting  agreements, most 
notably  the Rio Declaration  and Agenda  21, also  reflected  the  global 
recognition  of  the need  for  cooperation  between developed  and  developing 
nations.  However, much  still  remains  to be done.  Only  the  future,  then, can 
tell us whether  the United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development 
(UNCED) was  a  pivotal  turning-point  in the history  of  environmental  and 
developmental  efforts  or merely  an  ill-fated  attempt  at  realizing  an ideal. 
During  this  session we must  discover what  is possible.  We must  respond  to the 
urgency  and  the extent  of  the environmental  deterioration  of  our planet while 
fully  considering  the  right  of  all people  to  live healthy  and  productive 
lives. 
The principles  included  in the Rio Declaration  collectively  reflect the 
fundamental  concept  underlying  sustainable  development.  Individually,  they 
pinpoint  the  steps  needed  to achieve  sustainable  development,  including the 
creation of  a global  partnership  based  on  common but  differentiated 
responsibilities  enhanced  by  the  transfer  of  technology,  as well  as  the 
prohibition  of  unjustifiable  restrictions  on  international  trade. 
A/47/PV.53 
7 
(Mr. Lee. Republic  of  Korea) 
Undoubtedly,  of  the most  important  issues  to be  resolved,  financing  the 
necessary measures  contained  in Agenda  21 is first  and  foremost.  The  share of 
the  financial  burden of Agenda  21-related  activities  assumed by each  country 
should be proportional  to the country's  ability  to pay  and  its  cumulative 
contribution  to global pollution.  For  their part,  developed  countries  have 
been called  upon  to contribute  approximately  $125 billion  annually  to  the 
UNCED follow-up process  and  to  increase  official  development  assistance  for 
this purpose. 
The  effective  implementation  of Agenda  21 will  necessarily  require 
substantial  assistance  in the  form of  technology  transfers  from  developed 
countries.  Many  developing  nations,  including  the Republic  of Korea,  are 
facing some difficulties  in pursuing  environmentally  sound development  owing 
to the limited  availability  of  environmentally  benign  technologies. 
In this  context  the developed  countries  must play  a leading  role  in 
promoting  the transfer  of  technology.  Chapter  34 of Agenda  21 emphasizes  the 
need for developed  countries  to make  an essential  contribution  to  developing 
countries  in the  form of  environmentally  sound  technologies.  During  the 
Conference  the Republic  of Korea was an active participant  in the  negotiations 
on chapter 34, and,  accordingly,  we will  actively  participate  in efforts  to 
devise the mechanisms  for  facilitating  global  technology  transfers.  In 
particular,  I support  the  idea of  the purchase  of environmentally  sound 
technology by  international  bodies  such as the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and Development  and  the  International  Development  Association, 
which should provide  such  technology  on non-commercial  terms  to  developing 
countries. 
We cannot  overlook  the  fact  that  the most  valuable  resource  of each  and 
every country  is  its people.  Shifting government  expenditures  to  education 
A/47/PV.53 
8-10 
(Mr. Lee. Republic  of  Korea) 
and other  social  services must be  recognized  as the  soundest  investment  for 
long-term  development.  Providing basic education  to  the many,  as opposed  to 
higher  education  for the  few,  should be  seen  as an underlying  principle  of 
public  investment.  Education  for women,  in particular, will  reap  substantial 
benefits  for society,  including  lower population-growth  rates. 
Inasmuch  as  individual  countries  are  committed  to nurturing  a global 
partnership,  a sufficiently  empowered  multilateral  organ  is needed  to  oversee 
and monitor  future progress.  To ensure  success  in achieving  sustainable 
development  on a global  scale we  should now  focus  on targets  and  schedules 
rather  than on  speeches  and declarations.  It is time  for  the  international 
community  to focus  its efforts on making  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  an effective  instrument  for monitoring UNCED  follow-up  actions. 
The  Republic  of Korea welcomes many of  the  institutional  proposals  for 
the establishment  of  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  The 
Commission,  which my Government  aspires  to  join,  should  be provided  with a 
strong and detailed mandate  and with  a membership  that  reflects  due 
consideration  for equitable  geographical  distribution.  Moreover,  in 
determining  the organizational  structure of  the Commission,  we would  do well 
to give  full  consideration  to the ongoing process  of  revitalization  and 
restructuring  of  the United Nations  system  in the economic,  social  and  related 
fields. 
Non-governmental  organizations  also merit  a participatory  role  in the 
Commission's  activities.  Given  their  often  intimate  relationship  with  the 
many  communities  that  form  the primary  foundation  for  sustainable  development, 
non-governmental  organizations  can contribute much  to  the global  dialogue.  In 
this  respect,  concrete  and practical measures  should be  taken  to encourage and 
support  the  representation  of non-governmental  organizations  in  the work of 
the  Commission. 
A/47/PV.53 
11 
(Mr. Lee. Republic  of  Korea) 
In the  light  of  the need  for a strong  secretariat  support  structure  to 
ensure  the  success  of  the UNCED  follow-up process, we believe  that  the 
Secretary-General  has  a crucial  task,  as chief  administrative  officer  of  the 
Organization,  in establishing  a small, action-oriented  and 
professionally-staffed  body, headed by a senior official with direct  contact 
with the  Secretary-General.  He  trust  that  this collaboration will  prove 
extremely productive  in terms of  advancing  the work  of both  intergovernmental 
and inter-agency  coordination  mechanisms. 
Now  I should  like to draw attention to the progress  of our  efforts 
regarding UNCED  follow-up  activities.  These  days, the notion of  sustainable 
development  has  rapidly  spread  to the people  and policy-makers  of Korea, 
especially  after UNCED.  Social  awareness  of  the  link between environment  and 
development  is being promoted  throughout  the country by the media  and  other 
organizations,  including women's  and  consumers' interest groups. 
In order  to  accommodate  the changing nature  of the global  environmental 
problems  after UNCED,  our  Government  has established  a ministerial  committee 
on the global  environment,  which  is headed  by the Prime Minister.  The 
committee  not  only  sets goals but  also draws up  solid  action plans  with 
acceptable  time-frames  for UNCED  follow-up measures.  The  conclusions  of  the 
committee will be  incorporated  in the Five-Year  National  Economic  and  Social 
Development  Plan  in order  to guide  implementation  strategies  affecting  the 
environment.  I expect  that  these  efforts  can promote  environmentally  sound 
and sustainable  development  and propel  Korea  to an even higher  level of 
achievement  than  that  environed  in Agenda 21. 
To  solve  environmental  problems  in a realistic  and  concrete manner,  the 
Republic of  Korea has begun  to strengthen  various  environmental  regulations  in 
A/47/PV. 53 
12 
(Mr. Lee. Republic of Korea) 
order to improve the quality of life.  We have implemented measures to 
internalize the environmental costs by expanding the "polluter pays 
principle", with an environmental charge system.  In order to enhance 
precautionary policies, the Government is drafting the environmental impact 
assessment law to bring about greater progress in the current environmental 
impact assessment system. 
For the effective implementation of UNCED follow-up programmes in the 
long run, the Government places greater emphasis on reforming the industrial 
structure to make it less energy-consuming and less waste-producing.  In this 
regard, priority is given to the adoption of taxation and financial policies 
in order to encourage energy conservation and increase energy efficiency. 
Emphasis is also placed on the protection of biological diversity.  We have 
taken a number of steps such as carrying out the national basic survey of the 
natural ecosystem and designating natural ecosystem conservation and 
protection areas.  In addition, the ratification by the Republic of Korea of 
the Convention on biodiversity as well as that on climate change is expected 
in the near future, after the necessary domestic arrangements have been 
completed. 
In addition to  a strong national programme, the Republic of Korea has 
announced its commitment to the environmental cooperation of the North-East 
Asian region, which comprises the Korean Peninsula, Japan, Russia, China and 
Mongola.  We are currently working closely with our partner countries in order 
to formulate action programmes to tackle regional environmental problems such 
as marine pollution and acid precipitation. 
With this in mind, the 1992 Seoul Symposium on UNCED and the Prospects of 
the Environmental Regime in the Twenty-first Century was held in Seoul in 
A/47/PV.53 
13-15 
(Mr.  Lee. Republic  of  Korea) 
September  this year.  During  the  Symposium,  the participants  agreed  to 
establish  an  informal, unofficial  network  for environmental  cooperation  within 
the North-East  Asian  region.  Furthermore,  the United  Nations  and  the 
Government  of  the Republic  of Korea will  together  organize  the  North-East 
Asian Environmental  Conference, which will be held  in Seoul next year. 
I  should  like to  conclude by  re-emphasizing  the  importance  of  our 
deliberations  this month.  Indeed, we must during our  discussions  find  the 
political will  and  the  foresight  to  institutionalize  the mechanisms  needed  for 
renewed progress  in the UNCED process.  The  Republic  of Korea  is prepared  to 
share with  others  the experience  gained  in the process  of our  economic 
development.  Each  Government  must  endeavour  to pick  up where  the Earth  Summit 
left off,  and we must  act on behalf  of  future generations  that will  some day 
thank us  for having given  the world  a second  chance. 
Mr.  NAKAMURA  (Japan):  It is  indeed  a great pleasure  to have  the 
opportunity  to address  the General Assembly  today on the  important  question  of 
how to follow up  the United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development 
(UNCED). 
The  Earth  Summit  held  in Rio,  in which  I was honoured  to take part, was 
unprecedented  in almost  every way;  the scope  of  the work  accomplished,  the 
level of participation,  the  extent  of  its  impact  on the public,  and, most 
importantly,  the degree  of  cooperation  among Governments  and  international 
organizations,  among which  the bodies  and  organizations  of  the United  Nations 
system were most  prominent. 
A/47/PV.53 
16 
(Mr. Nakamura. Japan) 
The Rio Declaration and the other epoch-making agreements on the 
framework of international cooperation in the field of environment and 
development that were concluded at the Conference mark a major step forward in 
our efforts to achieve sustainable development.  It is increasingly clear that 
the success of UNCED depends upon implementation of these accords.  The road 
from Rio will be as difficult as the road to Rio was.  At this session, the 
General Assembly must make the arrangements that will enable us to follow up 
on UNCED; it must lay the basis for United Nations involvement in the 
implementation of Agenda 21 and other agreements reached at the Conference. I 
therefore wish to take this occasion to address the major issues involved in 
the UNCED follow-up. 
First of all, it is important that the General Assembly endorse the 
agreements reached at UNCED so as to confirm formally its commitment to 
implementing them.  Also important are the preparations for early and 
effective operation of both the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change and the Convention on Biological Diversity.  For its part, my 
Government intends to make efforts to see that these Conventions are ratified 
as soon as possible. 
Concerning the Statement of Principles on Forests, to which my Government 
attaches particular importance, it would be useful to establish a process to 
review its international implementation.  In this connection, it is most 
important to build confidence between countries in the process of implementing 
the Principles while enhancing cooperation.  My Government believes that such 
confidence will provide the basis for a dialogue on whatever arrangements 
might be necessary in the future.  To this end, my Government intends to 
strengthen overseas technical and financial cooperation through various 
A/47/PV.53 
17 
(Mr. Nakamura,  Japan) 
channels  for  afforestation  and  sustainable management  of  forests, while 
enhancing  sustainable management  of  forest  resources  at home. 
My  Government  also  considers  it of great  importance  to establish  an 
intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  to draw up  a convention  that  will 
provide  an  international  framework  for enhanced  efforts  to  combat 
desertification,  and  it intends  to participate  actively  in the work  of  the 
committee. 
Institutional  arrangements,  in particular  the establishment  of  the 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development,  should be discussed vigorously  at  this 
session of  the  General  Ass&inbly.  I should  like  to outline my  Government's 
basic position  on this  issue. 
First  of  all, any proposal with  regard  to  institutional  arrangements 
should aim  to  strengthen  the  role and  capacity  of  the United Nations, 
including  the General  Assembly  and  the Economic  and  Social  Council,  in the 
economic  and  social  fields.  Institutional  arrangements  should  be built  on and 
integrated  into  ongoing  efforts  to  revitalize  the United  Nations  system.  It 
is important  to  avoid  duplication  or  overlapping  of work  especially when  a new 
forum or body  is created.  The  roles of  the General  Assembly  and  the  Economic 
and Social  Council  in  follov?-up activities  vis-a-vis  the  role of  the 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development  should be  clearly  defined  along  the 
lines envisaged  in Agenda  21. 
In this  connection,  I should  like  to express  my Government's  appreciation 
to the Secretary-General  for his  report  (A/47/598  and  Add.l),  which 
comprehensively  covers  the  important  issues  relating  to  institutional 
arrangements  and offers  ini,ights and  suggestions  for  consideration.  The 
Japanese Government  supports  the major  thrust  of  the  report  and  is  confident 
that it will  provide  a useful  basis  for  discussion. 
A/47/PV.53 
18 
(Mr. Nakamura,  Japan) 
The high-level  Commission  on Sustainable  Development, which has  the key 
role  in following  up on UNCED,  should have broad  representation  among  Member 
States,  reflecting  the  full  diversity  of  the  interests  of  industrialized  and 
developing  countries, particularly  those  that  are environmentally  vulnerable, 
such as small  island  States.  The  participation  of  non-Member  States, 
international  organizations  and,  once  an appropriate  procedure  is  instituted, 
non-governmental  organizations  should  also  should be  promoted. 
A highly  qualified  and competent  secretariat  is  likewise  a prerequisite 
for effective  follow-up  of the Conference.  My  Government  takes  note  of the 
Secretary-General's  proposal, which presents  some of  the main  considerations 
underlying  his  approach,  if not  specific  conclusions.  The  Japanese  Government 
shares his view when he points  out 
"the desirability  of  a single  streamlined  structure  which would  provide a 
common  framework  for  the provision  of overall  support  to the  [Economic 
and  Social  Council] on the one hand,  and  Secretariat  follow-up  to the 
Conference  on the other"  (A/47/598, para. 69). 
Since my  Government  took  the  initiative  in proposing,  during  the 
preparatory  process, the high-level  advisory  body which  is expected  to provide 
high-level  expert  advice  to the  Secretary-General  to assist  him  in  formulating 
proposals  for the Administrative  Committee  on Coordination  (ACC) and  the 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development,  we  are  keenly  interested  in this body. 
My  Government  welcomes  the  Secretary-General's  proposal  that  the  advisory body 
should  consist  of  a relatively  small number  of  eminent  persons  and  should 
maintain  a balance with  respect  to geographical  representation  and  fields of 
expertise. 
As my  Government  has  often  stated,  Japan  intends  to  support  the  efforts 
of developing  and  other  countries  in the  area of environment  and  development. 
A/47/PV.53 
19-20 
(Mr.  Nakamura.  Japan) 
through both bilateral  and multilateral  mechanisms.  On the other  hand, 
self-help  efforts  on the part  of developing  countries  are of  primary 
importance  to make  such  support  truly  effective. 
In  the  implementation  of Agenda  21, a useful  role could be played  by  the 
International  Development  Association  (IDA), which  should pay due  attention to 
this function  in negotiations  on  the  tenth  replenishment  of  its  resources. 
With  regard  to  the Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF),  an agreement  has 
been reached  on  the major  role  it  is to continue  to play,  after  necessary 
improvements,  concerning  financial  contributions  in the  field  of  the  global 
environment.  Appropriate  funds need to be  secured,  once  a mechanism  ensuring 
their effective  and efficient  use  is  established. 
Japan has  continuously  expanded  its official  development  assistance, 
setting  for  itself  the goal  of net disbursements  in excess  of  $50 billion  for 
the five-year  period  1988  to 1992, which  represents  a 100 per  cent  increase 
over the previous  five-year  target.  Since  the urgency  of preserving  the world 
environment  has been  recognized,  Japan designated  its official  development 
assistance  target  in 1989  for  spending  in the  field  of  environmental 
protection.  In this  connection,  I should  like to refer  to Prime  Minister 
Miyazawa's  announcement  at  the Rio  Conference  that Japan will  expand  its 
bilateral  and multilateral  official  development  assistance  in the  field of  the 
environment  to  approximately  900 billion  to 1 trillion yen 
approximately  $7 
to $7.7 billion  - during  the  five-year  fiscal period  that began  in April  1992. 
A/47/PV.53 
21 
(Mr. Nakamura.  Japan) 
Japan's  Official  Development  Assistance  Charter,  established  in June for 
its official  development  assistance,  also highlights  Japan's  stance  of 
attaching  great  importance  to the environment  in its 
official-development-assistance  tasks, stating  the  importance  of  environmental 
conservation  and  the compatibility  of environment  and  development. 
Japan  considers  it important  to establish  partnerships  with  developing 
countries  in implementing  environment-related  official  development 
assistance.  Japan will do  its utmost  to  formulate  and  implement  projects 
through  consultations  with developing  countries. 
I  should  like to  refer  to a recent  development.  I am pleased  to inform 
this body that  a few days  ago the  International  Environmental  Technology 
Centre of  the United Nations  Environment  Programme  was  formally  established in 
Osaka  and  Shiga  in Japan.  In cooperation with  the Government  of  Japan the 
Centre will  carry out  activities  to promote  the  transfer  of  environmentally 
sound  technologies, with  special  focus  on the  sustainable  development  of big 
cities  and  sound management  of  fresh-water  resources. 
Our  joint  endeavour  to protect  the global  environment  has  just begun. 
The United  Nations must  now demonstrate  that  it can  respond  effectively  to the 
needs of  the  international  community  and  its Member  States  in the  field of 
environment  and  development.  I should  like  to  assure you, Mr. President, that 
my Government  will  spare  no effort  to contribute  to the  success  of  this 
endeavour  and  to the  role  the United  Nations will  play  in  it. 
TENTATIVE  PROGRAMME  OF WORK 
The  PRESIDENT:  I should  like  to  inform members  of  the  following 
additions  and  changes  to our  tentative  programme  of work. 
A/47/PV.53 
22 
(The President) 
As already announced last Thursday, 29 October, the Assembly will 
consider agenda item 27 after hearing an address by the President of the 
Republic of Zambia on Tuesday, 10 November, in the morning;  on Friday, 
12 November, the Assembly will consider agenda item 37.  On Monday, 
23 November, the Assembly will take up agenda item 25 and agenda item 40.  On 
Tuesday, 24 November, in the morning, the Assembly will consider agenda 
item 39.  On Wednesday, 25 November, in the morning, the Assembly will take up 
agenda item 139.  On the same day, the Assembly will consider agenda item 26. 
The list of speakers for all those agenda items is now open. 
ORGANIZATION OF WORK 
The PRESIDENT:  I should like to inform members that I have 
conducted extensive informal consultations during the past week with 
representatives of the States Members of the United Nations.  The subject 
matter was the necessary future work of the General Assembly arising from 
agenda item 10, "Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization" (A/47/1), including the report of the Secretary-General entitled 
"An Agenda for Peace - preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping" 
(A/47/277). 
As a result of those consultations, o broad consensus was reached that 
the work on this agenda item should continue in an informal, open-ended 
working group as well as in the Main Committees of the General Assembly. 
Accordingly, I am pleased now to inform the Assembly that I shall establish 
this informal, open-ended working group, and that its initial task will be to 
analyse all the suggestions and ideas put forward in the forum of the General 
Assembly during the general debate, the debate on agenda item 10, and the 
A/47/PV.53 
23 
(The  President) 
informal  consultations.  I shall  report  on the outcome  of  the work  of  the 
group,  including  recommendations,  draft  resolutions  and decisions  on  the 
pertinent  issues by  19 December  1992.  This  informal, open-ended  working group 
will maintain  close working  relations with  the Main  Committees.  My  intention 
is that  the Main Committee  Chairmen be very  closely  associated  with  the work 
of  the group.  As President  of  the General  Assembly,  I shall  maintain 
permanent  and  coordinated  contact with  the President  of  the  Security  Council 
on General  Assembly  matters  and on the work  on agenda  item  10. 
I have  the distinct  pleasure  to  inform  the Assembly  that  the  first 
meeting  of  the  informal  open-ended  working  group will be held  on Wednesday, 
4 November  1992, at 3 p.m.,  in Conference  Room  3. 
All Member  States 
interested  in attending  that meeting  should  register  with  the  Office  of 
General  Assembly  Affairs by  6 p.m.  on Tuesday,  3 November  1992.  I would 
request members  to  refer  to the Journal  for  the  schedule  of  the working group. 
AGENDA  ITEM 79  (continued) 
REPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS  CONFERENCE  ON ENVIRONMENT  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(a) REPORT OF THE  CONFERENCE  (A/CONF.151/26, Vol.  I-IV) 
(b) REPORT  OF THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/598  and Add.  1) 
Mr.  COLOSIO  (Mexico)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  At  the historic 
Rio de Janeiro  Conference,  the  international  community  shaped  a new consensus: 
that  sustainable  development  is the new means  of preserving  and  consolidating 
the progress  and  coexistence  of mankind. 
The  commitments  achieved  at Rio  constitute  the beginning  of  a process 
that  demands  all our  energy.  It also  demands  the  strongest  political  will to 
put  into action  a vast  development  programme  that  is  in everyone's  interests 
and  that guarantees  that  our  needs,  those  of our  children  and  those  of our 
children's  children will be  met. 
A/47/PV.53 
24-25 
(Mr. Colosio.  Mexico) 
At Rio  the community  of  nations,  represented  at  the highest  political 
level, opened  the way  to the  future.  Societies will  not enjoy great wealth  if 
it is generated  at  the expense  of  the environment.  Peaceful  coexistence  will 
not be assured  if, for  the  sake of  apparent progress,  the balance  of  the  Earth 
is put  in  jeopardy. 
In this  context,  the  role the United  Nations  should play was  fully 
acknowledged.  We must  now  strengthen  its action by establishing  mechanisms 
that guarantee  transparency,  effectiveness,  universality  and  democracy. 
A/47/PV.53 
26 
(Mr. Colosio,  Mexico) 
The members  of  the Commission  for  Sustainable  Development  created by the 
Rio  Conference will  examine  the progress made  in the  implementation  of 
Agenda  21, through periodic  evaluations  and action-oriented  recommendations. 
The process, which began  in June  this year, presupposes  new  forms  of 
international  cooperation  that must be  consistently  reflected  in  the 
Commission's  working methods.  The  idea is to combine  efforts  and will, not to 
condemn or  to punish. 
We must  speak out,  and we must  recognize  that  in the  area of  new and 
additional  financial  resources  the  results  achieved  at Rio  fell  short  of 
expectations.  The  Commission  for Sustainable  Development  gives  us  an 
opportunity  to correct  those  shortcomings  by  creating  a functional  link 
between  those  resources  and  all other  sources of  financing with  a  view  to the 
complete  implementation  of Agenda  21.  But our  achievements  will  be meagre 
unless we obtain  a commitment  from  the wealthiest  countries.  In our view, 
national  efforts  need  to be  clearly echoed  on the  international  level. 
For Mexicans,  the priorities  are  clear;  in 1992 we  are  devoting 
1 per  cent  of our gross  domestic  product  to programmes  to  improve  the 
environment.  It is  indispensable  that  national  and  international  financial 
resources  be  available.  It  is therefore  necessary  that  the more  developed 
countries  honour  their  commitment  to transfer  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross 
national  product  to development  programmes. 
We pay  a tribute  to  the  countries  that,  in  response  to  the  Rio 
agreements, have made  financial pledges  at this  session.  He  appeal  to all 
other  nations with  a similar  commitment  to  follow their  example. 
A/47/PV.53 
27 
(Mr. Colosio, Mexico) 
Directly  related  to the  availability  of  financial  resources  is the 
question of  the transfer  of  technology,  which  should  take place  on the most 
favourable  terms possible  and  should  include,  inter  alia, timely  access  to 
scientific  and  technical  information,  the  strengthening  of  institutional 
capacity  and  the training  of personnel.  All  those elements  are  particularly 
significant  for  the achievement  of  sustainable  development.  The  Commission 
must  create machinery  to  follow up  these  efforts  and encourage  the transfer  of 
technology  in the  framework  of Agenda 21. 
Desertification  is today  among  the most  critical  problems  afflicting 
nations,  irrespective  of  their  level of development.  This growing  phenomenon 
affects  an increasing  number  of  societies, and we  therefore  deem  it enormously 
important  to begin negotiations  so the  international  community  can sign  and 
ratify an  international  convention  to combat  desertification. 
Mexico believes  also  that  the General Assembly  should  accord  due 
importance  to agreements  pertaining  to the oceans  and  seas  and  to the 
protection of  their  living  resources, as well  as to those pertaining  to  small 
island States. 
Development  and  environmental  responsibility  are  inseparable principles. 
We do not want  to be domin?ted  by a geography  of guilt.  We want  to face our 
historic  responsibility  in present  and  future development.  The  sovereignty  of 
States depends on a just  and  lasting  solution  to development  problems, 
creating a favourable  economic  environment  for the growth of nations. 
We have  the natural  resources; what we need  is the  technology  and  the 
scientific  know-how  to ensure  that  our work  is creative, thoughtful  and 
far-reaching enough  to hand  down  to  future generations  effective  environmental 
A/47/PV.53 
28 
(Mr. Colosio. Mexico) 
norms.  Mexico, in full exercise of its sovereignty, has the primary objective 
of soundly managing the environment with the participation of society as a 
whole.* 
The preparations for the Rio Conference inspired striking interest among 
broad sectors of society, which was manifested in active and positive 
participation, mainly through non-governmental organizations.  The same must 
be encouraged in the process now beginning.  To that end, there must be great 
opportunity for participation, both in monitoring the implementation of the 
Rio agreements and in formulating recommendations that will help the 
Commission achieve its goals. 
We in Mexico know that development based on the abuse of natural 
resources is not progress.  We in Mexico have gone beyond a notion of 
development based on "conquering" nature.  For Mexicans, development now means 
harmonious coexistence with nature.  True development must be sustainable and 
must always aim at maintaining harmony between productive activities and the 
protection and enhancement of the environment.  As stipulated in the Rio 
Declaration, protection of the environment is an essential part of the 
development process. 
* Mr. Jesus (Cape Verde), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.53 
29-30 
(Mr. Colosio,  Mexico) 
Similarly, Mexico  considers  that  among  the best  contributions  all  States 
can make  to  the protection  and  enhancement  of  the environment  is the 
eradication  of extreme poverty.  He  can never  reach the goal  of  sustainable 
development  unless we  face  and meet  that  challenge.  We  in Mexico  are  aware of 
this linkage,  and we have  taken  the  institutional  steps necessary  to have  a 
comprehensive,  integral  impact  on the various  elements  affecting  development. 
Thus,  in May  1992, on  the  initative of  the President  of Mexico, 
Mr. Carlos  Salinas  de Gortari,  the Congress  of the Union  created  the 
Secretariat  for Social  Development  with  the central  goal of  raising,  in a 
productive manner,  the general  level  of well-being  of  the Mexican people, 
especially  that  of  the dispossessed.  With  an integral  approach  to 
development,  the new Secretariat  has  responsibility  for  regional  development, 
the fight against poverty,  urban development,  housing  and  environmental 
protection.  In that way  the Mexican Government  has  responded  to a demand;  to 
give institutional  form  to  the concept  of  sustainable  development. 
A/47/PV.53 
31 
(Mr. Colosio, Mexico) 
The Government of Mexico is also focusing its public policy on the 
achievement of balanced social development.  The underlying principle in this 
policy is the fundamental idea of the solidarity programme, which requires 
active participation by society and open, resolute joint responsibility by 
society and government in the fight against poverty and in the quest for 
sustainable development. 
On the basis of these tenets, support has been given to social 
initiatives aimed at breaking the cycle of poverty in its two fundamental 
dimensions: first, the lack of basic services and, second, the lack of 
productive employment.  Thus far, the results of that solidarity have been 
highly satisfactory. 
As a part of these efforts, we in Mexico have drawn up and are 
implementing a programme for productive ecology.  Through this productive 
ecology programme, it is our intention to alleviate the pressure exerted on 
natural resources by many population centres in rural areas, because of the 
absence of other development options.  Hence this programme is aimed at 
supporting alternate forms of production and alternate employment prospects, 
which will allow various social groups to raise their standard of living 
without doing any damage to natural resources. This is how, through a sense of 
solidarity, Mexico is seeking harmony between economic development and the 
environment. 
Mexico stresses its commitment to a present and a future of full respect 
for the environment, and does so fully aware of its past, in which mankind 
coexisted in full harmony with nature.  In fact, the ancient inhabitants of 
what is Mexico today achieved a culture that permitted them to satisfy their 
needs with complete respect for nature.  Their deities  water, the sun, the 
A/47/PV.53 
32 
(Mr. Colosio, Mexico) 
mountains and corn - placed both hiiman beings and resources under their mantle 
of protection. 
Subsequently, the industrial revolution in its quest to satisfy the needs 
of an ever-growing population encouraged unrestricted exploitation of what 
nature offered - a supply which was considered to be inexhaustible.  It is 
true that it promoted progress and generated wealth, but at the same time it 
jeopardized the balance of our ecosystems. 
Today we recognize that nature has its own limits for its regeneration 
and equilibrium, and we are also aware of the fact that the apparent 
development of the few does not ensure peaceful and stable coexistence of the 
peoples of the world. 
Until fairly recently there was a vision of development that gave 
priority to quantitative over qualitative aspects  a vision which encouraged 
the establishment of industries in a disorderly way and the unrestricted 
exploitation of natural resources.  Today in Mexico we have appropriate norms 
and we also have the possibility of access to modern technologies  a 
possibility which is even greater today because of the future free trade 
treaty between Mexico, the United States of America and Canada. 
He gather our inspiration from the past, and we welcome the progress of 
science and technology in order to achieve sustainable development which meets 
the needs of all without endangering the lives of future generations.  As has 
been pointed out by President Salinas de Gortari, we cannot defend the 
environment with a sterile economy, and with industries that evade 
responsibility for protecting the environment.  We want neither a sterile nor 
a destructive economy.  The vast sphere of action between these two extremes 
is where we in Mexico find ourselves. 
A/47/PV.53 
33 
(Mr. Colosio. Mexico) 
International cooperation in a spirit of global solidarity aimed at 
achieving development and the ecological integrity of the Earth is a definite 
need.  The future of mankind lies in planning economic development along with 
ecological development.  The human spirit is born of Mother Earth herself: 
protecting the Earth means protecting our own origins and safeguarding our 
destiny.  Such is the spirit that drives Mexico to join the efforts of the 
United Nations to achieve sustainable development. 
Mr. OUEDRAOGO (Burkina Faso)(interpretation from French):  When we 
met last June in Rio de Janeiro, it was nothing less than an encounter between 
mankind and the organization of its own survival.  Like the rest of the 
international community, Burkina Faso expected much from this unprecedented 
event, which had been prepared with such difficulty, such feverishness and 
such passion.  In that respect, we salute the commitment of Mr. Maurice Strong 
and the devotion of the secretariat which assisted him in his colossal task. 
Two facts emerged from this meeting  the first confirms the indissoluble link 
between the environment and development, while the second establishes that it 
is the follow-up to Rio de Janeiro which will tell if we are up to dealing 
with what is at stake. 
The General Assembly is therefore invited today, for forty-eight hours, 
to clarify and agree on how the decisions taken at Rio de Janeiro should be 
implemented. 
My delegation welcomes the adoption and signature by most States of the 
Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biological Diversity.  They 
are but the start of a long journey which will see them ratified and 
implemented, and their provisions and necessary additions respected. 
Alongside these Conventions, the adoption of Agenda 21 brings us, eight 
years ahead of time, to the twenty-first century.  The century in which we are 
A/47/PV.53 
34-35 
(Mr. Ouedraogo. 
Burkina  Faso) 
living now has  seen  the  subjugation  and  subsequent  political  liberation  of  the 
majority  of mankind.  And when North  and  South met  - the  former bearing  its 
demands, the  latter  its  claims  - the exchanges were more  a matter  of 
confrontation  than of  communication.  The  environment  and development  have 
convinced both North  and South  that  ultimately we  can only be  saved  together 
or perish  together.  The  concept  of  a global partnership  thus  took  shape 
during the gestation  and production  of Agenda  21, which provides  the  bedrock 
of future  relations  of  international  cooperation. 
A/47/PV. 53 
36 
(Mr. Ouedraogo. Burkina  Faso) 
Preliminary  estimates  indicate  that  $125 billion  a year will  be  needed to 
implement  Agenda  21.  A  larger  contribution  by  the developed  countries  is 
needed  to  carry out  all  the  recommendations  of Agenda 21. 
In this  regard, we must  congratulate  and  thank  those  States  that, 
honouring much earlier  commitments,  allocate  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross 
national  product  to official  development  assistance.  He  should  also  encourage 
those  countries  that have  agreed  to try  to  reach  this percentage  by  the year 
2000, and we hope  that  the  rest will be  able  to  join those  two  categories. 
The  recommendations  of Agenda  21 will be  jeopardized  if new  and 
additional  resources  are not provided  and  if  the problem  of  developing 
countries' debt  is not  solved  freeing  those  countries  from  a 
near-insurmountable  handicap  especially  since  the trend  towards  a net  negative 
transfer  of  financial  resources,  coupled with  the deterioration  in the  terms 
of exchange, undermine  their  efforts making  all  their  sacrifices  useless.  At 
the  same  time, ecologically  rational  technologies  must  be made  available under 
preferential  conditions, because otherwise  the global  partnership will be an 
illusory  concept. 
These  are  the  facts 
sad but  true.  Hithout  financial  resources, without 
transfers  of  technology  and without  the political will, translated  into 
action,  this programme  for  survival  and development  cannot be  implemented,  and 
our  speeches will be merely  incantatory.  We  therefore  support  the proposal to 
convene before  the end  of  the year  a pledging  conference  to  implement  the 
activities  envisaged  in Agenda 21. 
A/47/PV.53 
37 
(Mr. Ouedraogo. Burkina  Faso) 
Burkina  Faso,  a country hard hit by  drought  and desertification,  was 
pleased  that  the United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development 
decided  to create  a framework  for negotiations  on the elaboration  by June  1994 
of an  international  convention  to combat  desertification,  particularly  in 
Africa.  Our Minister  of Environment  and Tourism  stated  in Rio  that 
"desertification  endangers  the future  of millions  of people  whose 
survival  depends mainly  on the exploitation  of  land". 
Burkina  Faso  therefore  had  a keen  interest  in participating  actively  and 
positively  in the negotiations  on this  issue, which  is of prime  importance  to 
those countries  affected  by  desertification. 
Here  I should  like  again to express  our  thanks to  all  those who 
contributed  to the  adoption  of  that decision.  Burkina  Faso hopes  that  the 
spirit of  solidarity  that prevailed  in Rio will  continue  to animate  the 
international  coiranunity during  the negotiations  leading  up  to the creation  of 
the intergovernmental  negotiating  committee. 
We hope  that  the convention will contain  firm  and  specific  technical  and 
financial  commitments,  thus  reinforcing  in quality,  intensity  and volume  the 
efforts  already made  nationally  and  subregionally  over more  than  10 years  in 
the battle  against  this  scourge. 
My delegation will participate  actively  and  constructively  in 
negotiations  during  this  forty-seventh  session  to create  an  intergovernmental 
negotiating  committee.  He will  also participate  in negotiations  on 
elaboration  of  the  convention. 
In this  connection,  I should  like to  submit  the  following proposals, 
which have  the  support  of many  of  the  States  concerned. 
A/47/PV.53 
38 
(Mr. Ouedraogo. Burkina  Faso) 
The  intergovernmental  committee,  to be open  to all Member  States  and 
observers,  should:  hold  an organizational  session  and  five  negotiating 
sessions; have  a five-member  bureau  - one  for each  region; have  an ad hoc 
secretariat,  led by  an experienced,  high-level  official;  and have  at  its 
disposal,  as  in the  case of  the Convention  on climate  change,  a group of 
multidisciplinary  experts.  The  negotiating  process  should  be  financed  from 
the Organization's  ordinary  budget  and by voluntary  contributions.  The 
committee  should  report  to  the General  Assembly  through  a channel  to be 
decided  on by  the  Assembly. 
As Ouagadougou  is the headquarters  of  the Permanent  Inter-State  Committee 
on Drought  Control  in the Sahel  and  the base  for  the  services  of  the United 
Nations  Sudano-Sahelian  Office, we believe  that  these  organizations  as well as 
the  Intergovernmental  Authority  for Drought  and Development  will  have  a role 
to play  in this process.  The  relevant  non-governmental  organizations  could 
also help us ensure  the  success of  this  endeavour. 
During  the preparatory  phase  the debate  on the  structure  and  management 
of  the environment-development  equation was  arduous  and  lengthy.  In Rio we 
finally  agreed  on the principle  of establishing  a high-level  Coinmission on 
Sustainable  Development,  mandated  to follow up  and  coordinate  the decisions of 
the Conference.  The  Commission  will be  the main,  central  intergovernmental 
mechanism  for  following  up on UNCED  at  the national,  regional  and 
international  levels. 
He  believe  that  the Commission  should  be  set up under  Article  68 of the 
Charter  in order  to ensure  that  the Conference  decisions  are  effectively 
followed  up. 
A/47/PV.53 
39-40 
(Mr. Ouedraogo. Burkina  Faso) 
The  Commission's  tasks  are to enhance  international  cooperation;  to 
rationalize  intergovernmental  decisions  on the  integration  of  environment  and 
development  issues; and  to examine  the progress  in the  implementation  of 
Agenda  21 at the  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  In  carrying 
them out  it  should be guided  by  the principles  of  the Rio Declaration  for 
sustainable  development  in every country.  The  Commission  should  consist  of  53 
members  elected by  the Economic  and Social Council  for a three-year  term  on 
the basis  of equitable  geographical  distribution,  and  should be  at the  highest 
possible  level.  In accordance with United  Nations  practice. Member  States  and 
Observers  could  be  admitted,  at their  request,  as observers. 
The Commission's  follow-up  and  coordination  functions would  also  cover 
all those  listed  in chapters  33, 34 and  38, including  transfer  of  technology 
and relations with  financial  resources  and mechanisms,  in the  light  of what I 
described  earlier,  including  the Global  Environment  Fund. 
The  Commission  on Sustainable  Development  should have  a  separate 
secretariat,  coming within  the United Nations budget  and be headed  by  an 
Under-Secretary-General  directly  responsible  to the Secretary-General.  The 
secretariat, which will  have  to be highly qualified  and  draw expertise  and 
experience  from  the UNCED preparatory  process  should be  staffed  on the  basis 
of equitable  geographical  distribution. 
The  Commission's  first  session  should  take place  in New York  in  1993.  In 
1997 it should be possible  to convene  a special meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  to examine  and  evaluate  the  implementation  of Agenda  21.  We  believe 
that the Commission  should have  a mandate  that  is not  static, but  dynamic  and 
evolutionary,  so  that  in the  future  it may embrace  all  the  aspects  and  tasks 
that the General  Assembly  deems  it useful  to add  in order  to ensure 
sustainable  development. 
A/47/PV.53 
41 
(Mr. Ouedraogo. Burkina Faso) 
My delegation has not dealt with all the aspects of Agenda 21 and all the 
results of Rio, but we are convinced that the best way to approach these 
subjects is always to bear in mind justice and solidarity, which we must seek 
to ensure in all our endeavours. 
Speaking from this very rostrum of our common estate, Burkina Faso once 
posed the following question: 
"Will the new world order be based on the universal message of the 
Charter or on the harsh and selective realities of the international 
balance of forces?  In the circumstances, what is to be the role of the 
have-nots  the immense multitude of people who are suffering from 
hunger, thirst, ignorance and disease?  In a word, are these unfortunates 
to remain outside or are they to enter our family house so that we can 
all sit down together as brothers, to share and to grow together?" 
(A/46/PV.4. p. 48) 
The answer is in our hands. 
Mr. NATH (India):  At the outset. Sir, I would like to express my 
delegation's satisfaction at seeing you chair this meeting.  I would also like 
to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his detailed statement introducing this agenda 
item.  India attaches great importance to his statement, which sets the tone 
for this debate.  The Permanent Representative of Malaysia, Ambassador Razali 
Ismail, will be carrying our deliberations through to their final outcome in 
the Second Committee.  He conducted similar negotiations with great aplomb and 
skill during the process of the United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development (UNCED), and I wish him good luck.  He can count on the full 
cooperation of the Indian delegation. 
A/47/PV.53 
42 
(Mr. Nath,  India) 
I  am  speaking  on behalf  of  a country  that  is neither  rich nor powerful  in 
the conventionally  understood  sense  of  these  terms, a country  nevertheless 
that  counts one-sixth  of  the human  race  as its children  and encompasses  a 
mega-biodiversity  of  subcontinental  dimensions,  an unsurpassed  range of 
geo-climatic  conditions  and  a tradition of environmental  sensitivity  that  goes 
to the very  roots of  our millennia-old  culture. 
The problems  of material  poverty  and  industrial  underdevelopment  that 
plague us only  serve  to heighten  this  sensitivity  to  environmental 
conservation.  More  than  anyone  else,  it  is the poor who  suffer most  the 
consequences  of  ecological  imbalance.  Shifting monsoon patterns,  degraded 
agricultural  land,  denuded  soil  and  cruel droughts  are only one  side of  the 
picture; greater  exposure  to health hazards  and  susceptibility  to  disease 
complete  it. 
We  in India  are determined  in our  resolve  to strive  for a better  quality 
of life  for our people,  and we  know that  the way  forward  is the path of 
sustainable development.  But between  the knowing  and  the doing  lies a chasm 
wide and deep that  can be bridged  only by a great  technological  leap. 
Much happened  at Rio.  The  awareness  and  consciousness  aroused by  UNCED 
is enormous.  But where do we go  from here?  In vain would we  search  for  the 
accomplishments  of Rio  in the voluminous  documentation  that  flowed  from  it, or 
in the glare  and glamour  of  the media blitz  that  continue  to surround  it.  It 
is only by getting  to the heart  of  the matter  and working  our way  outwards 
that we can hope  to carry out  the  tremendous  task that we  set  for  ourselves 
five months  ago, that we  can hope  to  translate  into  reality  the political  will 
demonstrated  by over  a hundred  Heads of  State  or Government  when  they  adopted 
the Rio  Declaration. 
A/47/PV.53 
43 
(Mr. Hath,  India) 
What  is the  core of the outcome  of UNCED?  I could  summarize  the  chief 
elements  as  follows. 
First,  environmental  problems  cannot  be  seen  in isolation,  and  the basic 
development  needs of developing  countries must  be met before  environment  by 
itself  can  take precedence  over other  concerns. 
Secondly,  global  environmental  concerns  largely  require  immediate  action 
by  the  industrialized  world  - both  corrective  and preventive.  Developing 
countries  can  and will participate, provided  they  are given  the  wherewithal 
for the extra effort  required. 
Thirdly,  greater  financial  flows  and  the  transfer  of  environmentally 
sound  technology  to developing  countries must be  ensured. 
Fourthly,  no  international  debate  on  the environment  or  on  development 
can  impinge  upon  the  sovereign  right  of each  country  over  the use  of  its 
natural  resources. 
Fifthly,  for globally  sustainable  development,  a global  partnership on a 
basis of  equality,  with equity  as a prerequisite,  is  imperative. 
Post-Rio  activities,  at the  international  level  in particular,  must 
continue  to  focus on  these  core elements.  Similarly,  international 
institutions, whether  exis''ing or new, must  structure  their  activities  in a 
manner  that  takes  these  elements  into  account.  The  implementation  of the 
Conventions,  for  example, must  not be attempted  in a manner  that  imposes 
unnecessary  burdens  on developing  countries  or  seeks  to  regulate  essential 
economic  activities.  This would  not  only be unjust  and  against  the  spirit of 
Rio, but  also  foolhardy  and  infructuous.  It  is necessary  to  take  a long, hard 
look  at  the  institutions  we have, our priorities  - or  lack of  them 
and how 
these may be modified  so as to harmonize  environmental  policies  for  the common 
A/47/PV.53 
44-45 
(Mr. Hath. India) 
weal.  Only by reconciling the development needs of mankind with the 
environmental compulsions that we confront can we hope to protect our planet. 
In calling for the establishment of a Commission on Sustainable 
Development, UNCED proposed an institutional mechanism to achieve it.  The 
Conference deliberately did not specify its areas of priority, just as it did 
not fix priorities within Agenda 21.  An institution to deal with a subject as 
vast as environment and development must inevitably have variable priorities 
variable over time, variable over regions.  What is of great importance today 
may be overtaken by some other sector in a few years.  What is most important 
to one region is very often of secondary importance to another.  But 
cross-sectoral issues affect all of us in much the same way and are also 
unlikely to change in nature or dimension in just  a few years.  It is also 
within cross-sectoral issues that international cooperation can be most 
productive, most effective and perhaps least controversial. 
A/47/PV.53 
46 
(Mr. Hath. India) 
The obvious inferencfc is that the Commission on Sustainable Development 
should focus primarily on cross-sectoral issues, such as the flow of 
additional resources, the modalities for transfer of technology, the 
development of capabilities, removal of trade imbalances, the reorientation of 
international institutions where necessary, and so on.  Sectoral programmes, 
through which the Rio decisions would actually be implemented, will have to be 
seen in the context of these cross-sectoral concerns.  For example, if  a 
country wishes to accelerate the programmes related to safe drinking-water, 
then the Commission should be charged with the responsibility of promoting and 
encouraging the necessary external assistance which is required for these 
programmes, whether it be financial resources or technology or the development 
of capabilities, h\iman resources and institutions.  But we would not expect 
the Commission to decide on priorities within that country or to delve into 
internal policy frameworks. 
Likewise, the review methodologies adopted should be thematic rather than 
country-specific.  This woi'ld help focus on the pressing problems at hand and 
avoid tangential arguments which could dilute our efforts in a sea of 
polemics.  The work of the proposed Commission would not be meaningful, or 
even acceptable, if it strayed into areas which are essentially national 
concerns and are not relev^'nt to international cooperation.  We have in this 
regard the interesting parallel of the United nations Environment Programme, 
which has achieved its greatest success not in local or regional contexts but 
on matters concerning the global environment.* 
* 
Chair. 
Mr. Elhouderi (Libyan Arab Jamahariya), Vice-President, took the 
A/47/PV.53 
47 
(Mr. Nath.  India) 
Agenda  21 also  refers  to a high-level  advisory body of eminent  persons 
working  in their  individual  capacity  to advise  the Secretary-General  on  issues 
of environment  and  development.  I share  the belief  that  advice  from  an 
international  panel  of eminent  experts would  always be of benefit  to us.  This 
body must  not  reduce  the  flexibility which the Secretary-General  should  be 
able to enjoy  in obtaining  advice  on various matters.  Its scope  should be  to 
supplement his  efforts  in drawing  upon  international  expertise  and not  give 
rise to ambiguities  in the  linkages  between  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  and  the United Nations  system  as a whole. 
Flowing  from Rio  is the  response  of the other  organs of  the United 
Nations  system.  There  is an encouraging  and healthy  trend  in most  of  these 
organizations  towards  incorporating  the principles  of environment  and 
development  into  their  activities.  There  is still an urgent need  for 
incremental monetary  flows, but while  this  is happening  a reorientation  of 
some activities  can go  a long way  in promoting  sustainable  development. 
Crucial  to the  implementation  of Agenda  21 is the need  to mobilize  additional 
resources  for  capacity-building  to enable  countries  to meet  the challenges  of 
the twenty-first  century  adequately.  The United Nations  Development 
Programme's  Capacity  21 initiative  is an  important  instrument  in  achieving 
this.  One disturbing  feature has been  the desire of  institutions  to draft 
policies  and programmes  in  isolation  from what  the other organs  attempt  to 
do.  These organizations  must  be given  some guidelines  that  the  repeated 
exhortations  from Rio  regarding  a coordinated  approach must  be  respected.  The 
activities  undertaken  have  to be harmonized  with  those undertaken by  other 
organizations  and  iu accordance  with  the guidelines  or  framework which  the 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development may  formulate. 
A/47/PV.53 
48 
(Mr. Hath, India) 
India would propose to the Commission on Sustainable Development the need 
to prioritize the provision of safe drinking-water to each and every human 
settlement on this planet. 
There is need to keep under constant review the realization of the 
0.7 per cent target for official development assistance, since without 
financing the implementation of Agenda 21 would be in serious doubt.  We do 
not ask for aid for aid's sake; financial assistance is sought so as to 
catalyse our developmental effort and harmonize it with the broader 
environmental objectives we are all committed to achieving.  We cannot lose 
sight of the fact that it is the developed countries that are chiefly 
responsible for the degradation of the global environment.  This is not merely 
a historical observation.  It continues to be so.  The contribution of 
80 per cent of mankind, in Asia, in Africa, in South America, to global 
pollution is insignificant in comparative terms.  This, in effect, means that 
we, by our underdevelopment and the non-utilization of our environmental 
space, are actually subsidizing the high consumption patterns and lifestyles 
of economically developed societies  lifestyles which would have been 
impossible, which would have doomed the Earth a long time ago, had we Asians 
and Africans and Latin Americans been as profligate with our natural 
inheritance as developed countries have been. 
Appropriate technolog;. is the key with which we must unlock the resources 
of the Earth if we are to make any progress in achieving the goal of 
sustainable development.  The yearning for development is so fundamental that 
it cannot be curbed, nor can it be held in harness to await a more conducive 
climate.  It will go on regardless.  The onus is therefore on developed 
countries to provide the n.scessary technology on affordable terms and the 
funding for the development of indigenous technologies.  India has time and 
A/47/PV.53 
49-50 
(Mr. Nath. India) 
again suggested the Planet Protection Fund as a suitable mechanism by which 
the transfer of technology could be realized in consonance with the spirit of 
Rio. 
Two Conventions were signed at Rio.  They are somewhat different from 
other agreements, being legally binding instruments which will be operated by 
the parties to those agreements.  But in more senses than one they would 
influence and be influenced by activities undertaken as a follow-up to Rio 
whether through the Commistion on Sustainable Devslopment or through other 
organizations.  The Conventions represent an earnest effort by the global 
community to work together towards protecting our common environment.  They 
together constitute a fine balance between the recognition of national 
sovereignty over natural resources and the need to cooperate globally on 
certain issues.  The main elements of these Conventions are similar to what I 
have called the core elements of the Rio agreements.  If the Conventions are 
implemented successfully, undoubtedly the implementation of the larger areas 
represented by Agenda 21 will gain momentum.  It is therefore necessary to set 
into motion as quickly as possible the process envisaged by both Conventions. 
India view these as complementary to each other;  the objectives of one are 
inevitably reinforced by the other. 
The effectiveness of international environmental conventions is certainly 
enhanced if they are acceded to by all countries; but we cannot lose sight of 
the fact that it is to each country's advantage to accede to these 
Conventions.  Failure to dt. so does not so much detract from the value of the 
Conventions as to jeopardize the credibility of the commitment to 
conservation, lending it a hollow ring. 
A/47/PV.53 
51 
(Mr. Nath. India) 
Environmental irresponsibility on the part of some has resulted in 
forests' suddenly being viewed as the only lifeline to the future.  It would 
certainly not be proper to regard the conservation of forests as sufficient 
excuse to continue wasteful patterns of energy consumption.  We in India do 
not look upon our forests as mere sinks for toxic emissions; forests mean 
much, much more to us.  In India forests are a community resource, with 
social, economic and cultural ramifications, and their management has to be 
seen in that context.  The sovereign right of a country to use the natural 
resources within its jurisdiction, though so basic, still seems to require 
reassertion.  Forests are an issue for global cooperation only in so far as 
financial, technical and scientific cooperation is concerned.  They are not a 
global issue if this involves international regulation, which is not only 
unacceptable, but also unworkable.  The Forestry Principles agreed upon at Rio 
represent a delicate balance between the differing interests of various groups 
of countries, and we should all work together to implement those Principles to 
the best of our ability, enhanced by international cooperation. 
Never before have the nations of the world reverberated with such 
interdependence.  Never before has humankind had so much at stake.  Never 
before have the realities been so stark.  Development must be global for it to 
be sustainable.  Man has but one Earth, one planet, one home.  We went to Rio 
with great expectations and we came away with even greater hope:  hope for the 
future of our planet  indeed, hope for the future of mankind. 
Gathered here in the General Assembly of the United Nations, for the 
first session since UNCED, we find that the time has come to take those 
initial steps to give concrete shape to that hope.  Let our steps be sure. 
A/47/PV.53 
52 
(Mr. Nath,  India) 
decisive  and  just,  for  if we  falter  or  fail  ....  But we  shall  not; of  that I 
am  confident. 
Mr. CHAREST  (Canada):  I am proud  to  speak on behalf  of  the  people 
of Canada  at this meeting  of  the General  Assembly.  We undertake  a historic 
task here  today;  to  reflect  on  last June's United nations  Conference  on 
Environment  and Development  (UNCED),  otherwise  known  as the Earth  Summit,  held 
in Rio de Janeiro, and more  importantly,  to begin  implementing,  in  concrete 
terms, the decisions  reached  there. 
The Earth  Summit  marked  a watershed  in international  affairs.  It was 
held in  response  to startling  evidence  that our planet  is  in trouble.  And  it 
was held with  the understanding  that we  cannot  continue  to behave  as we  have 
in the past,  if we  are  to  survive. 
In Rio we  committed  ourselves  to an urgent  new course  of  action;  a new 
course that we  call  sustainable  development.  Our deliberations  here  in Hew 
York must  demonstrate  our  resolve  to turn the noble words  of planetary  healing 
uttered  in Rio  into  action. 
From  the earliest  stages Canada was  a strong  supporter  of  the 
Conference.  We  sought  to play  a constructive part  in the  advance 
preparations, the preliminary  negotiating  rounds  and  the actual meetings  at 
the Earth  Summit  itself. Further, we hope  to  continue playing  a  constructive 
role as nations  and  international  organizations  move  forward  to  embrace 
sustainable  development  and  the products  of Rio. 
Having  a resource-based  economy,  Canada  recognizes  the challenges  of 
sustainable  development.  We  also  feel  the pressures  of modern  industrialized 
society. Perhaps  this  is why we  are concerned  that  a way be  found  to build 
A/47/PV.53 
53 
(Mr. Charest. Canada) 
bridges and partnerships between rich and poor. North and South, East and West. 
We believe that a better, more effective dialogue among leaders is the 
only way to build understanding, trust and commitment to common action  the 
very necessary foundation for an environmentally sustainable world, 
(spoke in French) 
As I have already said, Canada sought to play a constructive part in the 
preparations for the Conference, the preliminary negotiating rounds and the 
actual meetings at the Summit itself. 
We were able to do so because we were well prepared.  We had played an 
active part in the World Commission on Environment and Development.  We had 
responded to the Commission's 1987 report by setting up a National Task Force 
and national, provincial and territorial round tables on the environment and 
the economy.  And we had heeded the message of the Commission's report by 
adopting sustainable development as the main goal of our Green Plan, the 
national strategy that Canada launched in 1990. 
Developing our Green Plan taught us valuable lessons, which we were able 
to apply in Rio.  It became clear to us that to implement sustainable 
development three factors are vital:  transparency, accountability and 
inclusiveness.  First, decision-making must be transparent; the process must 
be accessible to the people who will be affected by the decisions. Secondly, 
all sectors of society must be accountable for their actions, or their 
inaction;  they must all give specific commitments by which their performance 
can be judged.  Thirdly, sustainable development demands partnership, with 
everyone taking part in a common effort.  There is a place for everyone at the 
table of sustainable development; no one can be left out if we are to succeed. 
A/47/PV.53 
54-55 
(Mr. Charest.  Canada) 
This  is the way  to ensure  a healthy  environment  and  a prosperous  economy 
for present  and  future  generations. 
We were pleased  that  this was  the approach  adopted  for  the Earth 
Summit.  In  fact,  transparency,  accountability  and  inclusiveness  are now being 
called the  "Rio Way".  That  is an accomplishment  as great  as  the  other 
achievements  of UNCED, because making  the  shift  to  sustainable  development 
requires  not  simply money  or new programmes,  but  a change  in attitude  and 
above all  in the decision-making  process. 
Indeed,  Rio has  already  changed  Canadians.  The perceptions  that  affect 
behaviour  have been profoundly  altered.  Fully  two thirds of Canadians 
three 
times  the pre-UHCED  number 
recognize  the need  for  international  cooperation 
on important  environmental  issues, 
(spoke  in  English) 
One essential  change will  involve our  institutions.  Canada  strongly 
supported  the creation of  a Commission  on Sustainable  Development  at the  Earth 
Summit.  We welcome  the  report  of  the Secretary-General  on how to  achieve  that 
goal. 
A/47/PV.53 
56 
(Mr. Charest, Canada) 
We would like to see a high-level commission set up as soon as possible. 
This body will promote the implementation of Agenda 21 internationally; more 
generally, it will serve as a catalyst for sustainable development within the 
United nations system.  To be effective, it is crucial that the commission 
retain strong links with the United nations development system.  He believe 
that this commission should incorporate the principles of what we call in 
Canada the "Rio way":  transparency, accountability and inclusiveness.  To 
this end, it should provide for the active participation of non-government 
organizations and other major groups, a principle on which Canada will 
continue to insist.  As a first step to demonstrate Canada's commitment to the 
benefits of the Rio way, I am proud that Canada's delegation to the United 
Nations debate on UNCED follow-up today will include representatives of 
non-government organizations. 
Finally, to be effective the commission must be realistic.  Its work plan 
must be pragmatic, flexible and achievable.  It should also proceed in a 
spirit not of confrontation but of cooperation and mutual support.  That is 
the way to achieve tangible and significant results. 
On behalf of Canada, I thank the Secretary-General for his thoughtful 
report on institutional follow-up, which provides a useful basis for our 
deliberations.  The report underlines the importance of integrating 
environmental considerations into economic and social decision-making, in 
order to move the world towards sustainable development.  Rio was a success in 
providing a framework for this goal:  Agenda 21, the Rio Declaration and the 
forest principles offer a comprehensive blueprint for action.  For Canada, the 
key issue is that the commission must be capable of ensuring the 
implementation of this ambitious blueprint at the national, regional and 
international levels. 
A/47/PV.53 
57 
(Mr. Charest.  Canada) 
Of  course,  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development  is only one part  of 
the picture.  Sustainable  development  themes  and programmes  will have  to be 
integrated  into  the entire United Nations  system with  the help of  a reformed 
and effective  Economic  and  Social  Council. 
Specifically,  on environmental  aspects  of  sustainable  development,  for  20 
years  the United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP) has played  a notable 
part  in this  field.  Canada has  strongly  supported UNEP  since  its  creation, 
and we  continue  to do  so.  Over  the years, the Programme,  under  the  leadership 
of Dr. Tolba, has  carried  out  a very broad  and difficult  mandate.  It  is to be 
commended  for  its efforts  and  for  its many  successes.  Canada  looks  to an 
enhanced  role  for UNEP  in the  future,  and  to a strengthening  of  its  capacity 
to undertake  its mandate.  I believe  that UNEP will play  an even more 
important  role  in  the years  to come by enhancing  its efforts  in  such 
programmes  as  its environmental  assessment,  the EARTHWATCH  Programme,  and  in 
the development  of  legal  instruments  to address environmental  threats  shared 
by many nations.  All Member  States must  renew,  and where possible  augment, 
their  commitments  to UNEP, both  tangible  and  intangible,  in order  to give  it 
the strong  support  it deserves.  I believe  that UNEP has  reached  full 
maturity,  and  is  ready  to meet  the challenges  ahead.  At  the Earth  Summit, 
Prime Minister Mulroney  announced  that Canada will  double  its contribution  to 
UNEP.  That  increase  clearly  indicates  our  confidence  in the United  Nations 
Environment  Programme. 
(spoke  in  French) 
When  attending  the Earth  Summit,  Canada's  Prime Minister  proposed  five 
crucial  steps  to  capitalize  fully on the momentum  of  the  summit.  These  steps 
constitute  for  us  in Canada  a framework  for environmental  cooperation. 
A/47/PV.53 
58 
(Mr. Charest.  Canada) 
Mr. Mulroney  called  on all  countries  to translate  into action  and  coordinate 
their  commitment  to  sustainable  development  through  national  "green" plans. 
He  accepted  an invitation  from  the United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP) 
to  share with  other nations  Canada's  experience  in this  area.  In  this  regard, 
Canada has been pleased  to commit  Can$  2 million  to UHDP's  new Capacity  21 
programme, which has been  established  to help  developing  countries  build  up 
their  desired  capacities  in the  area of management  of  the environment  and 
sustainable  development.  Secondly,  the Prime Minister  called  urgently  for the 
expeditious  signing,  ratification  and  implementation  of  the Conventions  on 
biodiversity  and  climate  change,  and gave  an assurance  that  Canada  would 
ratify  these  agreements  before  the end  of 1992. 
Thirdly,  he  called  on  the developed  countries  to  act  on  aid,  trade  and 
debt  in order  to help  the developing  nations make  the  transition  to 
sustainable  development.  With  regard  to aid, he  noted  that  Canada  supported 
the Global  Environmental  Facility, pledging  that Canada would  contribute  its 
fair  share.  On  trade, he proposed  that  the next  round  of  General  Agreement on 
Tariffs  and Trade  (GATT) negotiations  focus  on environment  issues.  And  on 
debt, he  announced  that  Canada had  reached  agreement  with various  countries in 
Latin America  to  convert  up  to Can$  145 million of  official  development 
assistance  debt  in Latin America  into  sustainable  development  projects. 
Fourthly, Mr. Mulrone/ addressed  the question  of  international 
institutional  machinery.  He called  for  action by  the General  Assembly  to set 
up  a Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  He  also  undertook  to broaden the 
terms of  reference  of Canada's  International  Development  Research  Centre  to 
include  sustainable  development,  and provide  for United  Nations  involvement in 
this  institution.  Over  the next  10 years, the Canadian  International 
A/47/PV.53 
59 
(Mr. Charest,  Canada) 
Development  Research  Centre will be  required  to manage  Can$  1 billion 
allocated  to building  up  research  and  technological  capacity  in  developing 
countries. 
Fifthly,  the Prime Minister  proposed  a renewed  effort  to draft  an Earth 
Charter,  fixing  1995 as the target  date  for  its completion,  to coincide  with 
the fiftieth  anniversary  of  the United nations  General  Assembly.  In  addition, 
Mr. Mulroney  called  for  immediate  follow-up  to UNCED's  achievements  on  forests 
and  fishing, 
(spoke  in  English) 
The  consensus we  reached  on the  Statement  of Principles  on  the 
Management,  Conservation  and  Sustainable  Development  of Forests was hard won, 
as I know  from my  own  involvement  in the negotiations.  That  statement  stands 
as the first  international  acknowledgement  of the need  to  act  together  to 
preserve  the world's  forests.  It  is critical  that we move  on two  fronts. 
First, nations must  do  their  utmost  to  implement  the guiding  principles 
domestically;  and,  secondly, we must  strengthen  international  dialogue  on 
forests, principally  through  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development  as the 
forum  for monitoring UNCED  follow-up,  and  also  through  the Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  (FAO) and  the  International  Tropical  Timber 
Organization  (ITTO).  This  is a priority  for Canada,  and we  are  taking 
immediate  steps.  Our National  Forest  Strategy  - Canada's  sustainable  forestry 
action plan 
will be  adjusted  to  fulfil  the guiding principles  on  forests. 
Our domestic model  forest programme  will  create  a network  of  10 model  forests 
across Canada, with  the  involvement  of government,  business,  non-governmental 
organizations,  community  organizations  and  indigenous people.  In Rio, 
Mr. Mulroney  announced  the  international  counterpart  of  this  initiative. 
A/47/PV.53 
60 
(Mr. Charest, Canada) 
Canada will support the establishment of model forests in three developing 
countries.  Our goal is to build a global network of sustainable forestry in 
action.  The international model forests programme is one example of how 
nations can work together to give meaning to the concept of sustainable 
development. 
Canada's Prime Minister also called for action on the issue of 
overfishing on the high seas  something of vital concern to thousands of 
fishermen in Canada's Atlantic provinces.  These Canadians have seen a drastic 
decline in all fish stocks  most notably the northern cod, a resource of 
once-legendary richness exploited for 400 years by North Americans and 
Europeans, and more recently by distant-water fishing fleets from Asia as 
well.  How that resource is in danger of being lost forever.  The economic and 
social effects of this precipitous decline in stocks on the fishing 
communities in Atlantic Canada have been catastrophic.  Further, the impact is 
being felt around the world. 
A/47/PV.53 
61 
(Mr. Charest,  Canada) 
One of  the principal  reasons  for  the  sharp decline  in  fish  stocks  on the 
Grand Banks of Hewfoundland  is the  indiscriminate  overfishing  on the high  seas 
beyond  Canada's  200-mile  limit.  And  the  same overfishing  can be  seen on many 
of the world's major  fishing grounds.  The  only way  in which  the  international 
community  can avert  a calamity  in high-seas  fishing  is through  international 
cooperation 
by  establishing  rules  to which  all  fishing nations will  adhere. 
UNCED's  Agenda  21 calls  for  the convening,  as soon as possible, of  an 
intergovernmental  conference  under United  nations  auspices with  a view to 
implementing  the provisions  of  the United  nations  Convention  on  the Law of  the 
Sea that  relate  to  straddling  fish  stocks  and highly migratory  fish stocks. 
Canada strongly  endorses  such a step and  is working with  like-minded  States  at 
this session of  the General Assembly  on a draft  resolution  calling  for  the 
convening of  a conference  on high-seas  fisheries, to begin work  in the  spring 
of 1993.  The goal  that we  seek  to achieve  through  this  conference,  on behalf 
of the fishermen  of  the world,  is the  creation of  a high-seas  fishing  regime 
that will  result  in  sustainable  development  for all. 
We must be prompt  in our efforts  to  respond  to this  crisis.  Time, tide 
and declining  fish  stocks will wait  for no one.  We must  therefore  set a 
deadline of  two years  from now  for  the United  Nations high-seas  fishery 
conference  to complete  its work.  To delay  any  longer would  ensure  the 
devastation of both  the  coastal  fisheries  and  the high-seas  fisheries 
which 
are interdependent  - the world  over. 
This will be  one of  the  first  tests  of  the Rio  spirit.  We  are  convinced 
that, with good will  on all  sides, the outcome will be  successful.  Action  in 
all these  areas will  do much  to  further  the cause  of  sustainable  development. 
A/47/PV.53 
62 
(Mr. Charest. Canada) 
(spoke in French) 
We must also continue the discussions between North and South that began 
in Rio.  The Earth Svimmit was important because it bound together the concepts 
of environment and of development.  Rio reminded us that poverty forces people 
to plunder their environment and draws them into ever greater poverty.  It is 
an unsustainable cycle that we in the developed world must help to stop. 
From the Rio experience we learned that we can find solutions  but only 
if we understand each other's points of view.  Naturally, dialogue can be 
difficult, as different nations face very different problems.  But Rio showed 
not just that we can find solutions but that we must do so.  Canada has a 
proud tradition of fostering dialogue that leads to innovation and creative 
solutions.  It is a tradition that we intend continuing. 
Canada is committed to achieving sustainable development in partnership 
with the third-world countries.  The Canadian International Development 
Agency's policy on environmentally sustainable development lays the groundwork 
for this partnership.  Among others, an important task before us this month 
will be the launching of the process for drawing up an international 
convention to combat desertification, 
(spoke in English) 
The deliberations that are beginning at the United Nations today signal 
the start of the integration of the results of Rio into the way we do business 
between nations.  In Canada, we have taken the first steps.  We are proceeding 
with ratification of the Conventions on climate change and biodiversity, and 
we shall produce the national plans that are called for. 
A/47/PV.53 
63 
(Mr. Charest.  Canada) 
In August we  successfully  completed  negotiations  with  the United  States 
and Mexico  on  a new North American  Free Trade Agreement  (NAFTA).  This  is the 
first major  international  trade  agreement  to  include  a commitment  to 
sustainable  development,  as well  as  specific  environmental-protection  clauses. 
Further,  the three NAFTA  countries  have  agreed  in principle  to establish  a 
North American  commission  on  the  environment. 
In addition,  this week  a meeting  of Canadians  from  across our  country 
will  discuss  how we  shall build  on the  achievements  of Rio.  At the  meeting, 
there will be  representatives  of  all  sectors of our  society 
including 
business,  labour, women,  youth, native peoples  and environmental  and 
developmental  organizations.  We  are thus  continuing  the  inclusive  approach 
that we  adopted  for  the Earth Summit.  This  time our  aim will be to  reach 
consensus  and  to promote  action by all  sectors  to  fulfil  our Rio  commitments 
each sector  accepting  its  share of  responsibilities. 
We believe  that  strong domestic  action  is essential, because  sustainable 
development  must be  addressed  at every  level.  But  there  is another  reason: no 
country will  do more  for  the citizens  of  another  country  than  it will do  for 
its own.  Domestic  action provides  a sound basis  for equally  necessary 
international  initiatives.  Canada  thus  feels  able to make  a positive 
contribution  to  the discussions  at  this  session. 
The  list of  issues  that we must  address  is long  and pressing.  To  assist 
us, however, we have  the  strong direction given by the Earth  Summit.  In 
particular, we  know  that qiestions  of environment  and development  can no 
longer be dealt with  in  isolation,  since  each depends  on the other.  We  know 
also that we must  integrate  concerns  of North  and of  South,  of  developed  and 
A/47/PV.53 
64 
(Mr. Charest.  Canada) 
of  developing  nations.  And we must  foster  the participation  of  all  sectors of 
our  societies  in achieving  the  solutions  that we  seek.  In  short, we  must 
practise  transparency,  accountability  and  inclusiveness 
the Rio way  at all 
levels. 
The Earth  Summit  established  new  standards by which  to measure  our 
domestic  and  international  actions  on environment  and  development.  Those 
standards  could be  crucial  in  the  coming years.  Now we  face  the challenge of 
living up to them.  And  there  is no better  place  to  start  than here,  at this 
meeting. 
Ms.  PIETIKAINEN  (Finland):  The United Nations  Conference  on 
Environment  and Development  is a milestone  in the evolution  of  the United 
Nations  system which was born  in San Francisco  47 years  ago  to  regulate 
international  relations.  The  Rio  Earth  Summit  of  last June  represents  an 
important  step  in a process  to prevent  a fatal  confrontation  between hiimankind 
and  the environment  - a conflict  that  could  totally  endanger  life on earth. 
The  Earth  Summit  pledged  a commitment  to  sustainable  growth,  poverty 
reduction  and environment  protection.  This pledge  is based  on  a profound 
understanding  of  the close  relationship  between environment  and  development. 
Man  is not  superior  to nature.  Without  proper  respect  for  the  support 
capacity  of  the Earth we  can have  no prospect  of  a healthy  environment  or of 
economic  growth.  A new, more  rational  use  of natural  resources  can  show us a 
new path  to a sustainable  economy. 
Those  conclusions were  shared  at  the highest  political  level.  The widest 
commitment  ever  achieved was made  to the  attainment  of  sustainable 
development.  This  commitment  was based  on  shared  responsibility  and  a new 
A/47/PV.53 
65 
(Ms. Pietikainen.  Finland) 
partnership.  Today  there must be  no doubt  about  our  resolve  to  fulfil  our  Rio 
commitments. 
At  this  session  of  the General Assembly  we must embark  on the  long  road 
towards  turning  these  commitments  into  reality.  Agreements  or programmes  will 
make no  change  if  they  are not  implemented.  The way  in which we  turn  the  Rio 
Declaration  into  action  and  implement  Agenda  21, the Forest  Principles  and  the 
two Conventions will  be  decisive. 
A/47/PV.53 
66 
(Ms. Pietikainen. Finland) 
The United Nations specialized agencies and other international 
organizations and financing institutions have an important role to play in 
implementing Agenda 21.  The Agenda provides a long-term framework and 
guidance for priorities in the work programmes of the international agencies. 
It is crucial that the Assembly urge and impel the whole United Nations system 
to begin the effective implementation of Agenda 21. 
Governments too have a responsibility in launching the international 
cooperation agreed at Rio.  Since our decisions were taken at the highest 
political level, our Governments must consequently also stand ready to take 
action in a coordinated manner in the decision-making bodies of the 
specialized agencies and other organs of the United Nations system. 
The Government of Finland welcomes the agreement on the establishment of 
the high-level Commission on Sustainable Development.  We would like to 
emphasize the importance of its role in providing a forum for political debate 
and policy guidance on major issues of sustainable development in implementing 
the Rio decisions as well as integrating environment and development 
throughout the United Nations system.  The monitoring of the provision of new 
and additional financial resources for Agenda 21 from all sources will be 
equally important. 
The Assembly should decide on the organizational modalities of the 
Commission.  The institutional arrangements should be closely linked with the 
overall reform of the economic and social sectors of the United Nations.  This 
reform is already" under way and will, we hope, lead to a more effective 
Economic and Social Council. 
We consider that the size of the Commission should strike a balance 
between efficiency and representativity.  While membership must be limited to 
A/47/PV.53 
67 
(Ms. Pietikainen.  Finland) 
Governments,  the Commission  should enhance  the participation  of  and  dialogue 
with non-governmental  organizations  and  the  scientific  and private  sectors  as 
well  as with  financing  institutions.  The  contribution  of  those  sectors was  a 
source of encouragement  during  the UNCED preparatory  process, and  it  should 
therefore be  further  pursued. 
The  functions  of  the Commission,  in particular  its policy guidance, 
require  a careful  consideration  of  the organization  of  its work  and  the 
development  of  its working methods.  We  think  it important  that  the  Commission 
should not  limit  itself  solely to reviewing  the progress  achieved  in 
implementing  the  results  of  Rio, but  that  it should,  rather,  assume  a dynamic 
role in identifying  the priorities  and emerging  issues  related  to  sustainable 
development.  I am pleased  to see that  the Secretary-General  in his  report 
also emphasizes  this  approach. 
The possibilities  of arranging ministerial  debates  of  the  Commission, 
coordinated with  the high-level  segment  of the Economic  and  Social  Council, 
should be  studied  in order  to avoid  repetition  and  overlapping. 
Without  the  support  of  a strong  and  competent  secretariat,  the  high-level 
Commission will  remain a talk  shop.  The  central  role of  the Commission  in 
policy-making would  in our view  speak  in favour  of  the  secretariat's  being 
located  at Headquarters  in Hew York.  This would  permit  it to work  in close 
collaboration with the Department  of Economic  and  Social Development  and  thus 
lead to a reinforcement  of both units. 
Since  it  is the prerogative  of  the  Secretary-General  to make  the 
necessary  administrative  arrangements  in this  regard,  I shall not  dwell  in 
more detail on  this question, but  only  add  that  the head  of  the  Commission 
secretariat must  be given  the  status  and means  to  allow him  or her  to act  as 
A/47/PV.53 
68 
(Ms. Pietikainen,  Finland) 
the  top  coordinator  of  sustainable  development  in the entire United  Nations 
system. 
The  results of  the Earth  Summit  encouraged  the  larger  reform  process by 
underlining  the unique  and  indispensable  role of  the United  Nations  in 
promoting  sustainable  development.  I would  strongly  encourage  the  Secretary-
General  to  integrate  the environmental  considerations  in the  reform process in 
a manner  indicated  by UNCED.  We must  set our  ambitions  high.  Sustainable 
development must be  an  integral part  of  the mission of  the United  Nations to 
promote prosperity  and  justice  and be closely  linked  to  the  political 
functions  of maintaining  peace  and  security  in the world.  I was  very  pleased 
to note  that  the Secretary-General  in his very  important  statement  this 
morning  expressed  views  on the  reform process  that  correspond  very much with 
those  of my  Government. 
The United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UHEP) should  continue  to play a 
decisive  role  in stimulating  and  coordinating  the environmental  activities of 
the United Nations  system.  Therefore, UNEP's  role and  capacity  should  be 
strengthened  to meet  those  functions  foreseen  for  it  in Agenda  21. 
Environmental  monitoring  and  impact  assessment,  dissemination  of  environmental 
information,  further  development  of  international  environmental  law  and  its 
implementation,  as well  as providing  expert  advice  to developing  countries in 
their  capacity-building,  will be most  important. 
The United Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP),  like UHEP,  has  a crucial 
role  in the UHCED  follow-up.  It has  in particular  a central  role  in 
organizing  the United  nations  system's  support  for building  the  capacity  for 
sustainable  development  in developing  countries.  This  important  task must be 
fully  taken  into  account  in the preparations  of  the Sixth Programme  Cycle of 
A/47/PV.53 
69-70 
(Ms. Pietikainen.  Finland) 
the UHDP.  Implementation  of Agenda  21, and  in particular  capacity  building 
for  sustainable  development,  should  not be  seen as a separate but  as an 
integral  part  of  the  functions  of UHDP. 
The  sustainable management,  conservation  and development  of  forests  will 
be a cornerstone  in strengthening  economic, ecological  and  social  well-being 
in most  countries.  The  adoption of  the  forest principles  is a  significant 
step in global  cooperation  in the  sustainable  development  of  the  forest 
resources  of  the  world. 
Our  next  task  is to prepare  national programmes  and other  related 
measures  to  implement  these principles.  It is very  encouraging  that  several 
Governments have  announced  that  they have  already  undertaken  to prepare  such 
programmes.  These programmes  should be based  on  sovereignty  and  on 
responsibility  in using  forest  resources  and  take  into account  the  differences 
in local  conditions.  The  economic  benefit  from  sustainable  forest  management 
belongs to  the  local  population. 
The  implementation  and monitoring  of  the  forest  principles will  lead to 
significantly  improved  international  cooperation.  It will  increase  mutual 
confidence  and make  it possible  to launch  a process  of negotiating  a global 
forest  instrument  based  on the principles  agreed  at Rio. 
The preparation  of  a convention  that encompasses  the various  functions  of 
forests  should  be  in the  long-term  interest  of all countries.  The  Conventions 
on Climate  Change  and  on Biological  Diversity  cover  only  some  functions  of 
forests.  The  launching  of negotiations  on desertification  will  include  one 
more important  aspect. 
A/47/PV.53 
71 
(Ms. Pietikainen,  Finland) 
Yet  these  Conventions  emphasize  mainly  the  conservation  of  forests. 
There  is a good  case  for  considering  all  functions  and purposes.  It  is 
equally  important  to cover  social  and  economic  aspects  under  one  regime  in a 
balanced  manner. 
Promotion  of  the  sustainable multiple  use  of natural  forests must  be the 
real  focus  of  the  future  forest  convention.  It  should  strengthen  such 
management  of  forest  resources  as will  allow  all  countries  to halt  the 
decrease  of  forest  resources  and  at  the  same  time meet  their  economic  and 
social  needs. 
We  are  ready  actively  to  support  the process  leading  to  the  forest 
convention  negotiations.  New and  additional  financial  resources  are needed to 
enable  developing  countries  to prepare  and  implement  forestry  programmes.  The 
Government  of  Finland  stands  ready  to  support  financially  programmes  and 
projects  on  reforestation  and  training  in developing  countries. 
The  second  Pan-European Ministerial  Forestry  Conference  will  be held in 
Helsinki  next  June.  That  Conference  can  serve  to  strengthen  the  commitment of 
European  Governments  to turn the  forest principles  into  reality  and pave the 
way  for  intensified  cooperation with  developing  countries. 
The main emphasis  in implementing  Agenda  21 should  be  at  the  national 
level.  International  cooperation will have  the  role of  supporting  and 
coordinating  national  measures  as well  as  steering  them  in  the  right 
direction.  Making  development  sustainable  must be  the  responsibility  of each 
sector  and  each  level of public  authorities.  The  input  of  non-governmental 
organizations,  industry,  labour  unions  and  the  scientific  community  is 
indispensable  in this work.  This will  require  political  leadership  and 
coordination both nationally  and  internationally. 
A/47/PV.53 
72 
(Ms. Pietikainen.  Finland) 
The Government  of  Finland  is in the process  of organizing  its own 
follow-up work  to UNCED, which will be based  on broad  representation  of 
expertise  and  interests  in the Finnish  society.  In Finland,  integrating 
environment  and development  in decision-making  is our  long-term  objective. 
Economic  instruments  and environmental  impact  assessments  are being  developed 
for this purpose.  Encouraging  and promoting  changes  in production  and 
consumption  patterns,  including  the promotion  of energy  saving  and  the 
development  of  new and  renewable  energy  sources, are high  on our  agenda. 
Efficient  implementation  of  the Conventions  on biological  diversity  and 
climate change  is also one  of our priorities.  He  are preparing  for  the  early 
ratification  of  these  two Conventions  and urge other  Governments  to do  so as 
well. 
It  is most  important  that  the Commission  for  sustainable  development 
encourage  the exchange  of  information  and  experience  on national  measures 
early in its work.  The preparation  of guide-lines  for  reporting  and  for 
information exchange will be our  first priority  in the practical work  of  the 
Commission.  He  are  ready  to  share our own experience with other  countries  in 
preparing the domestic  Agenda  21 and national programmes  for  implementation  of 
the Conventions. 
The essence  of  the Rio  spirit  is partnership  and  shared  responsibility. 
The main  responsibility  for national  sustainable  development will  rest with 
the Governments.  They  agreed  at the highest political  level  that  substantial 
new and additional  funding  for the  implementation  of Agenda  21 is  required. 
For developing  countries, particularly  the  least  developed  countries,  official 
development  assistance  is the main  source of  external  funding. 
A/47/PV.53 
73 
(Ms. Pietikainen,  Finland) 
I would  like to  recall  that  during  the preparatory  process  of UNCED the 
Hordic  countries proposed  that donor  countries  agree  to  reach  the 0.7  target 
for official  development  assistance by  the year  2000.  In spite  of  our present 
budgetary  constraints we  are  committed  to this.  The  alleviation  of  poverty, 
protection  of  the environment,  strengthening  of  the  role of women,  support for 
democracy  and  respect  for human  rights will be  the  focus of  our  development 
cooperation  strategy. 
Today we  face the  serious danger  that the national  and  international 
economic  crisis will  impair  our vision  and  lead  to  short-sighted  solutions. 
It  is dangerous  to underestimate  the difficulties  in  finding  political  support 
and  understanding  for the  interrelationship  between  long-term  global  and 
national  benefits.  In such a situation  the goals  of domestic  sustainable 
development  also  seem  remote  and  are easily put  aside. 
We  owe  it to future  generations  to  face and  respond  to  the  challenges of 
our  Rio  commitments.  Even  though  the path  to  sustainable  development would 
seem  to go uphill, we have  a good  road map  in Agenda  21 and  the  other 
decisions made  at Rio.  As  the  road  is  long,  it is  important  that  the goal be 
clear  in our minds  and  that we  check  the direction  from  time  to time.  Finland 
supports  the holding  of  a special  session of  the General  Assembly  for an 
overall  review of  the UNCED  decisions  and  their  implementation  not  later than 
1997. 
We  are prepared  to  shoulder  our  common  responsibility  in attaining the 
goals we  collectively  set  at Rio.  Finland  stands  ready  fully  to meet  its 
commitments. 
A/47/PV.53 
74-75 
Mr.  SERRATE-CUELLAR  (Bolivia)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  It  is 
from this eminent  universal  forum  that great  changes  are expected 
changes 
consistent with  the new times upon which humankind  has embarked.  A  historian 
who  in the  future  looks back  upon  the present  century will  surely  emphasize 
the events of  the  last  decade. 
It is precisely  at this  session that  the United  Nations  can  lay  the 
foundations  for  a higher  dimension of human  life  in society or  lead  the world 
down the  road of  doubt  and  discouragement. 
The  challenge  of  the moment  is that  simple  and  that  impressive.  This 
Organization may never have  another  chance  like this  to choose between  change 
in keeping with new  realities  or missing  the train of  history. 
In these  times  in which we  live, there  is already  a growing  consciousness 
that we are all part  of  a global  community.  Five hundred  years  after 
Columbus, we have  rediscovered  our planet,  finding that  it is a single 
interdependent  entity  in which  the manner  of  life of  some  affects  the  destiny 
of all. 
In this modern 
or,  if one prefers, post-modern 
era the  ideals of 
liberty which have  come down  to us  from  the French Revolution  have gained  in 
strength, but  the principles  of  equality  and  fraternity  continue  to be  left 
behind. 
A/47/PV.53 
76 
(Mr. Serrate  Cuellar,  Bolivia) 
Never before has democracy,  as a value  and  a tangible  reality,  taken hold 
in every  continent.  Human  rights, recognized  as a universal principle,  are 
playing  an  increasingly  vital  role.  The  risks of global  confrontation  have 
virtually  disappeared,  and  the world's  new  security  has become  decentralized. 
Keeping  the peace has become more  a matter  of  foresight  than  a matter  of 
remedies.  However,  the main  sources  of  insecurity  are  still with us. 
Poverty, drugs  and  destruction  of  the environment  continue  to pose  individual 
and  collective  threats  of human  tragedy  and  social malaise.  These  are the new 
horsemen  of  the  apocalypse,  the great  common  challenge  that  science has not 
been  able to overcome 
perhaps  because  in our  frenzied  race  for progress we 
have  tended  to  forget  that  it  is man  as  such who  should  always have been the 
focus  of  all  organized  endeavour. 
Bipolar  strategies  have given way  to a tripolar  economy  with  a new style 
of  competition,  one which brings  together  a group  of  seven  at  the  exclusive 
banquet  table  of development.  The process  that broke  down  iron  curtains has 
gone hand  in hand with  an  individualism  that  is now digging  a protective moat 
around  accumulated  wealth,  centralizing  resources  and  raising  new barriers 
around  its expanded  spaces even  as it topples  the old walls  of  nationalism. 
Windows  to  integration have been opened  but,  at  the  same  time, doors to 
trade have been  shut  as a result  of  the  re-emergence  of protectionism  and the 
subsidizing  of  local  interests  or  constituencies.  Multilateral  financial 
facilities  and  tariff  agreements, while becoming  a worldwide  trend,  continue 
to  act  as  a funnel with  a wide  opening  for  some  and  a narrow  opening  for 
others,  and  the most  stringent  rules  always  applying  to  the most  powerless. 
Moreover,  technology 
even  as  it becomes  the  contemporary  hallmark of 
the development  of productive  forces  - has  at the  same time become  the major 
A/47/PV.53 
77 
(Mr. Serrate  Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
feature  differentiating  levels  of development  among our  countries.  And  it is 
not only  advanced  technology  that has become  the privilege  of  the  few,  but 
also the  technology  designed  to meet basic hvunan needs.  Knowledge  has  brought 
us closer  together, but  technological  growth  is separating us. 
The gaps widening  between  us are becoming  increasingly  unjust.  The  rich 
are growing  richer  and  the poor  of  the world,  ever more numerous,  are  growing 
poorer.  The  disparity  in  income between  rich and poor  three  decades  ago was 
30 to 1.  That gap has doubled  and now stands  at  60 to  1.  The gap widens  to 
150 to 1 if we  compare  the  incomes  of  the world's  richest quintile with  those 
of the most marginalized  quintile.  And  the  trend continues  in the  same 
direction,  nationally  and  internationally,  against  a backdrop  in which 
communications  are enhancing  expectations. 
We now have  a better  understanding  of each other's  realities  and we  are 
able to understand  each other more  clearly, without  prejudices  or  ideological 
dogmatism.  The  truth  is that, although political walls have  fallen,  social 
chasms have widened.  And  just  as the differences  between us  are  clear,  it is 
equally clear  that we  have  over  time  replaced  the culture of  force with  the 
force of culture, pursuing  common  goals  that can only  take  shape  around  a 
recognition of  the  specificity  and  interests  of each  nation. 
This  is not  a time  for  confrontation,  but  a time to build  bridges. 
Political bridges  are  already  going  up, and we must  lay economic  and 
organizational  foundations  and,  above  all, underpin  them with bonds  of 
cooperation. 
Electronic  media  and modern means  of  transport  have  shrunk both  physical 
and mental  distances.  The  concept  of neighbourhood  now encompasses  the  whole 
planet,  and  the geo-economics  of  interrelatedness  overshadows  direct  contacts 
A/47/PV.53 
78 
(Mr. Serrate  Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
or  shared borders.  Against  that background,  new paradigms  are beginning  to 
take  shape. Reality  is leading us to  convergent  approaches with which  to face 
global  crises.  The  idea of democratizing  democracy  is gaining  ground, 
reaching  deeper  levels of  citizen participation  in national  and  international 
affairs.  At  the  same  time, knowledge  is advancing  in the contributions  it can 
make  to the  search  for  social  equity.  Work  is  forging  ahead  also  in the area 
of human development,  understood  as a synthesis  of  collective  action.  But the 
great  epistemological  breakthrough  occurred with  the global  consciousness 
reached  in Rio de Janeiro,  at a summit  that was  initially  perceived  as 
environmental  but which  finally  focused  on  justice  and  development. 
At Rio we  acknowledged  that unbridled  techno-industrialization  was 
leading us to  self-destruction  and was gradually  losing  any  semblance  of 
progress, with  luxurious, wasteful  and destructive  patterns  of  consumption on 
the one hand  and  increasing  extreme poverty  on the other,  showing  the  clear 
incoherence  of present models  of development.  Over-exploitation  of  raw 
materials, urban pollution, global warming,  ozone  depletion,  crops  that 
contribute  to desertification,  the  threat  to nature  and  the  fear  of  collapse 
led us  inescapably  to the conclusion  that  there was  a limit  to this process, 
that we  could  not  continue  treating  our planet  as  if  it were  a temporary camp 
that could be  continually moved  as  resources were  exhausted. 
In Rio we  agreed  to ensure  the durability,  permanence  or  sustainability 
of  life.  We  agreed  to  reconcile  our ways with  the Earth  and with  each other. 
We  affirmed  our  common  conviction  of  the need  to meet  the  reguirements  of the 
present  and undertook  to be  stewards  of  the Earth  for  future  generations. 
Thus  emerged, with  force  and  consensus,  the  concept  of  sustainable 
development,  the principles  of  the Rio Declaration  and  the  commendable  work of 
A/47/PV.53 
79-80 
(Mr. Serrate  Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
Agenda  21, a true programme  of  action  for nations  as they  set  a course  into 
the next  century. 
On  that  occasion,  the President  of Bolivia  stressed  and warned  that  this 
valuable  instrument  should  not be  turned  into one more exercise  in 
international  hypocrisy.  Today, we  fear that  the  road  from Rio  to New York 
has been  too  long,  that we have  exhausted  ourselves  along  the way,  that  the 
voices of  the world  have grown weaker,  that  the pages of  the Rio  Declaration 
may  fall with  this  autumn's  leaves, and  that  the great  challenge  of  the 
century may prove  to be  only  a faint  flicker. 
We must  not  forget  the overwhelming  historical  reasons  that  led  us  to 
adopt Agenda  21.  Within  its 40 chapters  and more  than  100 programmes  it 
encompasses  the most  comprehensive  framework  for decision-making  and  action 
that the  international  community  has ever  conceived.  It addresses  aspects of 
fundamental  concern  to the environment  and development,  ranging  from  trade  to 
international  investment,  poverty,  debt,  the  fight  against pollution,  health 
and technology,  education  and population,  protection  of mountain  ecosystems 
and forests, islands  surrounded  by  rising waters,  land-locked  countries,  lack 
of soil  fertility  and  lack  of human  opportunity. 
Never  before has  the world  seen an  instrument  so complete  and  supported 
by such consensus.  Formerly,  plans  took  shape by  sectors  or by blocs. 
Agenda 21 includes  features  of both national  and  international  endeavour,  the 
need for participation  by young people, women  and  indigenous  peoples, 
entrepreneurs,  farmers  and workers. 
The Rio  Conference  opened  a new chapter  in the history  of  international 
cooperation by  addressing  the problems  of environment  and development  as 
global problems  that  require global  solutions. 
A/47/PV.53 
81 
(Mr. Serrate  Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
It established  the  right  to development  of all  countries  and  the 
environmental  responsibility  of  the  industrialized  countries.  It  also 
recognized  the  imperative  need  for  developing  countries  to be  afforded 
sufficient  financial  resources  and  appropriate  technologies  to advance  their 
process  of  change  towards equitable  and  sustainable  development.  The  Assembly 
must  turn the promises  of  Rio  into  concrete  commitments  and  tangible  results. 
In our vision of  the global partnership  for  sustainable  development, 
peoples  and nations  assume  new economic,  social  and political  commitments.  In 
keeping with  that  "spirit  of Rio", Mr. Maurice  Strong  even  spoke  of  an 
"eco-revolution",  urging  a change  in our perceptions  and  attitudes. 
In this  connection,  three parameters  can help  us gauge how  far we have 
come:  whether  there will be  financial  resources  or  new delays; whether  the 
transfer  of  technology  is concrete  or  abstract;  and whether  the machinery we 
are  about  to establish  is or  is not  consistent  with  the goals.  The  answers to 
those basic  concerns, which  lie at  the heart  of  the process, will be  the 
measure  of the  success or  failure  of  the Earth  Summit. 
Specifically,  we  agreed  in Rio  on certain bases  for  institutional 
arrangements.  On this  crucial matter  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
contains  interesting  proposals  to which  the Assembly  should  give  careful 
attention. 
We must  be  careful  to create  the  right  framework  for  cooperation,  with 
the  active  involvement  of  all  countries, organizations  of  the United  Nations 
system,  international  governmental  and  non-governmental  organizations  and 
social groups. 
With  these major  objectives  in mind,  a constructive  look  at  the question 
yields  some bases  for  institutional  arrangements  that  could  be  summarized  as 
follows:  first,  integrating  the dimensions  of development  and  environment as 
A/47/PV.53 
82 
(Mr. Serrate Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
an organizational  principle;  secondly,  taking man  as the centre  of  concerns 
related  to  sustainable  development;  thirdly,  structures  and  resources 
commensurate  with  the  scope  of  the Summit's  mandates;  fourthly, 
interdisciplinary  institutions  emphasizing  action  and  results,  locally, 
nationally,  regionally  and globally;  fifthly,  consistency with  the  principles 
of universality,  democracy,  transparency  and effectiveness; and,  sixthly, 
coherence  and  complementarity  with  the  restructuring  and  revitalization  of  the 
United Nations  in its economic  and  social  fields. 
In the  light  of  these  elements, the General  Assembly  can begin  to play  a 
new and more  dynamic  role.  The highest  intergovernmental  forum,  it has been 
designated  the principal  organ  for policy  decisions  and proposals  in the 
follow-up  to  the Rio  Conference. 
He have been  entrusted  with  the periodic  review of  the  implementation  of 
Agenda  21, many  of whose  chapters  also  assign us the  role of  taking  action 
under clearly  specified mandates.  Some of  these deserve mention.  There  is 
the establishment  of  an  intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  for  the 
drafting of  a convention  to combat  desertification,  particularly  in Africa. 
Chapter  17 recommends  that  a world  conference  be held  on the management  of 
coastal areas, another  on matters  related  to the Convention  on the Law of  the 
Sea and another  in  1993  on  sustainable  development  of  small  islands. 
Chapter  26  recommends  that  the General  Assembly  adopt  a declaration  on the 
rights of  indigenous  peoples.  In particular,  it provides  a mandate  for 
holding  annual meetings  between organizations  to work  out procedures  to 
include  the views  of  indigenous  peoples  in policies  and  programmes. 
The General  Assembly  should  carry out  these  and other  new  tasks  in an 
efficient,  transparent  and democratic  manner,  notwithstanding  its  heavy 
programme  of work.  Transferring  these  issues, especially  those  relating  to 
A/47/PV.53 
83 
(Mr. Serrate Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
Agenda  21, to the Committees  would mean  separating environment  and 
development,  contrary  to the  successful  approach  adopted  at Rio.  He  have 
decided,  for  the present,  that  the debate will be  in plenary  and  the 
negotiations  in the  Second  Committee,  but  that  does not  resolve  the 
substantive  problem  at the  level of  the General  Assembly. 
It is precisely  the Assembly  that must  organize  itself  to carry  out its 
functions  in conformity with  its new mandate.  It should  give more  effective 
consideration  to the annual  report  that will  be  submitted  to  it through the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and periodically  review  and  evaluate  the  progress 
made  by the Conference,  especially  regarding Agenda  21. 
To  reach  these goals, the Assembly  could perhaps  establish  open-ended 
ad hoc  committees  to  address  the most  crucial  or  controversial  issues  as a 
framework  for dealing  directly with  the problems, broadening  the  dialogue and 
negotiations  and  achieving  concrete  results.  That  approach worked very well 
in the  final phase of  the  Summit,  in the Preparatory  Committee  and  in the Main 
Committee,  and  if it were  taken here we would be  strengthening  the  role of the 
General  Assembly  in order  to ensure  the  continuation  of  sustainable 
development.  This  is the only organ  in the proposed  structure  that  can ensure 
universal  participation  and  rally  the necessary moral  and political  force to 
implement  Agenda 21. 
According  to paragraph  38.10, the Economic  and  Social  Council  is assigned 
the new  functions  of  assisting  the General  Assembly  in  its  coordinated 
oversight  of  the  implementation  of Agenda  21 and  of  integrating  environmental 
and  developmental  themes  into United  Nations policies  and  programmes. 
The Economic  and  Social  Council will  be able  to make  recommendations to 
the Assembly,  to  the  specialized  agencies  and  to the Member  States.  Article 
64 of  the Charter  entitles  the Economic  and  Social  Council  to obtain  reports 
A/47/PV.53 
84 
(Mr. Serrate Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
in carrying  out  its recommendations, which means  a closer  relationship  between 
that organ  and  the various  intergovernmental  organs, agencies  and  programmes. 
Especially  as  regards Agenda  21, we must  ensure  that different  entities 
do not  act  in isolation, with  exclusively  sectorial  approaches  and with no 
coordination between  themselves  or with  the Economic  and  Social  Council.  The 
role of a revitalized  Economic  and Social  Council  should be broadened  to 
encompass  improved  coordination  of  the work  and  activities  of  the United 
Nations  system,  including  the  international  financial  agencies. 
With  regard  to the Commission  on Sustainable Development, we wish  to make 
clear our  full  support  for  the establishment  of  the Commission  as a high-level 
functional  organ  that  takes under  consideration  all aspects  of  the  follow-up 
to the Rio Conference  and  the  implementation  of Agenda  21, with  the  functions 
and powers necessary  to carry out  its mandate. 
We  stress  the  importance  of  the active participation  of  the organs, 
programmes  and  organizations of  the United Nations  system,  especially  the 
financial  institutions,  and non-governmental  organizations  in the 
deliberations  of  the Commission.  That will provide  the Commission with a 
direct,  integrated  and multidisciplinary  framework, both  conceptually  and 
practically,  and will  endow  it with  the greatest  support  and  social  base. 
Similarly,  whether  under  Economic  and  Social Council  rules  or  its own 
rules, the Commission  should  have  the power  to establish  its own  subsidiary 
bodies, given  the broad  spectrum  of  tasks  assigned  to  it. 
With  respect  to the membership  of  the Commission,  we believe  that  its 
membership  should  not  be  the  same as that  of  the Economic  and  Social  Council. 
A/47/PV.53 
85 
(Mr. Serrate  Cuellar,  Bolivia) 
Belonging  to both would  be detrimental  to universality  and  broad 
participation.  Openness  and diversity  in representation  are essential  for the 
democratic  functioning  and greatest  possible  transparency  of  the  Commission 
and of  the  system. 
Paragraph  38.19  of Agenda  21 provides  for a highly  competent  and 
qualified  secretariat  to support  the work  of  the Commission  and  the 
inter-agency  coordinating  machinery.  We  stress  the need  for  that  secretariat 
to have  a strong,  separate  and  identifiable  structure  under  the direction of 
an Under-Secretary-General  reporting  directly  to the  Secretary-General. 
A/47/PV.53 
86 
(Mr. Serrate  Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
The organizational  principles  of  the United Hations  should be global  and 
sustainable.  Accordingly,  it is indispensable  to have  equitable  geographical 
distribution  and  the best possible  training, bearing  in mind  the  experience 
acquired  during  the preparation  of  the Conference.  As  regards  the  site of  the 
secretariat, we believe  that missions  of  smaller  countries would  favour  Hew 
York, supplementing  that  centre with branch offices  in Geneva  and  in the 
developing  regions  of Asia, Africa  and Latin America  and  the Caribbean  in 
order  to advance  the work  of  the  Commission. 
Time  is not  on our  side.  Barely  seven years  remain before  the next 
century 
and the  next millennium.  And here we  are, meeting  on behalf  of 
those we  represent  in order  to pave  the way  to the future,  to affirm  the  right 
of everyone  to grow  and  to  share  this earthly garden,  scarred  though  it may be 
with wounds  that must be  healed. 
Unity  in diversity  should be  the hallmark  of  these  new  times.  Man, with 
all his values,  languages, beliefs, technologies 
in a word, his  culture 
is 
part of  biodiversity. 
Our  "modern" vision of  the ecosystem  as a common home  is not  unlike  the 
cosmic vision of Andean man.  It is  inscribed  in our genetic memory.  He have 
always known  that  there was  an  intimate  link between  the wealth of  some  and 
the poverty of others, and  that  the death of  some affects  others.  The wisdom 
of our ancient  cultures  saw a relationship  between  the  sun god  and  mother 
Earth, or Pachamama.  It saw an intimate  link between man  and  the  environment, 
between the past  and  the  future.  To be  the  steward  of  the whole, one must 
care for the  life of  the parts  and bring  them  together  in one  shared  destiny. 
A/47/PV.53 
87 
(Mr. Serrate  Cuellar.  Bolivia) 
He  are confident  that,  thanks  to the  sound  judgement  the President  has 
already demonstrated  this  session,  our deliberations  will  reach  a  successful 
conclusion.  Before  us lie the hopes  and  challenges  that  the  international 
community  entrusted  to us beneath  the open  arms  of Christ  the Redeemer  in Rio 
de Janeiro. 
Mr. JOHANSSON  (Sweden):  Let me begin by  thanking  the  Secretary-
General  for his  report  and  for his  inspiring  and constructive  statement  this 
morning. 
Five months have passed  since  Rio.  The memories  of  a well-organized 
Conference  have  not  faded.  The  concrete  results  reflected  a serious  and 
efficient  preparatory  process, and  culminated  in the adoption  of  documents of 
major  and  lasting  significance.  The  Conference  highlighted  the  link between 
environment  and  development  and  raised  the  level  of  awareness  all  around the 
world.  The  Earth  Summit  established  the conditions  for  new political  action, 
both  locally  and  internationally.  But  it was  also  a point  of  departure  for a 
new era of multilateral  negotiation:  in Rio we  all  stressed  that  the 
Conference  was part  of  a process  and  that  its results  could  only be  judged in 
the  light  of  the  follow-up. 
How  is the  time to move  forward  and  translate  our  commitments  from Rio de 
Janeiro  into  concrete  action.  He must  change  attitudes  and policies  to make 
sustainable  development  possible. 
The General  Assembly  is a world  forum,  an organ  for global  policy-making 
at a high  level.  It is our  obligation  to ensure  that  the policy  decisions 
agreed  upon here will guide  and  inspire  the  implementation  of  commitments made 
A/47/PV.53 
88 
(Mr. Johansson.  Sweden) 
in Rio.  But here we  can only  forge  the tools  and  develop  the  instruments. 
The real  agents  of  sustainable  development  are the women  and men working  in 
fields or  in cities  far  away  from the East  River.  All  these people have  the 
right to expect  us to  create  a firm  and  efficient  system  for  the  follow-up  of 
Rio.  What,  then,  are  the components  of  this  system? 
First,  it  is the global  level, at which  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development will  have  a crucial  role  in enabling  the Economic  and  Social 
Council  and  the General  Assembly  to  fulfil  their policy-making  and 
coordinating  functions. 
Secondly,  it  is the combined  effort  of multilateral  and  bilateral 
agencies, as well  as non-governmental  organizations, business  and  industry,  to 
transfer  the  required  technical  and  financial  resources  to make  world-wide 
sustainable  development  possible. 
Thirdly,  it  is the decentralized,  concrete  level, involving  a multitude 
of United Nations  agencies  and other bodies, including  the United  Nations 
Environment  Programme,  the United Nations Development  Programme  and  the 
mechanisms  established  or  to be established  to manage  our new generation  of 
conventions. 
Fourthly,  it is  the national  and  local  level, where  the  global 
perspective has  to be  translated  into practical  action by  literally  millions 
of decision makers. 
Let me  comment  briefly  on each  of  these points. 
Our main  concern  at  this  session  of  the General  Assembly  is obviously  the 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development  that  is envisaged.  We  are most  grateful 
for the thorough presentation  contained  in the  Secretary-General's  report. 
A/47/PV.53 
89 
(Mr. Johansson,  Sweden) 
In our view,  the  institutional  chapter  of Agenda  21 contains  a balanced 
set  of  recommendations.  It gives  us the possibility  and  the  responsibility to 
create  something  new and  innovative within  the United  Hations  system.  It has 
to be  the  central  institution  to carry  on the  spirit  of  Rio de  Janeiro, 
further  to develop  its achievements  and  to give  continuous  inspiration  to the 
whole  system.  The  Commission  on  Sustainable  Development  must  not be bogged 
down  in  routine  reports  and heaps  of  documentation. 
The  new Commission  should  be well  integrated  in the general  activities of 
the United  Hations  in the  social  and  economic  field, with  a rational  and 
efficient  link  to  the Economic  and  Social  Council,  as  suggested  by  the 
Secretary-General  in his  report.  It should perform  policy  reviews  in the 
broad  perspective  of  sustainable  development. 
We  are convinced  that  the Secretary-General  will  organize  the  secretariat 
services  in an efficient  way,  and  that  they will be managed  at  an 
appropriately  high  level  to respond  to the new  requirements.  This means that 
he will have  to  strike  the  right balance between  the need  for  integration in 
present  structures  and  the need  for  a special  secretariat  unit,  preferably 
based  in Hew York,  to  serve  the new Commission  as well  as the  Administrative 
Committee  on Coordination  and  the high-level  advisory  body. 
We have  confidence  in the way  in which Ambassador  Razali  of Malaysia has 
approached  the negotiations  ahead  of us.  We  share his view  that  our  task here 
is to  find practical  solutions,  limiting  ourselves  to  those  areas  where 
General  Assembly  action  is necessary,  such as a decision  on  the  size of the 
Commission.  Our preference  is to have  a number  close  to  that  of  the Economic 
and  Social  Council. 
A/47/PV.53 
90 
(Mr. Johansson.  Sweden) 
He  attach  significant  political  importance  to the Commission  on 
Sustainable  Development.  It should  therefore meet  at high official  level, 
with part  of  the  sessions  involving ministerial  participation.  We  foresee 
thematic  sessions  and  active participation by observer  countries.  Proper 
gender  and  age balance must  be ensured  in the work  of  the Commission.  We  are 
also favorable  to active  involvement  by  the community  of  non-governmental 
organizations, based  on the experience  from  the procedures  used  at the Rio 
Conference. 
A/47/PV.53 
91 
(Mr. Johansson,  Sweden) 
In the opinion of  the Swedish Government,  one  of  the great  achievements 
of Rio de Janeiro was  to  link environment  and  development  very  firmly 
together.  Even  if  the  language  in chapters  33  and  34  is convoluted  and the 
result  of a great  deal of negotiation,  the basic  message  comes over  loud and 
clear:  substantial  new  and  additional  resources  are needed.  At  the  same 
time,  the developed world  is in recession, with high  unemployment  and weak 
investment. 
But perhaps  the Rio  de Janeiro  follow-up  can provide  some  light  at the 
end of  the  tunnel:  We must  not  lose  sight  of  the potential  of  environmental 
technologies, new products  and  new business  opportunities.  As  stated  in 
Agenda  21, resources  liberated  from  disarmament  could  find  their way  into the 
environment  sector.  We need  to display  imagination  and boldness, not 
forgetting  the  long  term because  of present  difficulties. 
Therefore,  the  forthcoming meeting  of Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF) 
participants  is of  crucial  importance.  The  Facility  has  to prove  its capacity 
to reform  its  structure, procedures  and  decision-making,  and  the  developed 
country  participants  have  to  show confidence  in the new mechanism  by providing 
a  substantial  replenishment. 
At  the  fourth  session of  the Preparatory  Committee  the Nordic  countries 
launched  the concept of  a package  of  financial measures,  including,  of course, 
the  0.7  per  cent  official  development  assistance  (ODA) target.  Chapter  33 of 
Agenda  21 reflects  this  approach.  We have  to  continue  along  that  road.  We 
share  the view of  the  Secretary-General  that  the  first meeting  of  the 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development  should  devote  substantial  attention to 
the  transfer  of  financial  resources  and  technology.  In particular,  new 
attention  should  be given  to  innovative  methods  of  financing,  not  least  in the 
light  of  the present  budgetary  constraints.  In a longer-term  perspective. 
A/47/PV.53 
92 
(Mr. Johansson.  Sweden) 
international  resource mobilization  for  sustainable  development  purposes, 
preferably based  on  fees  and  levies  to control  resource  use  and  pollution 
volumes,  should be  seriously  considered.  In facing  these  central  issues  the 
Commission  would  gain  authority  and  lay a firm basis  for  its  future work. 
For many years  now  Swedish development  cooperation  has been way  beyond 
the 0.7  per  cent  target.  Concern  for the environment  has been  introduced  as a 
fundamental  objective  for  this  cooperation,  and all major  projects  in which we 
participate  are now  submitted  to environmental  assessment.  This  year 
additional  resources 
SKr  60 million 
to support global  environment  action 
by developing  countries  have  been created  over  and above  ODA. 
From  the beginning  of  the UNCED process  Sweden has  advocated  a 
decentralized  approach.  It  is important  to have  at the centre  a  structure 
that functions well.  But  the  impact will be very  limited  indeed  if  different 
agencies of the United Nations  system 
and outside,  including 
non-governmental  organizations  - are not engaged  in the work. 
It is therefore  essential  that  the Agenda  21 recommendations  be  carefully 
studied  and  acted  upon  in the various  agencies.  All Governments  should  feel a 
responsibility  to take  the necessary  initiatives  in the different  governing 
bodies.  We  find  the proposals  for  coordination  contained  in the  Secretary-
General's  report  very pertinent.  In particular, we  feel  that  coordination 
with the United Nations  Development  Programme  (UHDP) and  the Bretton Woods 
institutions  should be  enhanced. 
The United  Hations  Environment  Programme  (UHEP) should  continue  to play 
an essential  role as the principal  body within  the United  Nations  system  for 
A/47/PV.53 
93 
(Mr. Johansson.  Sweden) 
environmental  matters.  It  should  review  its programme  of work  in the  light of 
the  results  of UNCED  and make  any necessary  adjustments.  It  is  particularly 
important  to  strengthen  its catalytic  role to  stimulate  and  promote 
environmental  activities  in the United nations  system  as well  as  its  role for 
the development  of environmental  law and environmental  monitoring  and 
assessment.  Furthermore, UHEP  should  contribute  to the  Commission's  reviews 
by providing  environmental  assessments  of development  sectors. 
The question  of environmental  emergencies  requires  increased  attention by 
the United  Nations  system.  In this  context  I wish  to  remind  the Assembly of 
the  report  adopted  last year  on,  among  other  things, the use  of military 
resources  for  civilian purposes  in,  for example,  such emergencies. 
Regarding  the  issue  of  the  impact  of military  activity  on  the 
environment,  we would  have wished  to  see more progress  in Rio, but  a beginning 
was made.  Agenda  21 states  that  the  same  rules  should be  applied  for both 
military  and  civilian handling  of hazardous waste.  The  Swedish  Government 
intends  to pursue  this matter  within  the  framework  of  the Commission  on 
Sustainable  Development. 
Among  other  areas  that we emphasize,  I wish  to mention  the energy sector, 
which  is of  crucial  importance  for  sustainable  development.  Increased energy 
efficiency  and  the development  of new and  renewable  sources  of  energy  are key 
issues. 
In the  field of  chemicals,  it is essential  that  international  cooperation 
be  strengthened.  We must build  on the  achievements  of  Rio, where  the special 
responsibility  of  industrialized  countries  in this  area was  clearly  spelled 
out. 
Within  the  framework  of  the decentralized  follow-up,  some  specific 
decisions  should  be  taken  at this  session of  the General  Assembly.  I refer in 
A/47/PV.53 
94 
(Mr. Johansson,  Sweden) 
particular  to  the  interim  action on the Convention  on Climate  Change.  It is 
important  to ensure  that  this process,  so crucial  for  the  future  of  this 
important  Convention,  has  sufficient  resources  at  its disposal. 
The  General  Assembly  should  also  take  the necessary  decisions  to 
establish  a negotiating  committee  for  a convention  to combat  desertification. 
This is an  issue  of great practical  significance, but  it  is more  than  that;  it 
is a symbol  of  the  responsibility  of  the world  community  towards Africa.  The 
time set  for this negotiation  is short.  The negotiating  objectives  have  to be 
limited  and  clear,  so that  a convention which  could  serve  as a basis  for 
further  action  is  ready by June 1994. 
Agenda  21  recommended  special  action  in favour  of  small  island  developing 
States.  Sweden  supports  the proposal  to hold  a conference  in Barbados  in 
1993.  The  Swedish  Government  hopes  that  the  short  time  for preparation  will 
not create difficulties.  In that  context  it is important  that  the  experience 
and capacity of UNEP  be  fully  used. 
Let me  finally,  under  the heading  of the decentralized  approach,  recall 
that Agenda  21 recommends  a study of  the  feasibility  of  convening  regional 
conferences  on transport  and  the environment.  In our view,  the  transport 
sector is of  key  importance  for most  of  the problems we  are dealing with  in 
the UNCED  follow-up.  It stands  right  at the centre of  the debate  on 
environment  and  the economy,  and  it literally  concerns  everyone.  The  Swedish 
Government  expects  the United Nations  Economic  Commission  for Europe  to play a 
central role  in organizing  a conference  in our  region. 
It is at  the national  level  that  the  success or  failure  of  the UHCED 
follow-up will  be  decided,  national  and  local  action has  to be  taken without 
delay.  Information  on national  action  should  be provided  in an  appropriate 
A/47/PV.53 
95 
(Mr. Johansson.  Sweden) 
way  to  the United Nations  system,  including  the Commission,  so that we  can all 
profit  from  the experience  of  others.  The UNCED  national  reports  set  an 
excellent  example. 
The  Swedish  Government  has  initiated  a number  of  activities  since  the Rio 
Conference.  Various  means have been  used  to  inform  the public  and  many 
organizations  and  institutions  on  its main  outcome.  At  a major  two-day 
seminar  at the end of August we  analysed  its  results  and  discussed  ideas on 
how to proceed with the  follow-up  work. 
Two weeks  ago  the Government  presented  a White  Paper  on UNCED  to 
Parliament.  It  set  out our  assessment  of  the Rio  Conference  and  indicated the 
further  follow-up procedure.  The White  Paper  also  contained  a  full 
translation  of  the UNCED decisions,  including  Agenda  21, into  Swedish. 
Sustainable  development  has  to be  a reality  for  all  sectors  of  society. 
The  Swedish  Government  is now planning  to distribute  the UNCED material  to a 
very wide  spectrum  of  society,  including  the municipalities.  We will  ask them 
to analyse  the parts  of the Rio decisions  that  apply  to them  and  come back 
towards  the middle  of next year with  concrete proposals  on i-ow they  intend to 
implement  those  decisions.  On the basis of  this material  the Government will 
present  concrete proposals  to Parliament  on the  implementation  of  the Rio 
decisions. 
A/47/PV.53 
96 
(Mr. Johansson.  Sweden) 
In launching  the UNCED  follow-up, we  are  faced with many  specific 
problems.  The  implementation  of Agenda  21 and of  the other  documents  requires 
serious, hard work by many people  over many years.  We have  to approach  all 
the details with  respect  and careful  consideration.  But  the message  from  Rio 
is above all  a holistic  and  integrated  one, part  and parcel  of  the new world 
which is being born.  It  is a world  that permits great hope, but  it  is also a 
world of great  risk, not  least with  respect  to the global  problems  of  the 
environment  and development.  Perhaps we have  a window of  opportunity  of  just 
25 to 50 years  to  change unsustainable  lifestyle  and  consumption  patterns  and 
to take  radical  steps to eradicate poverty.  This  is a short  time. 
So let  us take  a penetrating  view;  particularly  in the developed  world, 
we need  to  look deep  into  the way  in which our  societies  and economies  are 
organized.  In Sweden,  the Government  is currently working  on a bill  to 
prepare a decisive move  into what  can be termed  the  "ecocycle" society,  with 
the concepts  of  "reduce,  reuse  and  recycle" at its centre.  This  is a 
difficult but  necessary  transition. 
The very dimensions  of  the undertaking  also  force us to take a long 
view.  Deep-rooted  changes  in society  can take place only over  time.  They 
will require much educational  effort  and  awareness-building,  but  the work must 
start without  delay.  The  long view  also has  another  significance;  our 
responsibility  towards  unborn generations.  The effects  of our  actions 
or 
inaction 
will  be  felt  long  after we  are gone. 
Finally, we need  a broad  view.  The planet  is one.  No  security  or 
prosperity  can be  safeguarded  in the  long  term  if present  trends  and  present 
differences  between  rich  and poor prevail.  Efficient  cooperation  for 
sustainable  development  is in the  interest  of everyone,  and we  in the  north 
A/47/PV.53 
97 
(Mr. Johansson,  Sweden) 
must meet  our partners  in the  rest of  the world with  respect  for  their needs, 
national  customs, traditions  and  knowledge. 
He need  a penetrating view,  a long view  and  a broad  view.  This  is easy 
to  say, but  so very difficult  to translate  into  action.  The  time  for  rhetoric 
has passed;  the  time  for action has  come. 
Mrs. FELDGRILL-ZANKEL  (Austria):  It  is a great honour  and privilege 
for me  to address  this  audience.  It  is my  strong belief  personally,  and that 
of my Government,  that we  should  stress  the  importance  of  the  follow-up of the 
United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED) and  the start 
we  are giving  it  today. 
As one  of  the participants  in the Earth  Summit,  I consider  Rio  to be not 
just  a conference  among  others; it represented,  and  still  represents, a 
decisive  factor  in regard  to both  the present  and  the  future of our  planet. 
For Austria,  the UNCED process  is the  first global  effort  to come to 
terms with  the challenging  task of harmonizing  both environment  and 
development,  thus making  environment  and  development  issues partners  for the 
future  of  humankind. 
Moreover,  the  results  of  the Rio  Conference  provide  the basis  for a new 
global partnership.  Now,  in the aftermath  of  the Conference, we  have to 
translate  it  into practice,  as the  Secretary-General  pointed  out  this morning, 
into a concrete  economic  and political  reality.  For  developed  countries, 
developing  countries  and  for  countries with  economies  in  transition, 
sustainable  development  has  not yet  become  reality;  it  is the objective  all of 
us have  to aim  for. 
UNCED has  already  fulfilled  a most  important  task by making  both 
Government  and people  aware  of  the  challenges  ahead  of  us.  We  simply must 
A/47/PV.53 
98 
(Mrs. Feldgrill-Zankel, Austria) 
carry on, and I am very glad to have seen and heard so many encouraging and 
ambitious plans today as to how to go about it. 
It also became apparent in Rio that environmental protection on the one 
hand and economic prosperity on the other cannot be achieved lastingly at the 
expense of each other.  Moreover, it was once again clearly demonstrated that 
these two pillars on which sustainable development must be built need to 
become very close allies.  For this to happen, we have to work towards a 
system of open, competitive markets in which prices should reflect 
environmental costs as well as the scarcity of natural resources. 
Finally, Rio demonstrated that the global problems of humanity cannot be 
solved by Governments alone.  Hence Austria welcomes the mobilization and the 
manifold contributions of the independent sector.  This level of involvement 
of groups and individuals is a crucial factor today and absolutely must 
continue. 
The Earth is the common heritage of all of us, and we all need to accept 
the shared responsibility to care for it.  It is my firm conviction that in 
this move the developed countries have to take the lead. 
The action required must start at the national level - at home.  I am 
proud to be able to report that Austria has already undertaken a series of 
decisive steps to do its share;  we will have reduced the use of CFCs by 
almost 90 per cent by the end of this year and will completely phase them out 
by the end of 1994; to tackle the problem of tropospheric ozone, which is of 
increasing concern, Austria has passed legislation aiming at a 70-per-cent 
reduction in all precursor substances; our waste-management policy aims at a 
50-per-cent reduction in municipal wastes within the next five years; and 
A/47/PV.53 
99-100 
(Mrs. Feldgrill-Zankel,  Austria) 
right  now we  are preparing  a comprehensive  national  environment  plan, which 
aims  at  implementing  those  elements  of Agenda  21 that have  not  yet  been  fully 
covered  by the  steps we have  already  taken  and which  certainly have  improved 
the environmental  situation  in our  country. 
In addition  to  legislation,  initial  steps  are being  taken  towards  the 
introduction  of economic  iLjtruments.  In this  sense, Austria  welcomes  the 
initiative  taken by  the Economic  Commission  for Europe, which proposed  the 
introduction  of  a tax  on C02 emissions  and  energy. 
A/47/PV.53 
101 
(Mrs. Feldgrill-Zankel,  Austria) 
We support  the  introduction  of  such a tax because,  as Mr. Topfer  pointed  out 
this morning,  this  instrument will be  the most  powerful  single measure  to  curb 
carbon dioxide emissions,  to enhance  the efficient  use of  energy  and,  in this 
way, to combat  climate  change.  For Austria, however,  nuclear  energy  is not 
part of this  catalogue.  Austria  is pursuing  the vision  of  a Central  Europe 
without  nuclear  power plants. 
At Rio Austria  signed both  the Framework  Convention  on Climate  Change  and 
the Convention  on Biological  Diversity.  As a first  step, Austria  appreciates 
the consensus  that has been  reached.  However, we have  to  initiate  urgently 
the implementation  of  the Convention  on Climate  Change, and Austria  strongly 
supports  this.  In this  context, may  I recall  the  initiative  Austria  launched 
in Rio aimed  at  accelerating  the  implementation  of the Toronto  target. 
Austria,  as a country  nearly 46 per  cent of whose  surface  is covered  by 
forests, and proud  of  its sustainable  forest management,  supported  the 
Declaration on Forest  Principles.  It should,  in future, provide  a basis  for 
the negotiation  of  an  internationally  binding  instrument  for  the  protection 
and sustainable  use of  forests, an  instrument  which  iu our view  should  cover 
all types  of  forests  all over  the planet.  Austria has  already  introduced 
legislation on  labelling  timber  gained by  sustainable  forest  management. 
On a global  level, the  international  institutional  set-up will be of 
paramount  importance  for  the  successful  follow-up  of  the Rio  Conference. 
Austria  is looking  forward with great  interest  to the negotiations  on  the 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development. 
Its membership  should  represent  the 
highest possible  political  level, preferably ministers  of  the environment,  as 
has been previously  pointed  out. 
A/47/PV.53 
102 
(Mrs. Feldorill-Zankel.  Austria) 
In our view,  the Commission  should  be  small  enough  to allow  for  efficient 
work  and  large  enough  to guarantee  its  representativity.  Well-balanced 
geographical  distribution will be essential.  Given  the widely  varying  country 
situation  and  interests  in terms of  sustainable  development  that  exist within 
the  traditional  groups, it will be  important  to ensure  adequate  representation 
in the Commission  for all groupings  of  countries  and  individual  countries. 
The  Commission  should provide  for  representation  of various  parts of the 
United  Nations  system  and  other  international  organizations.  Non-governmental 
organizations  should be  allowed  to  contribute  to  its work.  This will  ensure 
the  success  for which we  all  aiming. 
Secretariat  support  for  the Commission  will  be  critical.  The  secretariat 
should  be effective  and  independent  and draw on the expertise  gained  in the 
UNCED preparatory  process.  It  should be established  in such  a way  that the 
sustainable  development  perspective  is integrated  into  the  entire  field of 
economic  and  social  development  within  the United  Nations  Secretariat. 
As a 
matter  of  fact,  I think  the United  Nations might  even, by  this  structure, 
provide  an appropriate  pattern  for Governments  to  follow  in  implementing 
sustainable  development  in their  respective  countries. 
In his  report,  the Secretary-General  recommended  that 
"the Commission  should build  its work  on  that  of  all  appropriate  sectoral 
intergovernmental  subsidiary  bodies  of  the General  Assembly  and  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  that  address  issues  related  to  sustainable 
development,  and  elaborate  on  that basis  comprehensive  and  coherent 
policy  recommendations  to  the  Council  and,  through  it,  to  the  General 
Assembly."  (A/47/598, para.  34) 
Austria  fully  agrees with  the  Secretary-General  that  a clear  division  of 
A/47/PV.53 
103 
(Mrs. Feldgrill-Zankel.  Austria) 
responsibilities  and  the establishment  of optimal  reporting patterns  are 
essential. 
He  should  like to highlight  the need  for  a satisfactory  interface  with 
the Economic  and  Social  Council, especially with  regard  to a  future 
international  development  council  function,  the macroeconomic  guidance 
function  and  coordination  function of  the Economic  and  Social  Council. 
The Economic  and Social  Council  is the charter  body mandated  to  oversee 
and coordinate  the  interplay  of  subsidiary  organs  in the  three main  fields of 
sustainable  development 
that  is, the economic  field,  the  social  field,  and 
the environment  and natural  resources  field.  It is also mandated  by  the 
Charter to elaborate  broad  policy guidelines  in the  field of  sustainable 
development.  Austria  has  submitted  a proposal  to enhance  the  Council's 
capacity to discharge  these  two  functions more  effectively with  the help of a 
system of  integrated  reports. 
My delegation has taken  note with great  interest  of  the  Administrative 
Committee on Coordination  (ACC) statement  to the General Assembly.  Since  the 
implementation  of Agenda  21 will  require  an unprecedented  level of  cooperation 
not only between nations, but  also between  international  organizations,  there 
is a clear need  for  strengthened  inter-agency  consultations  as well  as for a 
clear division of  labour  anong  the various  components  of  the United  Hations 
system.  Austria  therefore welcomes  the decisions  of ACC  to establish  an 
inter-agency  committee  on  sustainable  development. 
The observations  on  reporting made by  the ACC,  in our view,  warrant 
careful consideration.  My delegation  looks  forward  to the  findings  of  ACC 
with regard  to the  assessment  of new and existing  reporting  requirements 
relevant  to Agenda  21, as well  as to the  recommendations  resulting  from  this 
A/47/PV.53 
104-105 
(Mrs. Feldgrill-Zankel. Austria) 
assessment,  including proposals  to avoid  duplication  in  reporting,  ensure 
cost-effectiveness  and  foster  integration of  environment  and  development. 
Regional  commissions  will have  to play  a very  important  role  in terms of 
assessing  regional  situations  and of  facilitating  regional  action. 
At Rio we  agreed  that developed  countries  and others  in a position to do 
so  should make  initial  financial  commitments  in order  to give  effect  to the 
decisions  of  the Conference,  and  should  report  on  such plans  and  commitments 
to  the General  Assembly. 
Austria  recognizes  the need  for  an  increase  in the  transfer  of  resources 
to developing  countries.  Thus, Austria has pledged  400 million  Austrian 
schillings 
which  amounts  to around  $38 million 
to the  initial  three-year 
pilot phase  of  the Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF) and  is prepared  to 
consider  positively  substantial  support  of  a restructured  future  GEF. 
Moreover, with  the objective  of promoting  the protection  and  the  sustainable 
use of  tropical  forests, as well  as the preservation  of  the natural habitat of 
the  indigenous populations, Austria has earmarked  the  amount  of  200 million 
Austrian  schillings 
the equivalent  of around  $19 million  - for  projects 
geared  towards  sustainable  forest  management. 
Austria will  also participate  in the  tenth  replensishment  of  the 
International  Development  Association  (IDA).  Furthermore, Austria  recently 
decided  to  increase  its contribution  to the United  Hations  Development 
Programme  (UHDP) and  to allocate  $1 million  for Capacity  21. 
A/47/PV.53 
106 
(Mrs. Feldgrill-Zankel.  Austria) 
In the years  to  come one of  the most  important  tasks of  the United 
Nations will  be  to  look  at  some of  the constituents  of  the challenge  of 
sustainable  development.  Some of  these problems  are before  the  General 
Assembly.  Let me mention  only desertification  and  the development  of  small 
island  States.  Many  aspects  of  the problem  are already  on  the  international 
agenda and will be dealt with  in the near  future, while  others, such as 
energy-related  questions,  still need more  international  attention. 
If we  are to be  successful  in translating  the  spirit of Rio  into 
political  reality we will have  to  sustain the momentum  and  tackle  all  the 
underlying problems.  Innovation,  courage  and  international  solidarity  are 
called for.  I agree with my  Swedish  colleague  that  action  is required  now. 
Mr. MONGBE  (Benin)  (interpretation  from  French);  The delegation  of 
Benin, on whose behalf  I have  the honour  to address  the Assembly,  is pleased 
that the Assembly  is considering  the  report  of the Secretary-General  on the 
results of  the United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development 
(UNCED), held  last June  at Rio de Janeiro.  It is a question  of historic 
importance. 
The  accuracy  and breadth of  the  report  of  the Secretary-General  bode well 
for the coming deliberations  and  for  the decisions we  shall  take  in the 
interest of present  and  future  generations. 
I wish  to express my great  admiration  for Mr. Lakhdar  Brahimi, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs  of Algeria, who  this morning,  in his  capacity  as 
Rapporteur-General  of  the Rio  Summit,  made  a statement  whose  clarity  was 
matched only by  its conciseness.  As  an African,  I feel  proud. 
A/47/PV.53 
107 
(Mr. Mongbe,  Benin) 
Peoples  and Governments  throughout  the world  demonstrated  keen  awareness 
by  sending  to the  city  at the  foot of  Sugar  Loaf Mountain  high-level, highly 
skilled  delegations, of which  at  least  130 were  led by Heads  of  State or 
Government.  This was due  to the political will  of world  leaders,  expressed 
through  the General Assembly,  and,  above  all, to  a courageous  and  talented 
man,  a man of great vision,  endurance, generosity  and  faith  in  the  survival of 
mankind.  I refer  to Mr. Maurice  Strong,  Secretary-General  of UNCED.  I pay 
tribute  also  to his  team  of  able, devoted men  and women. 
Hor  can  I neglect  to  reiterate my  delegation's  congratulations  to 
Ambassador  Tommy  Koh of  Singapore, who, during  his  two-year  tenure  as Chairman 
of  the Preparatory  Committee  for  the Conference  and  then  as Chairman  of the 
Main Committee  at Rio,  impressed  all  delegations with his  experience  in 
international  affairs  and his effectiveness  in the negotiations  and  in guiding 
the work  of  the bodies he  chaired. 
I  also  reiterate my  delegation's  sincere  thanks  to  the people  and 
Government  of  Brazil  for having  hosted with  such brilliance  a universal 
meeting  that promoted  crystallization  of  a new  awareness  that  the Earth is one 
and  that  the world,  too, must  seek  to be one. 
In conformity with  its mandate  under  resolution  44/228, the United 
Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development,  known  also  as  the Earth 
Summit,  recommended  strategies  and measures  to  reverse  the effects  of the 
deterioration  of  the environment  and  to promote  sustainable  and 
environmentally  sound  development  in all  countries. 
A/47/PV.53 
108 
(Mr. Mongbe.  Benin) 
It is no exaggeration  to  say that  the Rio Conference was  the  greatest 
diplomatic meeting  ever held.  The high  stakes were understood  by  all,  and 
this created enthusiasm  among  States  and within  the United  Nations  system,  as 
well as among  the many  non-governmental  organizations  and other  pressure 
groups that met  in the  former  capital  of Brazil  jointly  to consider  the 
foundations  for  our  future  life. 
The hopes  this  aroused  can be  summed  up  in the  lucid words uttered  at the 
end of the deliberations  on 14 June  1992 by a Brazilian  journalist; 
"After millions  of words, one  last phrase matters:  'Let us begin'". 
In other words, after hundreds  of  speeches  by world  leaders, the  only 
thing worth considering  is action.  At Rio  it  seemed  that  in 1992 mankind  had 
finally rediscovered  the  sacred  value  of  its home:  Planet  Earth. 
The concept  of  sustainable  development  must be more  than a  conviction 
held by peoples  and  their  leaders;  it must become  reality.  Sustainable 
development  covers  all  aspects  of human  life, particularly  the political, 
economic, social  and  technological  aspects.  Thus  it cannot be  ignored by  any 
planner or political  decision-maker  - much  less by  any  international  expert 
charged with  carrying  out  studies  or developing  theories. 
In the developing  countries  our major  concern with  respect  to  achieving 
sustainable  development  is the elimination of poverty;  throughout  the 
preparatory process  and  at Rio we worked  to have  this  taken  into  account. 
Today poverty poses  one  of  the greatest  threats not only  to  the  future  of 
mankind but  to the very  future  of  the planet.  Poverty  is a universal 
problem.  It  is a burning  issue  in the villages  and hamlets  of Africa, Asia, 
A/47/PV.53 
109-110 
(Mr. Mongbe. Benin) 
Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as at the foot of skyscrapers and in 
the shanty towns and suburbs of the big cities of the industrialized 
countries.  It ravages Horth and South alike, all races, all religions; most 
often it strikes the most vulnerable sectors of society, irrespective of sex 
or age. 
Poor countries and poor people throughout the world get their food from 
the earth, their water from rivers and wells, and their fuel from forests. 
They desperately need those resources, but have no choice but to overexploit 
and destroy their environment merely to survive. 
It was this that we stressed at Rio; it was above all to combat it that 
we prepared and adopted Agenda 21.  That is why the Assembly must take bold, 
sound decisions to follow up the Earth Summit.  Agenda 21 is a world programme 
of action for integrating environment and development.  It reflects consensus 
and political commitment at the highest level between industrialized and 
developing countries.  Encompassing all fields where the economy has an impact 
on the environment. Agenda 21 is a rich and varied programme that addresses 
today's urgent problems and challenges and seeks to prepare the world for the 
tasks that await it in the coming century. 
That is why Agenda 21 places special emphasis on about a dozen highly 
important programme areas to help all our countries create a policy of sound 
development.  They are:  combating poverty; providing drinking water and 
sanitary facilities; combating desertification and drought; agriculture and 
rural development; education; health; long-term management of waste water and 
other wastes; demographic policy; management of all types of forests; 
protection of the atmosphere; environmentally sound transfer of technology; 
and so forth. 
A/47/PV.53 
111 
(Mr. Mongbe. Benin) 
The key to the success of Agenda 21 is both the establishment of 
appropriate institutional machinery and the availability of sufficient means 
above all financial means  for implementation.  By the terms of the 
institutional arrangements adopted at Rio, all United Nations organs have a 
role to play in the implementation of Agenda 21. 
To ensure the effective follow-up of the results of the United Nations 
Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) and to coordinate the 
activities of United Nations organs in integrating environment and 
development, it was agreed that, in conformity with Article 68 of the Charter, 
a high-level Commission on Sustainable Development should be created.  As 
indicated in the relevant chapter of Agenda 21, the Commission 
"would consist of representatives of States elected as members, with due 
regard to equitable geographical distribution." (A/CONF.151/26 
(vol. Ill), para. 38.11) 
While respecting that principle, my delegation would like all categories 
of development to be represented among the members of the Commission:  least 
developed countries, small island developing States, intermediate-income 
countries, industrialized countries, and countries in transition from planned 
to market economies.  Considering the universal nature of questions linked to 
sustainable development and the effectiveness the Commission will need to do 
its job properly, my delegation thinks it reasonable to support the proposal 
of the Group of 77 that the number of members be set at 53. 
Moreover, my delegation proposes that the members of the Commission be 
elected for a renewable three-year term.  In conformity with the practice set 
by the General Assembly, States Members of the United Nations which are not 
members of the Commission, members of specialized agencies and observers to 
the General Assembly could be granted observer status in the Commission. 
A/47/PV.53 
112 
(Mr. Mongbe.  Benin) 
Benin  reiterates  its  support  for  the  idea  in Agenda  21 that  competent and 
interested  non-governmental  organizations,  including  those  in  the  scientific 
community,  the private  seci-or, women's groups, youth  associations,  trade 
unions  and  so forth,  should  have  the opportunity  to  contribute  to the work of 
the Commission  and  to establish  appropriate  contacts with United  Nations 
bodies. 
The  delegation  of Benin  stresses  that  the eight  functions  of  the 
Commission  defined  in chapter  38 of Agenda  21, as well  as those  flowing from 
chapter  33, on  financial  resources  and mechanisms,  are  so  relevant  that they 
require  no  further  analysis  or  comment. 
As to  the  frequency,  duration  and venue  of  the Commission's  sessions, my 
delegation proposes  that beginning  in 1993  the Commission  hold  an annual 
regular  session  three months before  the  substantive  session of  the Economic 
and  Social  Council.  Each of  those  regular  sessions would  last  four weeks to 
permit  in-depth  consideration  of  the  items on  the agenda.  The  first week 
would  be devoted  to  a general  debate  on a specific  subject, with ministerial 
participation  to the extent possible.  Finally,  the Commission  could hold each 
regular  session  at a place  decided  upon  at  the end of  the previous  session. 
For  obvious  reasons  that members  of  the Group  of  77 have  had,  or will have, 
occasion  to  state  in this Hall, my  delegation would  like the  first  regular 
session,  in 1993, to be held  at Headquarters  in Hew York. 
On the basis  of  the decision  of our Heads  of  State  or  Government  that the 
General Assembly  should periodically  consider  progress  in the  implementation 
of Agenda  21, Benin proposes  that  every  five years  the Assembly  hold  a special 
session  at Headquarters  in New York  for  review and  appraisal;  the  first such 
special  session  could  take place  in 1997. 
A/47/PV.53 
113 
(Mr. Mongb^.  Benin) 
Obviously,  an administrative  structure must  be  set up  to  support  the work 
of the Commission;  a highly qualified,  able and,  I would  add,  independent 
secretariat  should  be  set up within  the United  Nations  Secretariat;  as 
suggested  in Agenda  21, it would  draw, 
"inter  alia, on  the expertise  gained  in the Conference  preparatory 
process".  (A/CONF.151/26  (vol.Ill),  para.  38.19) 
My delegation has  confidence  in the Secretary-General, who will  assess 
the importance  that  all delegations  attach  to this question  and  assign  to  the 
secretariat  sufficient  personnel who will be worthy  of  the hopes  so  often 
expressed by one  and  all.  The  secretariat would  inter  alia provide data bases 
of information  and publications  on  the  intergration  of environment  and 
development,  a centre  for  the analysis, compilation  and  coordination  of  all 
matters that promote  the  concept  of  sustainable  development. 
My delegation  has  conducted  an  in-depth analysis  of Agenda  21's 40 
chapters and  the hundreds  of  spheres  of activities  it describes  in terms  of 
principles  of action,  objectives, activities  and means of  implementation.  We 
have closely examined  the  important  role to be played  by the various  United 
Hations organs, programmes  and bodies  in their  respective  areas  of  competence 
and in conformity  with  their  respective mandates.  We have  considered  the 
coordinating  role  the Commission  secretariat  must  play.  In the  light  of  all 
that, my delegation  considers  that  the headquarters  for this  administrative 
structure  should be  established  in Geneva,  as proposed here by  the Minister 
for Foreign Affairs  and Cooperation  of Benin  on  28 September  1992  from  this 
rostrum. 
A/47/PV.53 
114-115 
(Mr. Mongbe.  Benin) 
Geneva  is clearly  a central  city that  can take  advantage  of  technical 
cooperation  from  the  specialized  agencies  more  easily  than other  cities.  It 
would  also be easy  to make  rapid use  of  the  rich  archives  of  the  secretariat 
of  the Preparatory  Committee  for UNCED, without  having  to move  them.  Hithout 
going  into the administrative  details, my delegation would  support  the 
establishment  of  a liaison office  at Headquarters  in New York  and  another in 
Nairobi. 
Although we  share  the  concern  of  some delegations  that  they might be 
unable  to participate  in the activities  of  the Commission  if  its  headquarters 
is not  in New York, where  all  countries  are  represented,  my  delegation would 
note  that what  counts  is participation  in the work  of  the  Commission,  not easy 
access  to  its  secretariat. 
Before  turning  to the other decisions  of  the Rio  summit,  let me  say a few 
words  on the  relationship my delegation  thinks  should  exist between  the high-
level Commission  on Sustainable  Development  and  the principal  organs  of the 
United Nations, notably  the General  Assembly  and  the Economic  and  Social 
Council.  As  the General Assembly  is the highest United  Nations  organ charged 
with  adopting  resolutions  and  setting political  guidelines,  and  the main organ 
for decision-making  and  consideration  of matters  relating  to  the  follow-up to 
UHCED,  the Commission  would  report  to  it through  the Economic  and  Social 
Council.  The  subsidiary bodies  of  the Economic  and  Social  Council 
the 
Committee  on Natural  Resources,  the Committee  on the Development  and 
Utilization  of New and  Renewable  Sources  of  Energy,  and  the Commission  for 
Science  and Technology  for Development 
would  report  to  the Council  through 
the high-level  Commission  for Sustainable  Development. 
A/47/PV.53 
116 
(Mr. Mongbe.  Benin) 
The  second  key  to the  success of Agenda  21 is undoubtedly  that  of  the 
financial  resources  needed  for effective  implementation  of Agenda  21's  various 
programmes  and  activities.  The  implementation  of  the various  large-scale 
programmes  for  sustainable  development  under Agenda  21 requires major  new and 
additional  financial  resources  for  the developing  countries.  Funds will  have 
be made  available  as grants  or under  concessionary  terms, according  to  sound 
and fair criteria  and  indicators. 
We  know that generally  speaking  the  financing  for Agenda  21 will  come 
from the public  and private  sectors  in our own countries.  My  delegation 
considers that  in the  case of developing  countries,  in particular  least 
developed  countries, whose main  source of  external  financing  is official 
development  assistance,  it will  still be necessary  to obtain major  new  and 
additional  resources  for  the achievement  of  sustainable  development. 
Benin welcomes  the willingness  of  certain developed  countries  to honour 
their commitment  to devote  0.7  per  cent of gross  national product  to  official 
development  assistance  and,  if  it has not  already been done, to  increase  their 
assistance programmes  to achieve  that  target  as  soon as possible  for  the  rapid 
and effective  implementation  of Agenda  21.  My  delegation  thanks  the  developed 
countries that have  already  exceeded  that United Nations  target,  and 
encourages  them  to continue  their efforts  vis-a-vis  the countries  of  the  South. 
As to the various multilateral  channels  and mechanisms,  including  the 
regional  and  subregional  development  banks, that must  ensure  the provision  of 
new and additional  resources, my  delegation  considers  that  as part  of  their 
A/47/PV.53 
117 
(Mr. Mongbe.  Benin) 
participation  in the Commission  they  should  report  annually  on new  and 
additional  resources made  available  to developing  countries  for  the 
implementation  of Agenda 21. 
The  Global  Environment  Fund must be  restructured  to encourage  universal 
participation,  to ensure  transparent  and democratic  management,  and  to 
provide, as grants or  on favourable  terms, new and  additional  financial 
resources,  in particular  to developing  countries.  Access  to  that body's funds 
and  their payment  must  be based  on  agreed  criteria, without  new  forms of 
conditionality. 
As  indicated  in Agenda  21, the  reduction,  if not  the  cancellation, of 
debt  is another  vital way  to give  developing  countries  the means  they need to 
achieve  sustainable  development. 
The  delegation  of  Benin  supports  the proposal  of my  brother  and  friend 
Ambassador  Ouedraogo  of Burkina  Faso  that  a pledging  conference  be held before 
the end of  the  current  session  on the  financing  of Agenda  21. 
He welcome  the establishment  by  the United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP) of  the Capacity  21 fund  to help developing  countries  create  their own 
national  Agenda  21 and  implement  their  initiatives  for promoting  sustainable 
development. 
The Rio  summit  focused well-deserved  attention  on  fragile  ecosystems, 
including  deserts, semi-arid  lands, mountains,  swamps,  small  islands  and 
certain  coastal  regions. 
My delegation  is particularly  concerned  with  deserts  and  arid,  semi-arid 
and dry  areas.  On the basis  of decision  44/437  and  resolution  44/172 of 
19 December  1989  and  resolution  46/161 of  19 December  1991, we  consider it 
A/47/PV.53 
118 
(Mr. Mongbe,  Benin) 
time for  the  international  community  to draft  an  international  convention  on 
the fight  against  desertification  and  drought.  To  that end, my  delegation 
supports  the provisions  of  chapter  12 of Agenda  21, which  calls  on the  General 
Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session  to establish  an  intergovernmental 
negotiating  committee  to draft  such a convention.  In that  connection,  we 
support  the  relevant  remarks made  a short  time ago by the  Permanent 
Representative  of Burkina  Faso. 
Some  10 per  cent  of  the Earth's potentially  fertile  land has been  turned 
into desert  or  arid  land  through human  action or negligence;  25 per  cent  of 
remaining  land  is threatened  today; desertification  affects  approximately  one 
sixth of the world  population;  and  the most visible  consequences  of  this 
phenomenon  are the  spread  of poverty  and  the deterioration  of  the  soil.  That 
shows that our  ecological  concerns  are not  something  out of  science  fiction, 
but reflect  a very  real  and ever more  serious danger.  The  conclusion  of  an 
international  convention  on  the  fight  against  desertification  in all  affected 
regions, particularly  in Africa,  containing  specific  commitments  by  all 
parties, would  be  a point  of departure  for eliminating  the nightmare  lived by 
hundreds of millions  of people. 
Agenda  21 duly  addressed  the  serious  environmental  problems  of  coastal 
areas, especially  the  lowest-lying,  and by  small  island  developing  States, 
which are extremely  vulnerable  to global warming  and  to the  rising  sea-level. 
My delegation  thinks  it is of  urgent  importance  to adopt  the decisions  needed 
to convene before  1994  a world  conference  to pool  experience  on  the  management 
and integrated  development  of  coastal  areas  as  recommended  in chapter  17 of 
Agenda 21.  We would  also  support  the proposed  convening  in  1993  of  the  first 
world conference  on  the  sustainable  development  of  small  island  developing 
States. 
A/47/PV.53 
119-120 
(Mr. Mongbe.  Benin) 
Agenda  21 was  not  the only  docviment before  the Heads  of  State  or 
Government  at the Rio Conference.  Four  other  instruments  are  also of historic 
importance  for the  future  of our planet:  the Rio Declaration  on  Environment 
and Development;  the  statement  of principles  for  a global  consensus  on the 
management,  conservation  and  sustainable  development  of  all  types  of forests; 
the  Framework  Convention  on Climate  Change; and  the Convention  on  Biological 
Diversity. 
The  Rio Declaration  on Environment  and Development  stresses  the  integral 
and  interdependent  nature of  the Earth, our home,  and  aims  to establish a new 
and equitable  global  partnership  through  the creation of  new  levels of 
cooperation.  It proclaims  that human beings  are  at  the  centre  of  concerns for 
sustainable  development  and  that  they  are entitled  to a healthy  and productive 
life  in harmony with nature. 
Although non-binding,  the Rio Declaration  demonstrates  that  the countries 
of  the world have  set guidelines  for  their mutual  relations  and  for their 
relations with our planet.  For  the  first  time,  there  is a clear mention of 
the  right  to development,  for which  the developing  countries,  along with the 
world's  highest  moral  authorities, notably  the  late Pope  Paul VI, had been 
calling  for  so  long. 
Since  the Rio Declaration  did  not  address  all  the  concerns  expressed 
during  the preparatory  process,  the General  Assembly  should  adopt  a resolution 
on the preparation  of  an Earth  charter  for  adoption  on the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the United  Hations.  That would  accord with  the proposal of the 
Secretary-General  of UNCED, Mr. Maurice  Strong,  in his  closing  statement at 
the Rio  summit. 
A/47/PV.53 
121 
(Mr. Mongbe,  Benin) 
The non-legally  binding  authoritative  statement  of principles  for  a 
global consensus  on the management,  conservation  and  sustainable  development 
of all types  of  forests  shows  that  the question  of  the  forests  is  linked  to 
the whole  range  of  other  environmental  questions  and  to  related matters  such 
as the right  to  sustainable  socio-economic  development.  These principles  must 
be applied  to all  types  of  forests, whether  natural  or man-made,  in every 
geographic  and  climatic  zone:  southern,  northern,  sub-temperate,  temperate, 
sub-tropical  or  tropical. 
At  the Conference,  plenipotentiaries  of  States members  of  the  European 
Community  were  invited  to  sign  the  Framework  Convention  on Climate Change  and 
the Convention  on Biological  Diversity.  Benin  is honoured  to have been  among 
the 154 countries  that  on  14 June  1992 took the positive  step of  signing  those 
two instruments, which  open  the door  to genuine protection  of  life on Earth. 
My delegation hopes  that  all  States, in accordance  with  their  own 
constitutional  procedures, will  ratify  the  two Conventions  so they  can  come 
effectively  into  force. 
I wish  in conclusion  to  say on behalf  of my  delegation  that  the  United 
Hations Conference  on Environment  and Development, whose  report  is before  us 
this morning, was  a major  step  in the North-South  dialogue.  It brought  about 
a new mode of  international  cooperation,  even  if  it did  not  institute 
satisfactory  reforms  to meet  all  the  challenges  facing mankind with  respect  to 
sustainable development.  It began  a process  of  reversing  mankind's 
relationship with  the  Earth. 
The Rio Earth  summit  is history.  But what we  are now calling  the  spirit 
of Rio will brighten with  an  inspiring  light  the march of  all peoples  towards 
progress. 
The meeting  rose at 7.35  p.m. 
