UNITED'
NATIONS
-------------------------~-----------
A
•
General Assembly
PROVISIONAL
Al47/PV.44
6 Noveltber 1992
DGLISH
J\
M. llo
__s
.;
Forty-seventh session
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 44th MEETING
Held at Headq\1arte~s, New York,
on Wednesday, 21 October 1992, at 3 p.m.
?resident:
Mr. ABULHASAN
(Vice-President)
(Euuait)
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and other
elections [16]
(a) Election of twelve members or. the World Food Counei1: Note by
the Secretary-General
(b) Election of seven members of the Committee for Programme and
Coordination: Note by the Secretary-General
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency [14]
(a) Report by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the
Agency
(b) Draft resolution
Emergency assistance to the Philippines: draft resolution [148]
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages. The final text will
be printed in the Official Re~~rds of the General Assembly.
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They should
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, ~ithin
one week,
Services,
the record.
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, ~ff!ce of Conference
room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and inco~orated in a copy of
92-61550
2245V (E)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl41/PV.44
3-5
(~ President)
As a result;, the number of candidates nominated from amonq the African
States,
the Eastern European States..
the Latin American and Caribbean States
and the Western Buropean and Other States is equal to the number of seat
,
allocated to each of those regions.
In accordance with paragraph 16 of decision 3~/401, t.i,e Assembly may
dispense with balloting when the nUDlber of Stat-as nominated from among the
regions is ~lal to the number of seats to be filled.
I
take that the Assembly wishes to declare those States elected members
of the World Food Council for a three-year t3~ beginning on 1 January 1993.
It was so decided.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library----------------~---~----
n, 1?R!iSIDIN'1': May I furth,r take it ~at the Aslembly allo wishes
to declare the two candidates nominated from among the Asian States elected
~~8 of the World Food COUD{:il for a thrlte-year t.ra beginning on
1 January 19931
It was so decided.
Tb' PRBSIDBNt:
I congratulate the States that have been elected
members of the World Food Council.
Regarding the remaining vac~cy from among the Asian States,
the General
AS3embly will be in a position to act on it upon the nomination by the
Bconomic and Social Council of Member States from that region.
I
therefore propose that the Assembly keep this sub-item on the agenda of
th$ forty-seventh session.
If I hear no objection,
I shall take it that the Assembly agrees to that
procedure.
It was so decided.
:rh§. PRESIDENT:
:rhe Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its
consideration of sub~item (a) of agenda item 16.
We shall now turn to sub-item Cb) of agenda item 16, entitled "Election
of seven members of the Committee for Progranwne and Coordination".
In accordance with General Assembly decision 42/318 of 17 December 1987,
the Assembly elects the members of the Committee for Programme and
Coordination upon nomination by the Economic and Social Council.
The Assembly has befors it document A/47/402, which contains the
nominations by the Economic and Social Council to fill the vacancies in the
Committee which will occur 18 a result of the expiration on 31 December 1992
of the terms of office of Algeria, Argentina, Cameroon, China, Japan, Morocco
and Sri Lanka.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library.v"'UPV.44
7
(The Pr:esident)
I wish to point out that the Spanish version of document Al471402
contains an inadvertent errur in the last line of paragraph 2: Venezuela is
not a me~er of the Committee for Programme and Coordination and therefore its
name should be del&ted from the list.
~ne following Statos have been nominated by the Economic and Social
Council:
Three African Si:ates for three vacancies: Egypt, Kenya, Togo;
Three Asian States for three vacancies: China, Japan, Republic of Korea;
One Latin American and Caribbean State for one vacancy: Nicaraqua.
The number of candidat!s nominated from among the African States,
the
Asian States and the Latin American and Caribbean States corresponds to the
number of s6ats to be filled in each of those regions.
In accordance with paraqraph 16 of decision 34/401,
the Assembly may,
in
elections to subsidiary organs, dispense with secret balloting when th0 number
of candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be filled. Accordingly,
may I
take it that the Assembly wishes to declare those States nominated by
the Economic and Social Council elected members of the Committee for Programme
and Coordination for a thre~-year term beqinning on 1 January 19937
~s so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
I congratulate the States that have been elected
members of the Committee on Programme and Coordination.
May I
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to conclude its
consideration of sub~:Ltem (..) of agenda item 161
It was so decided.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(
I
Al47/PV.44
8
AGENDA ITEM 14
REPORT OF THE INTERN~IONAL MONIC ENERGY AGENCY
.
REPORT BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL TRANSMI'r'rING 'rIlE REPORT OF 'rBE
(a)
AGENCY (W471374);
(b) DRAF'r RESOLUTION (A/47/L.9/Rev.l)
7be PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic): This afternoon the
General Assembly will begin its consideration of agenda item 14, entitled
"Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency".
In this connection the Assembly has before it a note by the
Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Agency (A/47/374) and a draft
resolution contained in document A/47/L.9/Rev.l.
I should like to propose that the list of speakers in the debate on this
item be closed at 5 p.m.
this afternoon.
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic):
I
therefore request
those representatives wishing to inscribe their names to do so as soon as
possible.
I now invite the Dlrector General of th~ International Atomic Energy
Agency, Mr. Bans Blix, to present the report of the Agency for the year 1991.
Mr. BLIX (Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA»:
In December this year the fiftieth anniversary of the world's first
controlled nuclear chain reaction will be celebrated. The brilliant
scientific feat of Enrico Fermi in Chicago has left a deep imprint on the
world ever since. The development to which his discovery gave rise raised
hopes at one stage for electricity generation "to cheap to meter". Later, it
raised fears of the very extinction of humanity.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.44
9
(Hr, Blixc Director General,
!AlA)
For five decades we have lived with the d~al challenge of preventing the
use of the atom for weapons and of exploiting its many peace~uluses.
For
most of its e%istenc~ the Unite~ ~ations has been inhibited in its actions by
a cold-war stalemate,
the essence of which was an ever spiralling nuclear arms
race.
The IAEA was established 35 years ago to promote the peaceful of the atom
for development and to verify that commitments to exclusively peaceful uses
were respected. This has been in no small measure a successful operation,
part of the reason being that the lAEA has had a high degree of pr~ctical
East/West cooperation despite the cold war. The intergovernmental activities
pursued in and through the lAEA have contributed to the evolution and
world-wide use of a bread range of nuclear applications, inclu~inq nuclear
power plants generating some 17 per cent of the world's electricity. The
~ctivities of the IAEA have also constituted an important part of the
international efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.
The dual challenge which was presented by President Eisenhower in his
"Atoms for peace" speech before the United Nations General Assembly in 1953 is
still valid. Last month the General Conference of the IAEA left no doubt that
it wished the Agency to meet vigorously both challenges.
It urged the Agency
to continue promoting the use of nuclear technology,
inter alia,
through work
in the fields of nuclear safety and waste disposal and through the
dissemination of numerous nuclear techniques in the fields of medicine,
agriculture and industry.
.\t the same time it welcomed the various measures
taken in in the past year t: strengthen the lAEA's safeguards system as a part
of the challenge to reduce the risk of a further 6pread of nuclear weapons.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.44
10
(Hr. ~lix, Director GePlrol,
BR)
When in my report. today·I dftvote the larqest: part to safeguardlS and
non-pruliferatlon, it is because 1$0 much new has oc:;cuJ:'lI:'ed in this area in the
past yea~, nut because larger resources or efforts have been devoted to it
tha."1 to the prOllOtion of the peaceful applications of nuclear energy.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- -,~---_._----
Al47/PV.44
11
(Hr. Blix, Director General~
.lAB)
Thus,
the two challei'lCj'es of the early days of nuclear energy remain, but
today's world is drastically different from that of the 19S0s. Most
importantly~ ~ a~~ moving into ~.vorld where, at long last~ less resources
will be used for military purpOSQS,
including nuclear arsenals - a development
that favours non-proliferation. On the other hand, many new serious problems
now face humanity. Qne of them, which has a bearing on nuclear power, is the
need for groving energy production at a time vhen there iE increasing concern
about the effects upon the global climate of emissions of greenhouse qases,
notably the carbon diozide emissions that are associated with the use of all
fossil fuels.
I shall revert to this issue later.
At this point I should lite to address the issue of non-proliferation and
the lAEA's role in the efforts to prevent the further spread of nuclear
weapons.
Today the risk of military conflict between the qreat Powers is rapidly
receding, and the consequences in the form of disarmament,
including
accelerated nuclear disarmament, are as visible as they are welcome. The
easier cooperation between the great Powers is also helping to settle many
long-standing local or reqional conflicts. This new climate and the process
of democratization i~ a number of countries are factors which favour
non-proliferation. Let me cite some significant developments.
Argentina and Brazil have decided to open all their nuclear installations
to lAEA inspection, and following the recent adoption of some amendments there
is a very good chance that the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons
in Latin America -
the Treaty of Tlatelolco - will come into force and make
the whole of Latin America a nuclear-weapon-free zone.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47/PV.44
12
(Mr. Bliz. Director General,
DB)
South Africa has joined the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT), and the !AEA has been invited to insspect all nuclear
installations in that count~. In this new climate, African States are
renewing efforts to draft a treaty making Africa a nuclear-weapon-free zone.
The Democratic People's Republic of Korea has concluded the safeguards
agreement required of it under the NPT, and the first inspections have taken
place. China and France have joined the NP'r, so that the Treat.y is now
supported by all the declared nuclear-weapon States.
In the Middle East,
there is new hope that peace talks will lead to
agreement on a nuclear-weapon-free zone or a zone free of weapons of mass
destruction. At the General Conference of the IABA last month a resolution
was adopted without a vote noting the consensus support for such a concept and
calling upon the Director General of the IAEA to continue consultations with
Governments in the region and work on a model for safeguards verification.
I
shall do so.
A new wave of accessions to the NPT is coming, or expected to come,
from
States that formerly were parts of the Soviet Union:
the Baltic States,
Ukraine, Belarus and others. The lAEA is in contact with several of them in
order to prepare for the application of lAEA safeguards.
All this augurs well for a succesaful conference in 1995 to extend the
non-proliferation Treaty. However, some other elements would be of signal
importance for achieving a ~niversal commitment by non-nuclear-weapon States
to non-proliferation and an unlimited extension of the NPT.
An agreement
through which a date for the cessation of all nuclear testing was accepted by
all nuclear-weapon States would be such an ~lement.
It would signal that the
world would no longer tryout new and "better" nuclear: weapons. Another
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAI..?..,PV•••
13
(Hr. IsH... DiLector General,
DB)
highly positive element: would :bG ea agreement on a cut-off of the production
of fissionable material for weapons ptt.rp9sas.
Such. an agreement would seem
logical in a world moving towards nuclear disanuu18nt - and perhaps not very
burdensome in view of the difficulties which ezist today in disposing of
surplus weapons-grade material.
The foregoing considerations may seem too optimistic. Yet at no time
since disa~ament talks began hes the political climate seemed more favourable
than now for far-r~aching agreements.
The safeguards system which the IABA has now been operating for over
25 years was the world's first on-site inspection system.
It has great
merits, but also limitations.
I shall discuss both, and I shall begin with
some thoughts on the potential further use of the system in the contezt of
nuclear di8a~ament.
Given adequate resources,
IABA safeguards could be employed to verify the
peaceful storage or use of fissionable material that is recovered from the
dismantling of nuclear weapons, if the world wants international assurances
that such material is not goin9 into Dew weapons. A cut-off of production of
fissionable material for weapons purposes could also be v9rified by
international safeguards. The safeguarding of enrichment and reprocessing
plants,
though a difficult task, is a problem to which much international work
has already been devoted and a task which is already ODe of the lAEA's duties.
There could also be renewed consideration of the concept of so-called
international plutonium storage -
that is to say, arrangements under which the
growing quantities of separated plutonium from the peaceful cycle and
quantities of plutonium expected from dismantled weapons would be subjected to
special controls, which would give additional assurances concerninq
___-J~£-
~ ~~----
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl411PV.44
14
(Mr. Blix. Director General,
!AlA)
non-diversion and an exclusively peaceful use. The statute of the IAnA
envisages a function of this kind for the Agency.
While the IAEA's safeguards system is a resou~ce that could be more
extensively used by the international community, its limitations,
too, must be
considered - and remedied.
In a world of fewer weapons there needs to be
great confidence that no State is violating commitments and secretly producing
fissionable material for weapons or,
indeed, making new nuclear weapons.
The case of Iraq showed that it was possible in a very closed and
controlled society to mount a sizeable secret effort for the enrichment of
uranium and for weapons dev~lopment without this being detected by the
safeguards system. What can be done and what is being done to minimize the
risk of the same thing happening again in the future? Public discussion often
focuses on forcaful
inspections. While these are important, it must be
recognized that information on where and what to inspect is the first and
basic requirement.
It is not possible for inspectors to visit and examine every building and
basement in a foreign country, and random visits will not help very much.
Inspectors must have access to information leading them to sites and
installations of possible interest.
In the case of post-war inspections in
Iraq, relevant information about sites has b~en obtained,
through the United
Nations Special Commission,
from Governments.
In the strengthened safeguards
system now taking shape in the IAEA,
the information provided by the inspected
State will be supplemented by other data, for instance data from other States
concer~ing the export and i,nport of nuclear material and certain types of
equipment. Had such data regarding Iraq been available to the IAEA and
analysed, it is probable that special explanations and visits would have been
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW4'11PV.44
15
(Mr. Vlis, Director GeLeral,
!AlA)
requested by the Agency. Any data, wb.ather obtained by the IABA through its
analysis of declared nuclear activities or from external sources, must
obviously be critically analysed and assessed to avoid unnecessary suspicions
and false alarms.
It must be recognized that there is a special difficulty in verifying the
completeness of a nuclear inventory when the IAEA is given this task in
respect of a n"clea~ progrmrnne which has been going on in a territory for a
long time and has attained a certain size, as is at present the case in South
Africa and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and as will be the case
in some countries which were parts of th9 Soviet Union.
In the case of South Africa,
the General Assembly has requested tbe
Director General of the IAEA to report on the completeness of the inventory of
South Africa's nuclear installations and material. The Agsncy has carried out
a large number of inspections of South African facilities aad locations
outside declared facilities.
It has carried out an extensive audit of
historical operating and accounting ~ecords and performed a large number of
analyses. With the cooperation of the South African authorities,
lAEA
inspectors have been able to visit all the sites they asked to see - declared
or not declared, military or civilian - and they have found no evidence that
the inventory is incomplete.o
HOor is the IAEA in possession of any other
information suggesting the ~xistence of any undeclared facilities or nuclear
material. Naturally, if relevant information were obtained suggesting the
need for access to additional facilities,
locations or data,
the Agency would
request such access. The report of the Agency on this matter has been
transmitted to the United, N~tions.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV,44
16
(Mr. Bliz. Dfr§ctor General,
.DU)
A problem similar to the one I have described reg~xding South Africa is
encountered in the verification of the initial inventory presented by the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea under the safeguards agreement which
entered into force on 10 April this year. Here, only three inspection
missions have been perform0d so far. and much work remains.
Cer~ain steps
taken by the Damocratic People's Eepublic of Korea ha~e facilitated the task.
Some o%iginal historical operating records have been provided for ozamination
and analysis.
klso, as in the case of South Africa,
the Agency has been given
a standing invitation to send officials to sites and in~tallations regardless
of whether th&y are included in the initial declaration of the Democratic
I1eople's Republic of Korea.
Such invitat.ions, if lived up to in practice, are
of co~rse uBeful. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea has cooperated
with us in organizing a visit by IAEA officials in September, and I expect
prompt assistance will be offered in connection with a further visit. Over
time,
the acceptance of such visits and openness and assistance to them will
help to create a record of cooperation and transparency.
A right of unimpeded access for inspectors to relevant sites and material
is certainly of crucial importance when information is available suggesting
the need for inspection of specific sites.
In the case of inspections in
Iraq,
the United Nations and the IAEA have obtained the ~ight of unimpeded
access under Security Council resolution 687 (1991) and an exchange of letters
of 14 May 1991 between the Secretary-General and the Foreign Minister of
Iraq. This right relates t·) any sites, installations, equipment, persons, or
documents.
In the case of routine IAEA safeguards inspections, rules exist
which allow a recipient State to reject inspector designations and to subject
,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl41IPV.~"
11
(Mr. Bl1z, Director GeDAEal,
llIA)
the visit of inspec~ors to visa r~quirements. Once a designation has been
accepted or a visa issued, however'..
there is a right to visito
I have repeatedly urS_"'" that these restrictions be eliminated,
th&t all
Agency inspectors be accepted as the international ci~il servants which they
are, and that they be exempt from visa requirements and allowed entry on the
basis of a United Nations laissez-passer and a certificate indicating that
they are cuminq Qn inspection dut,..
Some p!"lOq!"ess has been mad5 towardl!!
abolishing visa requirements or issuing multiple visas or accepting inspectors
without a special designation procedure; but much remains to be done to
facilitate inspections.
In the past year the Board of Governors of the lAEA has confirmed the
right of the Agency to perform special inspections when there are reason~ to
believe that installations or material which should have bee~ declared have
not been so declared. No use has yet been made of this right.
There is no doubt that in the case of Iraq the readiness of the Security
Council to support the right of unimpeded inspection has been of great
importance.
It is reassuring that, in the summit statement of 31 January
1992,
the Council emphasized the int&gral role in the implementation of the
non-proliferation Treaty of fully effective lAEA ~afeguards and that the
members of the Council declared that they
"will talce appropriate measures in the case of any violations notlfiled to
them by the IAEA." (8/23500, Pp 4)
The relationship agreement
,f 14 November 1951 between the United Nations and
the !AEA contains rules all,~in; prompt interaction between the United
Nations,
including the Security Council, and the IAEA. Any denial of access
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.44
18
(Mr. Blis. Director General,
.DB)
for inspection or any other a~parent violations could speedily be placed
before the Council.
In the case of lraq,
the IAEA has now performed 14 inspection missions,
on which reports have been submitted to tbe Security Council through the
Secretary-General.
In response to the first task laid down by the Council,
that of mapping Iraq's nuclear progr8llll\8,
the Agency has been able ovel' the
past year to put together a picture that is relatively consistent and
coherent. However, as the Iraqi authorities have refused to provide
information on sources of foreign procurement and foreign technical advice,
there could still be missing elements in the picture.
Inspections must
continue of any sites or objects that may be designated by the United Nations
Special Commission on the basis of new information that may beco~~ available
to it.
Some elements of the long-term monitoring have already been phased in
side by side with investigative inspections. Considering that Iraq's
)
scientific and technical knowledge remains largely intact, such monitoring is
clearly of great importance,
the more so as the clandestine procurement
network is still in place.
It must be kept in mind, on the other hand,
that the vast infrastructure
needed for any revival of a prohibited programme for the production of nuclear
weapons and weapons-usable material in Iraq has been destroyed or rendered
harmless, reservation being made for the possible continued existence of
undetected installations.
I now turn to the other side of the nuclear challenge, that of ezploiting
the peaceful applications of nuclear science and technology for development in
medicine, agriculture and industry. While at the time of Enrico Fermi's
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.44
19
(Mr. Bllx, Director General,
lAD)
experiment in Chicago 50 years ago, "nuclear" mainly meant research and
science, ~e practical applications are now many and significant. Let me give
a few examples.
I mentioned that,
today, 17 per cent of the world's
electricity comes from nuclear-power reactors - slightly less than the
20 per cent that comes from hydro power. Today every third patient in
industrialized countries is examined or treated by some nuclear-related
method, either for therapy or diagnostic. Today,
the cotton crop in Pakistan
and the rice crop in Indonesia have been greatly boosted by the use of
suitable mutagens,
that is to say, new strains produced through mutations
induced by irradiating seeds. Today, nuclear methods are used in animal
husbandry to measure the efficiency of protein uptake from various locally
available foodstuffs. Based on such measurements, optimum combinations of
local feeding materials for buffaloes have been introduced in India and
Indonesia, which has led to a dramatic increase in buffalo milk and meat
production.
I shall Dot prolong this list of examples of nuclear techniques which
help to maintain or restore health, boost industrial production and promote
the production and preservation of food.
I should underline, however -
in
view of the expectations of the Rio Conference on Environment and Development
that all organizations in t"'1e United Nations family should contribute to the
fulfilment of the Agenda 21 -
that nuclear techniques have a remarkably wide
use not only in development but also in the monitoring and protection of the
environment. Let me give two examples of this.
Isotopes a~e a powerful tool in the fight against groundwater and soil
contamination through exces&ive use of fertilizers. They allow precise
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.44
20
(Mr. Bli;, Director General,
lAEA)
measurement of the amount of fertilizer that goes into the plant, so that the
most appropriate fertilizer regime can be established for any particular
agronomic systam. Similarly, nuclear techniques allow the determination of
the amount of nitrogen which different crop plants obtain from the soil. This
has not only led to the development of better fertilizer strategies but also
helped in the selection of the most officient nitrogen-fixing plant va~ieties
within each speciss, reducing the need for nitrogen fertilizer,
to the benefit
of the environment and the economy of the countries involved.
Most controversial - but also most interesting - is the question of how
helpful nuclear power is and could be in generating the increasing amounts of
electricity which the world will need without emitting carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere and thereby contributing to a possible global warming.
The Framework Convention on Climate Change which was signed at Rio soeks
to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations, but does not prescribe how this is
to be done or set any targets concerning C02 emissions or other greenhouse qas
emissions. There is no doubt that global development will require the use of
more energy, especially electricity, and that a dilemma is inherent in the
circumstance in which an increased use of fossil fuels,
today's dominant
energy source, would set us on a collision course with the probable need to
reduce emissions of carbon dioxide. There is a growing awareness that the
saving of energy and greater use of renewable sources of energy,
like solar
power and wind power, will be very inaOequate responses to this dilemma.
There is also a growing awareness that the continued and,
indeed,
expanded use of nuclear energy is one of the few options at tha world's
disposal for increasing ene:gy generation without significantly adding to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library---..,......".,.....,........,........,--~---....,,, ,._-----
Al471fV.44
20(8-.)
(Mr, Bl!z, Director General,
lAD}
carbon 4101£i4e ..baio:!la.
It i. worth 80118 reflection that, if the world' s
400 or SQ nuclear-power plants vere to be cloSG4 an4 the electricity they
qenerate VO~. ta be produced instead frOll th& bUt'aiuq of coal,
there would be
an ~ual increase of soma 7 per cent in carbon dioxide emissions. Nuclear
enargy alone cannot solve the carbon dioxide problem, but that problem can
hardly be solved without nuclear power.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.44
21
(Mt. Blix. pirector General,
lAD.)
It is still true, however, that the usa or ezpanded use of nuclear power
is opposed by a sizeable segment of public opinion in many countries, mainly
for fear of radioactive releases from an. accident or from the disposal over
long periods of time of nuclear waste~.
Comparisons with the risks associated with the generation of energy
through coal, hydro power, gas or oil are certainly relevant and should be
carried C)ut to provide a basis for rational discussion. However, we must be
aware thl!lt the public might find damage to health and the environment thruugh
radiatio~ leas tolerable than injury through coal-mine accidents,
the bursting
of hydro dams or the explosion of gas cisterns. This is also the premise upon
which extensive international co-operation is now taking place within and
outside the lAEA to strengthen safety worldwide in th(. operation of nuclear
power plants and in the disposal of radioactive waste.
In a year's time I hope a draft convention on nuclear safety will be
ready, containing rules which will be legally binding on all States adhering
to it.
It is currently being negotiated within the lAEA, as recomm9nded by
the Rio Conference. The attainment of a nuclear safety culture embracing all
countries operating nuclear power plants is also the objective of present
efforts to assist countries in Eastern Europe to upgrade nuclear power plants
or in some cases, where this may not be feasible or economic,
to phase them
out.
Agenda 21 of the Rio Conference contains a chapter on the safe and
environmentally sound management of radioactive wastes. Let me report in this
regard that a code of practice on the international transboundary movement of
radioactive waste was adopted by the IAEA in 1990. While cases have occurred
in which chemical wastes have been exported to developing countries, no such
I
1
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Libraryl
I
,
(~lix« Director General,
IAD)
case has been found in,,"olving radioactive wastes.
I should add that, at the
request of developing countries" experts sent by the IAEA have investigated
several cases - and found chealcal uaste but not radioactive waste.
I should also report that intensified efforts are under way in the lAEA
to work out a comprehensive series of internationally agreed radioactive waste
safety standards which may form the basis of, or complement, national
standards and criteria.
It is reasonable to require that radioactive waste be
disposed of with the same level of safety all over the world, and regardless
of whether the wastes originate in military or civilian programmes.
If px'esent efforts to ensure a uniformly high level of safety in the
operation of uuclear power plants and in the disposal of radioactive waste
around the world continue to be vigorously pursued within and outside the
lAEA,
I believe that the expanded use of nuclear power, which may become
indispensable, may also become fully acceptable to "Nst people.
Let me conclude with some comments not on the past year but on the
long-term role of the IAEA.
International organizations are mechanisms
through which Governments jointly meet international challenges.
I would
submit that over the years the lAEA has been a useful and efficient tool of
its member States.
The energy crisis focused attention on the practical and potential use of
nuclear power and the role of the lAEA.
The Chernobyl crisis led the lAEA to
launch the concept and principles of a nuclear safety culture accepted and
respected by all; in the environment crisis,
the lAEA has been able to show
that peaceful nuclear applications,
inclUding the use of nuclear power for
electricity generation, are of crucial value both for the environment and for
development; in the Iraqi crisis,
the lAEA has helped the United Nations to
neutralize the nascent nuclear weapon capacity.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.44
23
(Mr. Blixc Director Gen§ral,
IABA)
The Aqency is also learning the broader lessons of Iraq and strengthening
the verification system in order to increase the probability that any
violation will be detected and be dealt with by the Security Council,
to which
the lABA reports in these matters.
As the lABA is obliged to undertake increasing activities in the fields
of technology transfers, nuclear safety and safeguards,
the organization -
like the United Nations - ought to be spared financial crises.
This year we
have been forced to reduce our activities in order to manage a shortfall of no
less than 13 per cent of our budget, due to uon-~ayment, in particular by a
large contributor.
Such financial crisis management in an organization
inevitably undermines its capacity to address the serious issues it is asked
to deal with.
The ongoing erosion of pay levels for 0,1' staff also reduces our ability
to attract staff of the required calibre.
I Submit that more mileage will be
obtained from the mechanisms that Governments create for our joint journey
into the future if these mechanisms are adequately financially fuelled and
managed by well-motivated and competent crews.
Lastly,
I should like to express in this forum the thanks of the lAEA to
the Government of Austria, which is an excellent host to all the international
organizations located in Vienna.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of Australia to
introduce draft resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.l.
Mr. O'SQLLIVAN (Australia):
I have the honour to introduce draft
resolution A/47/L.9/Rev.l on the annual report of the lAEA (A/47/374).
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAI..7/PV.....
2..
(Mr. O'SulliYan, AustW!!!)
The following countries have joined the 32 sponsors listed in document
Al47/L.9/Rev~1: Japan,
the Republic of KOrea, Costa Rica, Latvia, Botswana
and Turkey.
I should like to explain first that Australia is introducing the draft
resolution on behalf of the sponsors because it wa~ requested to do so by a
number of interested delegati4)ns. We are not this year a member of the lAEA
Bureau,
the group that traditionally manages the draft resolution. However,
we were a member of the Bureau in 1991 and we ara strongly committed to the
lAEA, its role and its future.
Thi.s year, unfortunately,
there was no agreement in the Bureau about
introducinq a draft resolution on the IAEA. Obviously,
there had to be such a
draft resolution.
In the circumstances, Australia was prepared to take on the
task of introducing it, and there was no objection from this year's Bureau to
our so doing. We have consulted widely, and we believe this draft resolution
broadly reflects a common view.
The pa~t year has been an important one for the IAEA.
In all its areas
of activity with regard to nuclear non-proliferation and strengthening the
safeguards system,
the year saw the signatu~e of safeguards agreements by
South Africa, Argentina, Brazil and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
and the initiation within the Boar6 of Governors of a series of measures
designed to strengthen the safeguards system.
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferatio~of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the
Agency's safe~lards systems together constitute the principal international
assurance of the peaceful uses of _~clear energy. The safeguards system is
fundamental
to nuclear non-proliferation, and the measures initiated in
1991 are very encouraging, both for the future of the safeguards system itself
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.46
25
(Hr. O"SulliYanc Australia)
and its underpinning' of nuclear trade and cooperation. Ne bellevethat the
General ~sembly should specifically launCh the preparatory process for the
NPr extension conference.
Nuclear safety is a key area of the IABA"s work. Safety standards are
constantly being developed and upqraded by the Agency, not least in response
to public perceptions concerninq the benefits and risks associated with
nuclear snerqy. Nork has n01l col'l'l'ftenced on an international nuclear safety
convention, and in 1991 a document vas published on the desiqn deficiencies of
certain reactor plants that provides a basis for operators and requlatory
bodies alike co develop a proqramme for enhancinq safety at these plants.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
I
Al47/PV.44
26
(Mr. Y'$u1liyan. Australia)
There have also been important developments in technical assistance and
cooperation activities, where the potential benefits of nuclear technology
continue to be demonstrated in a variety of applications.
In addition to
those mentioned just now by the Director General of the IAEA,
there are other
examples. The use of the sterile-insect technique has enabled the new-world
screw worm fly to be eradicated from North Africa. That pest, which had
become established in Libya, posed a threat to livestock throughout Africa and
the Mediterranean. Other application techniques resulted in improved crop
yields,
improvements in nuclear-medicine capabilities, and greater inte~est in
environmental monitoring.
~urning now to this year's draft resolution, we wish to note that it is
substantially the same as the resolution adopted in 1991.
In paragraph 4, we
would emphasize the centrality of strengthened safeguards to international
security, regional security and technical cooperation.
In paragraph 5, we
would draw attention to the Agency's actions in strengthening technical
assistance and cooperation activities.
In paragraph 6 r we would emphasize
that the Agency is continuing to do very valuable and dangerous work in Iraq,
which we believe requires recognition by the General Assembly, arising as it
does from the first blatant breach of an IAEA and/or non-proliferation Treaty
(NPT) safeguards agreement; and also that effective fulfilment of Security
Council resolutions is es~ential for the continued effectiveness of the
non-proliferation regime and the assurances it provides to all members of the
international community.
We commend this draft resolution" which has attracted a broad
sponsorship,
to delegations.
It is a balanced text and seeks to be responsive
to the needs and interests of all IAEA members. Above all, it is in our
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.44
27
(Mr. Q·Sullivan. Australia)
common interest to see the ~aintenance and strengthening of the IAEA and the
protection from the proliferation of nuclear weapons its activites provide.
To support this draft resolution is to support that objective.
ML....~ (Hungary):
file annual report for 1991 of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) submitted to the General Assembly
and the introductory statement to the Assembly by the IAEA Director General,
Mr. Hans B1ix, reflect very well the results of dedi~ated work aimed at
fUlfilling the objectives enshrined in the statute of the IAEA 35 years ago.
The overall activities of the Agency have remained faithful to the noble ideas
of its founders:
t~ promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy all over the
world and to serve,
through its safeguards activities,
the cause of
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. These have been and remain the
fundamental tasks of the Agency.
The maintenance of an appropriate balance in its activities has always
been a major prerequisite both for the general support lAEA enjoys on the part
of its member States and for its growing international prestige. Hungary
continues to believe that the International Atomic Energy Agency plays a
pre-eminent role in all its fields of activity and is firmly convinced that
the latest developments in international relations open up new possibilities
for the Agency and at the same time pose new challenges for it.
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the lAEA
safeguards system together constitute an important international guarantee of
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. We have witnessed important new
developments indicating the overall str~ngthening of the nuclear
non-proliferation regime.
(n this context, we view the following as
encouraging factors:
the a:cession of China and France to the NPT; ~he
iI
\
~~~~------~------,j--
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library\
1i
,
W471PV.44
28
(Mr. 601do, Hyp!1oa)
conclusion of comprehensive safe~~ards agreements with South Africa and the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea;
the steps towards full-scope safeguards
in Argentina and Brazil, the good prospects of bringing the Treaty of
Tlatelolco fully into force in the near future; and the declaration of
full-scope safeguards as a common policy for nuclear exporters. We expect the
States parties to the NPT to conclude full-scope safeguards agreements with
the IAEA without any delay and hope that similar steps will soon be taken by
other States not yet parties to the Treaty.
It is the firm and definite
position of the Hungarian Government that the newly emerging States cannot
serve the fundamental interests of their own peoples and the global interests
of peace, security and development unless they become parties to the
non-proliferation Treaty without any undue delay. The recent accession of
8stonia and Lithuania to the Treaty and the conclusion of the respective
safeguards agreements by them are promising' siqns in this respect. At tha
1995 NPr extension Conference, where we shall strongly argue for the
indefinite extension of the Treaty, we should lite to see these positive
measures further strengthened.
In view of the renewed global interest in nuclear non-proliferation,
the
IAEA safeguards system continues to be of crucial importance. Hungary has
always accorded high priority to the continuous improvement and strengthening
of that system. Now, after Iraq's non-compliance with its safeguards
obligations, and when the IAEA safeguards system faces new challenges owing to
the disintegration of the Soviet Union, it is imperative to increase the
ability of the safeguards system to detect any possible undeclared nuclear
activity and to render the safeguards system capable of carrying out its
activities - whose scope has widened - with respect to declared nuclear
facilities. We commend the initiative taken by the Director General in
--_.'-------~~-----~-~~-
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.44
29-30
(Mr. Gajda, Hungary)
encouraging us to reflect together On possible ways to strengthen the present
system while making it less costly. We have supported the action of the Board
of Governors with regard to special inspections,
the provisions for furnishing
early design information, and the application of the universal reporting
system on nuclear exports and imports.
I should like to recall in this regard that a few weeks ago my Government
announced its readiness to provide information on a voluntary basis to IAEA on
all its nuclear export and import activities. Let me also reiterate my
Government's intention to continue to participate in the Agency'~ efforts to
improve the reliability and transparency of IAEA safeguards.
Also in this context, 1 wish to refer to one particular issue:
the
designation of safeguards inspectors. Many member States,
in rasponse to the
repeated appeals of the Director General, have introduced simplified
procedures for designating inspectors, and we are of the view that the time
has now come for the lAEA to develop a widely acceptable policy on this
question. The respective provisions of the agreed text of the draft
Convention on chemical weapons could serve as a guideline for IAEA to develop,
adopt and apply such a policy. Let me note here,
in passing,
that the Agency
could - and,
I feel, should - offer its advice and assistance to the
soon-to-be-established preparatory committee and later to the new chemical
weapons organization to hele it in the early ~hases of its evolution.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ ._ - -
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.44
31
(Hr. Gajda. Hungary)
The IABA secretariat deserves credit for the excellent work done,
sometimes under very difficult local conditions, in the implementation of
Security Council resolutions 687 (1991), 707 (1991) and 715 (1991). The
results ef the 14 on-site inspection missions have proven that the concerns of
the international community about the Iraqi nuclear programme ¥ere
well-founded, and the resolute international action against such a violation
of Treaty obligations was justified. The remaining questions about the Iraqi
nuclear programme are to be clarified. The mandate given by the Security
Council regarding the long-term monitoring activity to verify Iraq's
compliance with the requirements of the relevant Security Council resolutions
remains an essential task for the Agency.
The issues of nuclear safety have always been high on the agenda of the
International Atomic Energy Agency. Recently, a broad set ~f !~ternational
and bilateral programmes was launched, with the participation of various
international organizations and the highly industrialized countries,
to
provide assistance in the field of nuclear safety to Central and Eastern
European countries. We believe that the long experience of IAEA cooperation
with these co~t~ies, as well as the professional knowledge the Agency has
accumulated, are of great value and should be used in a proper way.
In this
context, we welcome the efforts to avoid duplication in providing
safety-related assistance and to increase the effectiveness of such
assistance. We lend our support to the Agency in creating appropriate
mechanisms for its active participation.
Hungary appreciates th~ Agency's work in promoting the necessary legal
basis for the strengthening of nuclear safety. Significant preparatory work
has been launched by the lAEA to elaborate a nuclear-safety Convention•
I[I
~
f
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.44
32
(M!:. Gajda, HungarY)
Although the national authorities are, and should remain, responsible for the
safe operation of nuclear facilities,
there is no doubt that an international
commitment by the participating States to the provisions of such a Convention
would be an important step towards improving nuclear safety all over ~~a
world.
In this connection, my Government is extremely concerned about the
need for adequate physical protection of nuclear materials, and is doing
everything in i~s power to prevent Hungary from becoming thG scene of illegal
transit of nuclear materials. At the First Review Conference of the States
Parti~= to the Convention on the Phy5ical Protection of Nuclear Material, we
noted,
therefore, with satisfaction,
the increased number of States Parties to
the Convention, as well as -the positive outcome and successful work of the
Conference.
We are also pleased to note that the international legislative framework
for nuclear liability has been strengthened by the entry into force of the
Joint Protocol to the Vienna and Paris Conventions, elaborated and adopted
with the active participation of the Agency.
The Hungarian Gove~nment highly appreciates the Agency's work in the
field of technical assistance and cooperation.
International cooperation has
been vital for the development of our nuclear industry, research and
education.
It has not only contributed to achieve the present, widely
recognized high standards in nuclear sciences but also made our institutions
capable of transferring our knowledge and experience to countries less
developed in the nuclear field. Our intention is unchanged:
to remain a
corr.ect and competent ;?::-.rtner as a donor and recipient country in the future
too.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
.'
33
(Nr. Gajda, Hungary)
In 1991 the net generation of electricity from our nuclear power plant
represented almost one half - 45.8 per cent~ to be p~eGi8e - of Hungary's
total production of electricity. This is a convincing figure, underscoring
the importance of nuclear energy for our economy.
In spite of th5 excellent
operational record of our nuclear power plant, we are continuously reassessing
and u~aating the nuclear safety and operational practice of the plant.
In
this activity, we continue to rely on the Agency's cooperation. Apart from
the traditional services,
like the missions of the Operational Safety Review
Tea-on (OSART) and of the Analysis of Safety-Significant Bvents Team (ASSET), we
encourage the secretariat to broaden its services ~o the member States in such
vital fields as spent fuel mlUlagement and radioactive w(ste disposal.
In conclusion,
I wish to express our appreciation to the Director General
of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mr. Rans 81ix, and his staff for
their excellent work during the previous yaar.
Mr. RQV Zhitong (China) (interpretation from Chinese): The Chinese
delegation has listened very carefully to the statement made by Mr. Hans 81ix,
Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and has
studied the Agency's annual report seriously. Over the past year,
the Agency
has done a great deal of work, and made positive efforts in such important
fields as safeguards, peaceful uses of nuclear energy and nuclear safety. We
are satisfied with these re~ults.
The promotion of international cooperation in the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy is an imperative task for the Agency. Nuclear energy, as a
clean and reliable alternative source of energy, has broad prospects. Many
countries, particularly the developing countries, ~eed urgently to develop
nuclear energy in order to develop their economy and protect the environment •
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
I{l
\•
Al47/PV.44
34-35
(Mr. Rou Zbitong. China)
Therefore, we hope the Agency will sake a greater contribution to promotinq
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
The implementation of safeguards with a view to preventinq nuclear
proliferation is another important sission of the IAXA.
In order to ensure
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, it is necessary to make the acceptance of
lAEA safeguards a precondition for international nuclear energy cooperation.
The Aqency has done much work in this field, and has accumulated rich
experience, continuously improvinq the safeguards reqime and makinq it the
universally acceptable measure against nuclear proliferation.
Evidently, it is a complicated and demandinq task for the IAEA both
further to promote international cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear
energy and to implement the safeguards. The Chinese deleqation is of the view
that the Aqency's two functions should be assiqned equal weiqht. Neither can
be neglected, and still less can the two be pitted aqainst each other;
otherwise,
the further development of the IAXA would inevitably be affected.
China supports the Aqency' s work in safecr.aards. At the same time, we &lso
believe it is impermissible to allow the use of any excuse to infrlnqe upon
the legitimate rights and interests of any country, especially the developing
countries,
in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
- - - -
1
_
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.44
36
(Mr. Rou Zhitong, China)
Yet what should be noted here iD the fact that some people put
disproportionately heavy emphasis on the prevention of nuclear proliferation
while ove~lookin9 and misrepresenting the legitimate demands of the developing
countries for cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear e~ergy. Some
individual countries even go so far as to restrict such cooperation under the
pretext of preventing proliferation,
in an attempt to monopolize nuclear
technology and nuclear euergy. Undoubtedly, such a practice not only affects
the economic and social development of developing countries but is also of no
help to international efforts to prevent nuclear proliferation.
There£ore~
the tendency should be rGctified.
It is known to all that China's consistent policy has been not to
advocate, encourage or engage in nuclear proliferation nor to help other
countries develop nuclear weapons. China's nuclear export strictly abides by
the following three principles, namely, assurance for peaceful purposes,
acceptance of the IAEA's safeguards and no retransfer to a third country.
China has officially acceded to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons. China has taken an active part in the international cooperation in
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, signing, from 1980 to 1986,
intergovernmental agreements for ~uclear energy cooperation with 11
countries. Recently, China and the Islamic Republic of Iran signed an
intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear
energy.
In the future China will, as always, follow that policy, further
develop its international cooperation in the peaceful uses of nUClear energy
and make its contribution to enabling nuclear energy to render more service to
mankind.
----._-----------------------
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
I
!
I
1
r
\i,
!
Al47/PV.44
37
Mr. BAJNOCZI (Austria): At the outset,
I should like to express
Austria's deep oppreciation for the work of the Director General of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IA,EA) and its highly competent staff.
This has been a particularly challenging year, in which the IAEA has performed
very well. The ezamplary manner in which Director General Rans 8liz has been
conducting the work of his Agency merits our gratitude and respect.
The Austrian Government has always held the view that on the way towards
a nuclear-weapon-free world a non-profileration regime is an essential step
and that the IAEA has an indispensable role to play in that regime. We are
glad to note that the regime has been broadened in important regards.
France and China have acceeded to the non-proliferation Treaty (NPT) as
nucle~~-weapon States, so that all nuclear-weapon States in the terms of that
Treaty have now become parties to it.
South Africa and the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea have joined the Treaty and concluded safeguards
agreements with the IAEA.
We also appreciate that the Ukraine, 8elarus and Kazakhstan have declared
their intention to join the NPT as non-nuclear-weapon States. We are looking
towards 1995, when the NPT Review Conference will give us an opportunity to
renew our faith in the need of this Treaty for a peaceful world order and to
remove its time limits.
The non-proliferation regime has also been greatly strengthened by the
important developments that have taken place in Latin America in that
respect. The full-scope safeguards agreement between Argentina, Bra~il and
the Agency is an important step towards the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in Latin America in accordance with the T~eaty of
Tlatelolco.
'.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
I
I
A/471PV.44
S6
(Mr. Hajnoczi, Austria)
The importance of an effective verification regime with regard to the
obligations of the non-proliferation Treaty has been highlighted by Iraq's
failure to live up to its obligations under the Treaty and its safeguards
agreement with the IAEA.
The close collaboration between the Agency and the Security Council in
this matter has resulted in the implementation of measures that were the
necessary consequence of Iraq's gross breach of international obligations.
The Director General and his staff have earned our admiration for their
excellent performance in implementing the tasks entrusted to them by the
Security Council.
The IAEA will continue to pla,y an important part in the process of making
the NPT obligations effective and ensuring that nuclear development will not
be used for other than peaceful purposes.
The activities of the IAXA are essential for rebuilding international
faith in the workability of a non-profileration regime.
When the term "nuclear energy" i8 used, it is sometimes - and
erroneously - equated with nuclear power. But as everyone who follows the
activities of the Agency knows,
there are many non-power uses of nuclear
energy, and the IAEA's promotion of these is viewed as particularly
significant by many countries. Any assessment of the role of the IAEA has to
bring out the fact that the use of nuclear energy in the fields of medicine,
science and technology is raising the standards of living worldwide.
That distinction is important for Austria, whose Parliament, on the basis
of a referendum held in 1978, has adopted legislation forbidding the use of
nuclear-fission energy for the purpose of power production in Austria.
j
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
]'..!o!7!~=44
39
(Mr. H~noczi, Austria)
It is a policy of the Austrian Government to make this decision known to
other members of the international community and to inform them of the reasons
that have led to it in the hope that our example will be followed by other
States, especially our neigbboursn
But whereas views on nuclear-power production differ,
there can be only
one view regarding the necessity of making nuclear plants as safe as possible
so long as they exist. Austria,
therefore, welcomes the activities of the
IAEA in this respect, and particularly those concerning nuclear plants in
Central and Eastern Europe. There is today a much wider awareness of the
dangers arising from the continued existence of those reactors and of the need
for urgent corrective action.
It is not surprising that in an international organization of 113 States
different views should be held on the order of priority of its aims.
Some of
its objectives will find general acclaim, while others will be a matter of
disagreement.
That fact, however, does not prevent us from appreciating, especially in
the light of the past year's experience,
the importance of the IAEA as an
essential part of the organized international community in its search for
peace.
Mr. GQUDlMA (Ukraine): First of all, my delegation would like to
express its appreciation to Mr. Blix, Director General of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and to his staff for their excellent work in the
period under review.
The report submitted to the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly
by ~e International Atomic Energy 1gency contains detailed information
concerning the activities of this organization in 1991.
In the period under
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.44
40
(Mr. Goudima, Ukraine)
review the IBA was operating against the background of the dramatic changes
in the world pursuant to the emergence of many new members of the
international community and to the development of a new model of relations
between States.
I
,(-
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A.l4?IPVut!6
......""
(Mr. Gougima, Ukraipe)
With the pulitical situation in the world changinq for the better and the
end of confrontation in relations between formerly antagonistic States,
there
is every reason to believe that mankind can enter the new millennium with the
threat of nuclear war left behind.
In these conditions the role of the IAEA
is of special ~ignificance, as the Agency is designed to promote international
cooperation in the safe and peaceful use of nuclear energy,
to monitor its
use, ensuring that it is not used for military purposes, and to render
practical assistance within its competence to developing countries as well as
to countries in transition.
Of special relevance today is the issue of non-proliferation of nuclear
weapons. The delegation of Ukraiu.e commends the IAEA for its role in
implementing the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
In
this connection,
I
remind the Assembly that Ukraine, which recently celebrated
the first anniversary of its independence, bases its policy on
non-participation in military blocs and observance of the three non-nuclear
principles:
not to accept, produce or acquire nuc~ear weapons. Ukraine has
resolutely set out on the road to non-nuclear status and takes consistent
measures to reach this.goal.
In May 1992 all tactical nuclear weapons were
withdrawn from Ukrainian territory. On our insistence, Ukraine exercised
effective control over the process of dismantling the nuclear weapons
withdrawn from our territory.
After signing the Protocol to the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty in
Lisbon on 23 May 1992, Ukraine pledged to ratify the Treaty in the very near
future and to accede to the NPT as a non-nuclear State. The Ukrainian
Government submitted the required documents to the Verkhovna Rad,
the
country's Parliament, for consideration, and we hope that the decisions on the
ratification and the accession of Ukraine to these Treaties will be taken soon.
L
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
),,-147IPV044(cid:173)
42
(Mr. Goudima. Ukraipe)
Our delegation deeply appreciates the Agency's activi.tiea on the
implementation of its safeguards, which assume particular significance in the
framework of the nuclear disarmament process. We also support the Agency~s
efforts to develop further the system of comprehensive safeguards.
Intensive work is under way in Ukraine on matters that form the basis of
the non-proliferation regime, such as creating a national accounting and
control system for nuclear materials,
improving the physical protection of
such materials and developing a control system for nuclear imports and
exports. As wo lack the necessary competence and maans, ho~avar, ~a would ba
most grateful to other countries and to the Agency for assistance in creating
the organizational and technical conditions that would allow us to accede to
the NPT as soon as possible and to conclude an agreement on safeguards with
the IAEA. As this work will require some time, our Government has confirmed
its readiness to put under the Agency's safeguards immediately Ukraine's
nuclear installations used for peaceful purposes. We are satisfied that a
proper solution to this question was found at the last session of the IAEA's
governing body.
The member States of the Commonwealth of Independent States have signed
an agreement entitled "The Main Principles of Cooperation in the Field of
Peaceful Use of Nuclear Energy". The agreement, which has already come into
force.
is based on the principles of non-proliferation. As a party to the
agreement, Ukraine has endorsed the proposal to convene the first coordinating
meeting of the competent bodies of the participating countries.
Ukraine commends the AJency's efforts to strengthen international
cooperation in the field of nuclear and radiation safety. Mr. Sliz, Director
General of the IAEA, was absolutely right in stating at the 1991 session of
..
J
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
f
\
AJ41/PV.44
43
(Mr. Goudima, Ukraine)
the Agency's General Conference that there was a real need to transform
international activity in the field of nuclear safety into an international
regimeQ It is evident that a serious accident at any nuclear power station
today would discredit the very idea of the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
That is why the IAEA efforts to work out the fundamental principles of nuclear
and ·radiation. safety and to create a coordinated programme of cooperation in
this field are entirely justified.
In this regard, we support the Agency's
endeavours to elaborate a convention on nuclear safety and to review the main
safety standards of radiation protection, and we hope that this work will soon
be completed with the adoption of relevant documents.
Ukraine is involved to the fullest possible extent in the creation of an
international nuclear safety regime. The consequences of the tragedy et the
Chernobyl nuclear power station in April 1986, which affected our peoples and
territories and those of neighbouring States, are still deeply felt in
Uk~aine. A complex of measures to diminish the consequences of the accident
is being implemented by the Ukraine Government, although current political and
economic transformati.ons have no doubt affected the efficiency of this work.
We take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the world community
for understanding and assistance in dealing with these problems.
The results of the International Chernobyl Project, addressed in the
annual report of the lAEA, have elicited considerable interest in our country
and abroad. While those results have been evaluated in various ways, we
consider it important to note that the lAEA did la good job of implementing a
project on such a scale wit~in a short time. We feel, however,
that the
project did not fully and adequately reflect a number of problems caused by
Chernobyl. These problems might form the basis of the Agency's
Chernobyl-related activities in the future.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.44
44
(Mr. Goudima, Ukraine)
In the Agency's programme of activities for 1993-1994 we found only one
subprogramme - entitled "Radiological Consequences of the Chernobyl
Accident" - directly related to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. A
number of other important scientific and technical issues that fall within the
competence of the Agency, such as the problems of long-life radiation
contamination, methods for decrea~inq the radiation background of large
territorie~ and the influence of low radiation doses on biological objects,
were not included. We feel that given the complez and diverse problems raised
could more fully participate in solving these problems.
I should also like to draw attention to the problem of the shelter over
the damaged fourth block of the Chernobyl nuclear power station, known as the
"Sarcophagus". As its current condition gives every reason for anziety, an
international contest has been announced to find the best possible solution to
the problem. We hope that experts from many countries .of the world will
participate.
I should now like to say a few words about the problems of Ukraine's
nuclear energy industry, which is in a difficult condition. After the
collapse of the Soviet Union, its multiple scientific,
technical and
productive ties were disrupted;
the centralized system of management and
supervision of the safety of nuclear installations ceased to ezist. A
national system to ensure the safe transportation of radioactive substances ia
needed. This is important, not only for us, but for others, since fresh and
processed nuclear fuel is transported through Ukrainian territory to Russia,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary and BUlgaria. We have inherited particularly
complicated problems in tre~ting processed nuclear fuel. New conditions in
1
_
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Librarythe nuclear energy complez have made it necessary to reasseC8 the problems of
the nuclear fuel cycle of Ukraine as a whole.
~o overcome these difficulties we need well-coordinated assistance from
i~dustriclly developed countries. We are also interested in assistance from
the IAEA in creating in Ukraine the regime for nuclear regulation that has
been developed, as well as in solving other problems relating to nuclear
activity in our country.
In conclusion, I should like to stress again that Ukraine supports the
multifaceted activities of the International Atomic Energy Agency and will
promote in every way possible the accomplishment of the ezceptionally
important tasks that the Agency faces today.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryDigitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.44
47
(Mr. Daba, Pakistan)
The assistance prcvlded to the developing countries by the Ac;ency in
assessing their need for nuclear power is highly commendable. The application
ef nuclear technology ilP the fields of food, agriculture,
livestock, medicine
and physical sciences has proved to be eztremely useful in the efforts of the
developing countries aimed at attaining socin-economic development.
In this
contezt one of the Agency's major successes in 1991 was tho eradication of the
screwworm flies from North Africa.
We note from the Agency's report that DDT dissipates 30-40 times faster
in tropical environments than in temperate regions, suggesting that it could
perhaps be used in certain developing countries. However, in our view, while
nDT is certainly an economic and readily available aid to agricultural
production, it must not be overlcoted that once it enters the food chain it is
capable of causing genetic changes in human beings.
Pakistan greatly appreciates the co~tinuing efforts of the IAEA to help
strengthen the infrastructure for the planning, establishment and safe
operation of nuclear-power projects in the developing countries through
intraregional and international training courses and technical assistance
projects.
The Agency's efforts in promoting nuclear safety world wide are
commendable. The nuclear-safety colloquium held every year since 1985 during
the General Conference provides an invaluable opportunity to review ana
exchange ideas on current sdfety issues and future p~ogrammes. Pakistan
recommends that this event which has proved its usefulness should be continued
on a regular basis. Similarly,
the Operational Safety Review Team (OSART)
programme, which was initiated by the Agency in 1983 to assist member States
in reviewing the operations of their nuclear-power plants, has proved to be of
great benefit. Pakistan is also appreciative of the efforts being made by the
~
!Il
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library,
II
!
r
;
Agency to extend the Assessment of Safety Significant Events Teams (ASSET)
services to all mamber Stat.eso
!n our view these missions would definitely
contribute to the improvement of the operationalsatety of nuclear-power
(Mr. Daba, Pakistan)
plants.
The Agency's recent programme to upgrade the safety of nuclear-power
plants in the former USSR and Eastern Eurcpe is highly noteworthy. We expect
that the Agency will take suitable initiatives fo~ upgrading safety,
refurbishing and extending the useful life-span of the other ageing
nuclear-power plants in developing countries as well.
In recent years, nuclear-reactor accidents have underlined the essential
need for the proper maintenance and repair of nuclear reactors. Yet in
certain cases essential spare parts are not being provided for reactors even
when they are under Agency safeguards. This situation is totally unjustified
and requires urgent redress. We call upon the supplier States to provide full
maintenance coverage for the reactors provided by them.
We commend the Agency's efforts in convening a meeting of experts with a
view to arriving at an international nuclear-safety convention. There should
indeed be certain minimum binding international standards for nuclear safety.
However, nuclear safety is, and should remain,
the responsibility of national
regulatory authorities. The Agency's safety-related services to member States
such as the OSART, ASSET,
the Waste Management Advisory Programme (WAMAP) and
the Radioactive Waste Management Safety Standards (RADWASS) missions can be of
tremendous help to national regulators, and member States could be encouraged
to make further use of these missions.
We would suggest that the Agency,
in providing various safety-related
services to its member States, should make. increased use of the experts
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.4JJ
49-50
(Mr. Daba, Pakistan)
available from developing countries in order to benefit from their familiarity
with and knowledge of the facilities in question.
Pakistan has actively sought to promota an inter~ational agreement
prohibiting attacks against all nuclear facilities.
In this connection,
I
would mention that Pakistan and India have ratified the agreement not to
attack each other's nuclear facilities.
In our view such ag~eements will
enhance nuclear safety.
Pakistan has always adhered to and will continue to lend its fullest
support to the Agency safeguards. We have tiroe and again reaffirmed, at the
highest level, our commitmept to nuclear non-proliferation and to the peaceful
uses of nuclear energy.
In efforts to keep the world f~ee from the scourge of
nuclear weapons, Pakistan has been calling for the total prohibition of
nuclear testing. Pakistan has,
in addition, made several proposals to keep
our region free of nuclear weapons. Pakistan's proposal for the establishment
of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia has been repeatedly endorsed by
the General Assembly since 1974. Last year,
the Prime Minister of Pakistan
called for consultations among the United States,
the Russian Federation,
China, India and Pakistan to en3ure nuclear non-proliferation in South Asia on
an equitable and non-discriminatory basis.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/4111'V.44
51
(Mr. Deba, Pakistan)
We are encouraged by the positive response by th6 United States, Russia
and China to the Prime Minister's proposal. We hope that India will also
respond positively. This proposal reflects our sincere commitment to the
objective of nuclear non-proliferation.
I should like to take this opportunity to reiterate Pakistan's full
support for the development of nuclear energy and technology for peaceful
purposes.
It is our earnest hope that the Agency,
in keeping with its charter
and mandate, will assign top priority to this objective. This has become all
the more important as developing countries are faced with increasing
resistance from some States in their efforts to obtain technology for the
development and advancement of their peaceful nuclear-energy programmes.
The General Assembly,
in its resolution 32/50, has categorically affirmed
that
"All States have the right,
in accordance with the principle of
sovereign equality,
to develop their programme for the peaceful uses of
nuclear technology for economic and social development,
in conformity
with their priorities,
interests and needs". (~l1tion 32/50,
para. 1 (1'»
The resolution also clearly states that:
"All States, without discrimination, should have access to and
should be free to acquire nuclear technology, equipment and materials for
the peaceful use of nuclear energy". (resolution 32/50, par&. 1 (c»
Pakistan believes that all States Members of the United Nations should
abide by these principles,
in order to check and reverse the negative trends
impeding international cooperation in the field of peaceful usem of nuclear
energy and technology.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
W471PV,.4
52
(Mr. Dab', Pakistan)
There is a growing realizatlon in the world today that, along with energy
conservation,
increasing reliance on nuclear enerqy is vital for limiting and
controlling the "greenhouse effect", nere is consequently a growinq
resurgence of interest in many countries in increasing the share of nuclear
power in their national power-qeneration programmes. Under the circumstances,
it is all the more important that the benefits of nuclear power be made
technically and economically accessible to energy-starved developing countries
without discrimination.
We believe that an equitable balance should be maintained between the
funds allocated by the Agency for technical assistance and those provided for
safeguards. The regulatory and promotional functions af the IAEA are indeed
complementary. We suppo~t the Agency's proposals for improvements in its
safeguards applications and procedures. We hope these improvements will be
effected, as far as possible,
through streo<:.~.~ing and enhancing efficiency
and not through the divereion of resource~ f~Q~ the equally vital objective of
promoting the penceful uses of nuclear technology. Moreover, as in the case
of nuclear safeguards,
the technical assistance activities of the IAEA should
also be financed through a predictable and assured source of funding.
Pakistan is pleased to join in supporting the draft resolution on the
report of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Mr. KRASULIN (Russian Federation) (interpretation from Russian):
The Russian delegation wauld like, first of all,
to express its gratitUde to
the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for the
comprehensive presentation of the Agency's report for 1991, which gives us a
fairly full picture of the broad and varied activities carried on by IAEA for
the benefit of the entire international community.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- -----_._---------
A/47/PV.44
53
(Mt.
'rasulin, Russian Federation)
Today those activities are taking place against the backdrop of radical
changes in the world.
For 21.11 its complezit.y,
the emerging DeW situation is
objectively leading to the enhancement of the role and potential of central
agencies for international cooperation,
including such an important
international organization as lAEA. Our country will continue to provide lAEA
with the necessary support in all areas of its activities,
thereby
strengthening the Agency's authority and influence.
We find very timely the broad spectrum of lAEA programmes for studying
and resolving such important problems as current and future technology for
nuclear power and its fuel cycle,
the handling of radioactive waste,
non-proliferation o~ nUClear weapons and the physical protection of nuclear
materials. We commend the work done by the Agency to ensure nuclear and
radiation safety, and we feel that it is necessary to help raise that safety
to the highest level, both in our own country and throughout the world.
Unquestionably, a key activity of the Agency is convincing the world community
that the nuclear materials and installations under the control of IAEA are
used ezclusively for peaceful purposes.
I would especially like to mention in
this connection that a great deal of ~ork is being done by lAEA in Iraq in
pursuance of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council.
Under new conditions - and this was also confirmed,
in particular, during
the general debate at this dession of the General Assembly -
foremost among
multilateral efforts are the problems of ensuring non-proliferation of all
types of wsapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems and
strenqthening the existing non-prolif~ration regimes. A major effort here is
aimed at strengtilening the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and making it a
universal agreement of unlimited duration, and we view this as the main goal
of the Conference on the Treaty,
to be held in 1995.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI1
f
Al47/PV.44
54
(Mr. Krasulin, Russiap federatioA)
Russia welcomes the fact that China, France, South Africa and a number of
other countries have acceded to the NPr and that Argentina and Brazil have
assumed appropriate obligations in the area of safeguards.
It is significant that not only is an active process under way to make
the Treaty universal, but also some of its particular provisions, such as its
important Article VI, which contai~s obligations regarding disarmament
measures, are being implemented. A convincing example of such progress and a
radically new step in the area of weapons monitoring was the agreement reached
at Washington by the Presidents of Russia and the United States on further
substantial reductions in strategic offensive weapons. That agreement
represents a logical extension of the Treaty on the Reducti~n and Limitation
of Strategic Arms and the Lisbon Protocol to it.
It has become a practical
reflection in the military spbere of the radically new pattern of relations
between Russia and the United States and of a different role for those two
Powers in the world.
For the first time, a joint understanding has been built
not on the basis of arithmetical equality but on the basis of reasonable
sufficiency. This circumstance is of significance as a matter of principle,
and we hope that it will have a positive effect on the position of other
nuclear Powers and on the strengthening of strategic stability and
international security ss a whole.
Russia considers it essential that the disintegration of the former
Soviet Union should not lead to any complications of the situation with regard
to non-proliferation.
It is of fundamental significance in this context that
Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine have undertaken to accede to the NPT as
non-nuclear States.
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Hr. Irllul!n, RuSliU Federatiou)
At the present t:iae, u we .H it, all true supporters of a
non-proliferation regime DlUst inteaify their joint efforts to the D1uimum, so
as to prevent nuclea.r veapoWl frOll spreading all over our planet.
In that
respect, pursuant to the decree issued by the President of Russia on
27 March 1992, nuclear esports fr~ our country to non-nuclear States will in
fu~ure be c::.=riad cut 0:17 0: condition that those States place all of their
nuclear activity under the contrc.l of IAEA.
It 111 also in that light that we
v~ew the agreement of a number of countries which are nuclear suppliers to
introduce a unifie~ monitoring mechanism for the esport of. dual-purpose
articles.
_ ______.1..
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryJV471PV.44
56
(Mr. Irasulin, Russion FederAtiop)
Russia regards as a prio~ity area of the Agency's "activity the monitoring
of the peaceful use of atomic energy and the improvement olf the Agency's
system of international safeguards.
In our opinion,
tbft Agency has
substantial capacity for further improvement in this field, and 110 'Welcome its
recent decisions along those lines. We are convinced that in order to
strengthen the regime of nuclear non-proliferation, it is necesary to have
safeguard measures and nuclear-facility-inspection programmes that are
adequate to cope with the level of today'S scientific and teChnical prcqres••
Russia is prepared to make its contribution to the solution of that important
problem.
In the light of the genuine progress made in nuclear disarmament,
the
further reconciliation of the positions of various countries in the matter of
limiting nuclear tests,
to the point of their total cessation,
takes on
increased importance. Russia advocates making an immediate start in drafting
an international agreen~nt on the subject, with the participation.of all
States. Russia's moratorium, which was recently eztended to 1 July 1993 by a
decree of President Yeltsin, France's halting of its tests and the recent
I
decision taken by the United States demonstrate that approaches to the problem
are changing in a constructive way.
In the current favourable situation, it is important to give new impetus
to progress towards banning nuclear tests and to intensify efforts in the
search for universally acceptable and effective practical resolutions to
ezistinq problems in this sphere.
The United Nations should continue to consider questions relating to the
further improvement of the reqime of safeguards for the security of
non-nuclear-weapon States. Russia's position as the Soviet Union's successor
as a Member of the United Nations and a member of the Security Council and ~
,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/W.44
57
(Mr. Krasulin€ Russian Federation)
~ party to international agreament~ confirms the statement made by the Soviet
representative in the Sacurity Council on 17 June 1968 with regard to
so-called positive safeguards. We also see some value in having the General
Assembly recommend that the Conference on Disarmament should encourage the
efforts of the special committee on safeguards in order to stimulate the
search for universally acceptable practical solutions in that sphere.
For
example, more comparable, even if not identical, formulas for so-called
negative safeguards for non-nuclear countries could be drafted.
In our view,
the United Nations and iAEA are capable of making a
substantial contribution to the creation of effective international machinery
for monitoring thQ production and export of fissionable materials.
In
particular,
the General Assembly could support the rapid preparation of an
international agreement to end the production of weapons-grade fissionable
materials. We advocate the immediate inclusion of problems of this type in
the negotiations.
The Russian Federation welcomes the decision of the United States that,
in order to promote nuclear disarmament, it will forgo the production of
plutonium and highly enrichdd uranium.
For its part,
the Russian Federation
confirms its intention to continue the programme of shutting down its
remaining facilities for producing weapons-grade plutonium. Our proposal to
the United States to begin negotiations iim~ediately on the supervised
cessation of the production of fissionable materials for the manufacture of
weapons also remains open.
With regard to IAEA's multifaceted activities, we should like to point
out that in the main,
the Agency has indeed resolved major problems in such
areas as promoting the development of the peaceful uses of atomic energy and
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Mr. Kraluli», Russion Federation)
providing technical assistance. Accordingly, we tate a favourable view of the
enhancement of activities in respect of the comparative assessment of various
sources of electrical energy from the standpoint of the environment, economy
and safety. We also support the activities of the Agency in connection with
nuclear power generation and its fuel cycle, nuclear safety,
the handling of
radioactive waste,
the International Nuclear Information System (INIS),
technical assistance and other ~reas of interest to all Member States. Of
special significance in our view is the great effort that the Agency has made
and is continuing to make for an international assessment of the consequences,
of the Chernobyl disaster. The eradication of those consequences and the safe
operation of nuclear power plants continue to be at the focus of tha Russian
Government's attention.
Support for IAEA presupposes that financial obligations to the Agency
will be met. Between September of tbis year and March 1993, Russia, despite
its economic difficulties, will pay '12 million in partial settlement of its
debt to IAEA.
In conclusion,
the delegation of the Russian Federation would like once
again to express its approval of the IAEA report for 1991,
In cOmm8nding the
Agency's activities, we associate its success with the effective wort of its
secretariat and its Director General, Mr. Bans Bliz.
Sir Michael NESTON (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland):
I should like, on behalf of the European Community and its member
States,
to thank Mr. Bliz and the staff of the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) for their work over the past 12 months. The period since the
last IAEA report to the General Assembly has been one of great activity, and
we should like to express our appreciation of the role that the Agency has
played in it.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Libraryi
f
I
- -----~----------------..,--_._--
A/471PV.44
59-60
(Sir Michael Weston. United Kingdom)
Of all the Agency's activities over the past year, none has been more
important or more visible than tb~ efforts, made under the relevant Security
Council resolutions,
to uncover and render harmless Iraq's nuclear-weapons
programme, which was pursued covertly over a considerable period in flagrant
breach of the non-proliferation Treaty (NPT) and safeguards obligations. We
are grateful to the Director General and his staff for the painstaking and
determined way in which they have pursued their tasks, notwithstanding
persistent and wilful deception and obstruction from the Iraqi authorities.
We are confident that they will continue to demonstrate the same dedication.
In this context the Conwunity and its ~~mber States reiterate the demand
contained in resolution GC(XXXVI)/RES/579 of the IAEA General Conference,
which was adopted on 25 September 1992, that Iraq immediately and fully comply
with all its obligations under its safeguards agreement with the Agency and
under relevant Security Council resolutions,
including the requirement, under
Security Council resolution 707 (1991),
that it submit a full~ final and
complete declaration of Iraq's nuclear programme,
including all information
called for by Security Council resolution 687 (1991). The information that
Iraq has provided to date has been seriously lacking, and a number of
important lacunae still exi:Jt - most notably on procurement, enrichment and
weaponization. The Community and its member States hope that Iraq is in no
doub.t about the resolve of the international community to pursue this issue to
a satisfactory conclusion.
During the year,
there have been more welcome highlights, which have
reinforced the non-prolifer3tion regime. China and France have acceded to the
non-proliferation Treaty.
this means that all five permanent members of the
Security Council are now parties to the Treaty.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- - - - - - - - - - -
Al47/PV.. 44
61
(Sir Machae1 Weston, United Kingdom)
We also welcome the positive developments towards nuclear
non-proliferation in Latin America, in particular the steps taken by various
countries in the region towards brinqing into force the Treaty of T1ate101co
and the signing of a fu11scope safeguards agreement between Argentina, Brazil
and the Aqency~ We are following with interest the implementation of this
agreement as well as the agreement concluded last year between the Agency and
the South African Government. We are also following with interest the work
being conducted by the Director General to identify possible model safeguards
agreements for the Middle East, and we welcome the widespread consensus of
support for his eiiorts expressed by last month's G~neral Conference.
We welcome,
too,
the ratification by the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea of its safeguards agreement with the Agency. We look to the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea fully to implement this agreement as soon as
possible.
In this context we also look forward to full implementation of the
bilateral agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea on the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
The Community and its member States have long attached the highest
priority to the continuing task of improving and strengthening the whole
safeguards system. Proposals by the 7Yelve have helped to shape discussion of
how this can best be done. We welcome in particular the reaffirmation of the
Agency's right to conduct special inspections. We are also working out the
best way to meet the Director General's request to extend the information
reported to the Agency by voluntarily providing additional information on the
production of concentrates, on inventories of nuclear materials and on
international transfers of sensitive equipment.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.44
62
(Sir Mi~hael Weston, United Kingdom)
We must emphasize the importance of the Agency's px;,~ssing on with its
fundamental study of possible alternative safeguards regimes.
In the same
context we attach great lmportance to the agreement between the Director
General and European Communities Commissioner Cardoso E Cunha on a new
partnership between the Commission and the Agency safeguards departments to
avoid unnecessary duplication of effort. We see tne ]I,' partnership as a
vital opportunity, not only to secure the full implementation of Information
Circular 193 in a way which respects the responsibilities of both sides, but
also to refocus resources on areas where safeguards can make the greatest
contribution to non-proliferation.
We should not lose sight of what has been achieved during the past year
in ~e Agency's more directly promotional functions - for example,
in
developing non-power uses of nuclear energy, where many examples of fine work
could be quoted. Recognition is also due to the high level of continuing work
in supplying technical assistance.
Concerning nuclear safety generally,
the Community and its member States
note with satisfaction that agreement has been reached on the formulation of
safety fundamentals. This will be a basic document. The Agency's review
teams have also expanded the practical enhancement of nuclear safety world
wide. The increased number of requests for Operational Safety Review Team
(OSART) missions and Assessment of Safety Significant Events Team (ASSET)
missions is the clearest evidence of thei~: value.
Last year the Community and its member States welcomed the start of a
step-by-step approach towards the establishment of an international nuclear
safety regime. As the instigators of the Conference on Nuclear Safety, held
in Vienna in September 1991, we continue strongly to support the concluaion of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.44
63
(Sir Michael Weston, United Kingdom)
g Kingdom).
h its
same
:tor
tV
Ints to
as a
)rmation
les, but
iltest
ast year
n
fine worl
nuing well
er States·
ation of
eviev
world
,... Team
.sSRT)
't of a
nuclear
Ity, held·
a nuclear safety convention. We would see such a convention as an important
contribution to raising the general level of nuclear safety world wide and to
creating a harmonized international approach to all aspects of nuclear
safety. We are pleased to note that a group of experts has started work on a
nuclear safety convention, and take the view that their activities should be
completed as soon as possible.
The Community and its member States are
committed to playing a positive part in its negotiation and in the continuing
discussions, based on current international nuclear safety experience, of the
means of implementing it.
The Community and its member States also recognize the contribution of
the Agency in assisting the countries of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet
Union in their efforts to improve nuclear safety. We wish to continue our
~lose cooperation with the Agency in the development of its technical
assistance programmes in the area. Similarly, we support the call by the
Economic Summit in Munich for the international community to contribute to the
financing of an urgent programme aimed at improving the safety of nuclear
installations in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. We welcome,
too,
the agreement among the Group of 24 that stronger coordination of these
efforts is required and that the resulting machinery will look to the Agency
for advice.
Last December the European Energy Charter was signed in The Hague.
The
Community and its member States are grateful for the help which the Agency has
so far given in the negotiation of the nuclear protocol to the Charter. We
look forward now to quick conclusions to the Charter's basic agreement and
nuclear protocol on principles governing the peaceful uses of nuclear energy
and the safety of nuclear installations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAI..lI".....
6"-65
(.sh:...Micmael Westop. United Kipgdom)
In conclusion,
I should like once again to express, on behalf of the
Community and itc msmber States, gr&titude to the Director General and hie
staff for having maintained over the last year such a high level of
professionalism in their work. We are sure they will continue to keep up
these standards in the years to come.
AGENDA ITEM 148
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE TO TEE PHILIPPINES: DRAFT RESOLUTION Al47/L.8
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of Turkey to introduce
draft ~esolution A/47/L.8.
Mr. AKSIN (Turkey): The eruption of Mount Pinatubo that began in
June of last year has turned out to be a major natural disaster whose effects
will be felt for many years in the Philippines.
As a result of the eruption of a volano that had remained dormant for
many centuries, some of the most fertile agricultural areas of central Luzon
have been turned into wasteland. Many thriving cities,
towns and villages
have been devastated by thick layers of volcanic dust that settled on a vast
area surrounding Mount Pinatubo. Roads have been cut and infrastructure has
been destroyed.
The eruption resulted in much loss of life and extensive matGrial
damage. Close to a million people have been displaced. When the monsoop
rains arrived they caused the volcanic dust on the slopes of the mountain to
descend into the lowlands in the form of huge mud slides.
It looks as though
this condition will recqr for a number of years,
turning this cata~trophe into
a continuous, unfolding disaster, with painful consequences for the victims
and for the Philippine economy.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.44
66
(Mr. "sip« brtU)
The Government, of the Philippines must be commended for the urgent
measures it has taken to alleviate the suffering of the victims. However,
qiven the ma~ituda of the calamity, it is clear that the national efforts by
the Philippines will not suffice. There is a pressing need for international
assistance by Governments as well as other orqanizations.
It is in response to this need that I have the honour to introduce, on
behalf of the 61 sponsoring countries, draft resolution Al47/L.8, entitled
"Emergency Assistance to the Philippines".
In addition to the sponsors listed in the document;
the £ollowinq
countries have joined in sponsoring the draft resolution: Afqhanistan,
Brazil, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras,
Jamaica,
the r..ibyan Arab Jamahiriya, New Zealand,
the Republic of Korea,
the
Sudan, Spain, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago,
the United States of America and
Viet Nam.
This draft resolution is made up of five preamhular aud three operative
paragraphs.
Under the draft resolution,
the Assembly would call upon the
Secretary-General,
in cooperation with the relevant organs and organizations
of the United Nations system and in close collaboration with the Government
authorities,
to assist in the rehabilitation efforts of the Government of the
Philippin~l. It would also request all States and international organizations
to extend, on an u~gent basis, further support to the Philippines in ways that
would alleviate, for the duration of the emergency and the ensuing
rehabilitation process,
the economic and financial burden borne by the
Philippine people.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryTbis draft r ••olutio~ is an ezprosslon of international support and
(Mr. AJcdn, Turkey)
solidarity for the victims of the disaster and demonstrates our readiness to
.
contribute IIOrally and materially tow~rds their rehabilitation.
Its adoption
will set the stage for mustering international support to assist the people
and Gover"'!:J,t 'of the Philippines.
I _
confident that the General Assembly
will adopt the "raft resolution by consensus.
Hr.. DRNANPJ!iZ PITA (Spain) (interpretation from Spanish): My
country, which has traditional historical ud cultural ties with the
Philippines, has the honour of being a sponsor of draft resolution Al47/L.8,
entitled "Emergency assistance to the Philippines". My Government wishes to
stress how important the draft resolution is for the people and the Government
of the Philippines, which has been afflicted by various types of natural
disasters in recent:: years.
The adoption of this draft resolution would give important support to the
efforts the Government and people of the Philippines are making to help the
country recover from these disasters.
Tbe PRBSIDENT:
I should like to inform the Assembly that there are
two additional sponsors of the draft reBolution: Bangladesh and Sac Tome and
Principe.
The Assembly vill DOW ta~e a decision on draft resolution Al47/L.8.
May I
take it that the Assembly decides to adopt it?
praft resolution A/47/L.8 was adopted (resolution 47/7).
Mrs. BSCALlR (Philippines): On behalf of the Government and people
of the Philippines,
I should like to ezpress our most profound appreciation
to, first of all, the Permanent Representative of Turkey to the United Nations
for his perceptive and sympathetic introduction of the draft resolution juat
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW47/PV.4.
68
(Mrs. Bscaler. Philippines)
adopted; to the representative of Spain and the delegations of 63 Member
States for tbeir sponsorship of the draft resolution; to you, Sir, and the
other officers of the General Committee for the speedy and favourable
consideration of our request for inclusion of the present item on the agenda;
and to all the members of the Assembly for having joined the consensus on the
resolution.
Bchoing Ambassador ~sin's remarks,
the Philippines takes the resolution
and its adoption today by acclamation as an unequivocal expression of
international support for, and solidarity with the disaster victims and the
Filipino nation. This magnanimous action of the Assembly will give positive
encouragement to my Government and people to intensify our efforts to provide
relief and emergency assistance to the peoples affected.
The process of rehabilitating the shattered lives of numerous
communities, given the continuing nature of the calamity, will be long and
arduous. Yet, with unwavering international support, which the Assembly
expressed today, we know that we shall overcome.
ThPc, PRRSIDBNT: May I
take it that it is the wish of the General
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 1481
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library