ITED 
TIONS 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.36 
28 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  36th MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Tuesday,  13 October  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
Mr. MONGBE 
(Vice-President) 
Mr  DANGUE  REWAKA 
(Vice-President) 
(Benin) 
(Gabon) 
Social  Development:  (a) Questions  relating  to the world  social 
situation  and  to youth,  ageing,  disabled persons  and  the  family  [93] 
(continued) 
Conclusion  of  the United Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons: 
(i)  Report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(ii)  Draft  resolution 
This record  contains  the original  text  of  speeches  delivered  in  English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
'e printed in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
>e sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
SS-HfiSi, to the Chief,  Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750,  2 United  Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
*e record. 
'2-61442  1864V-1865V  (E) 
A/47/PV.36 
2 
In the  absence  of  the President. Mr. Monobe  (Benin). Vice-President, t-nnt 
the  Chair. 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.35  p.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  93  (continued) 
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT:  (a)  QUESTIONS  RELATING  TO THE WORLD  SOCIAL  SITUATION AND 
TO YOUTH,  AGEING, DISABLED  PERSONS  AND THE  FAMILY 
CONCLUSION  OF THE UNITED  NATIONS  DECADE  OF DISABLED  PERSONS: 
(i)  REPORT  OF THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/415) 
(ii)  DRAFT  RESOLUTION  (A/46/L.4) 
The PRESIDENT  (interpretation  from  French):  This  afternoon the 
General  Assembly,  in accordance with  the decision  taken  at  its 3rd plenary 
meeting,  is holding  the  fourth  and  last  of  the plenary meetings  to mark the 
conclusion  of  the United Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons,  under 
sub-item  (a) of  agenda  item  93. 
Mr. OFFMANN  (Mauritius):  It  is indeed  a great  honour  and privilege 
for me  to address  this Assembly  today.  I should  like, on behalf  of the 
Government  of Mauritius,  to congratulate  the United  Nations  for having taken 
the  laudable  initiative  of  convening,  for  the  first  time  in its history, a 
series  of  special  plenary meetings  devoted  to the  issue  of  the  disabled. 
This,  in  itself,  is a clear  demonstration  of  the  importance  the  international 
community  attaches  to  an  issue  that  directly  concerns  some  500 million people 
around  the world.  As we  all  know,  concern  for  such  a large  section of the 
human population  began  to express  itself when  the United  Nations  took the bold 
decision  to declare  1981 tie  International  Year  of Disabled  Persons and with 
the Organization's  subsequent  declaration  of  the Decade  of Disabled Persons 
and  the elaboration  of  the World  Programme  of  Action. 
A/47/PV.36 
3-5 
(Mr. Offmann.  Mauritius) 
Unfortunately,  in many  parts  of  the developing world,  the Programme  of 
Action and the  10 points  contained  in the Agenda  could not be  translated  into 
reality 
not  necessarily  for  lack of  interest, but  rather  as  a result  of  the 
paucity of  resources,  deterioration  in the general  standards  of  living, 
unfavourable  terms of  trade between  the countries  of  the North  and  those of 
the South, the extraordinarily  low priority given  to the  issue  of  disability 
by donor agencies  and  the  total  indifference  to this problem  by  international 
financing  institutions  in their prescription  of  structural  adjustment 
programmes. 
In Mauritius, however,  favourable  circumstances  have  enabled  the 
Government to pay  special  attention  to  its disabled  citizens  and  to  take a 
series of measures  aimed  at enhancing  the status of people with  disabilities. 
In fact, the Decade  of Disabled  Persons has  also been  the decade  of  economic 
growth in Mauritius,  the decade  of  full  employment  and of general  improvement 
in the living conditions  of  our population.  We have  seized  this  opportunity 
to include a component  addressing  disability  in most  of our  development 
programmes  as advocated  by the United  Nations  in its Tallin  Guidelines. 
A/47/PV.36 
6 
(Mr. Offmann. Mauritius) 
Heading  our  agenda of  actions  has been  the pursuit  of  relentless efforts 
to prevent  disability by  the practical  elimination  of  killer  and  crippling 
diseases.  In this  context,  I am proud  to  say that  scourges  like 
poliomyelitis,  leprosy,  trachoma  and onchocerciasis  have been  completely 
eradicated  in Mauritius. 
Furthermore,  to  limit  the baneful  consequences  of  industrialization and 
urbanization,  which bring  in their wake  disabling  conditions  such as 
pollution,  traffic  accidents  and  accidents  in the place  of work,  legislative 
measures  like  the Occupational  Safety,  Health  and Welfare  Act  (1988) and the 
Protection  of  the Environment  Act have been passed  to ensure  that  safety norms 
are  respected by  enterprises,  industrial  concerns  and places  of work in 
general  and  also  to prevent  disability  arising  out  of  industrial  and 
environmental  pollution. 
Side by  side with preventive  measures, we  also  took  important  steps to 
improve  the quality  of  life of our  citizens  with  disabilities  by providing a 
wide  array  of  social benefits.  These  range  from  the payment  of a basic 
invalidity pension  to all  categories  of  disabled  persons  and  a carer's 
allowance  to those who need  constant  care  and  attention,  to  important tax 
rebates  to persons with  disabilities  and parents  of  disabled  children. 
Moreover,  the Government  provides  free prosthetic  and orthotic  appliances and 
assistive  devices  such as wheelchairs,  audio-prostheses,  low-vision aids and 
walking  aids  are made  available  free of  charge  to disabled  persons.  Also, as 
Mauritius  is a party  to  the Florence  Agreement  and Nairobi  Protocol, no duties 
are  levied  on materials  for blind  persons,  or  on  sports  and  educational 
equipment  for persons  with  disabilities  and  assistive  devices. 
A/47/PV.36 
7 
(Mr. Offmann.  Mauritius) 
In addition,  our policy  is geared  towards upholding  the dignity  of  the 
disabled person.  In this  context,  and  in consonance with  ILO Convention  159, 
important  legislative  actions  have been taken  to provide vocational  training 
and promote employment  opportunities  for our  disabled  citizens. 
Two historic pieces  of  legislation 
the Trust  Fund  for Disabled  Persons 
Act and the Employment  of Disabled  Persons Act were passed  in November  1988. 
The aim was  to drive home  the  fact  that  citizens with disabilities  are 
entitled to training  and employment  as a matter  of  right  and not  as an act  of 
charity.  It  is worth notiug  that  in the provision  of vocational  training we 
have adopted an  innovative  approach by making use of existing  training 
institutions  catering  for  the general population  rather  than creating  new 
facilities specifically  for disabled  persons.  This  approach  is not  only 
cost-effective but  also helps  to promote  the concept of  integration. 
Furthermore,  with  the Employment  of Disabled  Persons Act, a measure  of 
positive discrimination  has been  introduced  and  this has  succeeded  in 
ensuring  employment  opportunities  for persons with disabilities  in open 
enterprises both as white-collar  and blue-collar  workers. 
To further promote  the concept  of  integration, we decided  to include  a 
component of disability  in all of  our major programmes.  Nothing  illustrates 
this holistic  approach more  clearly  than the blueprint  prepared  by  the 
Government on the  revamping  of  the general  system  of education.  A master  plan 
on education has been produced which  contains  an important  chapter  on  the 
education of persons with disabilities  and  the training  of  regular  school 
teachers in the education  of  disabled  children. 
In the same way,  statistics  on disabled persons have been  collected  by 
modifying the Statistics  Act  to make provision  for the  collection  of  data  on 
disability. 
A/47/PV.36 
8 
(Mr. Offmann. Mauritius) 
As one  of  the  strengths  of  the Mauritian  society  is that  of  the strong 
bonds  that  unite  family members, we have provided  a package  of  incentives that 
have  induced  family members  to  look  after  severely  handicapped  persons, whose 
number  is increasing  owing  to the  ageing of  the population  and  the greater 
survival  of  children. 
Finally,  as  the World  Programme  of Action  lays  strong  emphasis  on the 
removal  of  the numerous  architectural,  transportation  and  communication 
barriers which  constitute  a denial  of  the basic  rights  of  the  individual, we 
are planning  a series of measures  to empower  disabled  persons  and to enable 
their  unrestricted  participation  in society.  Large  print,  audiotape and 
braille  are already  commonly  available  for blind  people  and  captions are 
regularly  used on  the national  television  for  the benefit  of  hearing-impaired 
persons. 
The Decade  of Disabled  Persons has provided  an opportunity  for 
reflection,  for awareness-raising,  for  concerted  action,  for mobilization of 
resources  and  for  stocktaking.  The Decade has now  come  to an end.  Many of 
the problems  affecting  disabled persons  are  still with us.  New problems have 
come  to add to the existing  ones.  New challenges  are  facing  the world today 
and new  issues  are beckoning  the  international  community  for the years to 
come.  I would  like  to cite  a few of  these  challenges: 
First,  the  increasing  proportion  of elderly persons within  the 
population.  With  the dramatic  increase  in  life expectancy, more  and more 
people  are  joining  the  ranks of  the  senior  citizens.  The  longer they live, 
the greater  the possibility  of having  one  type of disability  or another.  I"1 
fact,  according  to  research on  the phenomenon  of gerontology,  many elderly 
persons will  live with Alzheimer's  disease  and  the  other  complications from 
this will  put  a great  strain  on  the  social  security  systems  and welfare 
A/47/PV.36 
9-10 
(Mr. Offmann. Mauritius) 
services of many countries  including Mauritius, which  is witnessing  a rapid 
ageing of the population. 
Secondly,  the growth of  invisible disabilities.  Cardiovascular  and 
cerebrovascular  illnesses are becoming widespread  owing to the change  in 
lifestyle, unbearable pressure  at work,  stress at home, the hectic pace of 
life, bad food consumption habits  and  so on.  Every year, an increasing  number 
of people are falling victim  to myocardial  infarctions; many of  them manage to 
survive and spend  the rest of their  lives with a disability. 
" 
Thirdly, the growing number  of citizens with  intellectual  disabilities 
5 and mental illnesses.  This  is one of the surprises of the surveys on 
• disability conducted  in a number  of countries.  We are witnessing  a rise  in 
;,; the proportion of persons with mental disabilities.  Their  rehabilitation 
poses an important  challenge.  They need to be  integrated  into the  community 
without being deprived of their basic  rights as citizens. 
•'••-  Fourthly, desertification  and environmental  degradation, especially  in 
'Africa, which are leading to drought  and widespread  famine, the result of 
isSwhich is, obviously,  an increase  in the number  of children and adults with 
/different types of disabilities,  resulting  from malnutrition and dearth of 
pis' food. 
A/47/PV.36 
11 
(Mr. Offmann. Maurifri.,?) 
Fifthly,  the  scourge  of AIDS, which  is  ravaging many  countries, is the 
biggest  challenge  to the world  today.  Many  of  those who  contract  the disease, 
once  their  condition  is known, become pariahs  and  are  stripped  of  their 
sociological  roles  and become both physically  and  socially  disabled. 
Sixthly,  the  last point  to which  I should  like to draw attention, is the 
question  of  ethics.  With  the  spectacular  advances  in medical  technology and 
genetic  engineering,  it  is now possible  to  know whether  a child will be born 
with  a disability  or not.  The questions with which we  shall be  confronted 
more  often  are:  should  there be  selective  non-treatment?  Should  death be 
considered  as a management  option  for  them?  Should  life-saving  surgical 
operations  be  refused  those  suspected  of having  a medical  disorder?  All this 
poses  an ethical problem,  as  it  touches  the  sacrosanctity  of  life. 
To  conclude,  I should  like to make  an appeal  to the  international 
community  that  after  the end of  the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled Persons, 
the  issue  of  disability  not be  relegated  to  limbo.  A new plan of action 
should  be developed  to meet  the new challenges  facing  the world  in the years 
to come. 
Mr.  FLOOD  (Ireland):  I am honoured  to speak  at  this, the 
forty-seventh  session  of  the General  Assembly  of  the United Nations, which 
marks  the end of  the  first  decade  of  the World  Programme  of Action concerning 
Disabled  Persons  and,  at  the  same time,  seeks  to define  a new  strategy which 
will bring  us  into  the next  century.  It is  indeed  fitting  that we should meet 
to  review progress  over  the past  10 years  and  to  renew our  ambitions to 
provide  for  all people with  disabilities  the  same  rights  and  opportunities 
that  are  available  to the  rest of  society.  I have  noted  with  interest how the 
overall  situation  in relation  to people with  disabilities  varies  from country 
to country,  and  how  the priorities  for  future  initiatives  differ.  However, I 
A/47/PV.36 
12 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
think that what has most  impressed  me  is the clear  determination  of  all 
members  to  improve  the  conditions  and  services  for people with  disabilities 
and the mutual  eagerness  to  learn  and benefit  from each other's  experiences. 
I should  like  to give  some details  in the  time  available  to me  of  the 
policy initiatives  that have been undertaken  in Ireland  in the past  decade  and 
indicate generally  how we  see our  services  and  conditions  generally  developing 
for people with  disabilities. 
In Ireland  our  services  for people with disabilities  have witnessed  quite 
radical change  in emphasis  in the  last decade.  There  is now  a general  policy 
of caring  for disabled  and elderly  people  in community-based  facilities  and 
developing appropriate  support  services  to enable  them  to participate  to the 
fullest extent  possible  in all  the activities  of  community  life.  This  is  in 
marked contrast  to the  traditional  approach of providing  institutional-type 
care, which,  though well motivated  at the time, had the effect  of  setting  the 
handicapped  apart  from  society.  Our general  policy  approach now  is to 
integrate them  into  society  to the  fullest  extent possible, and we  see  this  as 
a necessary  first  step  in ensuring  equal  rights  and opportunities  for  all 
people with disabilities.  Of  course, we do accept  that  some people may not be 
able to cope  in  a community  setting,  and  adequate  facilities  of  a more  formal 
nature are required  to meet  their  needs. 
These changes were  stimulated  by  the publication  of  a number  of 
Government policy  reports  on the development  of  the services.  The  first  of 
these was a Government  Green Paper  on Services  for Disabled  People  entitled 
"Towards a Full  Life", which was published  in 1984.  It outlined  Government 
policy in relation  to the development  of  services  for people with  a  disability 
generally.  Since  then  there has been  a separate  review of  the  psychiatric 
A/47/PV.36 
13 
(Mr. Flood.  Tr?i?^) 
services  in a report  entitled  "Planning  for  the Future",  and,  in the past two 
years,  a  report of  a Review  Group on Mental Handicap  Services  entitled "Needs 
and Abilities" was published.  These  two  reports will  form  the basis  for the 
development  of  services  in these  areas over  the next  decade. 
My  department  has  just  recently  established  a Review  Group on Services 
for  People with Physical  and  Sensory  disabilities.  The  terms of  reference of 
this group  are: 
"to examine  the  current provision  of health-care  services  to people with 
physical  or  sensory  disabilities  and  to consider  how  they  should be 
developed  to meet more  effectively  their  needs  ..." 
I  look  forward  to a comprehensive  report which will provide  a blueprint for 
the development  of  services  for people with physical  and  sensory disabilities 
for  the next  decade,  and  indeed  beyond. 
When  this  review  is completed  we will  have  in Ireland,  as members can 
see, a full  range of policy  documents  in  relation  to health  services for 
people with disabilities,  and  I am confident  that  the priorities  and 
aspirations  set out  in these documents will provide  a sound  framework for 
action  and  result  in a level of  service  of  the very highest  quality  for people 
with  disabilities. 
In the development  of  services  and policies, our  first priority must be 
to  listen  to, and  take  full  account  of, what  disabled  people  themselves tell 
us  they need 
not what we, the able-bodied,  perceive  to be  their needs.  I am 
delighted  therefore  to  see especially  so many  disabled  people  among us.  In 
Ireland we  have  a well-established  system  of  consultation with organizations 
representing  disabled  people, and  their  contribution  to  the development of 
policy  and  services  has been  enormous. 
A/47/PV.36 
14 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
The community  care  approach  requires  a supportive  network  of 
community-based  services.  Last year  the Government  concluded  an  agreement 
with the social partners,  including  the employers  and  trade  unions, called  a 
Programme  for Economic  and  Social  Progress.  This programme  provides  that 
additional  resources will  be made  available  to facilitate  an appropriate  mix 
of community  and  residential  services  for people with disabilities.  The 
development of  community-based  services will be  facilitated  by  the  provision 
of additional paramedical  services, such as physiotherapy,  speech  and 
occupational  therapy,  supported  by vocational  rehabilitation  services, 
additional day-care  centres,  respite-care  facilities  and  home-support 
services.  Already  significant  additional  resources have been provided  under 
the programme  for  services  for people with  disabilities. 
Of course, not  all progress  is dependent  on  increased  levels  of 
investment  in new and expanded  services.  Much  can be achieved by  fostering  in 
local communities,  and  indeed  in the  community  at  large, an acceptance  of 
people with disabilities  and of  their  right  to as normal  a life as  possible 
within the community.  This  is particularly  true of persons who have  a mental 
handicap or  a history  of psychiatric  illness.  I am happy  to  say that  in 
Ireland it is accepted  practice  that  as  far as possible  such people  are  now 
maintained in local  communities,  and  the old  stigmas  or  taboos which were  very 
general in our  society  are  fast  fading away.  This  I regard  as a most 
necessary development  and  indeed  a prerequisite  for  the general  improvement  of 
the environment  for  people with disabilities  of whatever  type or  origin. 
The achievement  of  social  integration  of people with  disabilities  is of 
uecessity a two-way  process.  It requires  a willingness  on the part  of  people 
"ith disabilities  to  reach  out  into  the  community;  equally  it demands  that  the 
A/47/PV.36 
15 
(Mr. Flood. Tr?7nnrl) 
public  is aware of  the problems  faced by people with disabilities  and is 
encouraged  to play  its part  in reaching  an acceptable  solution. 
The  attitudes  of  society  can be manifested,  in a visible  sense, in the 
provision  of  support  or  facilities  for  the handicapped.  However,  attitudes 
are also manifest  in the  less obvious  sense  in the way we  deal with the 
handicapped  socially  and  to the extent  that we may  reveal  prejudices or an 
implicit  lack of  understanding.  There  is  a  need  therefore  to pay considerably 
more  attention  to  the  removal  of  social barriers  and  the elimination of 
prejudice  and negative  attitudes. 
A/47/PV.36 
16 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
Public  achievements  by people with disabilities  are one way of  breaking 
down the barriers.  Irish people with disabilities  have  achieved  international 
recognition  in the  field  of  art  and  literature.  For example,  the work  of 
Christy Browne  and Christopher  Nolan has helped  to provide  enormous 
encouragement  to other  artists with disabilities.  The  film  "My Left  Foot" has 
achieved international  acclaim  and  is a testimony  to the work  of 
Christy Browne.  But  perhaps more  importantly,  it has been  a source of 
inspiration to others  - able-bodied  and disabled  alike. 
The last  few years have witnessed,  internationally,  a growing  realisation 
of the right of people with  disabilities  to  fully  share  in and  contribute  to 
the economic,  social, political  and cultural  activities  of  society.  In 
Ireland it is no different.  The  Programme  for Economic  and  Social  Progress 
provides that  the Government,  in consultation with  the  organizations 
representing people with disabilities, will examine how best  the  rights of 
disabled people  can be promoted.  Consultations  on this  issue with  disabled 
people's organizations  has  already  commenced,  and  in the  light of  responses  we 
shall be examining  how best  progress  on this matter  can be made. 
One of  the primary  objectives  of policies  and programmes  for people  with 
disabilities  is to ensure  that  they are provided with  appropriate  training  to 
enable them to develop  the necessary  skills  to play  a full  role  in  society. 
In Ireland there  is a wide  network  of vocational-training  centres, provided 
both by statutory  and by voluntary  organizations, which cater  for 
approximately 7,000 disabled  persons.  This network  is  financed  by a 
combination  of  State  funding  and  aid  from  the European  Social  Fund. 
The National  Rehabilitation  Board  is a statutory body  that  provides 
specialized vocational  assessment,  counselling  and  a placement  service  for 
A/47/PV.36 
17 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
people with disabilities,  .including  school-leavers.  This  vocational  service 
assesses  the disabled  person,  gives guidance  and  counsel  on the most 
appropriate  form of  training  or  career  choice,  arranges  training  or further 
education  and, where possible,  secures  suitable  employment.  During  the early 
years  at work  a follow-up  service  is provided  to assist with  any problems. 
The  vocational  service works  closely with health boards  and with  various 
voluntary  and  statutory  training  agencies, trade  unions  and  employers to 
ensure  that  people with disabilities  secure  a  fair  share  of  the  available 
employment. 
Training  is, of  course,  only one  side of  the  coin.  Employment  is the key 
factor  in ensuring  that  disabled people  take  their  rightful place  as full and 
equal members  of  society.  For  almost  everybody  work  is a basic  human desire, 
but  for  a disabled  person work  carries  the  additional  advantage  of enabling 
him  to  cast  off  the  role of dependant  that has  traditionally  been associated 
with  disability  and  to become  fully  independent.  The  advantages  of a working 
life go beyond  its  financial  rewards.  Work  confers  social  status.  It brings 
with  it an opportunity  for  self-expression  and  the  satisfaction  of making a 
contribution  to the economic  life of  the  local  community  and,  indeed, to the 
nation  as  a whole. 
Securing work  for our  disabled  remains  a big  challenge,  not  just in 
Ireland but  throughout  the world.  This, however,  requires  the  combined 
efforts  of  a range  of  interests,  including  Governments, employers, employees 
and  trade  unions, as well  as  the many  organizations  catering  for people with 
disabilities. 
In  Ireland  the Government  is concerned  to ensure  that  an 
already-disadvantaged  group,  such  as people with  disabilities,  does not have 
A/47/PV.36 
18 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
to bear an excessive  share of  the brunt of unemployment, and  it has  taken  a 
number of  steps  to improve  employment  opportunities.  The Government  has 
recently  introduced  a number  of measures  to improve employment  opportunities 
for the people with  disabilities.  These  include a target of doubling  the 
numbers of handicapped persons placed  annually under  the Employment  Incentive 
Scheme. 
An Employment  Support  Scheme was  recently  introduced  for  the purpose  of 
providing work  opportunities  for people with more  severe handicaps, who  can 
often be neglected when  it comes  to employment considerations.  This  scheme 
operates by providing  subsidies  to employers, having  regard  to  the 
productivity  of the disabled worker.  There was  also a significant  increase  in 
the fund for workplace  aids  and adaptations. 
A Government Committee has  recently been established  to monitor  the 
commitment given  in the Programme  for Economic  and Social Progress  to  increase 
the numbers of disabled people  employed  under  the public-sector  quota scheme. 
If persons with disabilities  are  to be  supported  in the community  it is 
necessary that they have  an adequate  level of  income by which to  support 
themselves.  In Ireland  there  are a number  of  income-maintenance  schemes 
designed to assist  the people with disabilities.  The main  income-maintenance 
scheme is the disabled  persons maintenance  allowance, which  is payable  subject 
to both medical  and means tests. 
There are  also  a number  of  social-insurance-based  schemes, such  as 
invalidity pension, disablement benefit and disability benefit.  Persons  in 
receipt of disabled  persons maintenance  allowance  and invalidity  pension 
qualify also, in certain  circumstances, for a range of other benefits, such  as 
free travel, free-electricity  allowance, free  telephone  rental, free 
television licence  and  free  fuel. 
A/47/PV.36 
19 
(Mr. Flood,  Ireland) 
In  addition,  there  are  financial-support  schemes  for  the blind  and for 
parents  of handicapped  children.  A mobility  allowance  and  motorized-transport 
grant  may  also be paid  in certain  situations.  There  is also  a variety of 
tax-relief  schemes  for  the handicapped,  which provide  for  rebates of tax and 
excise  duty paid  on petrol  and cars. 
The  special  needs of physically  handicapped  people  in their  domestic 
environment  are provided  for by a grant  scheme  that  allows  for  adaptations to 
their homes  to  facilitate greater  independence.  This  scheme provides for 
significant  structural  alterations  and extensions where  necessary. 
In addition to the grant  schemes,  loan assistance  is provided by 
voluntary  organizations  towards meeting  the  cost  of housing  developments for 
handicapped  persons.  This  scheme, which has  facilitated  the provision of 
independent-living  facilities, provides  a grant  of up  to  90 per  cent of the 
cost  of  these  developments. 
Of  course,  services  for people with disabilities  involve  a number of 
Government  departments  and  agencies.  I should  like  to  refer  to the 
significant  developments  that have  taken place  in the past  decade  in areas 
that do not  come within my  sphere  of  responsibility  as Minister  of State at 
the Department  of Health. 
The Department  of  Education provides  a comprehensive  range of specialized 
education  services  for  the disabled.  These  services  are  tailored  to the needs 
of  children  suffering  from disabilities 
mild  or  severe  - relating to 
physical, mental,  sensory  or  emotional  performance. 
Special  schools  are dedicated  to  the needs of  particular  clinical groups, 
and  special  classes  cater  for  disabled  pupils  in the ordinary  school setting 
A/47/PV.36 
20 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
where the degree  of disability  is such as to allow  limited  integration  to  take 
place.  In addition  to enjoying  reduced pupil-teacher  ratios, these  special 
services attract  increased  levels of  capitation grant  and have  access  to extra 
funding for  the purchase  of  specialized  equipment  and materials.  One  of  the 
primary objectives  of policies  and programmes  for people with disabilities  is 
to equip them  to make  a practical  contribution  to society  to the maximum 
extent permitted  by  their  disabilities. 
The foregoing  services  are  further  supplemented  by  a  special 
visiting-teacher  service, which provides back-up  to children  suffering  from 
visual or hearing  impairment.  In addition,  a home-tuition  service  is provided 
for children who, because  of  their disability,  are unable  to attend  school  on 
a regular basis. 
It is Department  of Education  policy  to encourage  the  integration  of 
disabled children  into ordinary  schools wherever possible, and  increasingly 
parents are opting  for  this  approach.  As  a consequence,  it is necessary  to 
consider a redirection  of  resources  in support of  this  trend. 
Already  additional  resources provided  under  the Programme  for  Economic 
and Social Progress  have  facilitated  an  improvement  in the pupil-teacher  ratio 
in special schools, an expansion of  the visiting-teacher  service  to  embrace 
additional clinical  groups  and  the deployment  of  resource  teachers  to  assist 
disabled pupils  in an  integrated  setting. 
However,  there  is a need  for  a fundamental  examination  of  the  range  and 
level of educational  and  other  support  services  necessary  in order  to maximize 
the potential of  disabled  children.  A Special  Committee,  representative  of 
experts in the  field  of  special  education,  established  by my  colleague  the 
Minister for Education  to make  recommendations  in this  regard,  is expected  to 
report shortly. 
A/47/PV.36 
20(a-z) 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
New building  regulations  containing  stringent  new  requirements  on access 
for disabled  people were  introduced  last year.  The  new  regulations  include 
requirements  that  apply  to  common  areas  in apartment  blocks  and to all new 
buildings  and extensions  to existing buildings  and provide  that:  at least one 
entrance  intended  for general  use, preferably  the main  entrance, will be 
accessible  to wheelchair  users; the  internal  layout will  enable  disabled 
people  to circulate, with  full  access  to all parts  of  the building;  there will 
be passenger  lifts with  suitable  access  for  the disabled;  one bedroom  in 20 in 
each hotel  and guest-house  will be  suitable  for  a wheelchair  user; there will 
be one  unisex  toilet  for wheelchair  users  in a convenient  and  accessible part 
of  the building;  there will be  a minimum  number  of  reserved  seats  in theatres, 
cinemas,  concert halls  and  sports  stadiums; there will  be  technical  aids to 
communication  in buildings  used  for entertainment,  conferences  or religion. 
A/47/PV.36 
21 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
It is Government  policy  that  transport  providers must,  on an  ongoing 
basis, give  attention  to  improving  acessibility  to transport  for people  with 
disabilities.  There  is a Government  Transport  Accessibility  Committee  that 
monitors provision  and urges  transport  providers, who  are  represented  on  the 
Committee,  to  improve  facilities. 
There have been notable  improvements  in accessibility  to public  transport 
in recent years.  The Committee  has drawn up  a three-year  programme  of  action 
further to improve  facilities.  Proposals  that  are currently  being  pursued 
include the  introduction  of  a pilot  fixed-route wheelchair-accessible  bus 
service in Dublin  City  and  the  introduction  of wheelchair-accessible  taxis. 
The existing  arrangements  for persons with mobility  handicaps who  use 
airports, air  services, ports  and  sea transport  is also being examined with a 
view to improving  such  arrangements. 
From what  I have  said,  it will be evident  that we have  spent  a 
considerable amount  of  time  and  effort  in Ireland  over  this past  decade  in 
clarifying our  objectives  in  relation  to the handicapped,  in thinking  out  in a 
systematic manner  how  the very  considerable  problems  faced by people  with 
disabilities  should  be  addressed  and  in putting  in place what we  regard  as a 
sound platform  on which  to build  for  the  future.  The  challenge, of course, 
that now faces  us  is  in translating  this basic  framework  into  real  and 
meaningful benefits  for people with disabilities  in their daily  lives  and  in 
ensuring that  the necessary  supports  are  in place  to ensure  that  every  person 
with a handicap  can have  a  full  and  satisfying  place  as an equal  member  of 
society. 
Economically,  the  1980s have been  a difficult  time  in Ireland.  We  were 
faced with a difficult  budgetary  situation, which had  to be  corrected,  we  had 
to cope with  a growing  unemployment  problem  and we had  to be prudent  in our 
A/47/PV.36 
22 
(Mr. Flood.  Ireland) 
approach  to ensure  that  the  fundamentals  of  our  economy were put on a sound 
footing  so that we  could participate  fully  in  the movement  towards the 
expansion  and  closer  integration  of  the European  Community.  I am happy to say 
that we have made  considerable  progress  in this  regard. 
All  of  this has meant,  however,  that we have  not been  able  to increase 
our  investment  in services  such as these  for people with  disabilities as 
quickly  as we would  otherwise  have wished.  It would  seem  to me  from the 
contributions  that  I have heard  so far  that we  in Ireland  are not alone in 
this.  Nevertheless,  as  I have  outlined,  progress had been made, and I would 
be  fairly  confident  that we  can now move  forward with  some  certainty  to reap 
the benefits  of  the careful  groundwork  that we have  laid. 
I was pleased  to be  able  to attend  the Council  of  Europe's  first 
ministerial  conference  on disability,  held  in Paris  last November, which gave 
renewed  European  impetus  in this  area. 
I  repeat  that  I am very happy 
indeed, privileged 
to be here in New 
York  today  to  lend my voice  and  that  of the  Irish Government  towards securing 
full  civil  rights  in all walks of  life  for  all persons,  of every creed, colour 
and  nationality, with  a handicap.  I accept  that  it is the  responsibility of 
each of  us in our  countries  to ensure  that our  own citizens with disabilities 
are provided  every  facility  in order  to assume  their  rightful place in 
society,  but  international  bodies  such as the United  Nations  and the Council 
of Europe  can be powerful  forces  for  change  in this  regard. 
Finally,,  I congratulate  the United  Nations  on  its  initiative.  I am 
confident  that  our  deliberations  and  resolutions  here  for  these  two days will 
reverberate  around  the globe  and, hopefully,  mark  a giant  step  forward for our 
disabled  brothers  and  sisters  throughout  the world  towards  achieving their 
rightful  place  in  society. 
A/47/PV.36 
23 
Mr,  KALLEHAUGE  (Denmark):  I am truly honoured  to address  the 
Assembly  today on behalf  o:; the Danish Government  at this plenary meeting  of 
the forty-seventh  session, which marks  the conclusion  of  the United  Nations 
Decade of Disabled  Persons  and  the tenth  anniversary  of  the World  Programme  of 
Action. 
In the speech  that  I delivered  in the Third  Committee  last year, I 
mentioned  that  in 1980  and  since  1988 the Danish Government  had  included  a 
representative  of  the organizations  of persons with disabilities  as a member 
of the Danish delegation.  At  the  same  time, Denmark  urged  other Member  States 
to act in a similar way.  It  is a great pleasure  to note  that  a still 
increasing number  of Member  States  is following  the good  examples  earlier  set 
by, among others, Norway,  Austria,  Canada, Australia  and Denmark.  This  policy 
demonstrates how disabled  persons  have become much more visible during  the 
Decade, and  at the  same time  it gives  the disabled  the unique  chance  to  speak 
for themselves  in the United Nations. 
I still  remember  how  strange  it seemed  to almost  everybody  I met  in the 
United Nations  in 1980 when  I spoke  in the Third Committee  for  the  first  time 
about the preparations  for  the  International  Year  of Disabled  Persons.  The 
tremendous effect  of  the  awareness  campaigns  throughout  the world  during  the 
Decade is perhaps  nowhere better  illustrated  than by  the active  participation 
of persons with disabilities  that we  all witness  in the General Assembly  today. 
In politics, as well  as  in other human matters, no change will  take  place 
unless the attitudes  of  the persons  involved  are changed.  So, even  if  some of 
us might think  that  10 years  is a long  time to wait  for people  so 
underprivileged  and marginalized  as most persons with disabilities  still  are, 
in particular  in the developing  countries,  the  awareness  campaigns  during  the 
Decade have been good  and necessary  investments.  But now the  time has  come 
for the good  attitudes  and better  understanding  of our problems  to bear  fruit. 
A/47/PV.36 
24-25 
(Mr. Kallehauoe. Denmark) 
The  demand  for equality  made by  the disability movement  is based on the 
Universal  Declaration  of Human  Rights.  Human  rights  are universal, and thus 
include  persons with disabilities  unrestrictedly,  because  people  are born free 
and  equal, and have  the  same  inalienable  rights  to  life and welfare, education 
and work,  independent  living  and  access  to  active participation  in all aspects 
of  society. 
Any  direct  discrimination  or  other  negative  discriminatory  treatment of 
disabled  persons  is a violation  of human  rights.  Anyone who  discriminates on 
the basis  of  disability  or  in other ways  treats disabled  persons  differently 
than others  bears  the burden of proving  that  such  treatment  is objectively 
well-founded  and  not  in contravention  of  the words  and meaning  of this 
principle. 
Persons with disabilities  must be guaranteed  equal  opportunities. 
Persons  with  disabilities  have  a right  to compensation  for  their  impairment. 
All  socially generated  barriers 
physical,  as well  as  financial, social and 
psychological  - excluding persons with disabilities  from  full participation in 
society must be eliminated.  The place  of disabled persons  is everywhere. 
This philosophy  leads  to the  following  three basic  principles, on which 
the disability movement  is founded:  persons with disabilities  are born free 
and  equal  in dignity  and  rights; persons with disabilities  have  the right to 
life,  liberty  and personal  security,  like all other  human beings; and persons 
with disabilities  are entitled  to  all  the  rights  and  freedoms  set forth in all 
United  Nations  declarations  and  other  international  human  rights instruments, 
like  their  fellow men  and  women. 
A/47/PV.36 
26 
(Mr. Kallehauoe.  Denmark) 
We  are convinced  that  these principles  are  right  and  that  they will  also 
be universally  accepted  because  of  their ethical  value.  But even  if  nobody 
will dispute  their validity  and  truth,  it does not mean  that  these  principles 
are generally  respected.  Unfortunately  they  are not 
far  from  it. 
Therefore  we have  to elaborate  strategies  for how  to transform  our  good 
intentions  into  a practical  day-to-day policy,  leading  step by  step to a 
society  for all. 
The  integration  of  disabled persons  is both  an objective  and  an 
instrument  in the  integration  process.  Disabled  people  remain  invisible  as 
long as they  do not  live  integrated,  and  they  cannot become  integratd  until 
they are visible.  That  is a paradox which  is not  uncharacteristic  of many of 
the problems which we  have  to overcome  as disabled persons.  In the 
handicapped movement  we  are much  too  familiar with  "catch  22", as Josef  Heller 
called it in his  novel  bearing  that  title. 
In the years  to  come,  I see two main  areas  that will be of  special 
importance when  it comes  to  identifying  the proper  strategies  for  the  future. 
One is the ongoing work  in the  ad hoc Open-ended  Working  Group established  by 
the Economic  and  Social  Council  (ECOSOC) to elaborate  standard  rules  on the 
equalization of  opportunities  for disabled persons.  The  latest  report  on  the 
meetings held  in Vienna  in May  1992  shows good progress  and  also  very 
promising results.  The  implementation  and monitoring  of  the  standard  rules  on 
the equalization  of  opportunities  for disabled persons will, when  they  are 
adopted by ECOSOC  next year, become  one of  the  two main  tasks  in the  coming 
years. 
The other  area  is  the  increasing  awareness  of  the human-rights  aspect  in 
the global work  carried  out  for  their members  by organizations  of persons  with 
disabilities.  In both  these  areas  the United Nations  and  its  specialized 
A/47/PV.36 
27 
(Mr. Kallehauoe. ne""rrjr) 
agencies  have  a very  important  role to play  as  the global  protector of the 
grossly  disadvantaged  minority  of mankind  still  formed by persons with 
disabilities. 
This  does not mean  that  the main  responsibility  for  the welfare of the 
citizen  does  not  remain with  the Governments  of  the Member  States.  But even 
in a democracy  a minority might  need  the moral  support  that  the  international 
community  can offer  simply  by  focusing  on the human  rights  and  social needs of 
the minority.  It  is the natural  obligation  of  the United Nations  to care 
about  and,  if necessary,  to act on behalf  of  the minorities. 
The World  Conference  on Human Rights  scheduled  to take place  in June next 
year  provides  an excellent  opportunity  to  review progress made  in the field of 
human  rights  also  in relation  to persons with  disabilities. 
The  conscience  of  international  society has often been  represented by the 
United  Nations.  We  trust  that  the United Nations will  continue  to be worthy 
of our  confidence  by  acting  as the  international  agent  and  caretaker of the 
interests  of persons with disabilities  in close  cooperation with organizations 
of disabled  people. 
Denmark  recommends  that  access  for disabled  people  to the  labour market 
be made  the  key  issue  in the coming  decade.  This  recommendation  is 
wholeheartedly  supported  by  the Danish organizations  of persons with 
disabilities.  The  reason  for  this proposal  is that  the  integration of persons 
with  disabilities  on the  labour market  is achieved  nowhere 
not in the 
industrialized  nor  in the developing world.  Integration  on  the  labour market v 
cannot  be  achieved without  integrating  disabled  people  also  in the education  1 
system  and  in most  other  sectors  of  society,  especially  those  concerning 
•• 
*i 
A/47/PV.36 
28 
(Mr.  Kallehauoe,  Denmark) 
housing, transport  and  communication.  In a paradoxical  way,  access  to  the 
labour market might  in different  societies  become  the  first  or  the  final  step 
in the integration  process.  Access  to the  labour market  is of  crucial 
importance  to persons with disabilities  all over  the world. 
In the developing  countries, where  social pensions  are  scarce  or 
non-existent,  one  cannot  survive without  a job.  If a disabled  person  cannot 
: 
earn an i n c o me  on w h i ch  s he or he c an e x i s t,  t h e re  is no o t h er  s o l u t i on  t h an 
i 
the degrading  role of begging.  In countries with better  social pensions,  it 
is fortunately  not  a question of  life and death  if a disabled person gets a 
job or not, but  a question  of  normalization.  Living  a mainstream  life means, 
r. 
among other  things, that  you earn your own  living. 
Consequently  the equalization  of opportunities  implies  that  access  to the 
labour  m a r k et  s h o u ld  be m a de  p o s s i b le  f or a ll p e r s o ns  w i th  d i s a b i l i t i e s.  To 
a 
ill 
have a job like  e v e r y b o dy  e l se  is g o od  f or a  d i s a b l ed  p e r s o n 's  s e l f - r e s p e ct  as 
Hi: 
well as for t he i m a ge  of p e r s o ns  w i th  d i s a b i l i t i es  a m o ng  t he p o p u l a t i on  at 
if 
large.  U n t il  v e ry  s o p h i s t i c a t ed  s o c i al  p r o g r a m m es  a re d e v e l o p e d,  i n d e p e n d e nt 
living for d i s a b l ed  p e r s o ns  w i ll  p r e s u p p o se  p e r s o n al  w a g es  s t e m m i ng  from t he 
labour  m a r k e t. 
iii 
iii 
No disability  issue other  than employment  is of  such importance  for 
persons  w i th  d i s a b i l i t i es  on a  g l o b al  scale  that  it d e s e r v es  to be m a de t he 
ti*'« 
focal-point  of a ll i n t e g r a t i on  e f f o r ts  in t he c o m i ng  y e a r s.  It is a  g o od a nd 
it*' 
very concrete  o b j e c t i v e.  It d o es  n ot d e m a nd  a ny f u r t h er  e x p l i c a t i o n. 
i 111* 
Everybody  w i ll  i m m e d i a t e ly  u n d e r s t a nd  i ts i m p o r t a n c e. 
I n s t r u m e n ts  that  w i ll 
t»* 
prove to be u s e f ul  m i g ht  v a ry  from  o ne c o u n t ry  to a n o t h e r,  a nd n o b o dy y et 
"' knows the a n s w er  as to h ow it c an be d o ne  m o st  e f f i c i e n t l y.  It  w o u l d, 
A/47/PV.36 
29-30 
(Mr. Kallehauoe. Denmark) 
however,  be  a worthy  competition  between  the Member  States  to  report  to the 
United Nations  in  the coming years  as  to how progress  is gained  in this 
important  field  of  the disability work  lying ahead  of us. 
In conclusion,  I wish  to express  the  continued  need  for  improving the 
coordination  of  the United Nations  efforts  in  favour  of  the disabled.  In his 
next  report  to  the Third  Committee,  the Secretary-General  has been  asked to 
report  on United Nations  co-ordination.  In the opinion of  the Danish 
Government,  it will  be preferable  to entrust  one  agency with the task of 
coordination,  in particular  regarding  the efforts  in developing  countries.  In 
our  view,  the United Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP) is the agency of the 
United  Nations  systme  that  is best  suited  to undertake  this  task. 
Mr. MOULTRIE  (Bahamas):  Commemorations  are generally  a time for 
reflection  and  stocktaking.  As we  analyse  the advances  made during the 
United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  and  evaluate  their  impact on the 
lives  of  the disabled worldwide, we  can be  satisfied  that  some progress has 
been made  in meeting  our  common goals  and  objectives  set out  in the World Plan 
of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons.  The  specific  emphasis  that the 
Programme  of Action placed  on the prevention  of  disability,  on  rehabilitation 
and  equalization  of  opportunity  has  fostered  our better  recognition, 
perception  and understanding  of disability.  Whether  a consequence of injury 
resulting  from  accidents, birth  defects, disease,  conflict  or war, there has 
been  a shift  away  from viewing  disability  as inability,  and  the disabled as a 
liability,  towards  accepting  their  right  to  care, and  their  importance in the 
pool  of human  resources  essential  to the development  process. 
A/47/PV.36 
31 
(Mr. Moultrie.  Bahamas) 
Consequently,  in many  countries,  including  the Bahamas, persons  with 
disabilities have been enabled  to define  their  own  interests  in their  own 
terms, whether  these  relate  to  self-directed  assistance, maintaining  their 
independence,  improving  their quality  of  life or obtaining  accessible  housing 
and other  facilities  for  the enhancement  of  full  community  adjustment  and 
participation.  The  focus of  national,  regional  and  international  activities 
has rightly been  on devising more precise, more effective  and more  innovative 
approaches to disability,  to ensure  that  these goals  and  objectives  can be 
achieved.  There  can be no question,  then,  that  the Decade  and  the  Programme 
of Action have brought  both practical  and material  benefit  to the  disabled, 
and opened  to them  new opportunities  for a better  life. 
It is evident,  none  the  less, that  further  and  continuing  efforts  are 
required for  the Decade's  objectives  to be  fully  realized.  Our  efforts  to 
implement the World  Programme  of Action  and  to meet  the Decade's  objectives 
were pursued  in a less  than  favourable  environment.  In developing  countries 
in particular,  staggering  economic  and  social problems have  affected  the 
ability of Governments  to  implement  the World  Programme  of Action.  The 
traditional  function  of  the  family  as care-giver  and  support  system  for  the 
disabled is being  steadily  eroded.  Developing  the  accessible  range  of 
services, training  the professionals  and providing  the technical  aids  to meet 
the varying needs  of  the disabled  over  time  is weighing heavily  on  Governments 
encumbered by debt,  structural  adjustment  and other  critical  socio-economic 
problems.  Lacking  the  resources  to underwrite  these  costs. Governments  in 
developing countries  face  formidable  problems  in  formulating  and  implementing 
viable and effective  disability  policies  and  programmes. 
A/47/PV.36 
32 
(Mr. Moultrie. Bahamas) 
Responding  effectively  to  the demands  of  the disabled  and  other 
vulnerable  groups, therefore,  remains  a considerable  challenge.  Fortunately, 
Governments  have  the  support  and partnership  not  only  of  the  disabled 
themselves  but  of  a wide  range of  non-governmental  and private  voluntary 
organizations  in formulating  and  implementing  policies  and programmes  in the 
area of  disability,  from which both  the disabled  and  society  benefit.  The 
value  of  the  commendable  services  these  organizations  undertake  on behalf of 
the disabled must  be  recognized. 
The years  of  the Decade  have  also been  turbulent  ones, characterized by 
conflict  within  and between  States, poverty,  famine, drought  and disease.  The 
casualties  of  conflicts  and  the victims  of preventable  diseases  continue to 
swell  the  ranks of  the disabled.  In these  circumstances,  efforts by the 
United  Nations  and  the  Secretary-General  to build peace,  stability and 
security,  and particularly  to  address  the economic  and  social  roots of 
potential  conflict,  are  relevant  to the  issue  of  disability.  This is yet 
another  reason  for  the Bahamas' support  of  initiatives  in the areas of peace 
and  security  and  social development.  We  also  support  the  efforts of the 
United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF) and other  agencies  in the areas of 
prevention  of  disability,  including  immunization,  genetic  counselling, drug 
and  substance  abuse  treatment  and  rehabilitation,  prenatal  and post-natal 
care,  sanitation,  and maternal  and  child  health. 
The  Bahamas  does  not, however,  consider  that  there  is any obstacle to the 
implementation  of  the World  Programme  of Action  that  cannot  be overcome with 
the  requisite  political  commitment  and  through  international  cooperation.  We 
have  ourselves  continued  our  dedicated  pursuit  of  the  objectives  of the World 
Programme  of Action with  a Decade-end  "Study  of  the Needs  of  the Handicapped 
A/47/PV.36 
33 
(Mr. Moultrie.  Bahamas) 
in the Bahama  Islands", which was  conducted  in cooperation with  a number  of 
relevant non-governmental  organizations,  including  the Salvation  Army  and  Life 
Services for  the Handicapped,  a United  States based  non-governmental 
organization.  The Desk  for  the Disabled,  the  lead  Governmental  Coordinating 
Agency, the Advisory  Council  on Disability  and  the Bahamas  Council  for  the 
Handicapped,  the  umbrella  organization  serving disabled  persons  and 
organizations of  disabled  persons  in the Bahamas, all provided  invaluable 
input for the  study. 
The study will bring  into  clearer  focus  the unmet  needs  and gaps  in 
services to the disabled,  explore  the  role of  the  family  as care-giver  and 
ways and means  of  strengthening  that  role, determine  how technological  aids 
can be more quickly  and  inexpensively  made  available  to the disabled,  and 
devise modalities  for  statistics-gathering  and  improve  the  training  of 
rehabilitation workers.  The data produced  is to  assist  our goal-setting  in 
the field of disability,  goals we  see  as not only directed  at  diminishing 
impairments, but  capitalizing  on  remaining  abilities 
goals  that  are  not 
simply employment-oriented,  but  that  are  intended  to elicit  optimal  levels  of 
functional capability  from  our  disabled  citizens, while  at the  same  time 
giving due attention  to  those with  irrevocable  impairments. 
The Bahamas  is  ready,  therefore,  to take up  the  challenge  to move  from 
awareness-raising  to  concrete  action, with a view to  creating  "A Society  for 
All" by the year  2010.  We  appreciate,  in this  regard,  that Governments' 
efforts to translate  programmes  into projects  that would benefit  the  disabled 
at the local and  national  levels must be met with  concrete  international 
support.  There  is much  to be  said  for  increasing  the effectiveness  of  the 
United Nations  in addressing  the  issue  of  disability,  and  indeed  all  social 
A/47/PV.36 
34 
(Mr. Moultrie. Bahama.!) 
development  issues.  Efforts  to  strengthen  the Social  Development  branch of 
the  Centre  for  Social  Development  and Humanitarian  Affairs,  including the 
Disabled  Unit, have  always had  the  support  of  the Bahamas.  The Organization 
must  be  further  enabled  to  foster  consultative  links with Member  States that 
have programmes  based  on  research  findings which have been proven  to be 
effective  and  to have  long-term  positive  effects,  or  that have  developed 
advanced  technical  aids.  It  should  be  an  important  source  of  information, 
analysis,  technical,  research  and  advisory  services, particularly  to 
developing  countries. 
Extra-budgetary  resources  have been essential  to  implement  programmes in 
the  social  development  area, which  continues  to be  fundamentally  affected by 
scarce  resources.  The Voluntary  Fund  for  the United  Nations  Decade of 
Disabled  Persons  has demonstrated  its worth  through  its vital  catalytic 
activities  to benefit  the disabled,  particularly  in developing  countries.  The 
Bahamas will  join with  the Assembly  in  supporting  the Economic  and Social 
Council's  recommendation  that  the Fund  continue  after  the Decade of Disabled 
Persons, with  revised  terms  of  reference  reflected  in  its proposed  new name, 
the United  Nations  Voluntary  Fund on Disability.  If  the  Fund  is to bolster 
national,  regional  and  international  disability  activities,  generous 
contributions  would  have  to be made by  those  in a position  to do so. 
The  Bahamas  believes  that  this  commemoration  should  have  immediate and 
long-term  significance.  Detailed  efforts  are now being made  to ensure that in 
1993, we have  in our  service  a comprehensive  framework  for maintaining the 
momentum  in countering  disability  following  the end  of  the United Nations 
Decade  of Disabled  Persons.  With  the World  Programme  of Action  at its centre, 
and  the practical  guidelines  contained  in the  long-term  strategy  and the 
A/47/PV.36 
35 
(Mr. Moultrie.  Bahamas) 
standard  rules  on the  equalization  of opportunities  for  the disabled,  we 
should be ready  to address  all  aspects  of disability, whether  they  affect  the 
individual's  capacity  for mobility,  communication  or  social  interaction.  The 
Bahamas is committed  to making  its  contribution  to ensure  that  the momentum  of 
the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  is maintained  into  the 
twenty-first  century. 
Mr. KABIR  (Bangladesh):  At  the outset, may  I express my  profound 
grief and sympathy  for  the brotherly people of Egypt, who have been  struck  by 
a severe earthquake,  resulting  in such a heavy  loss of  life and of  property. 
'* 
Civilized  societies  have evolved  on the  fundamental belief  that  human 
beings are born with equal  opportunities  guaranteed  to all without 
:" discrimination.  Social  prejudices  and  the inadequate  understanding  of  true 
'''"human potential  have, however,  often blocked  our paths  to this  cherished 
>l-objective.  In the process, many  did not  receive  the attention  that  they 
:Hi;deserve from  society  based  on the principle  of equality.  A group  that  has 
-suffered as a result  is the world's  disabled. 
A/47/PV.36 
36 
(Mr. Kabir. Bangladesh) 
An estimated  500 million people  in the world  today  suffer  from physical 
or mental  disabilities,  and  80 per  cent  of  them  live  in the  developing 
countries.  Social  prejudices  and neglect  have  driven  a great many of them to 
a life of  isolation  and  frustration  and have  deprived  them  of  the basic 
elements  of  normal  living  conditions, which  cannot but have  a jarring effect 
on broad  social harmony  and  social  conscience. 
Those  of us who  are  fortunate  enough  to be  able  to call ourselves sound 
in body  and mind  have  a collective  responsibility  towards  our  less  fortunate 
fellow human beings  to help  them  integrate  themselves  into  the mainstream of 
society.  Their  problems  should  not be viewed with  the attitude  of doling out 
handouts  of pity but with  forbearance  and  compassion.  The  arbitrary decision 
to consign  them  to their  fate as permanent  beneficiaries  of  social welfare is 
no  longer  acceptable.  We have  a duty  to help  transform  the disabled into 
productive  forces by exploiting  in full  their potentials, however  limited. 
Fortunately,  there  is an awareness  today of  the need  to address the issue 
of  the disabled  as a matter  of  common  concern.  At  this  forty-seventh session 
of  the General  Assembly,  the  issue of disabled persons bears  particular 
significance,  as  it marks  the end of  the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled 
Persons.  We  are gathered  today not  just  to take  stock of  the progress of the 
World  Programme  of Action concerning  Disabled  Persons, but  to  reaffirm our 
commitment  to complete  what has been  left  incomplete  and  reiterate our 
determination  of what we  can best  do  to  strengthen  our  efforts  for the future. 
Our  achievements  in terms of  statistics will  no doubt  vary  from nation to 
nation,  especially  with  respect  to availability  of  funds,  technical knowledge 
and  support  services.  While  in the developed  societies  commendable 
advancements  have been possible  to  improve  the  conditions  of  the disabled, the 
A/47/PV.36 
37 
(Mr. Kabir.  Bangladesh) 
situation remains  critical  in the developing  countries, especially  in the 
least developed  ones.  The  efforts  of developing  countries  to  address  the 
issue of  the disabled  are undertaken  against  formidable  challenges,  the most 
serious being  the  lack of  adequate  financial  resources. 
Inadequate  nutritional  intake  and  a lack of proper medical  facilities 
account for a large number  of physical deformities,  among both  adults  and 
children.  Political  instability  and violence  resulting  from  social 
disorganization have  added  to the growing  numbers  of  the disabled.  Extreme 
poverty and  low  levels of  socio-economic  development  have  imposed  severe 
limitations on efforts  to  rehabilitate  disabled persons  and  integrate  them 
into society.  Due  to poverty  and  lack of employment,  the disabled  are often 
: driven to capitalize  on their handicap by  resorting  to begging  as a  livelihood. 
The democratically  elected  Government  of  Prime Minister  Begum  Khaleda  Zia 
; in Bangladesh  is committed  to  the people  and  to bringing  about  a society  based 
on social justice  and equitable  opportunity.  Among  the many  challenges  that 
j, lie in the way of  that  objective  is the  issue  of disabled persons.  Our 
,, Government is aware  of  the gravity  of  the  issue  and  is determined  to bring 
. about improvement  in the  conditions  of  the disabled.  The policies  and 
, programmes undertaken  in this  regard  are  formulated  within  the  general 
. guidelines of  the World  Programme  of Action.  Allow me  to  share with  the 
Assembly some of  the  steps we have  undertaken. 
Equalization  of opportunity  is the central  theme of  the World  Programme. 
Pull and equal participation  of  disabled persons  can be  achieved  only  through 
i< 
til' 
their economic  independence.  The Ministry  of  Social Welfare, which  serves  as 
i1 
our national  focal point,  is dedicated  to  imparting  specialized  vocational 
III 
training to the handicapped  and  to turning  the hands outstretched  in begging 
A/47/PV.36 
38 
(Mr. Kabir.  Bangladesh) 
into hands  of production.  To  this  end,  the Government  has  undertaken various 
programmes  in both  rural  and  urban  areas  for  income generation  by  the disabled 
through  training-  and production-oriented  activities.  Specialized  educational 
institutions  are being  set  up  to cater  for  the  special  needs  of  the disabled. 
The  Government  has  set up a centre  called  Employment  Rehabilitation  of the 
Physically  Handicapped  and  a number  of  training  and  rehabilitation  centres for 
the blind  and  for vision-  and hearing-impaired  persons.  The  Government, as a 
matter  of principle,  encourages  community-based  rehabilitation  with an 
emphasis  on  self-employment  and  cooperative  programmes.  Interest-free loans 
are also  provided  to assist  such persons  in setting  up  small  income-generating 
enterprises.  It  is widely  recognized  that  there  is a need  to create  a healthy 
social environment  where  the disabled  person  can  live  in dignity  as a 
self-respecting  individual  and not  as  just  a passive  recipient  of  compassion 
and pity.  In this  regard,  the mass media  are being  utilized  to educate the 
public  away  from  social prejudices  towards  the disabled.  A Welfare Trust for 
the disabled  at  the national  level  under  the Ministry  of  Social Welfare has 
been entrusted  with  the  formulation  of policies  and  the  coordination of 
efforts  of pertinent  Government  organizations  and  non-governmental 
organizations  to bring  about  change  in the attitude  of  the people towards 
persons  with  disabilities. 
Those who  are  intellectually  handicapped,  and  thereby  unable  to think out 
or  articulate  their  needs  and  desires, are even more  in need  of  special 
recognition.  Adequate provision  must be made  for  special  care, education and 
training  to prepare  them  for  life  in the world when  their  families  are no 
longer  there  to protect  them. 
So unambiguous  and  total  is my Government's  commitment  to  stand by the 
disabled  that  last year  Prime Minister  Begum  Zia personally  associated herself 
A/47/PV.36 
39 
(Mr.  Kabir.  Bangladesh) 
with programmes  for  the welfare  of  the mentally  handicapped  by  inaugurating  in 
Dhaka the Bangladesh  Institute  of  the Mentally  Retarded.  For  its  construction 
the Government provided  a grant  of  15.02 million  taka  to the Society  for  the 
Care and Education  of Mentally  Retarded,  a leading  non-governmental 
organization  in the  field.  Later  she also opened  in Dhaka  the  National 
Complex for the  training  of  teachers  for both  the physically  and 
, intellectually  handicapped. 
It is gratifying  to note  that  at this  stage of human  civilization many of 
the causes of  disabilities  can be prevented  if only proper  knowledge  and 
, technology are available  at  the  right  time.  In this  regard  our  Government's 
. programme to reform  eating  habits  and  to motivate  the people  to use 
non-traditional  and  inexpensive  sources of nutrition  has produced  impressive 
results towards  the prevention  of blindness  and deformation  at birth.  The 
extended programmes  of  immunization  and primary health  care have  also been 
strengthened, with  special  attention  given to mother-and-child  health  care. 
Family-planning programmes  are also being carried  out as a national  priority 
Id! 
to build  h e a l t hy  f a m i l i e s. 
It is, however,  a sad  reality  that disabled women  and children  suffer  the 
most as they often  comprise  the most vulnerable  sector  of  the population  in 
S<"': 
many countries.  Bangladesh  is no exception; yet we endeavour  to give  priority 
to the special  needs  of  these groups.  Bangladesh,  as a State party  to  the 
til! 
*'' 
Convention on the Rights  of  the Child,  also upholds  the  rights of  disabled 
children, particularly  in the  field of education,  training,  health  care  and 
ill*5 
rehabilitation. 
**' 
A large number  of non-governmental  organizations  in Bangladesh,  some  with 
the participation  of  disabled persons  themselves,  are  involved  in projects  for 
t^ 
the prevention of disabilities  and  the  rehabilitation  of  the disabled.  Their 
A/47/PV.36 
40 
(Mr. Kabir.  Bangladesh) 
help  and  assistance have  lent  substantial  support  to our  ongoing programmes. 
Here we  acknowledge  the  assistance  provided  by  friendly  countries whose 
Governments  and non-governmental  organizations  have helped  in the area of 
services  for  the welfare  of both  intellectually  and physically  disabled 
persons. 
The  sincerity  of  our  intent  is, however,  greatly  overshadowed  by severe 
constraints  on our  resources.  The varied  and  complex  nature  of  social issues 
that  coexist  in conditions  of underdevelopment  makes  the  issue  of the disabled 
only one  among many.  With  the  issues  so many  and  the means  so few, the 
jugglery  of  choosing  our priorities  is  indeed  taxing  and  often painful. 
A/47/PV.36 
41 
(Mr. Kabir.  Bangladesh) 
We note with  appreciation  that  the  International Meeting  on  the Roles  and 
Functions of National  Coordinating  Committees  on Disability  in Developing 
Countries held  in Beijing  in 1990, the meeting  on  alternative ways  to mark  the 
end of the Decade held  in Finland  in the  same year  and  the  recent  ministerial 
meeting held  in Montreal, have  all  acknowledged  the problems  faced by the 
developing world  in the  implementation  of  the World  Programme  of  Action. 
Their findings  and  recommendations  deserve our  close  attention. 
While we  acknowledge  that  the principal  responsibility  for  improving  the 
condition of disabled persons  lies with national governments,  international 
organizations must  play  an  important  role  in supplementing  national  efforts. 
It is equally  important  to establish  partnership  between developing  and 
developed countries, especially  in the  field of  technical  and  economic 
cooperation.  As noted  earlier,  financial  constraint  is the most  serious 
obstacle to implementation  of programmes  for the disabled.  In this  regard, 
the developing countries  should be  assisted by countries  of  the  developed 
world.  Dissemination  of  information  and  the transfer  of  technology  at a 
concessional  rate to the developing  countries  is another  area which  should  be 
addressed with priority.  We  also  feel  the need  for appropriate  legislation 
for protecting  the  rights of  the  disabled. 
The World  Programme  of Action  is designed  for all  nations, and  the 
capacity of  individual  countries  to  implement  it must  therefore  be  evaluated 
from this point  of view.  The Vienna  affirmative  action plan  formulated  by the 
»orld symposium  of experts  on technical  cooperation  among developing  countries 
and technical  assistance  in disability  prevention  and  rehabilitation  offers  a 
comprehensive  set of  suggestions  to meet  challenges  faced by  the  developing 
A/47/PV.36 
42 
(Mr. Kabir.  Bangladesh) 
countries.  Its  full  implementation  calls  for  a three-way  partnership  among 
national  governments,  donor  countries  and  international  organizations. 
We  commend  the very  important  role  that  the United Nations  has been 
playing  in ameliorating  the conditions  of  disabled  persons world wide.  The 
Centre  for  Social  Development  and Humanitarian  Affairs,  the designated focal 
point  for  coordinating  programmes  for  the disabled within  the United Nations 
system  has  our  full  support.  I would  be  remiss  if  I did not  also mention the 
specialized  agencies,  in particular  the United  Nations  Children's 
Fund  (UNICEF),  the  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  of  the United 
Nations  (FAO),  the World  Health Organization  (WHO) and  the  International 
Labour  Organisation  (ILO), which have been  doing  impressive  work  in the 
developing  countries,  especially  in providing  policy  guidance  and mobilizing 
resources  for  activities  relating  to the  disabled. 
We believe  that better  coordination  among  the  specialized  agencies 
through  the  adoption of  a system-wide  action plan within  the United Nations is 
an  area where we  should  focus  attention. 
We welcome  the decision  of  the Economic  and  Social  Council  (ECOSOC), 
taken during  its July  session,  to continue  the Voluntary  Fund  for the United 
Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  beyond  the decade  under  revised  terms of 
reference.  In this  regard we  endorse  the  idea contained  in paragraph 13 of 
the Secretary-General's  report  (A/47/415) that  the  Fund  should have an 
appropriate  mix  of  regular  and extrabudgetary  resources.  In the past we have 
seen that  the  Fund has  suffered,  as voluntary  funding was not  always 
forthcoming;  and programmes  run  the  risk  of  curtailment  where  funding is not 
always  predictable. 
As  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  draws  to a close, many 
of  its objectives  remain unfulfilled.  But  this  should  not  be  a reason for 
A/47/PV.36 
43 
(Mr. Kabir.  Bangladesh) 
total disappointment.  The Decade  no doubt has helped  to bring  about  a change 
in social attitude  towards  the disabled  and  in raising awareness  of  their 
special needs.  It has brought  about  a shift  to  address  the  issue of 
disabilities from  a viewpoint  of  charity  to one of  empowerment.  Our  priority 
i 
must therefore be  to carry  the  awareness  generated  by  the Decade  into  the 
future  from mere  urgings  of  advocacy  to concrete  actions.  National, 
) 
regional and  international  efforts must  focus on the development  of  an 
integrated theme  to  include prevention,  rehabilitation,  social  integration  and 
provision of equal  opportunities  for  full participation by disabled persons  in 
"the development  activities  of  countries.  In this  regard, we  fully endorse  the 
"recommendation  contained  in the  report  (A/47/415) for the adoption of  a 
"long-term national  action plan  for  the period  1993-2002, encompassing  the 
three main elements  - prevention,  rehabilitation  and equalization  of 
'"opportunities.  As  this period  also  coincides with  the Asian-Pacific  Decade  of 
'-Disabled Persons, recently proclaimed  by  the Economic  and  Social  Commission 
for Asia and the Pacific  (ESCAP),  Bangladesh  reaffirms  its  full commitment  to 
lithe welfare of  the disabled  in the coming years. 
ii' 
We have  seen  in reviewing  the Programme  of Action  for  the Decade,  that  in 
n'many countries programme  have been mostly  urban-centric  with  little  focus  on 
i»the disabled living  in  rural  areas.  Secondly,  as pointed  out  in the 
({Secretary-General's  report, programmes  for persons with a mental  disability 
,s:«ere the weakest  in many  countries.  Indeed we must  also  appreciate  that 
,ji intellectually or mentally  disabled  persons  deserve  a little more  attention. 
jjlt is our hope that  these  issues will be  appropriately  addressed  in our  future 
Programmes of action.  I would  also  like  to  suggest  that  as we go beyond  the 
j^ecade of Disabled  Persons, we must  reconsider  and  speak of  them  as  persons 
A/47/PV.36 
44-45 
(Mr. Kabir.  Bangladesh) 
with disabilities  rather  than  as disabled persons,  as with  a  little help from 
us many  of  them  can and do  function as able persons. 
The  goals we  seek will  remain  elusive  unless  the underlying  issues of 
poverty  and underdevelopment  are overcome.  The profound  developments in 
present-day  international  relations have  thrown open  rare opportunities for 
international  cooperation  to  address  this basic  and vital  issue  of the welfare 
of persons with disabilities.  We  sincerely hope  that  the hands of cooperation 
will  not  shrink on  the grounds  of  insular  policies  and  deny us  the 
long-cherished  opportunity  to change  our  lot. 
In  standing  on  the threshold  of  a new century, we hold  a vision of hope. 
There  are enough  reasons  to believe  that we will  not be pursuing  an illusion 
to establish  a society  for all by  the year  2010  if we have  the political will 
to do  so. 
Mr. WEBSON  (Antigua  and Barbuda):  Antigua  and  Barbuda  join with the 
rest of  the world  community  of  nations  in applauding  the  efforts of the United 
Nations  in the Decade  of Disabled  Persons.  We  are honoured  to be part of the 
discussion  that  evaluates  the  activities  of  that Decade. 
I  come  from  a part  of  the world  that  is so beautiful  that millions of 
people  leave distant  lands by  air  and by  sea to  feast  their  eyes on our 
region's  beauty.  The  Caribbean's  beauty  is  legendary;  yet many  thousands of 
us do not have  the  chance  to  see  the physical  beauty  of  our  region because we 
cannot  see.  Many  thousands  of  us do not have  the chance  to enjoy the 
pulsating  rhythm  for which we  are  so  famous because we  do not hear, and yet 
many more because  of barriers  cannot  enjoy  the brilliant  country we live in. 
Nevertheless  I can  attest  to the  inner beauty  of my  countrymen, who understand 
the need  to make  all hands  useful  in the development  process  of our country. 
A/47/PV.36 
46 
(Mr. Webson.  Antioua 
and  Barbuda) 
Making possible  the  contribution  of disabled people  in my  small 
Caribbean-island  developing  country  is an  important  policy  consideration.  And 
yet, even  in my  Antigua  and Barbuda,  so much  remains to be done. 
In 1992, as we  evaluate  the United Nations Decade of Disabled  Persons, I 
should like  to offer  selected  snapshots  of the Decade's  significant 
achievements.  I shall  also  recount  some of  its  shortcomings, and  I shall 
briefly look  at  some of  the considerable  challenges  that  lie ahead  for 
disabled persons. 
Undoubtedly,  the major  achievement  of  the Decade was  increased 
understanding  and  knowledge  of disability  issues  among policy makers, 
planners, service-providers, parents  and disabled  persons  ourselves. 
Increased media coverage, public  awareness  campaigns  and commemorative  events 
focused on people with disabilities  and  contributed  positively  to a greater 
acceptance of  society's  responsibility  to remove  obstacles  to  full 
participation  for  disabled persons.  Such obstacles  include prejudice  and 
discrimination,  all of which  result  from  social  and cultural  factors. 
Throughout  the Decade  disabled persons  and our many  organizations 
successfully  increased  our  influence.  In some places, we gained  new  respect 
in our communities  as we  achieved greater  independence.  In other places, 
legislation and  the machinery  of  the State worked  to  improve  our  material 
conditions and  to  increase  our  access  to community  resources. 
Within the past  decade  in my  country,  for example,  all blind  and 
visually-impaired  children have  been  integrated  into the  regular  school 
system.  We have  also expanded  the  services  offered by  the  school  for  the 
hearing impaired.  Through  the efforts  of disabled people  in Antigua  and 
Barbuda, a council  for  the handicapped  has been  established;  it has  succeeded 
A/47/PV.36 
47 
(Mr. Webson. Antigua 
and  Barbuda) 
in persuading  the Department  responsible  for  the census  to  include the 
disabled  as  a category  in its  census-taking. 
Several  teachers  of  the blind  and visually-impaired  and of the 
hearing-impaired  have been  trained  abroad  and  in our  Caribbean  region.  A 
programme  has been  established  and  supported  for  the mentally  retarded, and 
through  our  school  system we have  established  activities  to  incorporate the 
needs of  the  learning-disabled  individual.  The  Government  of Antigua and 
Barbuda has  continued  to pay  attention  to the needs of  the adult blind 
population,  through  its  support  for  its  industrial workshop, which has been in 
existence  for more  than 40 years. 
These  incremental  improvements  are the direct  result  of  resolution 37/53, 
of December  1982, proclaiming  these past  10 years  the United Nations Decade of 
Disabled  Persons. 
Positive  achievements  in some places  have been overshadowed  by certain 
grim  realities  in others.  There  is continued  debate  over defining disability,': 
the confusion  of  the definition  does not, however,  detract  from the fact that , 
in war-stricken  countries  and  those  affected by  famine  the number of disabled , 
persons 
of  obviously  disabled  persons 
has  increased  dramatically.  Today 
it  is estimated  that  500 million people,  the equivalent  of  6 per cent to
;| 
10 per  cent  of  the world's population,  have been  identified  as having one or 
more  disabilities.  Of  these people,  160 million  are women  and  140 million are. 
children.  Moreover,  it  is estimated  that  300 million  people with disabilities,^ 
live  in developing  countries  and  that  less  than  10 per  cent have access to 
basic  health  and education  services  and  adequate  sanitation. 
As populations  grow,  as poverty  spreads, as  famine  and  armed conflicts 
explode,  the developing world  is  faced with  the  alarming  prospect of 
A/47/PV.36 
48-50 
(Mr. Webson.  Antigua 
and  Barbuda) 
significant  increases  in our disabled population.  Severely  disabled  persons 
those with physical  and  sensory disabilities  and many others,  including  the 
wheelchair-bound  - will  account  for  a significant  percentage  of  the  increase 
in the number  of  disabled  persons  brought  about by human  tragedy  not  of  their 
making, but,  rather,  resulting  from the  actions of many of  their  countrymen, 
over which we have  no control.  In addition  to becoming  victims  of 
overpopulation, poverty,  famine  and wars, marginally  healthy  disabled  persons 
will be attacked  by diseases,  and many of  them will  die of  causes  not of  their 
own making. 
Unemployment  will  also  attack  the dignity  and  independence  of  an 
overwhelming number  of  disabled persons.  The  disabled  remain  among  those 
groups with  the highest  rates of  unemployment  in our world  today,  and  this 
matter must be given  significant  consideration.  Unemployment  among  disabled 
persons may have persisted  because of discrimination  in hiring  and  the  lack of 
I 
training and  special  education.  Disabled persons will be  largely unable  to 
find employment  if  this  situation  continues, even at the end of our Decade. 
A strategy  to end  our  unemployment  plight might begin with  the  disabled 
child.  Social  services  and  training  reaching out  to the parents of  disabled 
children, embracing  the disabled  child  and  the disabled  young  adult,  would 
greatly enhance personal  development.  The overwhelming  need  for  training  is 
most apparent  at  the end of  the Decade.  Official  development  assistance 
offered by developed  countries  and  through United Nations  agencies  could  focus 
more closely on  the needs  of  the disabled  during  the post-Decade  period.  Such 
a strategy would  help  in bringing  disabled persons  into the mainstream  of  our 
societies. 
A/47/PV.36 
51 
(Mr. Webson. Antigua 
and  Barbuda) 
The Decade  of Disabled  Persons, with  all  its promise, was caught  in a 
world  that has  seen  some of  the most  significant  political  changes  in our 
time.  History will probably  record  the end of  the cold war,  the dismantling 
of  an empire,  and  the  reduction  of  the threat  of  nuclear  war  as the most 
rapid, most  dramatic  and  critical  changes  ever  to  take place  in a single 
decade.  These welcome  changes, however,  not  only diverted  the world's 
attention  and  shifted  the  focus  away  from  the disabled,  but  they  succeeded in 
moving  critical  fiscal  resources  to other  segments  of  the world's population. 
The promise  to  set  aside  resources  for  the disabled,  in concert with our 
needs, has not been  fulfilled. 
The  challenge  of  refocusing  attention  and  economic  resources  is now the 
new goal.  We  are  cognizant  of  the economic  problems which now beset our world 
and  the widening  of  the gap between  the  rich and  the poor will exacerbate the 
conditions  of disabled persons  in developing  countries.  We  are aware that 
disabled  persons  need  new alliances  if we  are  to strengthen  our cause. 
Disabled  persons will  reach out  to women,  to minorities  and  to the aged, 
confident  that  together we  can collectively  influence  national governments and 
the  international  community. 
The  conclusion  of  the Decade  of Disabled  Persons  offers  the opportunity 
for  a renewed  commitment  on  the part  of  the  international  community  to the 
objectives  of  the Decade's  Programme  of  Action.  There  is a need  for new and 
additional  financial  resources  and  institutional  arrangements  to move the 
disability  programme  from  the  level  of  awareness  to  action. 
At  the national  level, the Government  of  Antigua  and Barbuda  is pledged: 
first,  to undertake  a comprehensive  review of  its policies, programmes and 
support  services  for  nationals with  disabilities  in the post-Decade period; 
A/47/PV.36 
52 
(Mr. Webson.  Antigua 
and  Barbuda) 
secondly,  to develop  a comprehensive  and coherent  policy  to  further  the 
integration of  disabled  persons  into  the mainstream  of our  society;  thirdly, 
to establish  and  strengthen  a national  coordinating mechanism  to monitor  and 
oversee the  implementation  of  the  action plan  for  the disabled;  and,  fourthly, 
to explore the possibility  of  establishing  within  the  legislative  body  a 
standing committee  on  the  status  of disabled  persons  and  a procedure  for 
annual reporting  on  the progress made  in implementing  the plan of  action. 
While much has been  achieved  over  the Decade,  it is obvious  that  the goal 
of full and equal  participation  is far  from  realization.  However,  the 
equalization  of opportunity  is an  ideal  towards which  all nations must  strive. 
The year  1992 marks  the end  of  the United  Nations  Decade of  Disabled 
Persons; it does  not mark  the end of disabilities.  Yet,  this period  has  laid 
the foundation  for  further  action  to ameliorate  the effects  of  disabilities. 
Antigua and Barbuda  sees  1992  as a transition year  in which we  take  stock  of 
what has been  learned  during  the Decade.  Now  is the time to build  upon  the 
awareness raised  throughout  the Decade.  Now  is the time  to put  new  approaches 
into practice,  and  to  turn  this moment  in history  into an opportunity  for  the 
further integration  of  all disabled persons  into  society. 
This is the  challenge.  This  is the goal.  The  expansion  of  services,  the 
broadening of  alliances  of  disabled groups  and  the elimination  of  preventable 
causes of disability:  this will guide us  into the  future. 
Mr. WOZNIAK  (Poland):  The year  1992 marks  the end of  the United 
Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons.  The delegation of  Poland  considers  it 
appropriate to evaluate  the progress  and  failures  in the  implementation  of  the 
World Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled  Persons. 
A/47/PV. 36 
53-55 
(Mr. Wozniak. Poland) 
In our  opinion,  the main obstacle  to the  success  of  the Decade  is the 
lack of  national  coordinating  machinery  for  the  implementation  of the World 
Programme  in many  countries.  Insufficient  information  and outdated concepts 
with  regard  to dealing with disability  still prevail.  Nevertheless, much has 
been  achieved  in the  course of  the Decade, especially  by building on the 
awareness  raised  throughout  the  last  ten years. 
Environmental  pollution,  technical  advancement,  all  kinds of stress, 
various  addictions  and other  situations  created by  the  fast pace of living are 
responsible  for  the  formation of new groups  of  disabilities.  On the other 
hand,  in developing  countries  and  in countries  in transition many  situations 
arise  that  result  in disabilities  in people  owing  to  the  insufficiency of 
social  care. 
This  is  so in different  regions  of  the world  and  it  is a complex 
problem.  There  are different  kinds of  disabilities  in proportion  to the level 
of development  in specific  regions  or countries. 
A great  part  of  the  responsibility  for this  situation  is to be placed 
upon  the people who  take decisions  concerning  the  fate  and  situation of the 
disabled.  Since  the  second  half  of  1989 my  country has begun  to introduce 
comprehensive,  fundamental  and  structural  reforms  and  to put  into practice 
market  economy mechanisms.  Despite well-known  economic  difficulties, we have 
taken  some concrete  steps  in favour  of disabled people.  For  example, 
according  to  the provisions  of  the Act of Employment  and Vocational 
Rehabilitation  of  the Disabled,  issued by  the Polish Parliament  on 9 May 1991, 
a new  institution 
the Government's  Plenipotentiary  for  the Disabled - has 
been established  at  the Ministry  of  Labour  and  Social  Policy. 
A/47/PV.36 
56 
(Mr. Wozniak.  Poland) 
The  tasks  of  the  Plenipotentiary  for  the Disabled  include,  in 
particular:  first,  the preparation  of policy guidelines  in the  field  of 
employment,  rehabilitation  and  the working  conditions  of  the  disabled; 
secondly, the  coordination  of  the Government's  activities  carried  out  for  the 
benefit of  the  disabled;  thirdly,  the expression  of opinions  on draft 
legislative  acts  concerning  the employment,  rehabilitation  and  living 
conditions  of  the  disabled;  and,  fourthly,  the periodical  survey of  the 
implementation  of  regulations  in the  field of employment  and  rehabilitation  of 
the disabled. 
The Act  under  consideration has provided  for the establishment  of  the 
State Rehabilitation  Fund  for the Disabled.  The  resources  of  the Fund will  be 
used to support medical,  social  and vocational  rehabilitation  of  the  disabled, 
and in particular:  first,  to create new workplaces  and  adapt  existing  ones 
for the disabled;  secondly,  to organize  training  and  retraining  courses  for 
the disabled;  thirdly,  to  construct  and modernize  establishments  serving  the 
vocational, medical  and  social  rehabilitation  of  the disabled;  fourthly,  to 
create sheltered workshops  and  appropriate  activities; fifthly,  to  create 
rehabilitative  and  social  infrastructures;  sixthly,  to obtain  additional 
financing of bank-credit  interest;  and,  seventhly,  to grant  loans. 
As can be  concluded  from  the above  considerations,  the Act  of  Employment 
and Rehabitation  of  the Disabled  and  the post  of  Plenipotentiary 
for the Disabled,  as well  as the  State Rehabilitation  Fund,  are  the main 
instruments of  the  Government's  employment  policy  for  the disabled.  Moreover, 
promoting the position  of  Plenipotentiary  to the  level of  the Council  of 
Ministers  is actually  under  consideration. 
A/47/PV.36 
57 
(Mr. Wozniak. Poland) 
My  Government  recognizes  the very  important  role of  the  non-governmental 
organizations.  Every  significant  regulation  and decision  that  is made in 
Poland  concerning  disabled persons  is arrived  at  in consultation with the 
appropriate  non-governmental  organizations  and  trade  unions. 
It  is obvious  that  the goal of  full equalization  of  opportunities  for the 
disabled  is  far  from being  realized.  However,  the United  Nations  and its 
specialized  agencies  provide  a good  conceptual  basis  for effective  national 
policies,  and  it  is very  useful  to  implement  these United  Nations guidelines. 
In conclusion,  in marking  the end of  the United Nations Decade of 
Disabled  Persons, my  Government  has drawn up  the draft  of  the Charter of 
Rights  of  the Disabled,  which  is to be  adopted  soon by  the Polish Parliament. 
This  Charter  comprises  14 basic  rights  for  the disabled,  and we hope that it 
will  improve  the  situation  of  this group  of people  in our  society. 
Mr. O'BRIEN  (New Zealand):  The marking  of  the  conclusion of the 
United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  is indeed  one of  the  important 
events  of  this  session of  the General  Assembly,  and  to have participated in it 
is a special  experience  on  the personal  level.  New Zealand  attaches special 
priority  to offering  a contribution  to this meeting,  along with members and 
representatives  of  the disabled  community,  many  of whom,  as we have witnessed, 
have had  to surmount  not merely  the barriers  of geographic  distance to be here 
today.  The New  Zealand Minister  of  Social Welfare,  the Honourable Jenny 
Shipley,  and  the New  Zealand Minister  of Health,  the Honourable  Simon Upton, 
regret  that  it has not proved  possible  for  them  to be present  here today, but 
they have  asked me  to extend  their  greetings  to  all present  and to 
congratulate  those who have been  in the  forefront  of  the United  Nations 
efforts. 
A/47/PV.36 
58 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
Reforms which have  taken place  in New Zealand have  received  special 
impetus as from  the  1981  International Year  of Disabled  Persons.  The  New 
Zealand Government  acknowledges  the  strong  role undertaken  by  non-governmental 
organizations  in this whole  effort,  often  in partnership with  the  Government. 
Hew Zealand wishes  all  success  for the  two days of discussion  that we  are  now 
experiencing  and  it will  study  the  results  and proposals  for ongoing  activity 
with determined  interest. 
The New  Zealand  Disabled  Persons  Assembly  is very proud  that 
Rehabilitation  International  at  its 1992 World Congress  in Nairobi  accepted 
the Assembly's  invitation  to come  to New Zealand  for  the World  Congress 
in 1996.  The  President, Ms. Marilyn Baikie,  looks  forward  to welcoming 
delegates in New  Zealand,  who will  share with others the programmes  they have 
developed to kindle  enthusiasm,  energy  and  innovation. 
The practice  whereby  the United Nations  declares  decades  dedicated  to 
special issues  - for  example,  in respect  of  racism,  disarmament  and  drug 
abuse  plays  a  real part  in  raising  international  awareness  about  particular 
issues.  And  the Decade  of Disabled  Persons has unquestionably  improved  public 
l! 
understanding of disability  issues  and  spurred  initiatives  by  Governments. 
Action at the global  level needs  to be complemented  by  regional  action,  and 
ii; 
I* 
New Zealand  is particularly  proud  to be a sponsor  of  the Asia and  Pacific 
Decade of Disabled  Persons,  to go  from  1993  to the year  2002.  We hope  that 
activities undertaken  during  this Decade will  result  in a strengthening  of 
this important  region's  national  disability programmes  and policies. 
r* 
ti 
Awareness  i s,  of  course,  one  thing  and  action  is  another.  We  are 
conscious, as many  speakers before me have  said,  that over  the Decade  the 
A / 4 7 / P V . 36 
5 9 - 60 
(Mr.  O ' B r i e n.  New  Zea1*njj 
number  of people with  disabilities  has  increased  to  500 million,  as a 
consequence  of disease,  famine, malnutrition,  poverty,  war  and violence; that 
financial  constraints  are ever present;  and  that  armed  conflict  - one of the 
primary  causes of  disability  - has  increased  in  several  regions of the world. 
The  achievements  of  the Decade  are many,  but  the need  for more  to be 
accomplished  is clearly  spelled  out  in the  Secretary-General's  report. 
It is  right  that  the Secretary-General  has  recommended  that Governments 
give  appropriate  priority  to disability  issues within  their programmes of 
assistance  and  technical  cooperation.  For  New Zealand  its  official 
development  assistance  programme  provides  the mechanism  through which New 
Zealand  can lend practical  support  internationally  to efforts  to meet the 
needs  and  aspirations  of peoples with disabilities.  And because our official 
development  assistance  programme  is designed  and  implemented  on a cooperative 
basis with  recipient  country partners, new  Zealand  remains  receptive to 
reguests  for  assistance  of  direct benefit  to  the disabled.  In fact, one of 
the  specific  principles  underpinning  our programme  is that  it should safeguard 
the  interests  of vulnerable  groups  and  increase  their  capacity  to contribute 
to  development. 
' 1 
A/47/PV.36 
61 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
Medical  treatment  schemes,  for example,  are  an  integral part of  our 
cooperation under  existing health  assistance  programmes  in the South  Pacific, 
where the major  part  of our  development  effort  is focused.  These  schemes 
enable us to  supply expert  personnel, who provide  corrective  surgery  and 
quality-of-life  assistance.  More generally,  too, our  support  contributes  to 
capacity-building  and  institutional  strengthening, which enable  partner 
Governments  to  improve  services  to their  citizens, including people  with 
disabilities. 
On the other  side of  the  same coin, New  Zealand has over many  years 
accepted  for  resettlement  numbers  of  refugees  sponsored by  the United  Nations 
High Commissioner  for Refugees.  Each year  specific provision  is included  for 
a number  of  refugees with medical  disabilities. 
Our  task here  is partly  to take  stock of  the past  10 years, and  I  should 
like, very briefly,  to give  an overview of developments  in New  Zealand  as our 
Decade draws  to  a close.  The number  of  individuals  in New Zealand who  have 
disabilities  to the  extent  that  they  require help with  their  day-to-day  living 
comprises  3.3  per  cent  of  our population  of  3.6 million.  A  little  over  half 
have age-related  disabilities,  reflecting  New Zealand's  increasingly  ageing 
population.  Another  20 per  cent  have physical  or  sensory disabilities,  the 
same proportion  have psychiatric  disabilities, and  10 per  cent  have 
intellectual  disabilities. 
Women make  up 40 per  cent  of New Zealanders with  disabilities,  although, 
because women  live  longer,  they make  up a higher  proportion  of  those  with 
age-related disabilities.  Impaired  mobility  - often  arthritis  - is the most 
common disability  for women, while  for men  it  is sensory  impairment. 
A / 4 7 / P V . 36 
62 
(Mr.  O ' B r i e n.  New  Zealand) 
A most  significant  trend  over  the past  10 years  has been  the  empowerment 
of New  Zealanders  with  disabilities.  The  International  Year  and  its ensuing 
Decade  fostered  a new  awareness  that  provides  the groundwork  for this. 
Effective  representation  by people with disabilities  of  their  own interests, 
collectively  and  individually,  has  led  to a strengthening  of partnership with 
Government.  This,  in turn, has  resulted  in Government  policies  and the 
services  available  to people with  disabilities  being  developed  in new ways. 
There  is now a  shared  aim of  improving  the quality  of  life of people with 
disabilities  and encouraging  independent  living. 
The  establishment  of  a Disabled  Persons' Assembly  is an innovative step. 
That Assembly  brings  together  representatives  of many New  Zealanders with 
disabilities,  some  service-providers  and  some non-governmental  organizations.  : 
In representing  the  interests  of  these groups  to  the Government,  it helps to 
set policy  and  to establish  programmes  for people with  disabilities. 
Over  the Decade  non-governmental  organizations  in New  Zealand have 
increasingly  taken  responsibility  for  the delivery  of  support  services to
people with disabilities.  They  receive  substantial  Government  funding for 
, 
h 
this work.  Another  innovation  is that  in many  areas  it is  the recipients of 
services who provide  the quality-control  mechanisms.  For  example, people with 
intellectual  disabilities  and  their parents monitor  and evaluate  the support 
services  they  receive. 
In the  area of  disability  support  services  the emphasis  is now on 
supporting  independent  lifestyles  and work  opportunities.  This  is reflected 
in,  for example,  the employment  field, with  the move, over  the Decade, away 
from  the provision  of work  opportunities  in  sheltered  workshops  to an emphasi 
A/47/PV.36 
63 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
on tailoring vocational-training  services  to the  individual's  needs.  Such 
services now  range  from day-activity  programmes  to  supported-employment 
programmes with  commercial  employers. 
Sport as  recreation  is a distinctive  feature  of  life  in New  Zealand.  In 
addition to the exceptional  performance  of  the  14-member  team of young New 
Zealand athletes  at the  recent  Paralympics  in Barcelona,  there  are  those who 
participate more  than  convincingly  in open competition.  New  Zealand  athletes 
requiring the use  of  a wheelchair  train  for and  take part  in open  tennis 
competitions.  A new  sport  known  as mini-twelve  sailing  is another  in which 
people with disabilities  are able to take part  in open  competition. 
Equalization  of opportunities  is the keystone.  It constitutes  a  central 
theme of the Programme  of Action,  necessitating,  in the words  of  the 
Secretary-General, 
"the adoption of policies  and mechanisms  to break down  the barriers  to 
full participation  and put  in place  those measures necessary  to 
facilitate effective participation."  (A/47/415, para.  69) 
:  I shall mention  some of  the main  developments  in New  Zealand  that  are  relevant 
i  here.  In the  field  of education  there  is greater  emphasis  on mainstreaming 
i  and the development  of  appropriate  education  services, while more  specific 
,1 services for  some disability  groups, such as the profoundly  deaf, have  also 
been developed.  Improved  vocational  services have  created  better 
,l opportunities  for people  to enter  open employment.  The promotion  of 
^ infrastructures  supporting  improvements  in access  to public  facilities  has 
L served to promote  independence  and  self-reliance.  There  is Government  income 
, support for many  people with disabilities  and direct  assistance  to  cover 
A / 4 7 / P V . 36 
64 
(Mr.  O ' B r i e n.  New  Zeai?mi) 
such costs as respite  care for their  families, some home  alterations, aids and 
appliances and attendance for disability-related  medical  treatment, as well as 
loans to buy cars. 
The most  recent  reforms, announced  last month,  concern the integration of 
funding for disability  support  services with health  funding.  The growing cost • 
of disability  support  services, and the need for them to be carefully 
» 
targeted,  prompted the Government to embark on an extensive  consultation 
exercise to define and decide the options for reform.  The aim was not to cut  i\ 
funding, but to make the available  resources more  flexible and more responsive 
to people's needs. 
The Government has now decided  that over the next few years
j 
,, 
responsibility  for purchasing  support  services for people with disabilities  , 
will gradually be drawn together  under one new agency.  Currently this 
„ 
responsibility  is shared between  three  agencies.  The new system will be 
,. 
required to demonstrate positive  attitudes to people with disabilities and to ,< 
be community-based  and consumer-driven,  accountable and flexible enough to 
respond to people's needs. 
The value of specific  legislation to promote equal opportunities for 
people with disabilities has, we believe, been demonstrated  in New Zealand. 
Our  State  Services Act requires all State employers to develop and implement 
programmes  to promote  equal employment  opportunities.  Approximately 
15 per cent of all people employed  in the public  sector  the State sector -
are identified  as having a disability, and it makes  sense to ensure that these 
people, alongside all other employees, are enabled to perform  their jobs to 
their  full potential.  For the last three years the public  service has run a 
disability-pride month to raise  awareness of the employment  issues for people 
A/47/PV.36 
65 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
with a disability.  This  has  culminated  in an award  for the best  workplace 
initiative. 
In the private  sector,  the  adoption of equal  employment  opportunity  plans 
is voluntary.  But here  too  it is  simply  good business  for employers  to widen 
their recruitment  policies  to attract people  from diverse  backgrounds  and  to 
treat equitably  those  people  they already  employ.  This  includes people  with 
disabilities.  Often  simple  adjustments  can be made  to working methods  or to 
the working  environment. 
The benefits  to  an organization  can be considerable.  Staff  with 
disabilities  can bring  a different  and beneficial perspective  to  a wide  range 
of issues.  Disability  access  for employees  may  improve  business  by  providing 
ease of access  for  customers.  An employer  may  also obtain  advantage  through 
improved  perceptions,  on the part  of clients  and  the employment  market,  that 
the organization  is a good  employer. 
Finally,  New Zealand  proposes  to promote  the  rights of people  with 
disabilities by means  of draft  legislation  amending  its domestic  Human  Rights 
Commission Act.  This will prohibit  discrimination  on the grounds  of physical, 
mental and psychiatric  disability.  The  amendment  enjoys broad  support  from 
all political  parties  in the New Zealand  Parliament.  It  is planned  that  it 
will be enacted  in the period  ahead. 
These meetings  to mark  the end of  the United Nations  Decade  of  Disabled 
Persons are  special.  We  can take  satisfaction  in the Decade's  achievements. 
We should pay  tribute  to  all  those who have worked  for  its  success.  But  it is 
also a time  for  commitment  to  the  removal  of  the  remaining  barriers  and 
obstacles that prevent  people with disabilities  from participating  fully  in 
society.  New  Zealand  is wholly  committed  to doing  this. 
A/47/PV.36 
66 
Mr. MIFSUD-BONNICI  (Malta):  On behalf  of  the Government  and people 
of Malta,  I wish  to convey my deepest  sympathy  to  and  solidarity with the 
Government  and people  of Egypt  on  their  recent  tragedy. 
Since  its very beginning,  the United Nations  has  recognized  and has been 
aware  of  the developmental  and humanitarian  issues  related  to the growing 
needs  and problems  of  the disabled  all  over  the world.  It has  also recognized 
that modernization  and higher  living  standards will  eventually bring about a 
change  in norms, modes  and  attitudes, which will  in turn have  a bearing on the 
personality  and  role of  the disabled  in  society. 
The  upsurge of  interest by  the  international  community  in the conditions 
of  the disabled  is reflected  in various  resolutions  and declarations adopted 
by the United  Nations  General  Assembly.  The  specialized  agencies  of the 
United  Nations have  also given priority  consideration  to  the question of the 
disabled  and have  a long  record  of work  carried  out  related  to disability. 
All  these  efforts  culminated  in the World  Programme  of Action  concerning 
Disabled  Persons  and  the Decade  of Disabled  Persons. 
The  effective measures  recommended  in the World  Programme  of Action may 
be broadly  classified  under  four headings:  first, prevention of disability; 
secondly,  rehabilitation;  thirdly,  opportunities  for  the disabled equal to 
those  of  the whole population,  as well  as an equal  share  in the improvement of 
living  conditions; and,  lastly,  full participation  of  the disabled  in the 
country's  social  life and  development. 
Disabled  persons,  like other  citizens,  are entitled  to a decent living, 
adequate  education  and  work  opportunities. 
In  Malta  these  undeniable  rights 
ii 
I 
are guaranteed  in the Constitution.  Through  its strategies, my Government 
A/47/PV.36 
67 
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici.  Malta) 
aims at securing  the  fullest possible  degree of  integration  for the  disabled 
into Maltese  society.  Solidarity within the various  strata of  society  is 
strongly believed  to be  the most  effective  means  to overcome  the barriers  that 
handicap the disabled  and marginalize  them  from  the rest of  society. 
Sensitive  to  the needs of  the disabled,  and  fully  aware of  the  problems 
that could emanate  therefrom,  the Government  has over  the past  years 
formulated and  implemented  policies  that contribute  substantially  to the  care 
and support  of  the  disabled.  Government  efforts  to promote  full  participation 
of disabled  citizens  in all  respects  are being  significantly  complemented  by 
the services provided  by a number  of voluntary  organizations,  foremost  among 
i which are the  institutions  of  the Roman Catholic  Church. 
Acknowledgement  of  the need  to rationalize  the use of  available  resources 
[  and to promote  cooperation  and coordination between the main  service  providers 
ji led to the setting  up,  in November  1987, of  a National  Commission  for  the 
Disabled.  This  Commission,  with  representation  of  the  relevant  Government 
.; Departments of Welfare, Social  Security, Labour, Education, Health  and  Social 
g. Housing, officials  from  the  Federation, parents  of disabled  children,  disabled 
,  persons and medical  and paramedical  personnel,  is responsible  for  promoting 
,., public awareness with  regard  to the disabled  and  for disseminating  any 
., relevant information.  Moreover,  it aims  at  increasing  opportunities  for  the 
continued involvement  of  the disabled  in all  facets of  social  life.  The 
• specific aims  and objectives  of  this autonomous body  are:  first,  to ensure 
„ the implementation  of Government  policies vis-a-vis  the disabled  individual, 
W 
his family and voluntary  organizations;  secondly,  to ensure  coordination  and 
cooperation between  the  relevant  Government  departments  in the  implementation 
A/47/PV.36 
68 
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici. Maltha) 
of objectives  prepared  in the Government's  plan  of  action  in this  field and 
those  recommendations  made by the Commission  itself;  thirdly,  to maintain 
close  contact  and  communication  with voluntary  organizations;  fourthly, to 
identify  the needs  of disabled persons,  their  families  and  organizations and 
to take  the necessary  steps  to  see  that  such needs  are met  through  the 
appropriate  centralized  services; and,  lastly,  to  follow up new  initiatives 
coming  from within  it,  as well  as those  suggested  by persons  concerned  in this 
field,  and  carry  out  the necessary  feasibility  studies. 
The  Commission  has  established  a structure  that  should  enable  it to 
attain  its objectives, which  are basically  congruent  to the  recommendations 
made  in the World  Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons  and in 
connection with  the Decade of Disabled  Persons.  This  structure  includes the 
setting  up of  15 subcommittees  that  focus  their  activity  on  specialized 
fields,  thus ensuring  to  a considerable  degree  that  every effort  is made to 
meet  the Commission's  mandate  in any particular  specialized  area.  The 
Commission's  activities  over  the past months  clearly  reflect  full  recognition 
of  the  fact  that  the  family environment  is the one best  suited  to the
li 
lifestyle  of  the disabled,  as well  as awareness  of  the pressure which certain
4 
demands  made by  a disabled person may  in turn exert  on  the other  family 
members.
'9 
5; 
It is  indeed  noteworthy  that  the Government  has  taken  action on a number  ii 
of  recommendations  made by  the Commission  for  the Disabled.
;: 
There  is a wide  range  of  special  medical  facilities,  including prevention J 
programmes,  together  with  financial  benefit  entitlements,  substantial  rebates  ;t| 
on  import  duty payable  on cars, and  total exemption  from  the payment  of road  »ij 
tax on  specialized  vehicles  for  disabled  drivers.  All  these  are measures that i,( 
were  conceived  with  the primary  aim of  promoting  self-independence  and social 
A/47/PV.36 
69 
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici.  Malta) 
integration for  those members  of  society who, because  of  their  disability,  may 
very easily  find  themselves  marginalized. 
There  is a wide  range of  special medical  facilities  and  services 
benefiting the disabled.  Among  the preventive  measures  taken  to  reduce  the 
incidence of disability,  screening  for  thyroidism  has been  started  on  all 
new-born babies.  Around  14 months  of  age, children are given  the  triple 
vaccination against mumps, measles  and  rubella.  In order  to enable  the 
earliest possible  detection,  diagnosis  and  immediate  necessary  curative  and 
remedial intervention,  an  "at-risk  register" for new-born babies  with 
disabilities has been  introduced.  Last year  a Child Development  Advisory  Unit 
was set up to carry out  a multidisciplinary  assessment  of disabled  children. 
This multidisciplinary  team would  then advise  and counsel  the  child's  parents 
and would thus  also  serve  as a resource  centre  on matters  relating  to  the 
disabled.  Rehabilitation  services  include  the  free provision  of  technical  and 
mobility aids, as well  as physiotherapy,  speech  therapy and  occupational 
therapy sessions  in Government  health  centres. 
Existing policies  have been  reviewed  so as to meet  the actual  needs  of 
the disabled  individual.  Social  security  provisions  have been  amended  so that 
j 
now a disabled person  in receipt  of  a pension  can  still  take up  paid 
I 
employment without  forfeiting  the right  to a pension  once  the  income  so 
derived does not  exceed  the national minimum  wage. 
ii< 
The environment  is an  important  element  that  can  further  accentuate  a 
disability by  creating  a  social handicap.  Housing  is undoubtedly  a prime 
|? 
factor in this  respect.  Adequate  and  accessible housing  facilities  contribute 
ii' 
considerably towards making  it possible  for disabled  persons  to have  an 
independent life.  In  recognition  of  this, the Government  of Malta  gives 
,i 
A/47/PV.36 
70 
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici. Ma1f?) 
preferential  consideration  to  families with disabled members  when  it comes to 
the  allocation  of  subsidized  plots  of  land  or  the  award  of  ground-floor 
apartments  provided  under  Government  housing  schemes.  Moreover,  the 
Department  of  Social Housing  allocates grants  to disabled  persons  in order to 
help  them undertake  improvements  to their  residence,  such  as the  installation 
of  a lift or  stair-lift  facilities. 
Another major  area of  concern  that  requires  our  immediate  attention is 
accessibility  to the  surrounding  environment.  Through  the  recently approved 
Structural  Plan, my  Government  has ensured  that  new buildings  are accessible 
to all, and every  attempt  is being made  to  improve  accessibility  to existing 
public  buildings. 
However,  decent  accommodation  on  its own does not  necessarily  fulfil the 
needs of  a disabled person.  Therefore, housing provisions  had to be 
complemented  by  such community  strategies  as the Home Care/Help  Scheme and the 
special  telephone  lifeline provided  under  the Telecare  Service, which are all 
designed  to give  the necessary  care and  support  to  the person concerned, as 
well  as to his  care providers. 
A/47/PV.36 
71 
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici.  Malta) 
The need  to provide  support  for  those who provide  care has  also been met 
through the setting  up of  a respite  centre where  disabled  children  benefit 
from rehabilitative  and  leisure  activities  that  are  specifically  organized  for 
them, while  their  relatives  are given essential  periodic  relief  from  the 
strenuous task of  caring  for  them.  The establishment  of this  foundation  for 
respite care  services  is a further  expression  of the principle  of  helping 
disabled persons  achieve  the utmost  level  of participation while  at the  same 
time enhancing  and  strengthening  the quality  of  life of  their  families. 
Education  is an indispensable  asset  at all  levels.  A disabled  child  can 
never be denied  the  right  to adequate education  as this  is a  further 
investment  in his or her  future  independence  as an adult.  Special  schools  are 
, designed to meet  the educational  needs of  children having  special  difficulties 
of a physical, mental,  sensory or psychological  nature.  Once  these  children 
i complete their edcuation  they may  choose  to attend  training  centres  that 
, provide remedial  and vocational  individual  educational  programmes  in art, 
. woodwork, bookbinding,  cane-knitting,  the making  of  soft  toys, dressmaking  and 
crochet.  Such  rehabilitation  programmes  are designed  to promote  independent 
living and the possibility  of engaging  in gainful  employment. 
Employment  possibilities  for disabled persons  is another  target we  have 
set and aspire  to  achieve.  The  Government,  together  with  the  National 
Commission for  the Disabled  and voluntary  organizations, has  established  the 
first computer  laboratory with  the  aim of  training  and  consequently  helping 
physically disabled  persons  to  find  suitable  employment. 
The Disablement  Resettlement  Unit  has been  set up  to assure  proper 
implementation  and  to  advise  on  the  improvement  of the Disabled  Persons 
(Employment) Act  1969, which,  among  other  things, made provisions  for  the 
A/47/PV.36 
72 
(Mr. Mifsud-Bonnici. Malta) 
keeping  of  a special  employment  register  for disabled  persons  and  required 
employers  to employ  a quota of  these  registered  unemployed  disabled persons. 
As  another measure  designed  to enhance  self-sufficiency,  the Social Aid 
Fund has been  set up  to award grants, out of  specifically  allocated  public 
funds,  to help  disabled  persons  acquire  technical  aids.  Moreover,  should the 
amount  required  exceed  the grant provision  ceiling,  recommendations  are made 
to  a commercial  bank  for  the  issue of  a loan at  a reduced  rate of  interest. 
The effectiveness  of existing policies  and  the  introduction  of new 
strategies  depend  heavily  on our  ability  to understand  the  changing  needs of 
the disabled  individual  as dictated by  constant  social  and economic changes. 
Research programmes  are believed  to be  the best monitors  of met  and unmet 
needs,  of  specified  and unspecified  wants, as well  as a database  for the 
planning  of  future policies. 
The University  of Malta  is conducting  one  such  research programme  for 
disabled  children  attending  special  schools, with  the  aim  of having a 
comprehensive  assessment  of each child  and  a solid  foundation  on which to 
build  a  rehabilitation  programme  for each  individual. 
The  findings  of  the extensive  national  survey organized  by the National 
Commissioin  for  the Disabled  are being processed.  Once  this  exercise is 
completed,  the Commission will be  in a better  position  to  assess  and analyse 
the extent  of  the various  actual  as distinct  from  assumed  needs of those 
falling within  the parameters  of  its  responsibility,  namely  the disabled. 
It  is encouraging  to note  that  the Maltese  people  are becoming more 
cognizant  of  the  fact  that  the  issue  of  disability  does  not merely ask for 
care  provision  but  for  the  involvement  and participation  of  the disabled 
within  the  community.  Such  an acknowledgement  should  prove  to be a sound 
foundation  that would  ultimately  give  the  disabled  the opportunity  to develop 
A / 4 7 / P V . 36 
73 
(Mr.  M i f s u d - B o n n i c i.  M a l t a) 
their  p e r s o n a l i ty  in  a  d i g n i f i ed  and  respected  m a n n e r.  Only  w h en  the 
able-bodied  radically  change  their  attitude  towards  the  d i s a b l ed  do  we  really 
cease  to  h a n d i c ap  the  d i s a b l e d.  This  should  be  our  challenge  for  the  y e a rs  to 
come. 
There  w as  g r e at  s a t i s f a c t i on  for  me  and  for  all  those  w ho  attended  the 
first meeting  of  the  International  Conference  of  M i n i s t e rs  responsible  for  the 
Status  of  Persons  w i th  D i s a b i l i t i e s,  held  in  M o n t r e al  last  w e e k.  T he 
political  will  of  all  those  present  to  achieve  full  p a r t i c i p a t i on  and 
1 integration  of  the  d i s a b l ed  in  society  was  paramount.  M ay  all  of  us  translate 
- words  into  action  so  that  we  will  achieve  the  common  goal  we  are  all  aiming 
1 for. 
' 
M r s.  O T T O L I NA  (Venezuela)  (interpretation  from  S p a n i s h ):  I  feel 
deeply moved  to  be  able  to  p a r t i c i p a te  in  this  important  forum  of  n a t i o n s, 
(whose main  p u r p o se  e a r ns  it  the  title  of  forum  of  love  for  h u m a n i t y. 
i 
The  very  fact  that  the  w o r ld  parliament  is  opening  its  doors  and  devoting 
ill two full  days  to  d i s c u s s i on  at  special  m e e t i n gs  of  the  General  Assembly 
attests  to  the  a c h i e v e m e n ts  of  the  D e c a de  of  attention  that  the  w o r ld  has 
,i: given to  the  d i s a b l e d. 
It  is  m o st  encouraging  to  know  that  e v e r y t h i ng  is 
,,;important  to  all  n a t i o ns  e v e r y w h e r e.  If  something  has  b e en  achieved  in  the 
^Decade  of  the  D i s a b l e d,  it  is  the  removal  of  b a r r i e rs  and  w o r k i ng  together  to 
^increase  awareness,  t h e r e by  e n s u r i ng  the  integration  of  the  disabled. 
,j. 
Something  h as  b e en  done 
p e r h a ps  a  great  d e a l,  but  a  great  deal  still 
,remains to  be  d o n e. 
V 
r
ill'' 
In these  d i s c u s s i o ns  we  h a ve  learned  about  the  tremendous  achievements 
.that have  been  m a de  in  some  c o u n t r i e s,  and  we  have  also  heard  about  the 
.tremendous  needs  that  other  n a t i o ns  c o n f r o n t.  T h a n ks  to  this  invaluable 
Hi!' 
A/47/PV.36 
74-75 
(Mrs. Ottolina. v«n»«T.-| aj 
exchange  of  information,  we will  be able  to decide  upon  joint  future action 
that  can effectively  reach  the broad  population  of  disabled  that  remain on the 
margin  of  society because  of  society's  deficiencies. 
Here  I should  like to emphasize  that we  are not  the  ones who are 
disabled.  No!  It  is societies  that  are unable  to  respond  to unexpected needs 
that  are disabled.  We must  not  forget  this. 
Major  efforts  must be made  to transform  cities  and  to educate societies, 
to ensure  that  in their  development  they  can utilize  the  immense  value locked 
away  in the hearts  and  souls of  those who  are now unjustly  marginalized. 
It is  important  for all of  society  to be  able  to capitalize  on the great 
potential  of  these human beings.  Common  knowledge  recognizes  the courage, the 
strength of will, the efforts, and  the spirit  of  struggle  and  self-improvement 
i 
il 
'«' 
that mark  the  life and existence  of  the  disabled. 
A/47/PV.36 
76 
(Mrs. Ottolina.  Venezuela) 
I am a member  of  the Venezuelan  Parliament,  and  this  requires  from me 
greater responsibility  and  a greater  commitment:  to  incorporate my  country 
into the challenge  that humankind  has  set  itself, to contribute  resolutely  to 
taking initiatives  and  finding  effective  solutions  that will maximize  the 
capabilities  of  so many  people 
people who  are tremendously  qualified  to 
participate  in the wonderful  adventure  that  this world  offers.  The  secret  of 
the origin of  the  universe  is being deciphered  thanks  to  the  talents  of  a man 
who has flown very  far,  farther  than  anyone,  and who,  from  the  immobility  of 
his wheelchair,  has ventured  to go  forward  and explore  the  cosmos.  This  is a 
person whom  the Earth  still  refers  to as disabled:  Stephen Hawkings, a 
universal example. 
Great efforts  are being  deployed  in Venezuela.  I must  state proudly  and 
yet with a touch of  sadness  that we have begun  for  the  first  time to  enact 
legislation for  the  advancement  and  integration  of disabled persons.  I say 
this with pride because we have  done  so, and with  sadness because  I 
acknowledge the  fact  that  this  is but  a small  step.  A written  law  is not 
enough.  The  real process  of  integrating  the disabled  requires  that  society 
itself arrive  at  the  realization  that we  are all equal  and  that we  all  have 
the same rights.  We must move  into  the area of equality  of opportunity,  and 
we have begun  this process. 
In that  connection,  I would  like  to pay  tribute  to the  tremendous  effort 
that was made  on  8 and  9 October  last by Mr. Robert  de Cotret,  Secretary  of 
State of Canada, who, with  the  support of his Government,  convened  an 
unprecedented meeting  in Montreal.  Seventy-six  Ministers  attended,  and  the 
countries there present  agreed  to make  joint  and  continual  efforts  to  take 
measures aimed  at establishing  suitable mechanisms  that would make  possible 
the most important  thing  of  all:  to help  us help  ourselves. 
A/47/PV.36 
77 
(Mrs. Ottolina. Venezuela) 
With  this  kind  of good will, with  the good will  of  the United  Nations and 
with  all  of you who  are here  representing  the political  will  of  our  respective 
nations,  I believe  that  the  time has  come, not  to celebrate  the  conclusion of 
the Decade  of Disabled  Persons, but  rather  to begin  a joint  and  sustained 
effort  for  decades  to come. 
I must  emphasize  as an example  that  in the hospitable  city of Montreal, 
whose high  level of  culture was  reflected  in  its  ability  to  respond  to the 
various  needs  of  those  of  us who  required particular  attention,  I definitely 
felt  less disabled,  less  limited 
entirely  integrated.  Thank you, Canada. 
There  are millions  of people who do not have  the privilege  of knowing of 
this progress  and whose  lives  are wasted,  spent  in dark  despair, because no 
one  could  or  knew how  to help  them,  or, what  is even worse, because  they did 
not have  the means  to pay. 
It  is on behalf  of  those people  that  I should  like  to plead  today.  It is 
because  of  them  that  the world  is meeting here,  so that  in the near future -
the very  near  future, we hope  - absolutely  no one will  be denied  the 
opportunity  and  the  right  to  live  a full  and  dignified  life without being 
subjected  to  the cruelty of having  that denied  them  simply  because of a lack 
of  resources.  I am convinced  that  the capabilities  and  the will  to accomplish 
something  in that  respect  exist here. 
Nothing,  absolutely  nothing,  is more beautiful  than  seeing  a smile on the 
face of  a disabled person who  now  feels  capable, because  that  is the smile of 
a person who has won, who  has  conquered  life  - the  smile  of  a winner.  If it 
is  in our  capacity  to givt. fiat person  such a  smile,  let  us do so. 
The  essential  values  .>! a human being  transcend  the world  of the physical 
body  and  are  intact  in the  spirit,  in the mind  and  in the  soul.  They are 
A/47/PV.36 
78-80 
(Mrs. Ottolina. Venezuela) 
there for those who  seek to find them.  No disability whatsoever  exists  that 
can prevent or hinder  that search.  Quite to the contrary:  that  search 
frequently becomes  the key par excellence  to open the way to that world  - a 
far better world. 
I wish to bear witness  to the fact that one can succeed,  that one can be 
i happy.  One can with  integrity  and dignity walk  in the world with  something 
i other than legs.  But  I must  acknowledge  that this can be accomplished  only 
. with a little bit of help  from all our  friends. 
i
Thank you for your participation,  thank you for your obvious concern  and 
r very great thanks  for your  attention. 
r
Mr. BHAGAT  (India):  I should like to begin by expressing my 
, profound grief at the terrible earthguake  that has  struck Egypt,  and  I send 
the Indian delegation's  sympathy  to its disaster-stricken people. 
A/47/PV.36 
81 
(Mr. Bhaqat.  India) 
I deem  it a privilege  to  address  the United Nations  General  Assembly 
during  these  special plenary meetings marking  the  conclusion  of  the Decade of 
Disabled  Persons.  At  the outset,  I wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General for 
his  report  contained  in document A/47/415. 
Developing  countries  like  India cannot  escape  the grim  reality that up to 
half  a billion people  around  the world  are disabled  and  that  over  80 per cent 
of  those people  are  in the developing world.  As has often been  the case in 
situations  of grave  social  concern on  a global  scale,  the United  Nations has 
not  only played  a pioneering  role, but has  also given  leadership  to 
Governments  and non-governmental  organizations  to take  a special  interest in 
the welfare  of  the disabled.  The observance  of  the Decade  of Disabled Persons 
has  served  to  focus  attention  on this matter  of global  concern. 
Today,  although there  is a growing  awareness  of  the need  to integrate the 
disabled  fully  into  the  social mainstream,  it  is unfortunate  that  in many 
societies  they  still  face prejudice,  largely  due  to  ignorance.  In fact, they 
have  an  important  contribution  to make  to  society,  since  the disabled are 
often highly  acute  and have  above-average  sensitivity  and  intelligence in 
areas where  they  suffer  no disability.  They  can provide  extremely useful 
inputs  for humanity  as a whole.  Moreover,  like  other  citizens, they are 
entitled  to  the  full enjoyment  of human  rights. 
The  General  Assembly  in 1982 adopted  a World  Programme  of Action 
concerning Disabled  Persons  and  an  initial  time-frame  within which to 
implement  it'.  This has  now been extended.  As noted  in  the 
Secretary-General's  report,  social  and economic  factors  closely determine a 
society's behavioural  pattrrns  towards  its  less  fortunate  members.  Therefore, 
unless  social  and economic  conditions  improve  significantly,  legislation alone 
will  not  help  in the betterment  of  the  lives  of  the  disabled.  It is therefore 
A/47/PV.36 
82 
(Mr. Bhaaat,  India) 
not surprising  that  the  achievement  of  the  ambitious  objectives  of  the 
Programme  of Action  has been  slow. 
The United  Nations  Decade has, however,  led  to the adoption of  policies 
in many countries  and has  forged  international  cooperation  for  the  assistance 
of the disabled,  while  taking  into  consideration  the particular  needs of 
individual  countries.  The  need of  the hour  is not  just greater  awareness  and 
understanding  of  this pervasive  and often tragic problem,  but  the will  to 
act.  This  is especially  true when one  realizes  that many  cases  of  disability 
could have been prevented  if proper  heed had been taken  at the  right  time. 
Here I speak of  congenital  disabilities  resulting  from  the use of  drugs, or 
due to alcoholism  or  smoking by pregnant  women. 
The disabled  do not need  pity or  charity.  What  they need  from  all of us 
is support and,  I repeat,  the will  to act and help  to help  themselves.  Here 
the strong  family  structural  patterns  of  the developing world  could 
spontaneously provide  a source  of  strength  for any member  of  a family who  is 
disabled. 
The Secretary-General's  report  contains  an ambitious  programme  of  action, 
which by the end of  1993 will have  components  such as the Programme,  providing 
a strong policy  framework,  and  the  long-term  strategy, which will  set  definite 
targets to be  achieved within  specific  time-frames.  It calls  for  national 
affirmative action  for  the period  1993-2002, encompassing  those  components. 
With the creation of widespread  awareness, this  is a model  programme  which 
Governments could  follow. 
It is also  commendable  that United  Nations  specialized  agencies  have 
Played a significant  supportive  role.  The  International  Labour  Organisation 
(ILO) and the United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP) have  established 
A/47/PV.36 
83 
(Mr. Bhaaat.  India) 
community-based  programmes  to  assist  and  rehabilitate  the  disabled  in several 
Latin American  and African  nations; other  organizations  have worked  to prevent 
the  spread  of  blindness, particularly  in Africa  and Asia.  Several  other 
organizations  have worked  for  the  rehabilitation  of disabled  children and 
refugees. 
My  Government  has, in  its own modest way,  been working  for  the betterment 
of  the disabled.  Their  number  in  India  is estimated  to be  around  12 million. 
Several  national  institutes have been  set up  for  their  education,  training, 
counselling  and  rehabilitation.  A  sum of  $70 million  has been  set aside in 
the national  budget  for  the period of  the Eighth  Five-Year  Plan,  from  1992 to 
1997,  for  the welfare  of  the  disabled. 
At  the  request  of  the General Assembly,  our  former  Prime Minister, 
Mrs.  Indira Gandhi,  launched  the  international  IMPACT programme  in India.  It 
is jointly  sponsored  by  the UNDP,  the World  Health Organization  (WHO) and the 
United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF).  The  ambitious  target  set for India 
was  the  reduction  of  the major  causes  of  avoidable  disabilities  by one third 
in the  first  10 years.  Our  success  story  is the  80 per  cent  immunization 
achieved  so far  in the cities of  India and  the  fact  that  the eradication of 
poliomyelitis  in the next  10 years  is conceivable.  India was  the first 
country  to  launch eye  camps;  in 1991 alone  1.2  million  cataract  operations 
were  performed  in  India's  village  eye  camps.  The  Indian Government has 
cooperated  closely with United  Nations  agencies  to make  India a leading 
success  story  for  the  IMPACT programme.  The  Lifeline  Express, donated by the 
Indian  railways,  for  example,  performs  150 major  operations  a day in rural 
India. 
A/47/PV.36 
84-85 
| 
(Mr. Bhaoat.  India) 
A major  programme  of  the  Indian Government was  the granting  of 
scholarships  to the disabled  on the basis of means  cum merit  tests.  Other 
initiatives  included  the  setting  up of  special  employment  exchanges  for  the 
placement of  the disabled  and  the  reservation  for  the disabled  of  3 per  cent 
of Group C and D posts  in central government  and public  sector  undertakings. 
The observance  of  the  International  Year  for Disabled  Persons  in  1981 
gave a fillip  to the expansion  of  services  throughout  the country.  A  number 
of employment,  travel  and other  concessions were extended  to the  disabled, 
both by the central  Government  and by State Governments.  Among  other 
programmes were  the  integrated  education  of  the disabled  in vocational 
rehabilitation  centres, apprenticeship  training programmes  and  the 
establishment  of  district  rehabilitation  centres. 
Every year  the President  of  India presents National Awards  to  outstanding 
employers of disabled  persons  and  to the most  efficient  disabled  employees  or 
disabled self-employed  persons  in the Government  and private  sectors.  The 
Government of  India has  set  up  a National Disabled Welfare  Fund,  with 
voluntary contributions  from  the public  sector, the private  sector  and  the 
general public.  The  Fund  is utilized  to augment  existing voluntary  services 
for the welfare of  the  disabled. 
In this context,  I should  like  to mention  the phenomenal  success  of  the 
"Jaipur Foot",  an artificial,  flexible  limb  developed by doctors  at Jaipur  in 
our State of Rajasthan, which has been used  successfully  by many  thousands  in 
India.  It has  also been made  available  at affordable  prices.  There has  been 
interest in its application  for the war-wounded  in countries  like El  Salvador, 
Nicaragua and  Cambodia. 
A/47/PV.36 
86 
(Mr. Bhaoat.  India) 
The year  1993 has been  designated  the  South Asian Association  for 
Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC) Year  for  the Disabled.  India hopes  to 
participate  fully  along with our  neighbours  in the SAARC  programmes  proposed. 
Ultimately,  the best  support  that we  can give  to these  unfortunate 
brethren  is the common  realization  among all of  us that  society's well-being 
lies  in  large measure  in the welfare  of  the disabled  among us. 
Mrs. MUNTEANU  (Romania)  (interpretation  from  French):  Before making 
my  statement,  I should  like  to extend my people's heartfelt  sympathy  to the 
Egyptian  people  in their  suffering. 
I  should  like  to express my  thanks  for the  invitation  to participate in 
this work  and  to  say how delighted  I am to have  this opportunity  to meet so 
many  of my  colleagues  and  friends  and  to  share with you our  ideas, our 
concerns, our  satisfactions  and dissatisfactions  regarding  the  status of the 
disabled  in our  respective  countries  and  throughout  the  world. 
I would  like  to try  to organize  my  statement  around  three  themes:  first, 
philosophy,  programmes  and  an overview  of work  done  for disabled persons; 
secondly,  national  effort  and  the need  for greater  international  cooperation 
in the  field  of policies  and  approaches  to the disabled;  and thirdly, the 
establishment  of  a permanent  international mechanism which would  seek to 
enhance  the  status of  the  disabled. 
We  share  the view  that, despite progress made  at  the national and 
international  levels, the  status  of  the disabled  is  still of  concern, and that 
efforts  should'be  stepped  up, along with  international  cooperation,  to bring 
about  greater  changes  in  society's  attitude  and  to achieve  truly  independent 
living  for  the  disabled. 
A/47/PV.36 
87 
(Mrs. Munteanu.  Romania) 
Bearing  in mind  the provisions  of  the declaration  of  the  1991  Paris 
meeting of European ministers  in charge of policies  for the disabled,  along 
with the conclusions  of  the Vienna  ad hoc working group, which  analysed  the 
standard  rules on  the  subject  in order  to  speed  up equalization  of  opportunity 
for the disabled,  and  those of  the  first  international  conference,  recently 
held in Montreal  on  the  initiative  of Mr. Robert de Cotret,  to whom we  are 
very grateful, we have  tried  to  identify  certain  features  of  a coherent  policy 
for the disabled  that we wish  to  submit  to you. 
We are convinced  that  a valid,  credible policy  for the disabled  must 
include the  following  elements:  relevant provisions  in the  legislation  of 
each country concerning  the  specific  rights of the disabled;  the  incorporation 
of the rights of  the disabled  in international  instruments  on the  subject;  the 
adoption of  national  programmes  on medical, psychological, pedagogical  and 
social and vocational  rehabilitation,  with precise goals covering  all  aspects 
of life, including  the establishment  of  special  institutions  with  the  full 
participation of  the disabled;  the gradual  elimination  of obstacles  and 
barriers of  all  kinds  and of prejudices  against  the disabled,  through  joint 
actions of  institutions  and  agencies which might be  conducive  to a new 
approach to disability;  and  the organization,  at the national  and 
international  levels, of  an ongoing  campaign  to  increase  the  sensitivity  of 
the public,  in  institutions  and  in governmental  and non-governmental  bodies, 
regarding the problems, needs and  frustrations  of  the disabled,  in order  to 
try to find  suitable  solutions  to these problems with  the participation  of  the 
whole of  society,  and  to  jive disabled people  a feeling of  dignity,  usefulness 
and full participation  in community  life. 
A/47/PV.36 
88 
(Mrs. Munteanu. Romania) 
As  regards  the programmes  and  the  results  of  initiatives  for the 
disabled,  we  are all  aware  of  them,  and  I do not wish  to dwell  on them.  I 
merely wish  to  say that  I fully  agree  that  concerted  efforts within the 
framework  of  the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  and  the World 
Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons, as well  as the  initiatives 
taken by other  international  meetings, have  produced  significant progress. 
International  cooperation  in any  field,  including  the domain of the 
disabled,  must  be  closely  related  to  the national  policies  of States in this 
area. 
Basing  itself  on  the general  concept  of  observance  of human rights, 
Romania has drafted  and  implemented  as of  1989  a coherent  programme  to bring 
about  a speedy, meaningful  improvement  in the  status  of  the  disabled. 
The  difficulties  that my  Government  has  encountered  and  in particular 
those encountered  by  the Secretariat  of  State  for the Disabled, which has just 
been  set up, have been quite  sizeable:  obsolete  technology  in existing 
institutions  and  their  endowments;  an acute  lack of  specialists  and know-how; 
and  a mentality  regarding  and  approaches  to disabled persons  that have been 
distorted  by  forty years  of  totalitarianism. 
The  implementation  of  the national  programme  for  special protection for 
the disabled  has enabled  us not only  to make  tangible  improvement  in the 
status of  these people but  also  to  raise  awareness  and  to  involve  in this 
complex  and difficult  endeavour  both governmental  and  non-governmental 
institutions  as well  as public  opinion. 
Real  support has been provided  by  the  international  community,  and I wish 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  say how grateful  Romania  is to  all those who have 
shown  understanding  and  solidarity with my  country. 
A/47/PV.36 
89-90 
(Mrs. Munteanu.  Romania) 
The positive  results  obtained by Romania  in a rather  short  time,  thanks 
tlso to  international  cooperation,  encourage  us to go  forward  and to  seek, 
:ogether with other  countries,  the best means of  finding,  through our  common 
•ffort, the best  solutions  so that  disabled persons may be enabled  to use 
their creative  potential, enjoy  truly  independent  lives  and play  a  dignified 
role in the  life of  the  community. 
A/47/PV.36 
91 
(Mrs. Munteanu. Romania) 
The existence  and proper  functioning  of  a national  body  has meant that we 
now have  an overview  and  can contribute  to the programmes  and operational and 
legislative  initiatives  for  the disabled  and  that we  can  intervene 
periodically  to  implement  them. 
We  are  certain  that  at the  international  level more  consistent 
coordination  and  cooperation  is  necessary. 
It  is clear  that  in order  to have better  information  about  the 
experiences  of various  countries  and  in order  to gather  the necessary data for 
an exact  and  specific  evaluation  of national  and  regional  needs  to better 
implement  international  standards  and  to benefit  from  the know-how of other 
countries  in the  field  of  assistance  to the disabled, we  all need a 
well-defined  international  structure  - a permanent,  inexpensive but effective 
mechanism  which  should be part  of  the  specialized  agencies  of  the United 
Nations. 
I wish  to highlight  some of  the  advantages  and  facilities  that a 
permanent  international  structure  could give  to cooperation  among countries.  ' 
First  of  all, a permanent  structure  is necessary  in order  to coordinate  t 
and monitor  implementation  of world-wide  and  regional programmes  for the 
disabled. 
Experience  has demonstrated  that  similar  programmes  require adaptation as 
well  as ongoing  consultations  and,  in particular,  a coordination of efforts at , 
the  regional  and global  levels, which  can only be effective  if there is a 
permanent  structure  that  can act or  intervene  at  any  time. 
* 
A permanent mechanism  can become  a very effective  instrument  in defending , 
individual  rights  if  it  intervenes promptly  in given  situations, cooperates 
A/47/PV.36 
92 
(Mrs. Munteanu.  Romania) 
with Governments  and helps  mobilize  public  opinion to encourage  people  to 
treat the disabled  on  an equal  footing with  other  citizens. 
One might  envisage  an ongoing  public  and governmental  awareness  campaign 
under the aegis  of  an  international  secretariat.  Such a campaign  would 
promote a better  understanding  of  the  status of  the disabled  and of  how 
individuals  and  institutions  can help  improve  it. 
A permanent  structure  could  play  a despatching  role to facilitate  a 
working partnership  and  to provide  assistance  for  setting up pilot  projects. 
It could provide  a means  of  exchanging project  data, experience  and 
opportunities 
which would  obviously  lead  to greater  cooperation  among States. 
That  is why Romania  is firmly  convinced  that  States  involved  in 
international  cooperation  for  the disabled  should not  scatter  their  resources 
and knowledge  in  individual  parallel projects which  are costly  and  sometimes 
of limited  impact. 
A concerted  effort  through the establishment  of permanent machinery  might 
prove to be more  beneficial  for  the disabled  as well  as  for  international 
cooperation designed  to hjlp  them. 
International  cooperation  for  the disabled has taken on  obvious 
momentum.  The work  of our meeting  is proof  of this.  However,  to maintain  the 
momentum on a permanent  basis  requires  a proper  and highly  competent 
organizational  structure. 
Human solidarity  and  international  cooperation,  which  are  the goal, 
represent a powerful  force  that  can change  the  future  and,  through  a new 
philosophy, point  the way  to a society  for all. 
It is up  to us to meet  this  challenge. 
A/47/PV.36 
93 
Mr.  PENNANEACH  (Togo)  (interpretation  from  French):  A cruel tragedy 
has  just befallen  the people  and Government  of  Egypt  involving  great  loss of 
life  and material  damage.  At  this  difficult  time  for  that  fraternal people, 
my  delegation wishes  to convey  sincere  condolences  and  feelings  of solidarity. 
Ten years  ago, the United Nations  proclaimed  the United Nations Decade of 
Disabled  Persons.  Now that  it  is coming  to an end,  we  should  take stock of 
the  results, evaluate  the  successes,  take note of  the obstacles  encountered 
and define  new ways  in order  better  to  attain  the goals  of  the World Programme 
of Action  concerning  the  Disabled. 
In participating  in this discussion,  the delegation  of Togo wishes to 
reaffirm  its  solidarity with  and profound  sympathy  for  all persons who are 
partially  or  totally  disabled,  as well  as our  firm  commitment  to strengthen 
measures  to bring  about  their  full  integration  into  society. 
The proclamation  of  1983  to  1992  as the Decade  of Disabled  Persons has 
drawn  increased  attention  to  the disabled  and  to their  integration.  This 
difficult  but  necessary  process  requires  not  only  comprehension  and support 
but proper  funding. 
The  Decade has brought  the disabled  into  the mainstream  of society; it 
has  recast  their  image  as  complete  people  enjoying  all  of  the  rights and - in 
so  far  as possible 
all  of  the duties  inherent  in the human  condition.  In 
Togo,  through  their various  associations,  the handicapped  used every means at 
their  disposal,  last  year,  to bring  about  a change  in public  attitudes so that 
they might  be  accepted  as  :.n integral  part  of  the human  community. 
A/47/PV.36 
94-95 
(Mr. Pennaneach. Togo) 
In implementation of the World Programme of Action to mark this Decade, 
Togo has drafted legislation and undertaken a campaign aimed at preventing 
disability and at providing medical equipment and vocational training.* 
Mr. Dangue Rewaka (Gabon), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.36 
96 
(Mr. Pennaneach. Togo) 
In the  field  of disability  prevention  a specific  immunization  programme 
has been drawn up and  is being  very  carefully  implemented  in  collaboration 
with  the United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF).  This has enabled  us to 
immunize  children  from birth  to the  age of  seven  and women of  child-bearing 
age.  Immunization  coverage  is now  at about  36 per  cent  of  the  target 
population.  A vast programme  to eradicate  oncocerciasis  covers  four countries 
of West Africa.  The  campaign  against  leprosy,  to which my Government, in 
cooperation  with  the Raoul  Follereau  Foundation, has been committed  for more 
than  10 years,  is beginning  to yield  results. 
Measures  to  reduce  the  seriousness  of disability have been  improved.  The 
National  Orthopedic  Centre  and  the Centre  for  Functional  Reeducation have been 
strengthened.  However,  the acquisition  of  orthopedic  apparatus  is difficult 
because  of  the very  high  cost  involved. 
But  other  specific work has been done  for  the disabled  to make sure they 
can be trained  as much  as possible:  centres  have been  set up to train the 
mentally  retarded,  deaf-mutes  and  the blind; within  the competent  technical 
Ministry  a structure  has been  set up to carry out programmes  for the disabled; 
a plan  for  the vocational  rehabilitation  of  disabled persons  has been set up 
with  the help  of  the  International  Labour  Organisation  (ILO),  the United 
Nations Development  Fund  (UNDP), UNICEF  and  the World Health  Organization 
(WHO). 
With  regard  to organizing  disabled  persons,  it should be  stressed that 
the Togo  Federation  of Associations  of Handicapped  Persons  has been created in 
order  better  to understand  the  specific  problems  linked  to  the various 
categories  of disabled  people. 
A/47/PV.36 
97 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Togo) 
That,  then,  is a brief  overview  of what my Government  has been  doing 
pursuant to the World  Programme  of Action, which  is so ambitious  and 
humanistic.  As  can be  seen,  all  the objectives  of  the Programme  have  not  been 
achieved, not  for  any  lack  of political will but  because  the  funds  available 
were  insufficient. 
As is quite  rightly  - and  forcefully 
stressed  by  the  Secretary-General 
in his report,  the worsening  economic  and  social  situation 
marked by  low 
growth rates, high unemployment  rates, reduced public  spending,  the 
implementation  of  structural  adjustment  programmes,  and privatization 
has 
had a negative  impact  on programmes  and  services  in developed  and  developing 
countries alike. 
In fact,  the  impact  has been most  negative  in the developing  countries, 
where the cruel  lack of  funding makes  living  conditions  increasingly 
difficult.  It  is  sad  to observe  that, while  the Decade has enabled  many 
disabled people  from  the developed  countries  to progress  even better  than 
before, this has  not been  the case  for  those  in the developing  countries who, 
for the most part, have been  left  to their own  resources.  The  lot of women, 
children and people  living  in  rural  areas  is even worse. 
Despite  the efforts made by  the United Nations within  the  framework  of 
the Decade, the developing  countries  have  not  really been  able  to  integrate 
the disabled.  Eloquent  testimony  to this  is the situation  in this  very 
General Assembly  Hall.  How many  disabled  people  from  the developing  countries 
have we seen  speak  from  this  rostrum  to make  their  invaluable  contribution  to 
our discussion?  How many  disabled  brothers  and  sisters have  spoken of  the 
Decade and defended  their  cause  in this  community  of nations?  There  could 
have been many  of  them,  but  can they afford  the  trip? 
A/47/PV.36 
98 
(Mr. Pennaneach. Tngn) 
How many  disabled  persons  from  the developing  countries  do we  see on 
television  participating  in sporting  events  or working  on a computer?  How 
many  disabled  people  from  the developing  countries  have been  totally 
integrated  into  the  lives of  their  cities, or  even  into  the production sector? 
My point  is that  the  road  to  fully  integrating  handicapped  people in 
developing  countries  is a very  long and difficult  one.  To make  that road 
easier  it  is important  to  strengthen  cooperation  among nations  and to 
implement  the  recommendations  contained  in the  Secretary-General's  report on 
the World  Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons. 
It  is clear  that  the developing  countries, particularly  the least 
developed,  however  important  their  actions  have been  on their  own, could not 
meet  the challenges  of  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning  the Disabled. 
We  also note  that  regional  cooperation, which  should have provided a 
broader, more  forceful  framework  for  the disabled,  has  suffered  in Africa as a. 
result  of many problems, particularly  the deteriorating  economic  and social 
situation, political  and  social problems,  armed  conflicts,  lack of primary 
. 
health  care programmes,  endemic  diseases, epidemics,  and  so  forth. 
Nevertheless, we welcome  the work done by  international  organizations in . 
raising  the consciousness  of  Governments  and public  opinion  about the status 
of  the disabled,  as well  as the mobilization  of  financial  and material 
resources.  Togo  is grateful  to  the  international  organizations  and to the 
non-governmental  organizations  which have helped  it  implement  projects for the 
disabled. 
A/47/PV.36 
99-100 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Togo) 
The  facts  are  there,  and  they emphasize  the disparity between  countries, 
particularly  as regards  available  funding,  technical  know-how,  and  necessary 
support  services  for  the proper  implementation  of  the United Nations  World 
Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons. 
As this Decade  draws  to a close, we  feel  it is increasingly  urgent  to 
continue to concern ourselves with  the disabled.  And  that  is why  my 
delegation  fully  supports  the  recommendations  made by  the Secretary-General  in 
his report,  and  in particular  his proposal  to find  the solutions  to  the 
problems of  the  disabled  within  a context  of  integrated  social  development  and 
by increased  awareness  and a better  understanding  of  the problems  of  the 
disabled.  My  delegation  also endorses  the  following  relevant proposals  of  the 
Secretary-General:  the  adoption of  a long-term  programme  of  action  for  the 
period 1993  to  2002;  the establishment  within  legislative bodies  of a 
permanent committee  on  the  status of  the disabled;  the proclamation  of 
regional decades; the definition of  a programme  of  action with  specific 
objectives taking  us  to the year  2002;  and  the  creation of  an  institute, or 
national or  regional  centre, on disability  and  the handicapped  pursuant  to 
resolution 46/96. 
A/47/PV.36 
101 
(Mr. Pennaneach. Tp^n) 
We  think  that  it  is important  that  there be  added  to  these 
recommendations  a recommendation  that  consciousness  should  be  raised.  We need 
true  integration  that  is carefully prepared  from  an early  age.  We must put a 
stop to pity  and  to  condescending  paternalism.  The disabled  do not want 
pity.  They  are men  and women  just  like us, with  their personalities  and their 
rights,  and we must  treat  them  as  such.  Have we  truly  abandoned  the pathetic 
solutions  resulting  from  that  unhappy past  of  laissez-faire  charity or the 
intolerable  logic based  on  profit? 
Despite  the obstacles  to  implementation  of  the World  Programme  of Action 
concerning  Disabled  Persons  for the  soon to end Decade, my  delegation hopes 
that  the  international  community  will give greater  attention  to the disabled 
by  using  appropriate  means  to support  the  implementation  of  various 
socio-economic  programmes  designed  to  secure  their  full  development.  In so 
doing, we  shall  ensure  that  the disabled  are enabled  fully  to exercise their 
legitimate  rights. 
More  tolerance  and  solidarity  in the world,  right here  and now, would 
, 
make  it easier  for  those who  find  it difficult  to play  a full  role in 
society.  But vocational  integration,  like  social  integration,  of physically 
or mentally  disabled  persons  and people with  sensory  disabilities  is not just , 
a question  of making  declarations  of principle  or producing  rules; it is a  . 
question  of political will  and  concrete  action  - above  all, the expression of 
active  fraternity. 
The  society  of  the  future,  if  it  is to be  a society  of peace, must be  , 
based  on  solidarity.  We  invite  all United  Nations Members  to work  for this  , 
A/47/PV.36 
102 
(Mr. Pennaneach.  Togo) 
solidarity.  Instead  of  excluding  the disabled,  let us  stretch out  our hands. 
They will help  us to understand  and  to  love; they will, by  their  deeply  moving 
action, help  to  lead  us to that more  just world  of  solidarity  the United 
Nations is working  to bring  about. 
Mr. ELHOUDERI  (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)  (interpretation  from 
1 Arabic):  I should  like, on behalf  of my delegation,  to condole with  and 
' express our  full  sympathy  and  solidarity  to the fraternal  people of  Egypt  in 
the wake of  the  earthquake  that hit  Cairo  and caused  a large  number  of  deaths 
' and injuries. 
> 
Allow me, Mr. President,  at  the beginning  of my  statement,  to welcome 
« this special  celebration which  reflects  the  importance  the  international 
community  attaches  to  the question  of  the  disabled. 
' 
Our celebration,  this year, of  the conclusion  of  the United  Nations 
•: Decade of Disabled  Persons  reflects world-wide  awareness  of the needs  and 
rights of the disabled,  who,  it must  be understood,  have  the  same  rights  and 
i duties as any other member  of  society.  To  ignore  the disabled would be  to 
: overlook considerable  human potential, which  could be used  in construction  and 
c. development. 
r; 
My country had  the honour  of  initiating  the declaration  of  the 
.. International Year  of  the Disabled,  which we  celebrated  in 1991.  It  chaired 
.fj. the work of the Consultative  Body  for  the  International Year with great  energy 
and vigour, and  succeeded  in drawing  up political  guidelines  designed  to 
.achieve the objectives  of  the  International  Year. 
„ 
i'f 
Having been  involved  in all  this, my  country would have hoped  to be  able 
to participate  in  this  important  meeting with  a delegation  that would  have 
included a number  of  disabled  persons,  so that  they might  be given  an 
opportunity personally  to  speak of  the  success  that has been  achieved  in 
A/47/PV.36 
103-105 
(Mr. Elhouderi. r.jhvjll 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
pursuing  the objectives  of  the United Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons and 
of  the  activities  under  the  International  Plan  for  the Disabled  aimed at 
prevention,  rehabilitation  and equal  opportunity. 
Unfortunately,  the  negative  effects  of  the  air embargo  against my 
country,  imposed  pursuant  to Security  Council  resolution  748  (1992), have made* 
it impossible  for  those  disabled  persons  to take part  in this meeting. 
Disabled  people  in our delegation would have been obliged  to use  road 
: 
i 
transport  over  the great  distances  involved  in  reaching  an airport  in Tunisia -
or Egypt.  This would  have  exposed  them  to considerable  hardship and 
unbearable  suffering. 
l 
: 
Indeed,  the effects  of  the embargo  are not  limited  to restricting our  r 
participation  in  international  meetings  and  conferences  of  such importance.  ; 
The  adverse  effects  of  the embargo  are  felt  also  in the area of activities 
; 
relating  to the disabled.  I refer  to the  slow delivery  of  artificial limbs 
and of  the medical  equipment  needed by  those people.  This  creates many 
, 
problems  for  the disabled,  who  are  in urgent  need  of  such things  in order for  • 
them  to be  able to cope with  the burden of  their  disabilities. 
. 
Furthermore,  the  air  embargo  has prevented  us  from benefiting  from the  . 
services  and  assistance  of  specialists who  are needed  to examine  and treat 
patients  with  severe  disabilities.  In addition,  the embargo  has prevented or 
caused  delays  in the  arrival  of  the much needed medical  personnel who work in ^ 
institutions  providing medical, psychological  and  social  services  to the deaf, 
the mute,  the mentally  retarded,  the paralysed  and  the  chronically ill-
A/47/PV.36 
106 
(Mr. Elhouderi.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
All this has  led  to a worsening of  the level of medical  services  provided  by 
those institutions. 
While we  appreciate  the positive  results  achieved  through  the Decade, 
such as the  increased  integration  of disabled people  into public  life, 
equalization  of  opportunities  in the areas of education,  employment  and 
training, assured  participation  in the various  social, cultural  and  economic 
activities  available  to other members  of  society;  and while we  also  appreciate 
' the growth  in numbers  and  the development  of  the activities  of  national 
1 committees  and  agencies  responsible  for the disabled  and  the revitalization  of 
their role  in national  life, we must  say that  the objectives  of  the World 
lii Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled  Persons have not been  fully  achieved. 
•c The numbers  of  disabled have  risen  to  500 million,  80 per  cent  of whom  live  in 
::,; developing countries, because  of  the  spread of disease, hunger,  malnutrition, 
till poverty, armed  conflict,  civil war,  and deteriorating  economic  and  social 
i!E conditions, all  of which beset many  developing  countries. 
;;; 
All these  circumstances  have  led to a scarcity  of  the necessary  resources 
required to achieve  the objectives  of  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning 
j((Disabled  Persons.  Therefore, we  stress  the need  to adopt  a long-term  strategy 
j. through the year  2000  and beyond  in order  to ensure  the  continued 
,, implementation  of  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons 
.0after the conclusion  of  the Decade with  a view  to creating  a  society-for-all 
.by 2010.  New guidelines  aiming  at  improving  the  living  conditions  of  the 
^disabled and  fostering  their  full  integration  into  the  community  should  be 
A/47/PV.36 
107 
(Mr. Elhouderi. Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
formulated.  Those guidelines  should  take  into  account  the needs of the most 
vulnerable  segments  of  the disabled  in the developing  countries,  such as the 
elderly, women  and  children. 
We  set great hope  on  international  cooperation  in  the area of technical 
assistance  in providing  the needs  of  the disabled,  in particular  by means of 
the transfer  of  technology  and  the  sharing  of experience  from countries that 
possess  such technology  and experience  to  countries  that  do not, in order to 
assist  in  such areas  as  rehabilitation  and  the prevention  of disabilities. 
We  attach great  importance  to the drawing  up of  rules  and norms with 
respect  to equalization  of  opportunities  for the disabled  of  all cateqories 
and  all  age groups  and welcome  the work now being  done by  the working group 
whose  job  it is to draw up  such  rules  and  norms.  We hope  that  the group will 
succeed  in concluding  its work  in time  for  it to present  the  results to the 
next  session of  the General  Assembly. 
We pay  tribute  to the  key  role played by  the United  Nations Fund toward 
achieving  the development  objectives  of  the World  Programme  of Action 
concerning  Disabled  Persons.  In our view,  it  is necessary  for that United 
Nations  Fund  to be maintained  even beyond  the end of  the Decade  in view of its 
importance  in bolstering  national  capacities, especially  in the area of 
rehabilitation  and  the prevention  of disability  in many  developing countries. 
My  country,  Libya, was  among  the  first  to emphasize  the question of the 
disabled  at both  the  national  and  international  levels.  This  stemmed from our 
profound  faith  in  the human principles  enshrined  in the United Nations Charter 
A/47/PV.36 
108 
(Mr. Elhouderi.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
and the Universal  Declaration  of Human Rights.  In the course of  the 
International Year  of Disabled  Persons my  country  enacted  Law 3  (1981) 
concerning the disabled.  That  law included  a definition  of  the  disabled, 
defined the groups  involved  and  the  advantages  and benefits  that  should  be 
provided to them  along with  the other  facilities  and  services  they would  need 
in the areas of  care  and  rehabilitation,  together with education  and 
retraining, job opportunities,  tax and  excise duty exemptions, while  providing 
them with special  facilities  in the area of transportation;  all  in order  to 
ensure the highest  possible  level of  care  for  the  disabled. 
In the area of prevention  of  disabilities, the Law provided  for  the 
setting up of  a national  committee  on the disabled whose mandate  is primarily 
the prevention  of disability  and  the  integration  of  the disabled  into  society 
both professionally  and  socially while providing  the best possible  living 
conditions for them.  A number  of  international  organizations  have  recognized 
.that Law as a model  to be  imitated. 
However, that  Law did not  include  a provision  specifically  on  the 
;prevention of disability.  In order  to  rectify  this. Law  5  (1987) was 
jipromulgated to replace  Law  3  (1981).  The  first provision  in Law  5  (1987) 
.stipulates the prevention  of disability  and  regards prevention  as a 
^responsibility of  the  individual, the  family,  the community  and  grass-roots 
organizations  in  society.  The new Law defined  the various groups  of  disabled 
.persons and set  the  allowances  and benefits  provided  to each group.  It  also 
made provision  for  rehabilitation  and defined  the  role of each  government 
A/47/PV.36 
109-110 
(Mr. Elhouderi. Lihyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
agency  in this  respect.  The  legislation  on  the disabled  in my  country has led 
to  the  setting  up of  a large number  of organizations  and  special  centres that 
provide  care  together with education  and  rehabilitation  services  to the 
disabled  in a number  of  towns  and villages  including  the  Centre  for the 
Rehabilitation  of Disabled  Persons  in Benghazi,  the one  in Tripoli  set up in 
1983,  the  institutes  that provide medical  care  for  the mentally handicapped in 
Aziziyah  and Massa,  the  Institute  for  the Deaf  in Benghazi, the  Institute for 
Special  Education  for  the Mentally Handicapped  in Ganzour,  the Association for 
the Blind  in Benghazi  and  the Society  of  Light  for  the Blind  also  in Tripoli. 
The disabled  in my  country,  through  their  associations,  contribute 
effectively  not only  to  the creation  of employment  opportunities  for the 
disabled,  but  also  to the political  and economic  life of  the  country in which 
they play  a key  role  like all other members  of  society.  They now have an 
active  role  to play  in decision-making  at all  levels  and  in all areas. 
A/47/PV.36 
111 
(Mr. Elhouderi.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
In conclusion, my  delegation wishes  to pay  tribute  to  the 
Secretary-General  and  to commend  him  for his  report  in document  A/47/415.  My 
delegation supports  the  recommendations  in that  report, which  call  for  the 
shifting of  focus  in the World  Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled  Persons 
from awareness-raising  to action, with  a view to  articulating  a coherent 
overall policy  on  the  integration of  disabled persons  into  the normal  life of 
their communities.  My  delegation  also wishes  to express  its appreciation  to 
the Vienna Centre  for  the work  it is doing  in  implementing  the Programme  of 
Action despite  its  limited  resources. 
In response  to the urgent  and growing  needs  in the developing  countries, 
we believe that  it  is vital  to allocate  appropriate  resources  to the Centre  to 
1 11
II 
enable it to carry out  the  activities  set out  in the Programme  of Action well 
beyond the end of  the  decade. 
Mr. NOBILO  (Croatia):  I should  like to express  the deepest  sympathy 
of my Government  to the Government  and people of  the  friendly  Arab Republic  of 
Egypt upon the  terrible  earthquake  that  recently  struck Cairo. 
Croatia  is proud  to seize  this  opportunity  to  speak  at the end of  the 
United Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons  and on the tenth  anniversary  of  the 
World Programme  of Action.  Allow me  to express  our  deep  appreciation  for 
everything the world  community  has  accomplished  in organizing  and helping  the 
disabled to live  in  an environment  that  accepts  them  as they  are, and  in 
lifting all the barriers 
in architecture  and  in people's minds  alike.  We 
are grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the President  of  the  General 
Assembly for ensuring  that  this  important  item would be  included  on the  agenda 
of the forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly.  We would  also  like  to 
refer to the  Secretary-General's  praiseworthy  report, which  contains  precise 
guidelines for  action  concerning  this  item. 
A/47/PV.36 
112 
(Mr. Nobilo.  Croatia) 
The Decade  that  is now behind  us has been  appraised  as  the  "decade of 
accomplishment".  And  so  it has been,  since  numerous  programmes  have been 
envisaged  and  carried  out by many United  Nations  agencies  and  organizations 
during  the past  10 years.  At  the  same time, there  are  new challenges  and new 
realities,  and  so we  cannot  confidently  enjoy  our  results, no matter how we 
appreciate  them. 
Many  factors beyond  our  control  cause disabilities.  Human actions, 
sometimes  deliberate,  account  for many human  tragedies  in the world.  But war 
is the most horrible  of  them  all.  In the  last  40 years  Europe  has 
concentrated  all  its efforts  on enabling  the handicapped  to  live normal lives, 
on the presumption  that  all  their problems were part of  a peaceful, everyday  , 
environment.  Unfortunately,  Croatia nowadays  is forced  to  solve  the problem
{ 
of disabled  persons  under  conditions  of war  and  as a conseguence  of military  . 
aggression. 
Let me present  some  tragic  figures.  In the Republic  of Croatia, during 
war  operations  over  the  15 months  prior  to  1 October  1992, 5,746 persons were 
killed  and  21,269 
including  civilians  and members  of  the Police Force and
: 
Croatian Army  - were  injured  or wounded.  Consequently,  1,535  of them have 
. 
remained  permanently  disabled.  The  numbers  are  largest  for cases of limb 
amputations  and brain  and  spinal-cord  injuries, but  also  include  cases of 
blindness, deafness, permanent  mental  disorder,  tetraplegia  and paraplegia. 
One  third  of  all wounded  - that  is, 6,198  people 
and  almost  one-half of 
those  killed-  1,872 
have been  civilians, which  are  unusually  high 
proportions. 
These  data  represent  only  the minimal  number  of  confirmed  casualties. 
The  number  has  increased  considerably  now  that we  know that  at  least 
800  civilians  have been massacred,  executed  or brutally murdered  in the 
i 
i 
A/47/PV.36 
113 
(Mr. Nobilo.  Croatia) 
occupied territories  of Croatia by  Serbian  insurgents  and  paramilitary 
troops.  3,000 are  still missing  after  the  fall  of  the city of Vukovar  to the 
Yugoslav Army,  and most  of  them  are presumed  killed.  The  total of missing 
persons is 14,852, with  the horrifying presumption  that most  of  them  are  no 
longer alive. 
I have  to emphasize  that  the numbers  I have given  apply only  to  those 
persons who have been  accounted  for, and do not  include  all  the people 
' presumed killed,  injured,  missing  or held  in captivity by  the enemy  forces. 
The real number,  which we  are  sure will  not be available  until  long  after  the 
• hostilities have  ceased  throughout  the area,  is far  larger  than the one  stated 
'• or envisaged  here. 
:- 
Most of  the  disabled  persons  are young men of  20 to  26 years of  age.  Our 
- hospitals and  rehabilitation  centres  are working  at their highest  capacities 
but can hardly meet  the bare necessities.  The  situation  is further  aggravated 
• by the presence  of  thousands  of  soldiers  and  civilians  from Bosnia  and 
:. Herzegovina, among whom  is a significant  number  of disabled  or  handicapped 
::; persons.  Those people  have  no  income, no housing  facilities  and  no 
gs possibility of  returning  to  their homes.  The  Republic  of Croatia will 
[j continue, however,  to provide  all  the necessary  assistance  that  the  wounded 
0  and refugees  from  Bosnia  require.  But we  can do  so little without  the help of 
,,; the world  community. 
,;! 
Croatia  faces  a huge problem  in reintegrating  its disabled  persons  into 
t  everyday life.  Mostly very young,  they will have  to  face the problems  of 
starting a family  and  finding  employment  and homes.  Furthermore,  they have  to 
.,.  90 through a difficult  process  of  social  adaptation.  The heavy burden  of  the 
, post-war period  is making  this  task  even more  delicate.  Serious  material 
I Problems delay  the  discharge  of  casualties  upon  completion  of  their 
A/47/PV.36 
114-115 
(Mr. Nobilo.  Croatia) 
rehabilitation  process.  Besides  the disabled war victims, Croatia has 
approximately  450,000 handicapped  persons  of  all  categories.  Many of them are 
having growing  problems  in adjusting  to the new  situation,  especially  those 
living  in the war-torn  areas. 
Before  the war Croatia made  significant  steps  towards  improving  the 
living  conditions  of disabled  persons  and  integrating  them  into  society.  But 
the war has  seriously  hampered  those  efforts.  Many  disabled persons have lost 
all  their  family  and  are  left alone with nobody  to care  or provide  for them. 
Today  their goal  is not  to attain  the conditions  enabling  them  to participate 
in society  on a footing of  equality with others; their major  - indeed, their 
only 
goal  is to survive.  Therefore  they depend more  than  any others on 
Croatia's  ability  to  recover  as soon as possible  from  the destruction caused 
by  the war  and  to  restore  its  industrial, transportation,  and  social 
infrastructure  to at  least  the pre-war  level.  International  help  is playing a 
decisive  role  in these  efforts. 
Because of  the  increased  number  of disabled  persons,  it has been 
necessary  to expand  the  capacities  of Croatian  rehabilitation  institutions. 
The Republic  of Croatia does not have  a comprehensive  rehabilitation centre 
able  to treat  all  types  of disability.  The  absolute  priority  is to establish 
a national  rehabilitation  centre  for brain  and  spinal-cord  injuries.  Croatia 
will  be grateful  for  all  available  support  in creating  that  centre.  The 
Department  of  Information  and  Research  at the Croatian Ministry  of Health 
issued  an appeal  to over  100  international  humanitarian  organizations to 
support  financially  the  rehabilitation  of disabled persons who  are victims of 
war.  Unfortunately,  no positive  answer  has been  received  so far. 
A/47/PV.36 
116 
(Mr. Nobilo.  Croatia) 
The problems  Croatia  is  facing  concerning  the disabled  are great  and 
increasingly numerous.  Although  Croatia has  received  a significant  amount  of 
aid in drugs  and medical material, we  still need help  from  the  international 
community.  In spite  of  all  the difficulties, we  shall not  leave  any of  our 
handicapped persons  without  proper  care and  assistance. 
The basic  provision  of our  civilization  is that  all men  are equal.  All 
' men are entitled  to equal  rights,  including  the more  unfortunate  among us. 
a The World Programme  of Action exists, but  it still has  to be brought  to  life. 
: It is our hope  that  the  consideration  of  the  issue by  this high body will  give 
i further impetus  to the  improvement  of  the  situation of disabled  persons 
.1 throughout the world.  The  Republic  of Croatia  is ready  to do  its  share. 
Mr. SHIWEDAH  (Namibia):  Allow me  first of  all, on behalf  of  the 
Namibian delegation,  to express  to the people  of Egypt  our  sincere  condolences 
•: and sympathy  on  the  loss  of  life  and material  damage  suffered  as a result  of 
the devastating  earthguake  that  struck  Cairo. 
, 
As we come  together  to evaluate  our  achievements  of  the past  10 years, 
,(Ii. where we stand  today  and  the  road  ahead,  I wish  to put on  record  my 
f delegation's appreciation  for being  a participant  in these historic  plenary 
.,,. meetings, the  first  of  their  kind. 
We come together  when major  wars have  ceased  and world peace  seems to 
, have been preserved.  Not very  long  ago the  Secretary-General, 
„ Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,  pointed  out  in his  "Agenda  for Peace" the 
interconnection between  peace  and  social  and economic  development  in  these 
««' 
, words: 
A/47/PV.36 
117 
(Mr. Shiwedah. Namibia) 
"The  social  stability  needed  for productive growth  is nurtured  by 
conditions  in which people  can  readily express  their will.  For this, 
strong  domestic  institutions  of participation  are essential.  Promoting 
such  institutions  means promoting  the empowerment  of  the unorganized, the 
poor,  the marginalized."  (A/47/277, para.  81) 
The  link between peace  and  social  and  economic  development  on the one hand and 
disability  on the other  cannot be  overemphasized.  Although major wars have 
ceased,  civil  strife, poverty,  drought, hunger  and  a lack of  health-care 
facilities  continue  to be  a major  impediment,  especially  in the  developing 
countries.  Thus,  in tackling  the core problems  of  disability  issues, there 
should  be  a focus  on,  inter  alia, narrowing  the gap between  the haves and the 
have-nots.  It  is in this  context  that my  delegation welcomes  the summit for 
social development  to be held  in 1995; we hope  that  the world  situation of 
persons with  disabilities  will  find  a prominent  place  on the  agenda of that 
summit. 
Ten years  ago, when  the United  Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons was 
declared,  the people of Namibia were engaged  in a war which not only 
culminated  in our  national  liberation,  but  resulted  in a large number of 
persons,  including  children, with disabilities.  The  neglect  of persons with 
disabilities  by  the  former  colonial  Administration  in Namibia excluded the 
disabled  from  all  spheres  of human  life. 
Thus,  following  the  independence  of Namibia on  21 March  1990, my 
Government  placed  the  situation  of  the disabled  among  the priorities of its 
development  programmes.  Furthermore,  the broad  framework  of  fundamental human 
A/47/PV.36 
118 
(Mr. Shiwedah.  Namibia) 
rights and  freedoms  enshrined  in our  Constitution provides  tools  for  the 
protection of  their  rights  and enhanced  integration  of  the disabled  in the 
spheres of education,  health, employment  and  accessibility  and  so forth.  We 
are fully convinced  that  the achievement  of  full  integration  of  disabled 
persons into mainstream  services  reguires  a multi-disciplinary  approach,  well 
coordinated policy  and  action  relevant  to the needs of disabled persons.  My 
• Government,  therefore,  through  the Ministry  of Lands, Resettlement  and 
i Rehabilitation, has been  instrumental  in ensuring  that detailed programmes  and 
. development planning  for  the provision  of  services  are worked  out by  other 
: Government bodies. 
Our achievements  during  our  two years of  independence  can be  attributed 
L to the will  and determination  of  the disabled  themselves  to  succeed  in the 
,.  betterment of  their  lives  and  the high  and personal  interest  and  concern of 
:. the President  of  the  Republic  of Namibia  for  the welfare of  the disabled.  In 
1991, when hundreds  of  disabled persons  delegated  by their  regional 
organizations gathered  in Windhoek  to  launch  the National  Organization  of 
Disabled Persons, the President  of  the Republic  of Namibia, who himself was  a 
. participant, launched  the National  Disability  Fund  and declared  1992  as the 
Year of the Disabled  in Namibia.  That was done  to mark  the end of  the United 
Nations Decade of Disabled  Persons. 
Whereas  1992 marks  the end of  the United  Nations Decade  of  Disabled 
Persons, for us  in Namibia  it marks  the beginning  of  raising  awareness  on 
disability; some progress has been made.  Through  its inter-ministerial  and 
Ii* 
I 
0 
A/47/PV.36 
119-120 
(Mr. Shiwedah. Namihia) 
national  co-ordination  committees,  the National  Organization  of  Disabled 
Persons  in Namibia has been  advocating  equal  rights  for  the  disabled  and the 
need  to  integrate  them  in the education, health,  sports  and  economic  fields. 
While  emphasis  has been placed  on  consciousness-raising  and putting 
structures  in place  all over  the  country,  concrete  projects  have been embarked 
upon with  the help  of various  international  non-governmental  organizations. 
Four  capital  projects  in the  areas of  agriculture,  tailoring,  gardening and 
leatherwork  and other  small projects  are  functioning.  Those  small projects, 
although  far  from being  sufficient,  create  employment  opportunities  for some 
disabled persons.  It  is our  aim  to  transform  those  small projects  into 
capital  projects  and  thus generate  income.  Furthermore,  the Private Sector 
Foundation  renders  assistance  through credit  facilities  for  self-help projects 
by people with  disabilities. 
A/47/PV.36 
121 
(Mr. Shiwedah.  Namibia) 
With assistance  from  the. International  Labour  Organisation  consultant  a 
document that  constitutes  the National  Policy on Rehabilitation  and 
Integration of Disabled  Persons  has been  finalized  and  is now  in  operation. 
In February  1993  a seminar  will be held  to produce  a layman's  draft  to be 
formulated  into  a draft  Bill on national  disability  legislation. 
Despite  all  those  achievements,  the  road we have  to cover  in Namibia 
remains longer  than  the distance we have gone.  The problems  to be  tackled  far 
outweigh the  available  resources.  The  lack of  trained  personnel  and 
infrastructure  and  the  unavailability  of data and  information  on the  disabled 
compounds our  organizational  constraints. 
We applaud  the  achievements  set out  in the Secretary-General's  report 
and wish to reiterate  that  during  the Decade  the  international  community  has 
come to realise  that  disabled persons  are citizens with  equal  rights  and 
obligations.  The  emergence  of  numerous  national  organizations  of  the  disabled 
is in itself  testimony  that great  strides have been made by disabled  persons 
themselves in making  their  communities  see them  as productive  members  of 
society. 
Notwithstanding  the  achievements  made over  the past  10 years, much 
remains to be done.  The  situation  of women with disabilities  has  not 
improved.  In many parts  of  the developing  countries women with  disabilities 
are still excluded  from  the health,  education  and  economic  spheres, not  to 
mention the decision-making  process.  The majority  are  in the  rural areas, 
where they are heading  families, most  of  the time  singlehandedly.  Since 
Namibia is facing  a severe  drought,  their  efforts  to  fend  for  themselves  and 
their children are made  even more  difficult.  Hence,  the Government,  through 
the National Drought  Task  Force, has  decided  to provide  free  food  supplies  to 
A/47/PV.36 
122 
(Mr. Shiwedah. Namihia) 
vulnerable  groups, namely,  lactating mothers,  the aged,  the disabled and 
children.  Internationally,  women have  to cope with discrimination  based on 
gender  and on  their disability.  Although  they  are members  of  national 
organizations  of disabled  persons, their voices  are often  not heard.  It is in 
this  context  that we welcome  the World  Conference  on Women  in 1995.  We look 
forward  to the participation  of women with disabilities  in that  Conference and 
the  adoption  of  concrete  programmes  and  action  on women with disabilities. 
They  know what  they  are enduring.  Let  us give  them  a chance.  Let their 
voices  be  heard. 
In many parts of  the world  the will  and  commitment  to alleviate the 
situation  of  disabled persons  is more  often defeated  by  lack of resources. 
While  the United Nations  Decade  saw no  additional  resources,  the root causes 
of  the  rising  number  of persons with disabilities 
poverty,  drought, famine, 
conflicts 
were on the  increase.  Thus, the disproportion  between the 
resources  available  and  the programmes  and  tasks we  set  ourselves  for the 
Decade  impeded  the very progress we  are  aiming  for. 
The post-1992  era  calls  for  a shift  from  awareness-raising  to concrete 
action.  It calls  for  the enactment  of  legislation  for disabled persons.  At 
all  levels, persons with disabilities  should be  integrated  into the overall 
social-economic  development  sphere,  and  national  efforts  should be 
complemented  by  international will  and  support.  To  ensure  that the many 
programmes  adopted  during  the Decade  are  implemented,  my  delegation welcomes 
the Secretary-General's  recommendation  that possibilities  be explored of 
establishing  a mechanism  whereby  reports  on the  status of  disabled persons 
could  be presented  by  disabled  persons  themselves. 
Children with disabilities  must  be  integrated  into  regular  schools, while 
taking  into  consideration  their  specific  needs.  In this way we  shall, at the 
A/47/PV.36 
123 
(Mr. Shiwedah.  Namibia) 
outset, remove  the negative  attitude with which  children have perceived  one 
another.  In southern Africa hundreds  of children have been  left orphans, 
traumatized or disabled  by  the wars of destabilization  that  ravaged  this 
subregion.  We  owe  those  children,  and many  others  in different  parts of  the 
world, a future.  We  commend  the United Nations  Children's  Fund,  the World 
Health Organization  and  the United Nations  Educational, Scientific  and 
Cultural Organization  for  their  concrete programmes  to make  the world  a better 
place for children.  We welcome  the  International  Conference  on Assistance  to 
African Children,  to be held  in Dakar, Senegal, by  the Organization of  African 
Unity (OAU) from  25 to  28 November  1992.  We hope  that  that Conference  will 
also be the  start  of  a process  for  improving  the  situation of  children  with 
disabilities.  The  situation  of  the African  child warrants  all  necessary 
support. 
We should  like  to  see the organization  of  regional  seminars  on people 
with disabilities.  Where  regional mechanisms  exist  - as  in our  region, where 
we have the Southern African  Federation  of the Disabled 
they  should  be 
supported to enable  them  to  render  support  to the national  organizations. 
It is fortunate  that  the marking of  the end of  the United  Nations  Decade 
on Disabled  Persons  has  coincided  with  the  restructuring  of  the United 
Nations.  It is our hope  that  the needs of disabled  persons will have  a 
prominent place  on  the  agenda of United  Nations  restructuring.  There  is a 
need to have  a permanent  structure within the United Nations  dealing  with 
issues of disability.  The  integration  of persons with disabilities  should  not 
bypass the United Nations  Secretariat  at  its various  levels.  When  a permanent 
structure is established  within  the United  Nations, persons  with  disabilities 
should form part  of  that  body. 
A/47/PV.36 
124-125 
(Mr. Shiwedah. Namibia) 
United  Nations  technical  assistance  to developing  countries  should be 
increased  to help  alleviate  the  situation  of  the disabled.  The United Nations 
leadership  role must  be  strengthened  to enable  it to  render  asistance to 
regional  and national  efforts.  Needless  to  say,  the  increasing  expectations 
will,  in turn,  require  additional  resources  for  the  implementation  of various 
programmes  at  all  levels.  The United Nations Voluntary  Fund on disability 
will  need  uninterrupted  funding. 
Mr. CASTEDO  (Spain)(interpretation  from  Spanish):  First, on behalf 
of my  Government,  I wish  to convey our  condolences  and heartfelt  sympathy to 
the Government  and people  of Egypt  on  the occasion  of  the  tragic  loss of life 
caused  by  the earthquake  that  struck  the  city  of Cairo. 
Spain,  as a member  country  of  the European Community,  endorses the 
statement  made  on behalf  of  its member  States by  the  representative  of the 
United  Kingdom.  I wish, however,  to give  some  information  about  our national 
experience. 
Ten years  ago  the General Assembly  adopted  the World  Programme  of Action 
concerning  Disabled  Persons.  This year,  1992, is also  the tenth  anniversary 
of  the  adoption by my  country's  Congress  of Deputies  of  the Disabled Persons 
Social  Integration  Act. 
A/47/PV.36 
126 
(Mr. Castedo,  Spain) 
That Act  advocates  the  same principles  and promotes  similar measures  in 
virtually the  same  areas  as the United Nations World  Programme  of  Action. 
Without exaggeration,  we  could  describe  our Act  as the Spanish version  of  the 
Programme. 
The Disabled  Persons' Social  Integration Act was  the  response  that 
Spanish society brought  to the needs  and problems  of  the community  of  citizens 
affected by  some disability.  A  time  frame  of  10 years was  set  for  it.  It was 
enacted as a framework  law  indicating  approaches  and paths, giving  guidance 
' for strategies  for  intervention  and  types of organization  and entrusting  the 
1 various departments  explicit  and  concrete mandates 
all of which  is part of 
an overall and  coherent  vision of  the entire  spectrum  of problems  affecting 
'  the disabled. 
• 
The Act embodies  a large  number  of principles  as guidelines  for global  or 
•- sectoral action  respecting  the disabled  community.  Social  integration  as the 
ultimate aim and  only way of  success  for  the many measures  proposed,  instead 
1 of fragmented  or marginal  strategies; basing  of  services  and benefits  on 
tf rights, which  is a break  from  the earlier  tradition of  charity  or benevolence; 
V prioritizing of  rehabilitation  and provision  of  services  over mere  economic 
benefits; normalization  of provision  of  services; and participation  of users, 
and so forth - all  are principles  introduced  or endorsed  by the  Disabled 
Persons' Social  Integration Act,  and  are today key  features  of our  daily 
endeavours. 
In order  to  achieve  the ultimate  aim of  integration,  the Act proposes  a 
strategy based  on  four mutually  supportive  pillars  that  all underpin  that 
ultimate objective.  These  are prevention,  rehabilitation,  equalization  of 
opportunity, and protection  for  disabled  persons. 
A/47/PV.36 
127 
(Mr. Castedo.  Spain) 
Prevention  is a right  and duty of  each  and every  citizen  and  society as a 
whole.  It  is part  of  the priority  obligations  of  the State  in the  realm of 
public  health  and  social  services.  Rehabilition  is the central pillar of the 
entire  strategy  of  the Act  and  the axis of  the entire  system,  especially with 
respect  to measures  of economic  protection,  employment  promotion,  and 
integration  into  the workforce, which  act  as  incentives  for  the whole 
process.  Rehabilitation  is regarded  as the most powerful  instrument  for 
achieving  integration,  which,  for  the purposes  of  the Act,  implies  the 
fundamental  integration  into  the workforce  of disabled  persons. 
Four major  groups  of  rehabilitation  programmes  are  currently under way in 
Spain:  early  care,  aimed  at children; educational  integration  for school-age 
children with  special  educational  needs, aimed  at  integration  into the 
ordinary  educational  system;  functional  rehabilitation, where of particular 
note  is the growing  use  of  technical  aids  in improving  the physical  autonomy 
of  disabled  persons; and,  lastly, occupational  rehabilitation, with the 
increasing  application  of  new technologies  in the  areas of  training, of the 
adaption of workplaces,  and  of  the design of  ideal  kinds  of work  for some 
disabled persons. 
By means  of equalizing  opportunities  we  aim  at a series of environmental 
changes  that will  foster  integration,  while we  are mindful  of  the fact that 
this  is only possible  if, at the  same  time, changes  take place  in our 
societies.  The  aim of  these measures  is to promote  solidarity  among citizens 
vis-a-vis  those persons  disadvantaged  as a result  of  a disability.  This 
solidarity  is manifested  in  the elimination  of  the obstacles  of urban, legal, 
and  socio-cultural  life;  in compensation  for disadvantages  in the fields of 
legal  adaptation,  specific  support  services  and  additional  economic 
A/47/PV.36 
128 
(Mr. Castedo.  Spain) 
assistance; and  in the promotion  of  the disabled  community  through 
participation, mutual  assistance,  and  the  formation of  associations. 
Of particular  importance  is the establishment  of mutual  assistance 
networks  and  associations  of  disabled persons, and  the growing  participation 
of non-governmental  organizations  in setting up  and  administrating  services  to 
benefit disabled  persons.  The  role which non-governmental  organizations  play 
in achieving  these objectives  is critical  and,  although  there has been 
considerable  expansion  in their  activities  in Spain  in the  last decade,  there 
remains much  to be  done, particularly  in terms  of allowing  them  to  share 
responsibility with Government  in developing positive  action  to  facilitate 
full integration. 
Measures  in the  area of protection  are  aimed  at achieving  the  final 
objective of  integration  through  increasingly  higher  standards  of  well-being 
for disabled persons  and, by extension, of  the  immediate  community  in which 
they live.  These  include measures  of economic  protection,  legal  protection, 
and family  protection. 
Overall  economic,  social  and  legal protection  for disabled persons  has 
been the most highly  developed  aspect  of the Decade  in our  country.  The 
transition has been made  from  condescending  protection grounded  in the 
tradition of  charity  to protection  of  another  kind based  on the entitlement  of 
individuals.  From  a  special  system  of protection,  the  community  has  joined 
the State  social  security  regime, which  the Constitution  recognizes  as the 
right of all  Spanish  citizens. 
Aware  of  the  leading  role of  families  in the protection  and well-being  of 
disabled family members,  and  also of  the  fact  that  the welfare  of  one 
A/47/PV.36 
129-130 
(Mr. Castedo.  Spain) 
individual  is hard  to  separate  from  the well-being  of  the  family,  the current 
protection  approach  regards  family protection  as a key  element. 
Family protection  includes meeting  the needs  that  arise  from the presence 
in  the home  of  a disabled  person.  It consists  basically  of  economic 
assistance  that  relieves  the economic  burden  of  an  inactive  and economically 
dependent  family member  or  the  added expenditure  of meeting  that  person's 
specific  needs.  It also  consists  of  family  support  through  information and 
advisory  services, as well  as  services  involving  temporary  reception or the 
relief  - sometimes  on  a long-term  basis 
of  the  family  from  the burden of 
permament  care.  In  some cases, they may  substitute  on  a temporary  basis for 
the caretakers  in given  families where  there  are  serious  problems. 
These  then are  the major  lines  and principal measures  promoted by the Act 
in the  last decade  in Spain.  Over  these past  10 years, the  impact  of the Act 
has been  assessed  and  reported  upon by Congress, by  the  responsible 
departments,  and by  associations  of  the disabled.  With  differing emphasis, it 
has generally  been  regarded by  all  as positive  for  the  disabled  community. 
There  are undoubtedly  some gaps, but what  has been  appreciated  above all is 
the new  impetus  injected  into  activites  carried  out  for  the benefit of the 
community  as well  as the overall  vision of  all  the problems  and possible 
solutions.  This  is the  first  time  that  such an overall  approach has been 
taken  in  Spain. 
A/47/PV.? 
131 
We must  look  to  the  future.  As other c 
articulate  a new  strategy  for the  1990s.  As 
learn the  lessons  of  the past  decade.  Abovt 
that will  take  into  account  and  attempt  to i 
aspirations  of  disabled  persons.  Those asp; 
justice and equal  rights  and opportunities  i 
the fullest  potential. 
In recognition  of  the  specific  nature c 
strategy to the year  2000 will  step up actii 
prevention,  rehabilitation,  equalization  of 
legal protection,  taking  into particular ac< 
As the coordinator  of Government  social 
l-he M i n i s t ry
fnr  Snrial  A f f a i rs  is  nrenarinf 
A/47/PV.36 
132 
(Mr. Castedo.  Spain) 
For  the disabled  person,  this philosophy  requires provision  of  the full 
potential  of  rehabilitation measures with  a view  to achieving  full, productive 
participation  and/or maximum  financial  self-sufficiency.  Advances  in human 
sciences  and new  technologies  will make major  contributions  to achieving this 
goal. 
For  society, promoting  the  independence  of  the disabled  community is 
linked  to due  integration  of  disabled persons  into  the workforce,  the 
elimination  of prejudice  and  incorrect  attitudes  that  serve  as  cultural 
barriers  and  lead  to dependence  and protectionism  towards  the disabled.  We 
shall  also  focus  on efforts  to make  communities  more  accessible  and 
barrier-free, with  transportation  and other  services  adapted  to the needs of 
the disabled,  and with  local  authorities made  sensitive  to  all  the problems 
facing  disabled persons. 
In  short, our  aim  is the  integration  and  active participation  of these 
citizens, but with  a change  in strategy:  in the coming  decade, we  shall be 
targeting  society  at  large, not merely  the disabled  community,  for integration  , 
involves  both. 
Mr. AL-GHANEM  (Saudi Arabia)  (interpretation  from Arabic):  Please 
allow me  to condole with  the brotherly  people  of Egypt  over  the catastrophe of > 
the day before yesterday.  We  ask Almighty  God  to enable  those who have lost 
their  near  and  dear  to bear  the  loss  and we declare  our  solidarity with the  , 
Arab  Republic  of  Egypt. 
I have been  listening,  since yesterday morning,  to the  statements of the ^ 
distinguished  delegates who have  spoken on  the problems  of  the disabled.  I"  ^ 
all  those  statements  these  has been  the  unanimous  call  for  serious work on 
A/47/PV.36 
133-135 
(Mr. Al-Ghanem.  Saudi  Arabia) 
behalf of the disabled.  However, all of this  is repetitious; we, the 
disabled, have been hearing  this  for over  20 years in conferences  and meetings. 
I 
The General  Assembly  is right to mark the end of the Decade of Disabled 
persons.  But what happens  next?  What happens after all the statements have 
been made?  Have we  satisfied  ourselves  and done our duty by the 500 million 
i  disabled persons, 80 per  cent of whom  live in developing countries?  Have we 
really worked  to eliminate  the causes of disability?  Have we worked to 
* prevent the disabilities  caused by armed conflict,  ignorance, disease and 
II  poverty?  The General Assembly  is considering  these questions  for the first 
time. 
a 
I turn now to the problems of the disabled  in my own country.  In 1975 I 
± contacted the Minister  for Education.  At the time, it was 
King Fahd bin Abdulaziz.  He ordered  the establishment  of an institute  for the 
;j blind.  He set up a full budget  for establishing  institutions  for the 
;1 disabled.  A department within that Ministry of Education dealt with the 
I,; problems of the disabled,  and  institutes  for the blind,  the deaf and the 
mentally deficient were  set up throughout the country.  The Minister  said,  "We 
j are going to help  the disabled, because the disabled  are human beings and 
( deserve civil  rights; they deserve our assistance because of the laws and 
„ principles of  Islam". 
, 
For more  than 30 years. King Fahd bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud has continued  to 
support the disabled.  He helped  establish the regional office of the Middle 
East Committee  for Disabled  Persons.  The voice of the blind  is now heard 
throughout the world. 
A/47/PV.36 
136 
(Mr. Al-Ghanem.  Saudi Arahi.) 
I have given you  this  summary  of what  is happening  in Saudi  Arabia 
because  I want  to ask other  Governments  that  have  failed  to  show an interest 
in the  disabled  to  learn  a  lesson  from  the  actions  of  King  Fahd  and to follow 
his example,  one  that  could well  be  a model  for  the whole  of  mankind. 
We  in Saudi Arabia have participated  in all  the meetings  and  symposia 
held  in the course of  the  International  Year  of Disabled  Persons  and I have 
represented  the Kingdom  in every one of  them.  In  1982, King Fahd delegated me 
to discuss  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons.  We have played a 
very  important  role  in discussing  its  recommendations  and  in the deliberations 
of  the Decade. 
In that  context, we  faced  certain objections  from  some countries.  It is ' 
strange  indeed  that  those who opposed  us  in 1982 now  support  the Decade and 
its  achievements  and  all  that we  did  throughout  the Decade. 
The Decade  has heightened  awareness but,  unfortunately,  has had little 
practical  result.  We must  be  realistic:  I have  taken note of  the 
' 
Secretary-General's  report  (document  A/47/415),  which  is very  frank and very  -. 
lucid.  The  report  states  the  facts and  crosses  the  t's.  It speaks of 
' 
Governments  that have  not  formulated  any policies  and have  not helped the 
disabled.  It also  speaks of Governments  that have  announced  the adoption of  ; 
policies  but  have  never  translated  those  declared  intentions  into facts. 
lil 
These  are  all  facts, and we must  know them.  It  is high  time we began truly to.;, 
work  on behalf  of  the disabled  in deed  and not  in name. 
-•; 
Disability  is linked  to economic  factors.  If a country's economy
; 
improves,  its disabled  citizens  receive  better  care.  These  are  facts.  But do^ 
Governments  in  the  developing  countries  have  sympathy  for  the disabled and 
^ 
A/47/PV.36 
137 
(Mr. Al-Ghanem.  Saudi  Arabia) 
want to help  the  disabled?  Is there  any acceptance  of  the  fact  that  a 
disabled person has  the  same  rights vis-a-vis his  community  as the  other, 
normal, members  of  society?  Is that  really  accepted  by Governments?  These 
are facts. 
As  I said yesterday,  we  are not here  to solicit pity or  ask  for  charity. 
We are here  to demand  our  legitimate  rights, the rights due us  in our 
societies  and  in our  communities.  A  society's  development  can be measured  by 
the quality  and  type  of  treatment  it provides  for  its disabled  and by  the way 
it deals with  all  social  issues. 
This  is a human  issue  that has  the status of a sacred message.  We  the 
disabled have  come here,  for  the  first  time, to address  the General  Assembly 
so that our voices may be heard  all over  the world.  We  are here  to claim  our 
rights.  We want  jobs.  We want  equality  of employment.  What  does  "equality" 
mean?  Equality  shall become  a reality  if a proper  strategy  to achieve  it were 
formulated  on the basis  of  carefully  considered  and properly  weighed 
principles  and on goodwill  on the part  of Governments.  There  are  some 
180 million  children who do not have enough  food or drink.  There  are 
40 million  children who  face blindness  and disability because of vitamin A 
deficiency.  These  are  facts.  At  the beginning  of  the Decade  there were 
450 million  disabled  persons.  Their  numbers  now have  risen  to  500 million  and 
will go on  increasing  unless  the causes of disability  are dealt with.  I have 
not heard one  single  speaker  of  the many who have  spoken  since yesterday  speak 
of the causes  of  disability  or  of  the prevention  of  disability. 
Ninety-nine per  cent  of  the disabilities  caused  by accidents,  if  treated  in 
timely fashion,  can be prevented.  We must  stress  these  facts  and  never  lose 
sight of these  realities. 
A/47/PV.36 
138 
(Mr. Al-Ghanem.  Saudi Ar?hig) 
I want  every person  in this hall  to bear  in mind  that  the disabled have 
the  same  rights  in  society  and  that  if they  are given the proper  chance 
through  access  to modern  technology,  they can be of great benefit  to society. 
That  door must  be opened  to  them. 
Mr. VASILYEV  (Belarus)(interpretation  from  Russian):  The delegation 
of  the Republic  of  Belarus  attaches  great  importance  to  the  assessment of the 
results  of  the United Nations  Decade of Disabled  Persons  and  to the 
formulation  of  the programme  of  action  for  the  future.  We welcome  the 
specific  recommendations  contained  in the Secretary-General's  report 
(A/47/415) on moving,  in the  context  of  the United  Nations  programme on 
disability,  from measures  for disseminating  information  and 
consciousness-raising  to practical  action.  In that  connection,  I should like 
to point  out  that many  of  the measures  suggested  in the  report  are already 
being  implemented  in Belarus  and  are being made part  of  our national State 
policy  for  the  disabled. 
Unfortunately,  owing  to the complicated  economic,  social  and 
environmental  situation  in our  country,  the number  of disabled persons is 
increasing  faster  than  the number  of workers.  As of  January  1991 more than 
348,000  disabled persons, amounting  to about  3.4 per  cent  of  the total 
population, were  registered with  social-welfare  organs.  In the past five 
years  that  number  has  risen by  32,300 persons,  that  is, by  10 per cent. 
In  the Republic  of  Belarus we  are now establishing  a fairly  strong legal 
basis  for  resolving problems  connected  with  improving  the  status of disabled 
persons.  Legislative  action  to deal with  the problems  of disability is being 
taken  in  two main  areas:  first,  the  adoption of  special  comprehensive laws 
and,  secondly,  consideration  given  to  the needs of  the disabled  in laws 
A/47/PV.36 
139-140 
(Mr. Vasilyev.  Belarus) 
covering  specific  questions,  including  those  relating  to  industry;  examples 
are the  laws of  Belarus  on employment  and on pensions  and  special  provisions 
of tax  legislation. 
Pursuant  to  a recommendation  contained  in the World  Programme  of  Action 
concerning Disabled  Persons, on  11 November  1991 the Supreme  Soviet  adopted  a 
comprehensive  Act  on the  Social  Defence  of Disabled  Persons  in the Republic  of 
Belarus.  The Act establishes  the main  lines of national  State policy with 
regard to the disabled  and  seeks  to  implement  effective measures  for 
disability prevention,  the  rehabilitation  of disabled  persons, guarantees  of 
equality and  equal  participation  by  the disabled  in society.  Social  policies 
for the disabled  have heretofore  been based  on providing  material 
compensation.  They  disregarded  the disabled  person's  remaining  opportunities 
and capacity  for work.  That  approach was not  conducive  to the  full 
integration of  the disabled  into  society.  The  new Act  requires  the  State 
organs of the Republic  of  Belarus  to provide  an education, vocational  training 
and job placement  for  the disabled.  The Act  is based  on the  universal 
recognition of  the human  rights of disabled persons, who  are, first  and 
foremost, citizens  of  the  Republic  of Belarus, with  rights  and duties  equal  to 
those of other  citizens, and  are only  secondarily beneficiaries  of  social 
services. 
According  to  the Act, disabled persons  enjoy  all the  socio-economic  and 
personal rights  and  freedoms  enshrined  in the Declaration  on  the Rights  of 
Disabled Persons  adopted  by  the General  Assembly,  in the Constitution  of 
Belarus and  in other  legislation. 
A/47/PV.36 
141 
(Mr. Vasilvev. Belarys) 
Disabled  persons have  an  inalienable  right  to  respect  for  their human 
dignity.  Discrimination  against  the disabled  is prohibited  and prosecutable. 
The draft  new constitution  of Belarus  establishes  the  right of  its citizens to 
disability  benefits. 
The  task of  the  interdepartmental  council  being  established  in Belarus 
for dealing with  the problems  of  the disabled  is to ensure proper  coordination 
of national  policies  for  improving  the  status  of disabled persons  and to work 
out  concerted  action  aimed  at  implementing  the provisions  of  the Act.  That is 
also  the goal  of  the Republic's  comprehensive  programme,  now  in preparation, 
on the problems  of  disability  for  the years  1994 to  2000.  It envisages three 
main  areas:  prevention,  rehabilitation  and  equalization  of  opportunity. 
In the Republic  of Belarus, disabled  persons participate,  as members of -
the  Supreme  Soviet,  in the process  of elaborating  and  adopting  laws relating 
to the disabled  and,  as  civil  servants,  in the procedure  for  implementing 
those  laws.  Moreover,  disabled  persons  in our  country  are also  active in 
non-governmental  organizations.  A new public  organization,  the Belarus 
i. 
Association  of Disabled  Persons, was  recently  admitted  to  the  International  ; 
Federation  of Disabled  Persons.  A  charity  and health  fund has been 
a 
established.  Associations  of  the blind  and  the deaf  are  currently active. 
But  because of  our  difficult  economic  situation,  Belarus  organizations of 
; 
disabled  persons  are  in urgent  need  of external  financial  and material 
assistance  and  consultative  services  on questions  of disability  at both State ^ 
and  non-governmental  levels. 
;[. 
The  report  of  the Secretary-General  addresses  the  results of the work of ^ 
the  regional  commissions  in  identifying  common  causes  of disability throughout 
the world,  which  include  poverty,  disease,  armed  conflict,  accidents and 
„ 
A/47/PV.36 
142 
(Mr. Vasilvev.  Belarus) 
ageing.  We believe  that  another  important  factor  should  be added  to  this 
list:  the environmental  one.  For  Belarus, this means  the concrete  problem  of 
eliminating  the  consequences  of  the Chernobyl  nuclear-power-station  accident, 
which has  affected  one  of  every  five citizens  of Belarus.  There has been  a 
dramatic  60 per  cent  increase  in oncological  disease, particularly  thyroid 
cancer among  children.  More  than half of  all  school-age  children exposed  to 
radioactive  contamination  have been  found  to suffer  from disorders  of  the 
cardiovascular  system.  It  is thus quite understandable  that  in our 
legislation the  concept  of  disability prevention  includes measures  to  ensure 
environmental  safety.  For  that  reason, we believe  that  the work of  the United 
Nations to  improve  the  status of disabled  persons  should be  closely 
coordinated with  the  actions  of  the  international  community  to  implement  the 
General Assembly  resolutions  on  strengthening  international  cooperation  and 
coordinating  efforts  to  study, mitigate  and minimize  the effects  of  the 
Chernobyl  accident. 
We should  like  to mention  a number  of points  that,  in our view, will 
facilitate  a more  successful  solution of  the problems  confronting  the 
international  community  with  regard  to the prevention  of disability,  the 
rehabilitation of  disabled  persons  and the equalization  of opportunity.  In 
particular, we wish  to draw  attention  to the following  priority measures: 
improved coordination  of  activities;  finalization  of  a long-term  strategy  to 
the year  2000 and beyond  to provide  assistance  to  the decision-making  bodies 
of the United  Nations  system  in taking  action  to  improve  the  status  of  the 
disabled; publication  of  the  text  of  standard  norms  for guaranteeing  equal 
opportunity  for  disabled  persons; provision  of highly  effective  information  at 
the national  and  regional  levels  in  important  areas of policy  concerning  the 
A/47/PV.36 
143 
(Mr. Vasilyev.  Belarus) 
disabled;  expansion  of  the  range of  topics  for  scientific  and  applied 
research, with mandatory participation  by  associations  of  disabled persons; 
enhancement  of  the  role of organizations  of  the disabled  in the 
decision-making  process  at the national  and  international  levels; and 
increased  participation  by  disabled  women, who  are often  the victims  of sex 
discrimination. 
The basic  element  of  the World  Programme  of Action  is, we believe, its 
recognition  of  the human  rights of  the disabled.  Accordingly,  it would be a 
good  idea to consider  at the World  Conference  on Human Rights, the question of 
the human  rights of  the disabled.  We  also  support  the  initiative  of the 
Special  Representative  of  the United Nations  to establish  an  international 
fund  and  an international  centre  for  the disabled,  which we  consider  important 
for  a more  effective  coordination  of  activities  in the  interests  of the 
disabled  throughout  the  world. 
In conclusion,  our delegation wishes  to declare  its  full  support  for the 
draft  resolution  contained  in document  A/47/L.4. 
Mr. MAYORGA  CORTES  (Nicaragua)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  At 
the outset, we wish  to thank Minister  Robert  de Cotret  of Canada  for his 
statement  yesterday  in which he  summarized  the principal  results of the 
Ministerial  Meeting held  in Montreal  on  8 and  9 October.  The  interest 
manifested  in this meeting  by  the  large  number  of  attending Ministers, the 
frankness  of  the exchange  of views, and  the decision  to establish a 
Ministerial  Working  Group  to  follow up on  the  issue  now before us highlight 
the  importance  of  again placing  the  issue of  national  and  international action 
to benefit  the disabled  at  the  top of  our  agenda. 
A/47/PV.36 
144 
(Mr. Mayorga Cortes. Nicaragua) 
One of  the major  conclusions  of  the Secretary-General's  report  on  this 
issue is that  it will  not be possible  to achieve  the objectives  of  the World 
Programme  of Action  concerning  the Disabled without  increasing  the  resources 
available  for  international  cooperation, whether  bilateral  or multilateral, 
beyond existing  levels.  Speaking  realistically,  the Secretary-General  also 
notes that,  in the  face of  the  slow progress  of  activities  in the  area of 
prevention and  rehabilitation  of  the disabled  as well  as of equalization  of 
opportunity,  there  is  the danger  that,  if the current worsening  trends  in the 
economic and  social  situation  of  the developing  countries persist,  the 
disabled may  find  themselves  even more marginalized  in society  if no  special 
assistance  is given  to  them. 
The lack of  resources  is consequently  a serious  limiting  factor. 
However, in our view,  of equal  importance  is the conviction  and  determination 
of our own countries  about  the need  to devise  timely  and effective measures  in 
terms of policy, programmes,  and  services  for  the disabled,  especially  in the 
areas of  special  education,  employment,  social  services, urban  planning, 
social security,  taxation policies,  transport,  and  culture  and  sport. 
In this  respect, we wish  to  stress at  the outset  the critical  role  that 
the political will  of  States  is playing  and  the complementary  importance  of 
bolstering the  functions  of prevention,  coordination,  supervision,  training, 
and information exchange, which  are  the responsibilities  of  the United 
Nations.  In short,  better  and more  effective  national  and  international 
organization  is now  required  if we  are to move on  from  consciousness-raising 
to action.  However,  it must  be  recognized  that  the process  of  awareness  and 
A/47/PV.36 
145 
(Mr. Mavoroa  Cortes. Hicar8«j...) 
consciousness-raising  in our  societies  also needs  to be  further  stepped up, 
abandoning  paternalistic  approaches  that  underestimate  the  true potential and 
capacities  of  the disabled  in all  aspects  of  life or which  fail  to recognize 
the central  role that  they  themselves  should  be playing  as  actors  in the 
process  of  fundamentally  changing  attitudes  in our  societies. 
A/47/PV.36 
146 
(Mr. Mayorga  Cortes. Nicaragua) 
As many  speakers  have  already  said,  developing  countries must make  great 
advances  in the  socio-economic  sphere, especially  in combating  poverty,  in 
order to be  in a better  position  to accelerate  their  activities  for  the 
disabled.  But  this  should  not be  an excuse  for us to  shirk  our 
responsibilities  in this  area or delay  shouldering  them.  In  fact, we  cannot 
be either  complacent  or  frustrated.  We must pool  all our  capacity  for  action, 
and on an urgent basis.  I stress  this  urgency. 
We agree with Mr. Malinga of Disabled  Peoples  International, who  said 
yesterday  that  the  liberation  of  the disabled  can come about only  through 
their own organizations  and  their own efforts, and that disability  is a valid 
issue of human  rights  of  citizens  in the  full meaning  of the  term 
citizens, 
not clients of particular  social-service  agencies.  Mr. Malinga  also  noted 
that so long  as our  societies  remain hostile  and  inaccessible  to  the problems 
of the disabled,  and  so  long  as the disabled  feel marginalized,  oppressed, 
discriminated  against  or  exploited,  they have  the primary  responsibility  to 
organize themselves  to  remove  the  social, architectural,  cultural, 
environmental  and  attitudinal  barriers  that  impede  them.  They  are  not 
fighting for privileges;  they are  fighting  to enjoy the  same  rights  as other 
members of  society.  Listening  to Mr. Malinga,  one  reaches  the conclusion  that 
it is not  really  the  disabled who  require  rehabilitation,  but our  societies. 
These also need  to be made healthy  - not  necessarily physically,  but 
spiritually  and psychologically,  which  is often  as  important  as or  more 
important  than  the  first.  Public  and private  agencies working  in this  field 
should review  their  approaches  and procedures,  update  their working methods, 
target their programmes  and give priority  and urgency  to their  activities. 
A/47/PV.36 
147 
(Mr. Mayorga  Cortes. Ninara^a 
For  all  those  reasons, we  firmly  support Mr. Malinga's  seven  proposals 
aimed  at  surmounting  the main  conceptual  and  institutional  obstacles  to truly 
timely  and  effective  national  and  international  action. 
In the United  Nations  context, we  stress  the  importance  of  the following 
elements  of  action  for  the period  1993  to  2002: 
First,  in order  to  support  appropriately  the  implementation  of the World 
Programme  of Action,  the  long-term  strategy  and  the  standard  rules on the 
equalization  of opportunities, we must  devise  and put  into effect  an 
integrated,  coordinated  approach by  the United  Nations  Children's  Fund, the 
World Health  Organization,  the United Nations  Educational,  Scientific and 
Cultural  Organization,  the Office of  the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Refugees,  the United  Nations Development  Programme,  the  International Labour 
Organisation  and  the Food  and Agriculture  Organization  of  the United Nations. 
Second,  it  is necessary  to strengthen  the Office of  the  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  the Promotion  of  the United 
Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  and heed  the proposal  of  the World 
Committee  for  the Decade  that we  establish  an agency  or organization endowed 
with  the human  and  financial  resources  it needs  to do  its in for the coming 
decade.  We  also  support  the  suggestion  of  the Chairman  of  that Committee, 
Mr. Alan  Reich,  that pending  the establishment  of  such machinery  the 
Secretary-General  should  constantly  exercise  his moral  leadership with a view 
to  inspiring  further  action by Heads of  State  or Government  in this area. 
Third,  it  is necessary  to  step up the work  of  the  regional economic and 
social  Commissions  in preparing  plans of  action  for  the various parts of the 
world,  including  the proclamation  of  regional  decades  like  the one declared in 
the  region  of Asia  and  the Pacific. 
A/47/PV.36 
148 
(Mr. Mayorga Cortes.  Nicaragua) 
Fourth,  it  is vitally  important  to bolster  and enhance  the  effectiveness 
of interinstitutional  and  consultative machinery  among United Nations  bodies 
and between  them  and  the non-governmental  organizations.  International 
non-governmental  organizations  are  legitimate  and crucial partners  in the vast 
tasks ahead of  us, and  their  active participation  should be  encouraged. 
Fifth,  the  following must  be of high priority:  special  education  for 
disabled persons; the development  and execution  of programmes  for  the  training 
of trainers; and  the  specific  needs of  children, women  and  the  elderly. 
Sixth,  the Centre  for Social  Development  and Humanitarian  Affairs  at  the 
United Nations  Office  at Vienna  should be  strengthened,  so it can,  inter  alia. 
give due support  to organizing  national  coordinating  committees  and  other 
- organs, and to  their  work. 
Seventh,  recognizing  the work  of  the former Department  of  Technical 
Cooperation  for Development  in helping  countries  formulate  and  carry  out 
" programmes  for  the disabled, we  encourage  the new Under-Secretary-General  for 
Economic and  Social  Development  to  intensify  the work  of  the support  group  set 
it up in line with  resolution  45/91 and,  in general, to maintain  an  active 
:> presence vis-a-vis  the question  of  the  disabled. 
.; 
Eighth, we  firmly  support  the  continuation beyond  the Decade  of  the 
Voluntary Fund  for  the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons.  We  agree 
•; with the Secretary-General  that  the Fund has been of direct  benefit  to 
,. grass-roots initiatives  and  that  it has made  a significant  contribution  to 
:> United Nations  activities  for the disabled.  In that  context, we  also view  as 
ill timely the Secretary-General' s proposal  to give  a new mandate  to the  Fund; 
;. this should be  considered  by  the Economic  and  Social  Council. 
A/47/PV.36 
149-150 
(Mr. Mayorga  Cortes. Nicaragua) 
Ninth, we  support China's  proposal  that  the question  of  the  disabled 
should  appear  on the agenda of  the  summit  on  social  development  to be held in 
1995.  This  should  not preclude  the convening  of  a United  Nations world 
conference  on  this  subject  in the next  two or  three years, as  suggested by the 
World  Committee  chaired by Mr. Reich.  The  item,  of  course,  is mandatory for 
the  coming world  conferences  on human  rights  and on women. 
Without  diminishing  the  importance  of  integrated  rehabilitation  and equal 
opportunities,  I want  to stress  the overriding  importance  for  developing 
countries  of  the  adoption of measures  to prevent  disabilities  and  eliminate 
those  that  can be  treated  at  low  cost. 
A/47/PV.36 
151 
(Mr. Mayorga Cortes.  Nicaragua) 
In the  first  case,  in accordance with  the  second  Leeds Castle  Declaration 
of 1991, it is estimated  that with  appropriate  action  it would  be possible  to 
prevent some 30 million human beings  from becoming  disabled  in the  decade 
1993-2002  and  that  close  to 70 million might be  able to  surmount  their 
i disabilities by means  of  relatively  low-cost medical  intervention.  Can  the 
world possibly  remain  impassive  in the  light of  those  statistics  and  their 
e promise for  the  future?  There  is no doubt  that  this  field of  action  is a 
priority, and we must  pool  our  efforts  to address  it. 
s 
Taking  into  account  the  fact  that disease  and war  are  significant  causes 
of disability  in developing  countries, we  should  like to note that  in the 
former case, disease, much  can be  done to coordinate  ongoing  scientific 
research in the developed  countries,  as well  as to  share  that  research  between 
developed and developing  countries.  The  exchange of  experience  is  still 
extremely  limited,  and  there  is a need  to identify  and  target priority  areas 
that have proved promising  for  research.  There has been  insufficient 
cross-referencing  of  the  results  of  research being done  in the  areas of 
genetics, organ  transplants, the  impact  of environmental  degradation  on health 
and the quest  for  solutions  to the terrible  tragedy  of AIDS, as well  as with 
regard to other  scientific  investigations  into  such diseases  as arthritis, 
multiple sclerosis  and  cerebral  palsy,  to mention only  a few of  the  diseases 
that continue  to  resist  science.  The  timely  and widespread  dissemination  of 
the results of  such  research and  the  systematic  exchange  of  scientific 
information should be  key  components  of  the  international  action  to be 
undertaken in the  decade  1993-2002. 
Nicaragua has  experienced  the evils of war  at first  hand,  and we  continue 
to confront  its  aftermaths.  One of  the most  significant  results has, of 
A/47/PV.36 
152 
(Mr. Mayorga  Cortes. Nicaragua 
course, been  the number  of disabled  persons  as  a result  of  the  conflict, a 
number  estimated  at approximately  16,000, most  of whom  are young people, 
children  and women.  Their present  and  future  status  is of extreme  concern to 
my  Government. 
Nicaragua  is a country with  a disability  incidence  that  is much higher 
than  the  average  in other  developing  countries.  It  is estimated  that 
approximately  10 per  cent  of our population  is affected by  some  form of 
disability.  Given  the  inaccuracy  of  available  statistics  and  the problems 
created  by  the  aftermath  of war, we  are certain  that  that  figure  is a 
significant  underestimation  of  the true  state  of  affairs.  Together with the 
problems  generated  by poverty, malnutrition,  accidents, diseases  and other 
causes,  in Nicaragua war 
as I have  already  noted 
has  left  a painful legacy 
of disability.  The war-disabled  are being given priority  by  the Government, 
but we  should  like  to work  out  an overall  approach  to  the  problem. 
The World  Health Organization  estimates  that  of  the  390,000  disabled 
persons  in Nicaragua,  the majority  of whom  are women,  84 per  cent have 
physical  or motor-related  limitations,  8 per  cent  suffer  from mental illness, 
4 per  cent  suffer  from  sensory  deprivation  and  an another  4 per  cent suffer 
from neurological  disabilities  or  a work-related  disability.  Many of the 
disabled  are  also victims  of drug  addiction, which makes  the situation even 
more  complex. 
Article  62 of  the Republic's  Constitution  establishes  that: 
"The  State  shall  strive  to establish  programmes  to benefit disabled 
persons  leading  to  thoir  physical, psychological  and  social 
rehabilitation  and  their  reintegration  into  the workforce." 
The  principal  body  responsible  for preparing  and executing  such programmes is 
the Nicaraguan  Institute  of  Social  Security  and Wellbeing,  which has 
A/47/PV.36 
153 
(Mr. Mayorga Cortes.  Nicaragua) 
undertaken  a wide  range  of  income- and/or  employment-generating  activities  for 
disabled persons  and which,  in coordination with  the Nicaraguan  National 
Commission  for  Rehabilitation,  has  carried  out  restricted  training  programmes 
through a number  of  occupational  workshops.  None  the  less, there  is a need  to 
expand such activities  and promote more permament  institutional  frameworks. 
In February  of  this year  two  institutes  providing  care  for  the  97,000 
direct victims  of  the war 
including  the  16,000 persons  disabled  as a  result 
of that tragedy  - were merged.  The National  Commission  for Support  to 
Veterans and  the Nicaraguan  Repatriation  Institute  ceased  to exist  and were 
combined under  the Nicaraguan  Institute  of Social  Security  and Wellbeing  as 
the Department  for  Care  for War Victims. 
On 14 February  of  this year  the First National Meeting  of War  Disabled 
for Peace, Reconciliation  and Development was held.  On that occasion  the 
Government made  specific  proposals  in the  areas of employment,  education, 
health and well-being,  transport,  culture  and  sport.  The proposals  were 
debated at  some  length by  the  competent  bodies, both public  and private.  For 
their part,  the participants  made  their own  suggestions  and proposals  on  such 
subjects as the  allocation  of  appropriate  financial  resources  for more 
effective action,  vocational  training, housing,  participation  in the  process 
of privatization being  undertaken  in the country,  taxation policy,  urban 
transport, employment  of women disabled  as a result  of the war,  recreation, 
special education  and  the  strengthening  of  the National Health  System  to 
benefit the disabled.  The  results of  the Meeting have  helped  to clarify  the 
policies and  action of  the Government  in this  area. 
However,  all  of  this 
must be tackled within  very  tight  financial  constraints. 
A/47/PV.36 
154-155 
(Mr. Mayorga  Cortes. Nicaragua) 
Also  in February  of  this year  the Government  of Nicaragua,  under  the 
terms of Decree  No. 7-92,  set up  the  Institute  for Care  to War  Victims 
(INVICTA), within  the purview  of  the Programme  for National  Reconciliation and 
Rehabilitation,  the  keystone  of President  Chamorro's  governmental  programme. 
The  Institute  functions  as a department  of  the Ministry  of  the  Presidency. 
INVICTA  is an  initiative  designed  to  foster widespread  cooperation  and 
understanding  among disabled veterans  of  the  resistance  and  the military, who 
in the past  decade waged  a devastating  war  in Nicaragua.  Its creation is 
valuable  testimony  to  the process  of healing  and growing  domestic  solidarity 
that  is ongoing  in Nicaragua,  notwithstanding  the difficulties  still facing 
us. 
Recently,  to carry  out  the  Institute's various  activities  a project with 
specific  sub-projects  was drawn  up  and budgeted  at  $11.9 million,  and this 
has been  submitted  to  the  international  community  for  consideration. 
Timely  and proper  attention  to  the needs of  the disabled  is of critical 
importance  in Nicaragua,  as  it  is in all  the developing  countries.  After all, 
85 per  cent  of  the world's  500 million  disabled  live  in those  countries.  We 
are  confident  that  our  countries,  the United  Nations  and  the private sector 
can work  together  to build  upon  and expand  the  action  initiated  during the 
Decade  to which we  are  now bidding  farewell.  However, we must  not  lose sight 
of  the  sense  of  urgency,  the need  for  creativity,  the new  requirements in 
terms  of  organization  and greater  participation  by  the disabled  themselves, 
all  factors  that  are more  and  acute  and pressing  today  than  ever before.  If 
we bear  those  factors  in mind  as we  approach our work,  our  endeavours will 
undoubtedly  be  successful. 
A/47/PV.36 
156 
Mr.  GHAFOORZAI  (Afghanistan):  At  the outset,  I should  like  to 
express my delegation's  deepest  sympathy  and  condolences  to the delegation  of 
the Arab Republic  of  Egypt  and,  through  it, to the people  and  the  Government 
of Egypt, on the  loss  of  life and destruction  of property  Egypt  has  suffered 
i 
as a result of  the devastating  earthquake  that  struck  Cairo. 
While we  are marking  the conclusion of  the United Nations Decade  of 
Disabled Persons  and  evaluating  its  achievements,  the number  of persons  with 
disability has  increased  over  the  course of  the Decade,  especially  in 
war-stricken countries  such as Afghanistan.  We believe,  as is also  reflected 
in the report  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the United Nations, Mr.  Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali,  in document  A/47/415, that disability  remains  a great  challenge 
that must be addressed  seriously. 
t 
[ft 
Us 
ii» 
My delegation  has  studied with great  interest  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  and  congratulates  His Excellency  on the  important 
contribution  of  the  United  Nations  to  the  achievements  of  the  Decade  of 
Disabled  Persons. 
I  would  a l so  l i ke  to  express  my  delegation's  thanks  and 
gratitude to all  the  international, governmental  and non-governmental  bodies 
for their valuable work  carried  out during  the Decade. 
This occasion gives  the delegation  of  the  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan  a 
good opportunity  to bring  to  the attention  of  the  international  community  the 
*"" gravity of the disabilities  facing Afghan  society.  General  Assembly 
irresolution 45/91  of  14 December  1990, through which  the General  Assembly 
fc1"1 requested the  Secretary-General  to  shift  the  focus of  the United  Nations 
Dili'Programme on disability  from  that  of  awareness-raising  to action,  has  immense 
importance for  the  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan.  Afghanistan,  a  war-stricken 
country, has  inherited  more  than  2 million  disabled  persons 
I repeat, 2 
million disabled  persons  - as a  legacy of  aggression  and  an  imposed  14-year 
A/47/PV.36 
157 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai. Afghani st-an) 
war.  Disability,  in the magnitude  that  exists  in Afghanistan,  literally 
disables  the entire  nation.  Our  need  is urgent  and our  appeal  is for quick 
action.  The  extent  of  the devastation  that  Afghanistan has  suffered  is best 
portrayed  in  a paragraph  from  the  recent  "Consolidated  Appeal  by His 
Excellency  the  Secretary-General  of  the United Nations  for  Emergency 
Humanitarian  Assistance  for Afghanistan",  as follows: 
"Few countries  in history  have  suffered  to the extent Afghanistan has 
over  the past  14 years.  Aside  from  the physical  destruction, which was 
often nothing  short  of  cataclysmic,  the  results  of  the war  include over a 
million  people  killed,  over  2 million disabled,  nearly  6 million refugees 
in neighbouring  countries,  and  2 million  internally  displaced persons." 
Unfortunately,  the disabled  population  of Afghanistan  is not decreasing, 
but  owing  to  the  indiscriminate  mining  of  the entire  country with over 
10 million mines, the  toll  is  increasing  at  an ominously  high  rate.  The 
refugees  returning home  after  14 years of hardship  are  often greeted by land 
mines,  which most  often maim  them  and  force  their  return  to the overcrowded 
border medical  facilities. 
Indeed,  it  is  ironic  that  the  international  community  is celebrating the 
end of  the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons while  in my  country, the 
problem  facing Afghan  society  of more  than  2 million  disabled  persons  the 
highest  number  in a single  country 
is an acute  national  disaster.  I believe 
that  this problem  in Afghanistan  is closely  linked  to  the overall  strategy of >i 
economic  and  social  rehabilitation  of  the country.  Therefore, we earnestly 
call  upon  the Centre  for  Social  Development  and Humanitarian  Affairs at the 
United  Nations  Office  at Vienna  and  other  international  bodies  to extend 
technical  assistance  to  the  Government  of Afghanistan  in preparing  a report on 
A/47/PV.36 
158-160 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai.  Afghanistan) 
the extent of  disability  in our  country, which  could  serve  as a  solid 
foundation for  future programmes  for  the  rehabilitation  of  the Afghan  disabled 
population and  its  integration  into  the active workforce  and  the 
reconstruction of  the  country. 
Providing  the multitude  of disabled  persons  in Afghanistan with  an 
opportunity  to become  as self-sufficient  as possible  is imperative  for  the 
realization of  a successful  programme  for  the  self-sufficiency  of  the  disabled 
population, allowing  the  remaining  segments  of  the workforce  to concentrate  on 
the rebuilding projects.  To  reach that  level of  self-sufficiency,  it is 
necessary to  include  in the programme  for disabled persons primary  health 
care, nutrition, immunization, and other preventive measures, as well  as 
rehabilitation programmes, technical  aid and appliances, education  facilities, 
and vocational  training. 
Afghanistan's  disabled  population  cannot expect  any equality  of 
opportunity when the vast majority  of medical  facilities  in the country  is 
either completely  inactive  or  functioning with  less  than adequate  resources. 
The expected  increase  in the number  of disabled  in Afghanistan  is due not only 
to lack of proper medical  facilities  and medicine which could prevent  a 
disease from becoming  incapacitating, but also  to such deprivations  as 
malnutrition, especially  a.nong children, and lack of clean drinking water 
owing to the destruction  of drinking-water  facilities  and the pollution of 
"ater supplies  as a result of  14 years of war. 
A/47/PV.36 
161 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai. Afghanisr»„) 
As the  Foreign Minister  of  the  Islamic  State of Afghanistan pointed out 
in his  30 September  1992  statement  to the General Assembly, with its multitude 
of problems  and  its limited  capabilities  Afghanistan  cannot  alone address the 
critical  needs  of disabled  persons.  He  stressed  the priority  of constructing 
new hospitals  and clinics  as a prerequisite  for  the  initiation  of 
rehabilitation  programmes  for disabled  persons.  The Foreign Minister added 
that all  rehabilitation programmes  need  to be  financed with  international 
assistance. 
While  praising  the efforts  of  the United Nations  Office  at Vienna and the 
Centre  for  Social Development  and Humanitarian Affairs  in adopting principles 
aimed  at ensuring  the  implementation of measures  and  a monitoring  system for 
the  rights  of disabled  persons, I should mention  that the problem  in 
Afghanistan  is of  a different  nature.  Our  country  needs  to create appropriate 
national machinery  to support  almost  2 million persons  disabled  as a result of; 
armed  conflict.  Without  appropriate  international  assistance, this objective 
cannot be  achieved. 
My  delegation,  aware  of  the  seriousness  of problems  related to disability, 
and the  important  tasks  ahead  in this  respect, supports  the conclusions and 
recommendations  contained  in the  report of  the Secretary-General  and welcomes 
the note by  the Secretary-General  (A/47/214) calling  for  continuation of the  , 
Voluntary  Fund  for  the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons. 
On  the  regional  level, recently  the Economic  and  Social Commission for  ^ 
Asia  and  the Pacific  (ESCAP) proclaimed  the Asian  and Pacific Decade of
Disabled  Persons, 1993-2002, which deserves  our  appreciation. 
;a 
>, 
A/47/PV.36 
162 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai.  Afghanistan) 
Also, the World  Committee  for  the United Nations Decade of  Disabled 
Persons deserves  our  appreciation  for calling  on the United Nations  to  convene 
a United Nations world  conference  on disability by  1995 and establish  a United 
Nations disability  agency  sufficient  to meet  the enormous  challenge  of 
implementing  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled Persons; 
moreover, until  such  a United Nations  agency  is established,  the 
Secretary-General  should, on a continuing basis, assert his moral  authority  to 
inspire Heads  of State  and other world  leaders  to turn  from  "awareness-raising 
to action". 
I would  also  like  to congratulate  the ad-hoc working group  to  establish 
standard rules on the equalization  of opportunities  for disabled persons  on 
fulfilling  its mandate. 
It is hoped  that the draft  rules on equalization  of  opportunities 
recently approved  by  the  ad hoc working group will be completed  and  submitted 
to the forty-eighth  session of  the General Assembly  for adoption. 
In conclusion, we believe  that, despite  the rich experience  and the gains 
of the Decade, disability  remains  a serious  challenge which  requires 
comprehensive  and more  action-oriented  programmes  and  strong commitment by 
Member States  and concerned  international bodies  to the implementation of  the 
World Programme  of Action beyond  the United Nations Decade of Disabled 
Persons.  Afghanistan  is a prime  candidate  for such  action-oriented 
programmes, and we hope  that, given  the magnitude  of the problem  of  the 
disabled in Afghanistan, we will be placed  on the priority  list of  the 
Programme concerning  disabled  persons  for  the period  1993  to  2002. 
A/47/PV.36 
163 
Mr. KHALIL (Syrian Arab Republic) (interpretation from Arabic):  I 
wish to condole with to the people of Egypt with respect to the major 
earthquake that has struck their capital city, Cairo, and extend to them my 
country's sympathy and solidarity. 
It is a great honour and privilege for me to represent the Syrian Arab 
Republic before this Assembly, on which millions of disabled persons have 
pinned their hopes of equality with others seeking employment opportunities 
that would ensure for them self-reliance, independence and dignity in 
communities that really care for them and address their problems.  The 
disabled will continue to be a wasted human resource, unless society cares for 
them, rehabilitates them and integrates them into its mainstream of life. 
In that context, I want to pay tribute to the Canadian Government and its 
Minister responsible for the disabled in preparing for the international 
conference on the disabled that was held at Montreal on 8 and 9 October this 
year.  The Conference's conclusions and recommendations outline international 
machinery for financing and for exchanges of information and technology 
through the United Nations. 
When the General Assembly declared 1981 the International Year of the 
Disabled, there were 450 million disabled persons in the world.  Ten years 
later, that number has risen to 500 million.  This makes it necessary for 
society to pay greater attention to the disabled and motivate public opinion 
to support the disabled and deal with their problems in a manner that would 
have a positive impact on their present and future lives through a determined 
effort to find the reasons behind the increase in the numbers of the disabled 
and to deal with the causes of that increase. 
When the General Assembly declared 1981 the International Year of 
Disabled Persons, its aim was to heighten public awareness of this problem and 
A/47/PV.36 
164-165 
(Mr. Khalil. Syrian Arab  Republic) 
irge the competent  authorities  to do more  in the  field of  rehabilitation  and 
:he prevention of  disabilities,  all  under  the banner  of  "Full  participation 
and equality". 
Cooperation,  fraternity,  a sense of  responsibility  to defend  the  rights 
of others are  incumbent  upon us all, and not  for  reasons of pity  or  charity. 
The goal of these meetings, as outlined  in the documents before us, is to 
discuss the present  conditions  of  the disabled,  review what has been done  for 
them in the  framework  of  the Decade  and explore  the possibilities  of 
establishing a world  plan of  action  to provide  care  for  the  disabled, 
rehabilitation and equality with others  in employment  opportunities.  As we 
stand on the threshold  of  a new world  decade of  the disabled  the  objective 
should be to define  clearly  rights and obligations.  The person with  a mental 
or physical disability  is, before  all, a citizen of  a democratic  society  that 
respects all  social  and human values  and provides  equal  opportunities  to  all 
its members, as  a right,  not  out  of motives  of  charity.  Disabled  persons 
should participate  in the planning  and  follow-up  of programmes  that  concern 
them. 
A/47/PV.36 
166 
(Mr. Khalil. Syrian Arab Repnhn,.) 
Here,  it might  be  in order  to point  out  that  the number  of  disabled 
persons  in our  country  is 1,129,  30 per  cent  of whom  are of  school age.  That ' 
number  represents  1.076  per  cent of  the total population  of  Syria. 
For  20 years my  country,  inspired  by  the wise guidance  of 
J 
President  Hafiz Al Assad,  has  taken  action  to  arrive  at effective  solutions to" 
the problems  of disabled  persons within  the  limitations  fixed by our national :: 
resources.  Fourteen  institutes  for  the disabled  have been  set up  in all 
provinces  under  the  supervision  of  the Ministry  of  Social  and Labour Affairs, " 
four  for  teaching  the deaf,  two  for  teaching  the blind,  two  for the physically"' 
handicapped,  one vocational  training  centre  for  the handicapped,  four for the "'-• 
mentally  retarded  and one  for paralyzed  children.  In addition,  two more 
schools  for  the mentally  retarded will be opened  this year.  Five day-schools >i 
for the  same  category  and  a further  vocational  training  centre  are in the 
i 
pipeline.  We hope  to be able,  in the near  future, to  increase  the number of  > 
institutions  for  the mentally  retarded  and physically  handicapped  so as to 
, 
cover  all  the provinces  and meet  all existing  needs within our  limited 
resources. 
, 
. 
As  for  job opportunities  for  the disabled,  our  labour  laws stipulate tha , 
the disabled  should  represent  2 per  cent  of  the total  labour  force in the 
private  sector  and  4 per  cent  in the public  sector.  The Ministry  of Social 
and Labour  Affairs has  submitted  a draft  law to  the  competent  authorities 
calling  for  an  increase  in that proportion  to  6 per  cent  of  the total labour 
force. 
I hope  that  all  the United  Nations  will  undertake  all practical follow-u] 
measures  with  regard  to  the care,  rehabilitation  and  training  of the disabled 
throughout  the world  and  that  serious  and  construction  action will be taken ti 
reduce  the  causes  of  disability.  In addition, we must  ensure  the financial 
A/47/PV.36 
167 
(Mr. Khalil. Syrian Arab  Republic) 
and technological  resources  necessary  and bring  about  an exchange  of 
information  through working  groups. 
In conclusion,  I should  like  to pay  tribute  to the Secretary-General  for 
his report  (A/47/415) on the  implementation  of  the World  Programme  of  Action 
concerning Disabled  Persons  and  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons, 
and to the  important  conclusions  and  recommendations  therein. 
Mr. ARAOZ  (Argentina)(interpretation  from  Spanish):  It is with 
great pleasure  that  I take part  in this debate marking  the conclusion  of  the 
United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  and express  the  recognition  of  the 
Argentine Republic  and  its  appreciation  to  all  the  institutions  and officials, 
and to the  international  community  as  represented  here,  for  the concern  shown 
in favour of  the  disabled  throughout  the world. 
I wish  to acknowledge  in particular  the appropriate  initiative  of  the 
Government  of  Canada  in convening  the earlier meeting  of  responsible  ministers 
in this area, which was held  at Montreal  and which provided  an opportunity  for 
direct communication  among  those  in charge of  ensuring  prevention, 
rehabilitation  and equality  of opportunities  for  the disabled  in all 
countries.  To  that  earlier  commitment  we  add  today  in the General  Assembly 
the firm  resolve  of my  country  to continue  its participation  in such meetings 
in order to make  progress  at the multilateral  level  towards  increasingly 
effective solutions  to the problems  that bring us together  here  today. 
Throughout  the  debate  it has been  clear  that  there  is a close  link 
between disability  and  social policies  that  respond  to the  tragedy  of  poverty, 
inequality and  the  lack of  a minimum  standard  for  a decent  life.  That  is why 
I want to emphasize  that  all efforts  specifically  designed  to help  the 
disabled must  be made within  the  framework  of what each  country  and  the 
international  community  as a whole  are doing  to achieve  a more  just  and. 
A/47/PV.36 
168 
(Mr. Araoz. Argentina) 
therefore, more humane,  society.  Perhaps  the convening  of  a world  summit on 
social  development,  which my  country  fully endorses,  is the best means of 
finding  solutions  for  the disabled  - and  that would  be one  of  the various 
problems  to be  addressed  at  such a meeting 
and  it would  be  a sign that all 
peoples were  to be  involved.  All  the disabled will  obtain  full equality of 
opportunities  when  the population  of  a given  society  as a whole has  access to 
a dignified  lifestyle,  to employment,  to education,  to health  care and to full 
respect  for human  rights 
in a word,  to the  individual's  greatest  possible 
fulfilment  within  an organized  community. 
Those  aspirations  will  become  realities  only  if every  initiative is 
action-oriented  and does not  remain mere verbiage  contained  in compilations of 
international  instruments.  During  the Decade  now drawing  to  a close Argentina 
has made  efforts  to discharge  its responsibility  by  taking  realistic and 
effective  steps  in that direction.  As evidence  of  such  compliance we will 
deposit with  the  Secretariat  the  legal body  of  laws, decrees, regulations, 
resolutions  and programmes  undertaken  to develop  solutions  to  the question. 
But  these  achievements  should  not  lead  to complacency,  for where  the rights of 
the disabled  are  concerned  we may  indeed  be moving  in the  right  direction but 
there  are  always  new goals  to be  reached. 
In this  connection  the more we  do, the more we  should  continue  to do, 
because  the very  development  of  rehabilitation  poses  challenges  to the policy 
of  integration  and eguality of opportunities.  The Argentine  Republic has 
endorsed  declarations  on  this  issue,  and  it has  also  adhered wholeheartedly to 
them  as an expression  of  our  society  as a whole  and  not  of  our  Government 
officials  alone.  In that  sense  the  international  declarations  reflect a level 
of  universal  ethical  awareness  of  the  issue  and  are  the basis  for  specific 
A/47/PV.36 
169-170 
(Mr. Araoz.  Argentina) 
action against  discrimination  and  for  the  fullest possible  integration  of  all 
people  affected  by  disabilities  into  the  life of  the  community. 
In that  connection we  already  adhere  to the draft  standard  rules on  the 
equalization  of  opportunities  for disabled  persons  that may  achieve  consensus 
in the specialized  agencies,  such a procedure  implying  as  it does  the 
willingness  to  set  common  goals, to coordinate  efforts  and to guide 
international  cooperation.  However,  after  the  successful Decade  established 
by the United  Nations,  and  after  all  the statements  delivered  and efforts  made 
to lay unified  foundations, we  feel  that we must now prepare  the way  to draft 
an international  convention  on the  rights of  disabled persons, one  that  could, 
at the highest  level  of  legal  commitment,  ensure  for all the disabled  a social 
and political  response  commensurate  with  the declarations  and  consensus 
reached so  far.  We must  move  from  the  strictly episodic  stage of  fighting 
against  all  discrimination  to the  stage  of positive  affirmation  of  all  our 
rights.  It  is  true  that much  remains  to be done with  regard  to  discrimination 
against  the disabled,  but  that must  not prevent  us from developing  a  legal 
system that guarantees  special  rights  for people with  special  needs, for where 
there is a need,  a right  is born. 
A/47/PV.36 
171 
(Mr. Araoz. Argentina) 
In conclusion,  I should  like to express my Government's  firm  commitment 
to  join the  international  community  in all  efforts  aimed  at  the  constant 
development  of human  society  though  the contribution  of  each of  its members. 
Those whom we  call disabled  cannot be excluded  from  this  task, because we need 
them 
their  capabilities,  their willingness  to work,  their  solidarity 
to 
build  a more  equitable world  in which  the dignity  and worth of  the human being 
are  respected  and  treasured  and  take precedence  over  any differences  or 
conditions. 
Mr. ADALA  (Kenya):  First  of  all, on behalf  of my  delegation, may I 
extend  our  sympathy  to the Permanent  Representative  of  the Arab Republic of 
Egypt  and  through him  to  the Government  and people  of  Egypt  on their  sad loss. 
As we  come  to the end of  the United Nations Decade  of Disabled Persons, 
many  of us will  agree  that  the. Decade  served  a useful purpose  in bringing 
about worldwide  public  awareness  and  that  it  led  to  an  improved  understanding 
of disability.  This was  indeed  one  of  the objectives  of  the Decade.  The 
initiatives  taken by disabled persons  themselves, especially  in activities 
such  as  sports  and  rehabilitation,  have  also been very  encouraging.  We 
commend  all, whether  individuals,  institutions, governmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations,  or  the United  Nations  system  and  its organs, 
for  keeping  the  spirit  of  this  campaign  alive during  the whole Decade.  The 
challenges  of  turning  this  first  step  success  into  long-lasting  reality will, 
however,  depend  on  the  achievement  and  sustainment  of  the goals we  set for 
ourselves  in the World  Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled  Persons. 
The World  Committee  for  the United  Nations  Decade  of  Disabled Persons 
estimates  that  85 per  cent  of  the half-billion men, women  and  children who 
have  disabilities  - physical  or mental  impairments  that  interfere with the 
A/47/PV.36 
172 
(Mr.  Adala.  Kenya) 
major  task  of  living 
are  found  in  developing  countries,  where  they  are 
doubly  disadvantaged;  by  poverty  and  disability.  Our  Secretary-General 
underscores  the  point  in  his  report  with  the  observation  that  current  economic 
and social  deterioration,  marked  by  low-growth  rates,  high  unemployment, 
reduced  public  expenditure,  current  structural  adjustment  programmes  and 
privatization,  have  negatively  affected  programmes  and  services  for  disabled 
pesons  in  both  developing  and  developed  countries. 
The  Government  and  the  people  of  Kenya,  under  the  leadership  of 
His Excellency  President  Daniel  Arap  M o i,  have  striven  over  the  years  to 
create  a positive  image  through  education  and  by  improving  the  conditions  of 
i persons with  disabilities.  Special  institutions  for  teaching  disabled 
persons,  vocational  rehabilitation  centres  for  training  in  skills,  and  several 
;  thousand  individuals 
disabled  persons  and  their  families  -  have  been 
< assisted  through  a  National  Trust  Fund  established  in  1980  by  the  Head  of 
;  State.  Our  m a in  goal  has  been  to  achieve  development  and  secure  opportunities 
, that can  allow  the  integration  of  disabled  into  society  and  make  them 
self-reliant. 
The  Government  of  Kenya  is  therefore  doing  its  utmost  to  further  the 
implementation  of  the  World  Programme  of  Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons  as 
i> 
, envisaged  by  the  World  Committee  for  the  United  Nations  Decade  of  Disabled 
Persons.  First,  our  Head  of  State  spearheaded  a  nationwide  fund-raising 
[' 
campaign.  It  collected  over  $2  million,  which  is  now  being  used  in  activities 
beneficial  to  the  disabled,  thus  turning  awareness  into  action.  Second,  the 
Government  of  Kenya  has  increased  the  participation  of  persons  with 
, disabilites  in  social,  cultural,  religious,  recreational  and  community  life, 
,i 
and in decision-making  at  various  levels.  Third,  education,  training. 
A/47/PV.36 
173 
(Mr. Adala.  Kenya) 
rehabilitation,  and  job opportunities  are being  expanded.  Fourth, 
equalization  of opportunities  is one of  our main objectives.  This has been 
achieved  to a certain degree by  removing many barriers  - attitudinal, 
architectural,  transportation  and  communications,  and  legal.  Fifth, through 
health education, mother-and-child-care  services  countrywide,  expanded 
immunization  and  the progressive  improvement  of environmental,  occupational 
and other  health programmes,  the Government  aims  at preventing  disabling 
disease  and  conditions.  Sixth, Kenya  stands head  and  shoulders  above many 
developing  countries  in expanded  community-based  rehabilitation  services and 
self-help programmes  involving people with disabilities  and  their  family 
members.  Seventh,  our  self-help  programmes  involve everyone 
disabled and 
non-disabled,  rich  and poor, young  and old, men  and women 
in cooperative 
efforts  directed  at conquering  or preventing  disability  and  releasing human 
potential  for  the benefit  of all. 
It  is the  intention  of  the Kenya  Government,  as was  recently announced by 
His Excellency  President  Daniel  Arap Moi  at the  seventeenth World Congress of 
Rehabilitation  International  - which Kenya had  the honour  to host  from 7 to 
11 September  this year 
to support  an application  to the European Economic 
Community  by  the Association  of  the Physically Disabled  of Kenya for funds to 
build  a rehabilitation  centre  in Kenya.  The  Government  has promised  to donate 
a piece  of  land  for  this purpose.  As was  reported  at  this Congress, it has 
been  found  that many  factors  - direct  or  indirect  - that  cause disabilities in 
many  developing  countries, particularly  in Africa,  are preventable.  These are 
factors  such  as diseases, overpopulation,  environment  degradation, drought, 
famine  and  internal  civil  strife.  Owing  to  the  socio-economic  situations of 
the developing  countries, however,  they have been unable  to alleviate some of 
these  occurences. 
A/47/PV.36 
174-175 
(Mr. Adala.  Kenya) 
The  Government  and people  of  Kenya  are grateful  to the Danish  Government, 
which in 1986 helped  Kenya establish  an  institute  of  special  education 
offering  a two-year  diploma  course  and  short-time  in-service  training  in 
special education.  We  thank  the  International  Labour Organisation  and  the 
United Nations Development  Programme, which,  in collaboration with  our 
Government,  initiated  a successful  employment  project  for persons  with 
disabilities.  Kenya was, in  1984, the second  country  after  India  in the world 
to launch a Campaign  on Prevention  of Avoidable  Disability  (IMPACT) called  for 
in the United  Nations  Programme  of Action,  as a priority  programme. 
A/47/PV.36 
176 
(Mr. Adala.  Kenya) 
Since  that  time, one  of our major  programmes  in this  respect has been 
education  on  road  safety, particularly  among young  people. That  is our 
response based  on the  adage,  "an ounce of prevention  is worth  a pound  of cure", 
In our efforts  on this project we have  received valuable  support and 
great  assistance  from various  bodies,  including,  to mention but  a few, the 
Rotary  Club,  the Kenya  Society  of  the Disabled,  the Kenya Ear  Foundation, the 
African Medical  Research  Foundation  and  the Association  of  the  Physically 
Disabled  of  Kenya. 
Kenya believes  in the  total  integration  of  the disabled  into  society 
without  marginalizing  them  in special  groups  requiring  special  treatment.  We 
will  continue  to cooperate with  the United Nations  and  other Member  States in 
finding ways  of  achieving  this goal.  As  the Decade has proved,  given tools 
and  opportunities, disabled persons  can  serve  as a source of motivation for 
others  and make  a significant  contribution  to  the development  of their 
societies. 
Mr. GALAL  (Egypt)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  I wish  at the 
outset  to express  the deep  appreciation  of  Egypt's  Government,  people and 
delegation  of  the warm  sentiments  and  condolences  expressed  by  representatives 
with  respect  to the earthquake  that  struck my  country  and  that  caused damage 
we have  not yet  been  able  fully to assess. 
The  fact  that  the General  Assembly,  at  the end of  the United  Nations 
Decade  of Disabled  Persons,  is considering  the question  of  the  disabled, 
underlines  anew  the  important  role of  the United  Nations  in achieving genuine 
social  development  through  consideration  of  social  issues with particular 
attention  to  the problems  of vulnerable  groups  such  as  the  disabled. 
A/47/PV.36 
177 
(Mr. Galal. Egypt) 
That  is clear  proof  of  increased public  awareness of  the question  of 
human rights  in all  its political,  civil, social, economic  and  cultural 
dimensions. 
To achieve effective  results  in the  field of  the care, protection  and 
human development  of  the disabled,  there must be coordination  of  the  efforts 
of international  specialized  agencies  and non-governmental  organizations,  in 
cooperation with  international  financing  agencies.  We urge  the adoption  of 
national programmes  designed  to achieve  specific goals  in line with 
international programmes  and  interim plans, and  attach  importance  also  to the 
coordination of  regional  programmes. 
Egypt, as a developing  country,  faces well-known problems  relating  to  its 
idevelopment needs.  This  is especially  true at present, when we  are engaged  in 
!: a process of economic  restructuring  that, very naturally,  affects  the  scope of 
our activities  in the  area of  caring  for the disabled  and other groups.  We 
hope that international  cooperation will yield positive  results with  respect 
! to caring for the  disabled, particularly  in terms of  financing  and  resources, 
; the exchange of  scientific  and  technical  information  and the  transfer  of 
relevant technology. 
s
The Egyptian  family  remains  a social  institution with deep  roots. 
Therefore, the problems  of  the disabled  are neither  critical  nor urgent  in our 
case.  But  in the  future  it will be  necessary  to devote  increased  attention  to 
, this problem.  Some  Egyptian  institutions  and organizations  have  already 
established homes  for  the disabled providing  comprehensive  social  and  medical 
care. 
A / 4 7 / P V . 36 
178 
(Mr.  G a l a l.  Egypt) 
As  the  Secretary-General  noted yesterday,  war  is one  of  the major causes 
of disability.  The wars  through which  our entire  region,  and Egypt in 
particular, have gone make  it  incumbent  upon us to give  special  attention to 
the disabled  and war  invalids  by establishing  institutions  for  the disabled, 
where  they  can be productive  members  of  society  and where  they  can have the 
opportunity  to work, produce  and  engage  in artistic  and  sportive activities. 
One  fact  is clear  from  the documents before  us:  the  situation of the 
disabled has  improved  during  the Decade  that  comes  to an end  this year, thanks 
to the  foundation  laid by  the Decade  for  the development  of policies and 
programmes  for  the disabled  on the basis of principles  and an overall 
philosophy  that have been  agreed  upon by  the  international  community  in line 
with  the  needs  and  requirements  of every nation.  Most developing countries 
have  not  received  yet  sufficient  assistance  in the  areas  of  research and 
advanced  information. 
My  delegation  commends  the  information  and  the  strategies  set out in the 
principal  documents  of  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled Persons; these 
will  form  the principal  foundations  of United Nations  programmes  for the 
disabled  in  the post-Decade  phase.  Most  prominent  among  those documents and 
principles  are:  the World  Programme  of Action, which outlines  strong 
action-oriented  policies;  a long-term  strategy  that  identifies  specific tasks 
to be  implemented  within  a certain  time-frame;  a set of  standard  rules on 
equalization  of  opportunities  for  the disabled.  Those  elements  reflect the 
stage  of progress  achieved  in developing  programmes  and  objective rules with 
respect  to  disability. 
A/47/PV.36 
179-180 
(Mr.  Galal.  Egypt) 
To move  the World  Programme  of Action  from  the phase  of  identifying  goals 
and policies  to the phase  of  implementing  those  policies,  all Governments  must 
completely  review  their  policies  and assistance  programmes  for the disabled 
and define  comprehensive,  coherent  policies  for integrating  the disabled  into 
,all areas of  life.  Governments  must  also  adopt  long-term,  positive  national 
programmes  of  action  for the period  1993 to  2002.  Governments  should 
,,.incorporate their  plans  of  action  for the disabled  in their  national  long-term 
and medium-term  programmes  and in their  annual  State  budgets;  they  must 
„establish a  scale  of priorities  regarding  the fields  where  funds  are needed 
and provided. 
With  respect  to the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons, my 
delegation  feels  it must  make  the following  observations: 
First,  the paucity  of  financial  resources  at the national  level  is the 
it 
major obstacle  to developing  the required  level  of care  for the  disabled. 
Secondly,  developing  countries  still  face  severe  economic  and  social 
IS 
problems that  prevent  them  from  adopting  long-term  strategies.  Those 
si' 
countries,  therefore,  have  s e t t l ed  for  national  medium-term  plans  with 
ill! 
short-term  o b j e c t i v e s. 
A/47/PV.36 
181 
(Mr. Galal. Egypt) 
Thirdly,  in view  of  the  importance  of  the  rights of  the disabled, my 
country  has  enacted  legislation  to guarantee  those  rights by  including in the 
labour  laws  stipulations  of  the  right  to work  and  the  right  to employment in 
Government  bodies. 
Fourthly,  given  the  importance  of equal  attention  to the  rights of 
disabled women,  the Egyptian  disabled  woman  enjoys  equal  attention in 
programmes  for governmental  and non-governmental  organizations. 
My delegation would  stress  the  importance  of disability  prevention 
through  the peaceful  solution  of political  conflicts  in order  to avoid the 
eruption  of  armed  conflicts  that would  lead  to an  increased  number  of disabled 
in various  regions of  the world.
L 
At  the national  level, my  country has  implemented  national programmes for, 
disability prevention  through mother-and  child-care  services, accident 
, 
prevention  and  the use of  automated  equipment  and  rehabilitation programmes. 
At  the  regional  level  I would mention  the  importance  of  programmes 
carried  out by  the Economic  Commission  for Africa  (ECA) with  regard to the 
disabled.  There  is a need  for  international  support  for  the ECA owing to the . 
difficult  economic  conditions  existing  in Africa,  so that  the Commission may 
be  able  to develop  further  and  increase  its  programmes 
In conclusion, my delegation  supports  the proposal  included  in 
• t 
document  A/47/214 of  18 May  1992 on the  continuation  of  the Voluntary Fund foi 
k 
the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons,  taking  into  account the 
following:  First,  greater  attention must be devoted  to the disabled  in the 
least-developed  countries.  Secondly,  priority must be given  to practicable 
is 
'», 
programmes  for  the  implementation  of  the World  Programme  of Action and its 
continuation  after  the end  of  the Decade.  Thirdly,  an  appeal must be made to 
the developed  countries  to  increase  their  donations  to  the Voluntary Fund for 
A/47/PV.36 
182 
(Mr. Galal. Egypt) 
the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  so that  it may be  able to 
continue  to provide  its  assistance. 
Mr. MAKA  (Zambia):  May  I begin by expressing my  delegation's 
sympathy  to the  Government  and  the people of  the Arab Republic  of Egypt  on the 
tragedy  they  recently  suffered, which  resulted  in loss of  life and  property. 
I  am happy  to  contribute  to our  deliberations  marking  the  conclusion  of 
the United Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons, a decade devoted  to  improving 
the welfare  of  disabled  persons  throughout  the world.  The  celebration  of  the 
end of the United  Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons  does not,  in the view of 
my delegation,  signify  the end of  international  cooperation  in this very 
important  area.  Instead,  serving  as a platform  of  reflection,  the  celebration 
of the conclusion  of  the Decade  should  re-energize  all  of us to enhance  the 
welfare of disabled  persons.  This  is the  spirit  in which  I make my  statement. 
Before  I proceed  further,  let me  say that  the  Honourable 
Robert R. De Cotret,  Secretary  of State of Canada  and  the Minister  Responsible 
for the Status  of Disabled  Persons, with whom  I had the privilege  to work  as 
Vice-Chairman  at  the Montreal  First Meeting of Ministers  Responsible  for  the 
Status of Persons with Disabilities,  set  the tone of our meeting.  My 
colleague  fully  captured  the  issues  raised  and agreed  upon  in Montreal,  and I 
am in full  accord with his  statement. 
The commitment  of Member  States  of the United  Nations  to the  improvement 
of the status of  the  disabled prompted  the General Assembly  to adopt  in 
December  1982  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning  Disabled  Persons  and 
also to proclaim  the period  1983  to 1992  as the United  Nations  Decade  of 
Disabled Persons.  Through  that  action  it was envisaged  that  the Member  States 
A/47/PV.36 
183 
(Mr. Maka.  Zambia) 
and United  Nations  system  would  be  able  to  implement  the Programme  of Action 
to  the  full benefit  of  those members  of  our  society who have  disabilities. 
The main  focus was  to be  in areas  of prevention  and  rehabilitation  of 
disability  and  of guaranteeing  equal  opportunity  for  all disabled persons in 
all  areas of  human  activity. 
In Zambia,  the only body  that was  responsible  for  the  affairs of persons 
with  disabilities  was  the  Zambia  Council  for the Handicapped,  established in 
1968.  Since  1982, the  International  Year  of Disabled  Persons, a number of 
associations  of persons with disabilities  have been  formed.  Seven of those 
associations  have  grouped  together  to  form  the  Zambia  Federation of the 
Disabled, which has  affiliated  itself  to the  Southern African Federation of 
the Disabled  and  also  to Disabled  People's  International. 
Various  activities were  carried  out  during  the Decade,  particularly 
preventive  activities, namely,  an  immunization  programme  against measles, 
tetanus  and polio.  That programme  was  implemented  throughout  the country and 
especially  in the  rural  areas.  Also, primary health-care  clinics were 
conducted  to  teach mothers proper  feeding methods.  Those  two programmes have 
resulted  in a  reduction  of  such disabling  diseases  as blindness  and polio. 
Persons with disabilities  also became very  active  in representing  their needs 
to the  Government. 
In my  country,  efforts  are being made  to encourage people with 
disabilities  to advance  in whatever  field  they wish  to engage  in.  There are 
already persons  with disabilities  who  are  top civil  servants, lecturers, 
doctors  and businessmen.  The policy  of  the Government  is to create an 
enabling  environment  for persons  with disabilities  to  succeed  in whatever 
A/47/PV.36 
184-185 
(Mr. Maka.  Zambia) 
occupation  they  choose, even  at  the political  level.  Community-based 
rehabilitation,  as opposed  to  institutional  rehabilitation,  is  encouraged. 
Income-generating  projects  are being worked  out  in collaboration  with 
associations  of  disabled  persons.  The policy  of  the Government  is to  ask  the 
associations  to decide which projects  could be carried  out by people  with 
disabilities, and  the Government's  duty  is to assist  in funding or  finding 
sponsors.  In the past, projects were designed  for the disabled;  those 
projects have  not  succeeded  and have proved  to be  inappropriate  in most  cases. 
A/47/PV.36 
186 
(Mr. Maka.  Zambia) 
Last year, 1991, the Zambian Constitution was  rewritten.  People with 
disabilities presented  their views regarding their  rights as disabled 
persons.  Under part  III of the Constitution,  the protection of human rights 
' 
and the freedoms of the individual  are covered  in general terms.  Such rights
1 
and  freedoms extend  fully to persons with disabilities.  The Zambia Federation 
of the Disabled  in partnership with the Government will organize a workshop on  ' 
equalization of opportunities  legislation before  the end of the year. 
The Zambia Associations of People with Disabilities have entered into 
fruitful partnerships with  similar organizations outside  Zambia.  The 
Government  is also working well with the movements of the disabled.  We 
encourage people with disabilities  to open partnerships with employers' 
associations, business associations, and trade unions.
" 
S 
-' 
~ 
The Zambian Government,  through the Zambia Federation of the Disabled, 
ii 
will  carry out a public education campaign  through radio, television and local
i\ 
newspapers, and will continue  these activities to increase public awareness of ::j 
the objectives of the World Programme of Action concerning Disabled Persons. (it 
To achieve  this, the Government will take deliberate  steps towards formulating 
«tj 
policies which will  spell out the methods of handling  issues concerning 
disabled persons. 
I am glad  to report here that my Ministry organized  a national
policy-formulating  seminar  in September  this year where, among issues 
discussed, was the formulation of a national disability policy. 
:-:: 
<:iit 
% 
-:. 
'S 
The Zambia Council  for the Handicapped,  the Zambia Federation of the 
i:;,. 
Blind,  and the Zambia Federation of the Disabled were also invited to this 
i^ 
important  seminar  to assist by providing their  inputs to this policy, together ,(^ 
with organizations  and agencies whose  fields of  specialization  require 
^ 
involvement  in such activities. 
A/47/PV.36 
187 
(Mr. Maka.  Zambia) 
The World  Programme of Action, as adopted by the General  Assembly, 
constitutes an international  long-term  plan based  on extensive  consultations, 
and I would  like my Ministry  to pursue  this kind of approach  so that the 
Government, in collaboration  and consultation with the associations  of  the 
disabled, shall be able  to develop an  innovative  approach using a variety  of 
media for conveying  information,  including  the principles  and objectives  of 
the World Programme of Action to audiences which  are not regularly  reached  by 
conventional media or which  are unaccustomed  to using  such media. 
The Zambia Federation of the Disabled  is embarking on a nationwide  public 
education campaign  through  radio and television, which will  run for  13 weeks 
each on radio  and television.  The  target groups  are the government, 
employers, the general  public, and the disabled  themselves.  This will  assist 
in raising the  consciousness  of the disabled  and making  the public  aware of 
the need to change negative  attitudes  towards persons with disabilities. 
For us, therefore, the commemoration of  the end of the Decade  is a time 
to take stock of  our  achievements  and of  the obstacles encountered  in the 
implementation of the Programme  of Action, and to decide on  follow-up  action 
to the Decade so as to maintain and sustain the momentum  achieved  in the 
implementation of  the Programme of Action.  The experience gained during  the 
Decade should  serve  as a  springboard  for  further  action  in the years  ahead. 
We should emerge  from  the past Decade  reinvigorated  and ready to overcome  the 
challenges presented  by  the many obstacles  that have hindered  the  full 
implementation of  the Programme  of Action  for  the Decade. 
As pointed  out  in the  report of  the Secretary-General  before  us, there  is 
a firm relationship between disability  and  socio-economic  development. 
Indeed, the prerequisites  for  achieving  the goals of the Programme  of  Action 
A/47/PV.36 
188 
(Mr. Maka.  Zambia) 
are  economic  and  social  development,  equitable  redistribution  of  resources and 
income,  as well  as  improvement  in the  living  standards  of populations. 
For  developing  countries,  in particular  the  least  developed  among them, 
the  scarcity  of  financial  resources  is a major  impediment  to progress no 
matter  how much political  will  there  is  in favour  of  improving  the  status of 
people with  disabilities,  integrating  them  into  the mainstream  of  society, and 
enabling  them  to contribute  effectively  to national  development.  The scarcity 
of  financial  resources  in developing  countries  translates  as a lack of ability 
to develop human  resources,  and  the disabled  are  among  those who  suffer most 
from  this constraint.  In this  regard,  I wish  to express  Zambia's  gratitude to 
those  donor  countries  and  agencies which have  extended  and  continue  to extend 
financial  support  to promote  the  interests  and  the human  rights of the 
disabled  in developing  countries,  including  the promotion  of  sports  for the 
disabled. 
We  all  recognize  that  the disabled  are  the most vulnerable members of our 
societies.  In countries  such  as my  own, the vulnerable  segments of our 
society now  face the  serious  threat  of  economic  insecurity  as a result of the 
poor performance  of  the  economy  and of  drought.  Zambia has  responded  to this 
challenge  of  insecurity  by  establishing  safety nets  and  other  social 
programmes  targeted  to the poor  and vulnerable.  However,  the challenge of the 
scarcity  of  financial  resources  has  always been  lurking  in the background.  It 
is  in the  light  of  this  constraint  that my  delegation  is among  those 
advocating  increased  channelling  of  resources  towards  programmes  aimed at 
improving  the welfare  of  the  disabled. 
We  are  concluding  the Decade of Disabled  Persons  in an  improved 
international  political  environment.  The end  of  the  cold war has brought in 
A/47/PV.36 
189-190 
(Mr. Maka.  Zambia) 
its wake  the  renewed  interest  and  commitment  of  the  international  community  to 
questions of human  rights  and democracy.  Zambia  sees  this development  as 
providing unique  opportunities  for nations  to entrench  the  rights of  the 
disabled  in the mainstream  of policy  formulation.  Without  the protection  and 
promotion of  the human  rights  of  the disabled,  it  is rather  difficult  to 
imagine that  Governments  can be  in a position  to  improve  the welfare  of 
disabled persons.  The basic  lever  of entrenchment  is the enactment  of 
legislation  to protect  the  rights of disabled persons, which must be  followed 
by effective  implementation  of  legislative  instruments. 
My Government  is  in the process  of overhauling  legal  and  institutional 
mechanisms  for  improving  the welfare  of disabled persons.  The  initial  step 
has been the creation  of  a new Ministry  of Community  Development  and  Social 
Services, which  I have  the privilege  to head.  We  are now  in the process  of 
building an information  database  and  improving  coordination  among  agencies 
looking after  the welfare  of disabled persons.  After  this, we  shall embark  on 
overhauling  the  legislative  instruments. 
A/47/PV.36 
191 
(Mr. Maka.  Zambia) 
As we  leave  this Hall, the  challenge  for us all  is to adopt measures at 
the national,  regional  and  international  levels  to ensure  that  the 
achievements  of  the Decade  are built  upon.  The  raising  of  awareness  about the 
plight,  rights, needs  and potential  of disabled persons has been  a major 
achievement  of  the Decade.  We  now need  to  follow up that  awareness with 
concrete  actions  that will make  a difference  in the  lives of  the disabled.  We 
therefore  believe  that  the conclusions  reached  at  the  recent  Montreal 
Conference  of Ministers  Responsible  for  the  Status of  Persons  with 
Disabilities  will  provide  some follow-up mechanisms  for  future  collaboration 
at  the  international  level. 
Mr. GODOY  (Cuba)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  I wish to begin by 
conveying  to the Government  and  the people of  Egypt  the  condolences  of Cuba 
for  the  loss of  human  life  suffered  in the tragedy  that  has  struck  that 
country. 
Increasing  international  attention has been  focused  on  the situation of 
the disabled,  as demonstrated  by  the  scope  and  level of  the debate at this 
session  of  the General  Assembly.  In the  last  10 years we have  achieved 
greater  awareness  of  and world-wide  concern  for  the  situation  of  the 
disabled.  In the United  Nations  that has  come  about  through  the 
implementation  of  the World  Programme  of Action  concerning Disabled Persons. 
But many  concerns  remain. 
There  is very  little  evidence  of  a  substantial  improvement  in the 
situation  of disabled  persons  during  the Decade  that  is now  coming to an end. 
In our view,  improvement  in the world-wide  situation  of disabled persons, 
their  integration  into  society  and  respect  for  them  as human beings  can be 
A/47/PV.36 
192 
(Mr. Godoy.  Cuba) 
achieved only  through political  will  on the part  of all  States  to make  these 
goals a priority  and  through  effective  international  cooperation  for  the 
development  of  all  countries without  discrimination. 
It is obvious 
and  it has been  recognized  by  the vast majority  of  the 
international  community  - that  disability  is closely  linked  to economic  and 
social factors,  in particular  to economic  and  social development,  the 
redistribution  of  resources  and  income,  and  the  standard  of  living of  the 
population.  The  Secretary-General  himself,  in his  report  to the  Assembly, 
mentioned those  factors  as a prerequisite  for  achieving  the goals of  the World 
Programme  of Action; he  stressed  that  those goals will be  attained  only  if 
programmes  of  international  cooperation  are expanded beyond  their  current 
scope. 
The deteriorating  economic  and  social  situation has harmed programmes  and 
services for  this  segment  of  the population;  this has  led to  increased  social 
marginalization of  the  disabled.  Chances  are that  this  situation  will 
deteriorate even more,  as  international  economic  relations  continue  to block 
the access of most  countries  to development  by witholding  the  resources  they 
need to remedy  the major  causes of  disability. 
Many of  those  causes  are preventable,  thanks  to  advances  in medicine, 
proper diet,  access  to health  and education  services  - in a word,  access  to 
conditions for  a  life  in dignity.  Achieving  the necessary  levels would  have 
made it possible  to prevent  the diseases  that  cause  the  irreversible  damage 
incurred by  the majority  of  the world's  500 million disabled  persons, most  of 
whom live in developing  countries. 
A/47/PV.36 
193 
(Mr. Godoy.  Cuba) 
More  than  a quarter  of  the world's  population  has no  access  to the most 
basic  health  services; more  than  a billion persons  live  in absolute  poverty, 
and  they  are  the main victims  of disease, hunger, malnutrition,  environmental 
pollution  and  other  disgraceful  conditions  that  affect  the health  and physical 
and mental  growth of millions  among  the marginalized  and  the  forgotten 
disabled. 
It  is urgent 
indeed  vital  - to change  an unjust  international  economic 
order  that  denies  to  the  countries  of  the  South  the  right  to  fight  the main 
causes  of disability  in their  countries.  True  international  cooperation for 
economic  and  social  development  for  all  countries  - apart  from being a 
responsibility  of  the United Nations  and of  all  States 
is a moral  duty 
towards  the humanity  of  the disabled.  This  is not  a mere  North-South 
division,  for  in the North  too  there  is a separate world  of  the  dispossessed. 
This  is a human  tragedy  that  deserves  the greatest  attention  and  support. 
We  can proclaim  Decades  and  international  Days; we  can adopt  programmes 
of  action  and  resolutions; we  can enact  national  legislation  and take other 
national  and  international  steps  to  improve  the  situation  of  disabled persons 
and  integrate  them  into  society.  But  it will  all be  in vain without the 
political will  to place  this problem  high on  the  list of priorities of the 
United  Nations  and of  the world's  States. 
The point  is not  to pity  the disabled  or  to  act out of  charity; we must 
face  the problem  as  a whole,  as  a social phenomenon  affecting  all of mankind, 
especially  those  living  in underdevelopment.  The  fate of disabled persons is 
closely  linked with  changes  in unjust  international  economic  relations and in 
social models  that  perpetuate  poverty. 
A/47/PV.36 
194 
(Mr. Godoy.  Cuba) 
Disabled  persons must be given  the opportunity  to be  integrated  into 
society,  to participate  in the  economic  and  social development  of  their 
countries, to  receive  the needed medical,  social  and  financial  attention,  to 
have access  to employment  on  a priority basis  and  to have  the guaranteed  right 
as citizens  to education,  culture,  sports  and  any other  activities  that  form  a 
part of national  life. 
Before  the  revolution  in our  country,  the world  of  the disabled was  a 
world of paternalism  and marginalization;  the main  causes of  disability  were 
the same  as  in any other  poor  country.  As a developing  country with  few 
resources, Cuba has been  able  to make progress  towards  eradicating  those 
causes and  towards  treating  the disabled.  That  is because  since  1959  the 
policy has been  that  protecting  the physical  and mental health of  the 
population  is a  fundamental  responsibility  and  a high priority  for  the  Cuban 
State.  That has meant  taking  steps  to guarantee  these  services, based  on  the 
principles  of  free, unlimited  access by  all Cubans  to health  and  education 
services. 
It has  thus been possible  to have  a health  system  covering  the  entire 
population, which has enabled  us to eradicate  the communicable  diseases  that 
are still the  scourge of  the  third world.  We have developed  advanced 
programmes  of mother  and child  care, of  immunization,  and of early  detection 
of conditions, which makes possible  appropriate  treatment  of various  diseases 
that cause disabilities.  Sufficient  food has been made  available  to meet  the 
basic needs  of  the  population. 
It is not  only  standards  of  living and health  that have helped  improve 
the situation  of  disabled  persons  in my  country.  The  national  educational 
A/47/PV.36 
195 
(Mr. Godoy.  Cuba) 
system  guarantees  everyone  the  right  to participate  in  it.  There  is a special 
place  in that  system  for  education  for  the disabled;  we have  established a 
network  of  special  schools  to  serve  pupils with dysfunctions,  guaranteeing 
everyone  the  right  and  the opportunity  to  achieve  a better  life. 
Cuba has had  to develop  its programmes  in an economic  situation  that is 
made difficult  by  the hardening  of  the economic  bockade  imposed  against our 
country  by  the Government  of  the United  States.  This prevents  access to the 
necessary  resources  and  technology,  with  serious  effects  on our  social 
development  programmes 
in particular,  those  designed  for  the disabled.  It 
would  be dishonest  towards  the disabled  of Cuba not  to  stand before this 
Assembly  and demand  respect  for  their human  rights  and  their humanity by 
denouncing,  and  stressing  the immoral  and  inhuman nature  of, this  aggressive 
policy  that  inflicts  such cruelty  in this  area. 
Yet,  despite  the  adversity we  face, attention  to the  individual  and to 
his problems will  remain  a priority  of  our  revolution  because  of the deep 
humanistic  convictions  of  a society  that places  the human being at the centre 
of  its  concerns. 
A/47/PV.36 
196 
Mr. PASHOVSKi  (Bulgaria):  Let me  at the very outset  express  my 
delegation's heartfelt  condolences  to the delegation  of Egypt  in  connection 
with the earthquake  that  struck  Cairo, causing  numerous  deaths  and  injuries. 
It  is my  honour  and pleasure  to  speak on behalf  of  the  Bulgarian 
delegation at  this meeting  convened  to mark  the conclusion  of  the United 
Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons.  It is the  firm  commitment  of  the  present 
Government  of  democratic  Bulgaria  to overcome one of  the negative  legacies of 
the previous  regime 
the hypocritical  pretence  that  all  is well  in the  social 
sphere.  That  policy  resulted  in deliberately  ignoring  the needs of  vulnerable 
groups, including persons with disabilities.  Those problems  are now  an 
integral element  in my  Government's  overall measures  of  social  policy-making 
and policy-adjustment. 
During  the  four meetings yesterday  and  today we have heard  a number  of 
emotional  and  impressive  statements  by high-level  representatives  of  Member 
States as well  as by  representatives  of  intergovernmental  and  non-governmental 
organizations gathered  here  to appraise  the  achievements  of  the Decade.  I 
should like to express  the hope of my  delegation  that  this discussion  will 
identify and develop policies  and programmes  for  the disabled  on the basis  of 
the comprehensive  report of  the Secretary-General  contained  in document 
A/47/415. 
My delegation  cannot but  agree with  the multilateral  approach  of 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali  to issues  concerning  disabled  persons  and  related 
activities  in the  framework  of  the United Nations  system.  The  successful 
prevention of major  causes  of disability  is closely  linked  to the 
strengthening  of  the new  forms  and  trends of  international  cooperation  that 
are taking  shape  in  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.36 
197 
(Mr. Pashovski. Bulgaria) 
The United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons  has been  a period of 
awareness-raising  and  action-oriented  measures  aimed  at  continued  improvement 
of  the  situation  of persons with disabilities.  My  delegation  considers the 
increased  international  awareness  of  the need  for  a shift  away  from charity 
towards  comprehensive  social  development  to be one  of  the main achievements of 
the Decade.  We welcome  the main  idea behind  the policies  and  activities 
undertaken  during  the Decade, namely,  the equalization  of  opportunities for 
the disabled  as well  as  rehabilitation  and  the prevention  of  disability. 
Despite  the  comprehensive  Programme  of Action  and  the many  activities at 
both  the  international  and  the national  levels, progress  in attaining the main 
goals of  the Decade  has been  slow.  And here we  come  again  to the need for an 
integrated  approach  to those  issues:  disability  is closely  linked to economic 
and  social  factors.  The  Bulgarian  delegation  is convinced  that  the lofty 
objectives  of  the Decade  cannot  be  reached without  expanding  and  intensifying 
international  cooperation programmes  for development.  The main goals of the 
Programme  of Action have been hindered  by  social  and economic  deterioration, 
low global  growth  rates, high unemployment  and  reduced  public  expenditure, as 
well  as by  current  structural-adjustment  programmes  under way now, especially 
in the  countries  in  transition. 
Despite  the difficulties  ensuing  from  the process  of  transition in 
Bulgaria,  disability  issues have become  an  integral  part  of my  country's 
social programmes  during  the United Nations  Decade.  Long-term  arrangements 
have been made on  the national  and  the  local  levels  for  addressing problems 
related  to prevention  of  impairment,  disability  and handicaps, vocational 
rehabilitation  and  the employment  of handicapped  and disabled persons. 
A/47/PV.36 
198 
(Mr. Pashovski.  Bulgaria) 
Headway  has been made  in creating  equal  conditions  for  an  independent 
life for handicapped  and disabled  persons  and  in ensuring  full  access  to 
information  and public  education.  A  system  for  social  studies has  been 
established,  enabling  us to estimate  the number  of handicapped  children  and 
those with  serious  forms  of disability,  and  to identify  their problems.  A 
national programme  of  action has been worked  out,  aimed  at preventing  and 
reducing disability  and  illness  and  at lowering  the death  rate  from  cerebral 
and cardiovascular  impairments. 
Considerable  efforts have been made  in Bulgaria  to solve  a series  of 
problems related  to handicapped  children  and disabled persons  in general, 
through the  supply  of orthopaedic  and technical  aids  and  facilities  and  an 
increase in  social  benefits  for  the disabled.  Original  approaches have  been 
found to tackle vocational-rehabilitation  issues concerning persons  with 
disabilities.  A  system  of  "indoor  patronage" has been  tested  in practice, 
with the aim of  rendering various  services  to thousands  of disabled persons. 
Continuing  to  speak of my  country's  national  experience  in addressing  the 
issues of disability,  I should  like to emphasize  the establishment  of  various 
organizations of  the disabled with a view to enabling  them  to take  an  active 
part in discussing  and handling  their own problems.  The Union of  the  Blind 
and the Union of  the Deaf  are well  established  organizations  that play  a very 
active role  in Bulgaria.  In 1989  the Union of Disabled  Persons was  founded. 
Along with blind  and deaf persons  that Union also  includes  individuals  with 
impairments  of  the motor  system  and  those  suffering  from chronic  internal 
illnesses. 
A/47/PV.36 
199-200 
(Mr. Pashovski. Bulgaria) 
It  is  important,  however,  to point  out  that  the present  severe economic 
situation  has  a negative  impact  on  all  spheres of  Bulgaria's  social 
activities.  Thus  far, the  transition  to  a free-market  economy has badly hit a 
number  of  social groups  in my  country.  By  introducing  social  safety nets and 
readjusting  policy-making,  the Government  is doing  its best  to provide what is 
4 
( 
necessary  so that  disabled  persons  are affected by  the  recession  as little as 
possible.  For  instance,  disabled persons have been provided with additional 
invalid-pension  benefits  and  advantages  in acquiring medicines  and in using 
city  transport.  They  also  enjoy  reduced  fares  for  railway  and water 
transport,  and  some  free  trips. 
* 
JI 
] 
'I' 
ii 
A/47/PV.36 
201 
(Mr. Pashovski.  Bulgaria) 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  contains  a number  of worthy 
recommendations  aimed  at moving  the disability  Programme  and  the activities  of 
our Organization  from  awareness-raising  to action.  Our main  task now  is to 
implement  the guidelines  and policy  documents  developed  over  the Decade.  The 
three major  ones  among  them  are the Programme  of Action,  the  long-term 
strategy,  and  the equalization  of opportunities  for disabled persons, which 
sets global  standards  supported  by an effective monitoring  system. 
The  recommendations  of  the Secretary-General's  report  require  action at 
two principal  levels:  national  and  international.  I should  like  to  confirm 
from this high  rostrum  the  commitment  of my  Government  to bring  about  the 
successful  fulfilment  of  the objectives  of  the aforementioned  key  documents 
along with  the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General. 
In conclusion,  I should  like to express my delegation's  support of  the 
draft resolution, which proclaims  3 December  as the  International  Day of 
Disabled Persons.  On  that particular  date  in 1982, the Assembly  adopted 
resolution 37/53  and  announced  thereby  the beginning  of  the United  Nations 
Decade of Disabled  Persons.  It  is my  understanding  that  the  unanimous 
adoption of  this  resolution will bring  to a proper  conclusion  the  fruitful 
debate during  the  four plenary meetings  of  the General Assembly  devoted  to the 
issues related  to persons with  disabilities. 
Prince  DLAMINI  (Swaziland):  The Kingdom  of  Swaziland  joins  the 
world in expressing  its condolences  on the  tragedy  that befell  our  brothers 
and sisters  in Egypt.  We  should  like  to express  through you. Sir, our  deepest 
sympathy  to the  Government,  the people,  and especially  all  those who  lost 
their loved  ones. 
A/47/PV.36 
202 
(Prince Dlamini. Swaziland) 
I  realize  that  it is a bit  too  late  and  the majority  of  us here  are a bit 
tired.  But  the  truth  is that we  could  not  all have  spoken  at once; otherwise, 
chaos would  have been  among  us here.  Those  of  us who  came  to  speak would 
therefore  like  to express  our  sincere  thanks  to you. Sir,  and your  staff for 
giving  us  the opportunity  to hear  the  things  that we heard  and  to say the 
things we  feel  should  be  said  in this  Assembly. 
On behalf  of His Majesty,  King Mswati  III, the Government  and  all the 
people  of  the Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  I and my  delegation  take delight in 
addressing  this  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly  of  the United 
Nations  on the  conclusion  of  the United  Nations  Decade of Disabled Persons. 
Before  I present  my views,  I feel  tempted  to express  our  appreciation  that, in 
the  spirit  of  the  recognition  and  awareness  of people with disabilities, the 
President  of  the United  States of America  has  seen  fit  that Dr. Bruce Halliday 
of Canada be honoured  for his vision  and  services  on behalf  of  the plight of 
people with disabilities.  May  I also hasten  to  say that,  in my view, there 
was  no better  time  or venue  to present  this  award  than  in Montreal  and at this 
October  meeting  of  the ministers  of  the world  responsible  for  the affairs of 
people with  disabilities. 
For  those  of  us who  stand here  representing  the people who might never 
have  a chance of  seeing  or meeting with Dr. Bruce Halliday,  we  say on their 
behalf:  "Thank  you very much.  We  assure you  and promise  to carry your name 
and deeds  to our  various  countries,  to  those people whom  you have been working 
for". 
To  come back  to my  story, may  I say that  it may not be easy  to speak 
again on  this  subject without  sounding  repetitious.  But, with all due 
respect,  this  is meant  to emphasize  both  the  seriousness  of  the  subject in 
question  and  the  concern of  those who may not have  the opportunity  to speak on 
A/47/PV.36 
203 
(Prince Dlamini.  Swaziland) 
their own behalf.  The  theme of my presentation  in Montreal was  on  sensitizing 
the public  to  the plight  of people with disabilities.  Because  of  the  time 
factor, I touched  a bit  on the problems  of  small  countries  like mine, 
Swaziland,  and  others  in carrying  out  our  duties  as regards problems  faced  by 
people with  disabilities. 
In my  intervention,  I pointed  out  that  I do not believe  in hand-outs.  No 
wonder I subscribe  to  the philosophy:  "Do not give  a man  fish, but  rather 
teach him how to  fish  to manage his own  life."  By this, I meant  to  align 
myself with  the  observation  and  suggestion  that,  to combat  this problem,  we 
too in developing  countries  need  to have  technicians  and experts  in medicine, 
education,  and occupational  areas who will  appreciate  and understand  about 
disabilities. 
May I also  add  that we  do have  such people who  are entrusted with  and  can 
master these  courses  if and when given  the chances.  By  "chances", I refer  to 
their soliciting  and  acquiring places  and  scholarships  in  relevant 
institutions  of  learning.  This would  relieve  us of  such burdens  as we have  in 
our schools  and  institutions  in places  like  Swaziland  and  others.  For 
instance, in my  own country,  in our  speech  and hearing  school  at Siteki, we 
lack trained personnel.  The  same applies  at the  school  for  the  deaf. 
Despite  all  these  inconveniences,  the Government  has  nevertheless  put  up 
institutions  like  the Vocational  Rehabilitation  Centre, where persons  with 
disabilities  are being  trained.  We  also have  a transitional  workshop,  where 
the Government, with  the help of  the United Nations  Development  Programme, 
assists our people  in practising what  they have  learned,  while  at  the  same 
time searches  for  places  of  employment  both  in government  and  in the  private 
A/47/PV.36 
204-205 
(Prince Dlamini. Swazilan/i) 
sector.  Having  said  that,  it  is no wonder  that  I welcome  the  creation of an 
inter-ministeral  task  force  that will  also work with  a view  to  transferring 
technology  to our  developing  world. 
Ever  since  our meeting  in Montreal  and here  in this Assembly,  listening 
to  speakers has brought  to my mind memories  of  a fairy  tale  in my  country 
which, by your permission.  Sir,  I shall  tell.  In a certain humble  homestead, 
while  the mother  was  away,  the eldest  and most  trustworthy  child became very 
mischievous,  and warned  the younger  one never  to mention what had  transpired 
during  the  absence  of  the mother,  to which  the younger  one  acceded. 
A/47/PV.36 
206 
(Prince Dlamini.  Swaziland) 
While  they were having  supper  that  evening,  the elder  chid  kept  looking 
very scornfully  at  the young  one, trying  to make  sure  that  she did  not  raise 
the subject.  The young  one  responded by  forcefully  asking,  "Why  do you  keep 
on looking  at me  like  that?  Do you  actually  think  I told mommy  about what  you 
were doing?  No,  I never  did.  Ask her."  I need not  tell you of  the  look of 
despair  and  disappointment  on the  face of  the mother.  She had discovered  by 
mistake that her  trusted,  obedient  child was  incapable of doing  right  in her 
absence. 
I relate  this primitive  story  as an analogy with us. Governments  and 
politicians, people  entrusted  and empowered  to legislate  and  administer  the 
affairs of our  fellow  citizens.  For us, as Governments, as organizations  and 
as individuals,  to be  reminded of  1982  as the year  that  saw the  celebrated 
declaration of  the World  Programme  of Action concerning Disabled  Persons, and 
the confession  that  not much has been  achieved  or done over  the years  and  that 
now we have  even more persons with disabilities  than we did before,  leaves a 
lot to be  desired. 
With the United  Nations  as our mother  body and our various  Governments 
its appendages,  I cannot help but  admit  that  these  revelations  leave  us with 
nothing but  sheer nakedness.  It exposes  us as Governments  and peoples  who 
have failed  and  are perpetually  failing.  It exposes  our  insincerity,  our 
insensitivity  and  the uncaring  attitude we have  always displayed  towards  the 
plight of  those members  of our  society who  could  do  just  as well given  an 
opportunity. 
Yesterday  I heard Mr. Malinga  of  Zimbabwe,  the Chairman of  the  Disabled 
People's International,  read out  some very  sad quotations  by  some of our 
brothers and  sisters with  disabilities.  It is not  the best  thing  to hear 
these words: 
A/47/PV.36 
207 
(Prince Dlamini. Swaziland) 
"It  is always  the people who believe  themselves  to be normal who make the 
mistake  of  automatically  underestimating  me." 
It must  touch  someone with  a conscience  to hear  a  fellow-countryman 
lament: 
"It  is a story of  depression.  These  stories  are untold  to the world, and 
government  is not  serious  about  the welfare  of  those who  are invalids. 
There  is only  lip-service.  In my  country,  one who  is rendered disabled 
becomes  a street beggar  and  complete  destitute." 
With  those words  of  anguish and  lamentation,  I ask you. Where  is the source of 
pride of  all of  us here who  are  in government,  regardless  of what  country we 
come  from? 
How good  it  is that people with disabilities  are not  calling  for 
hand-outs  nor  are  they waiting  for  crocodile  tears.  All  they need,  all they 
want,  and  all  they deserve  is what most  of us already  have, and  that is 
nothing  other  than  an equal  opportunity  in all  forms of human endeavours. 
That  opportunity  means  full  rights  and participation  in all human activities. 
Coming  as  I do  from  Swaziland,  one  of  the developing  countries, and 
knowing  too that we have not  done enough  for, and  together with, persons with 
disabilities,  I note with  satisfaction  and  appreciation what  others in some 
other  countries, governments  and ministers, have  achieved  and aspire to for 
the  sake of people with  disabilities.  I have  in mind  countries  like Canada,  ' 
and  if  I may  speak on behalf  of  the  distant many,  let me  say that we certainly 
applaud  the  attitude,  the vision,  the  energy of  the Canadian Secretary of 
State  and Minister  responsible  for  the  status  of disabled  persons, the 
Honourable  Robert  de  Cotret. 
A/47/PV.36 
208-210 
Mr. KAMARA  (Sierra  Leone):  Please permit me  to begin by  expressing, 
on behalf  of  the  Sierra Leone delegation, profound  condolences  to  the 
Government  and people  of  the Republic  of Egypt  on the  severe  disaster  that 
befell them  two  days  ago, which  resulted  in heavy  loss of  life  and  property. 
We share  their grief  and we  sincerely hope  and pray  that God will  console  the 
bereaved  families  and  the entire  nation. 
We are  all quite  aware  already  that we  are here  to commemorate  the 
conclusion of  the United  Nations Decade of Disabled  Persons, which was  an 
extremely  important  initiative  designed  to continue  to  raise  awareness  of 
disability-related  issues.  As has been  abundantly  emphasized  by  various 
speakers, we have  now  reached  the end of  the awareness-raising  aspect  and  the 
beginning of  the  action phase.  In this  regard,  I should  like to give  some 
idea of what  Sierra Leone has managed  to achieve over  the Decade  and what 
plans are afoot  for  improving  the  lives  and  living conditions  of  disabled 
people in that  country,  despite  the many  constraints with which we  are 
confronted.  I am  sure that many people  are  aware of our  recent plight  caused 
by the rebel  incursion.  I will  come to that. 
Over the years  since  the early  1950s  a number  of voluntary  organizations 
dedicated  to  serving  different  categories  of disability groups  have  sprung  up 
in the country,  starting with  the Blind Welfare  Committee  in 1951.  This  came 
into being  through  the  influence  of  the then-British  Empire  Society  for  the 
Blind, subsequently  known  as  the Royal  Commonwealth  Society  for  the Blind  and 
now as Sight  Savers.  That  Blind Welfare  Committee  later got  a charter  to 
become the Sierra Leone Blind Welfare  Society. 
A/47/PV.36 
211 
(Mr. Kamara. Sierra r.e?n.) 
Following in the footsteps of that organization, the Cheshire Homes 
Association and the National Society for the Deaf came into existence in the 
early 1960s.  Then, early in the 1970s the Society for Mentally Retarded 
Children was born.  All these organizations set out primarily to take care of 
the educational needs of children belonging to their respective disability 
groups:  they built schools for those children.  There was hardly any 
practical effort to address the needs of disabled adults.  Moreover, there 
were no reliable statistics on the number of disabled people in the country or 
of the prevalence and incidence of any given disabling condition. 
The first attempt at addressing the needs of disabled adults was made by 
the Government in 1971, when a farmcraft centre for blind male adults was 
established in the eastern region of the country under the then Ministry of 
Social Welfare  now the Division of Social Services in the Department of 
Health and Social Services - with the financial and technical assistance of 
the Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind.  That institution was meant to 
train blind male adults in basic gardening and handicraft skills in a rural 
setting. 
Up to that point in time there was no viable organization of disabled 
persons themselves to influence the course of events in their own interests. • 
The first attempt at setting up such an organization came in the late 1960s, 
when an organization of the blind was set up by a few blind people, including 
myself.  Unfortunately, however, it was short lived.  It was not until 1976 
that the Sierra Leone Association of the Blind eventually managed to get off ,; 
the ground; it has continued to survive, in spite of some hiccoughs. 
Meanwhile, in 1972 the Government started to show interest in the welfare^ 
of disabled adults in general, especially in the areas of rehabilitation and ., 
job placement.  Thus, in October 1972 a small unit was set up in the then 
A/47/PV.36 
212 
(Mr. Kamara.  Sierra  Leone) 
Ministry of  Social  Welfare  and given  responsibility  for  supervising  some 
aspects of  rehabilitation  of  the handicapped  and  securing  job  opportunities 
for suitably  qualified  handicapped  persons.  It  is gratifying  to note  that 
right from  that  point  a handicapped  person was put  in charge of  that  unit. 
This move by  the Government  seemed  to give  impetus  to efforts  by 
voluntary non-governmental  organizations  to explore  areas of  rehabilitating 
disabled persons  in various  parts of  the country.  For  instance,  the  Seventh 
Day Adventist  Mission  started  a rehabilitation  programme  for victims  of 
leprosy and polio  at  their hospital  at Massanga  in the northern  region  in 
collaboration with  the  leprosy  control  programme.  The Catholic Mission  also 
started a workshop  in the northern  region  for  the manufacture  of  prosthetic 
and orthopaedic  appliances  as well  as for the  rehabilitation  of  some polio  and 
leprosy victims. 
In the mid-1970s,  the Baptist Mission, with  the financial  and  technical 
assistance of  Germany's Mission  to the blind,  started  an  agricultural 
rehabilitation programme  for  the blind  at a small village  near  the town of 
Lunsar in the North, where  there  is a high  incidence  of onchocerciasis.  That 
programme has been  operating  on the basis of  the concept  of  community-based 
rehabilitation. 
Efforts  in the  areas  of both educating  disabled  children  and 
rehabilitating  disabled  adults have  continued  to  increase  over  the years, 
especially  since  1981, which  the General Assembly  declared  as the 
International Year  of Disabled  Persons.  For  instance, the number  of  schools 
both for blind  and  for  deaf  children  increased  from one  to  two each.  One must 
admit that, given  the  estimated  population  of blind  children  - a little  over 
100,000 
and  that  of  deaf  children  - just a little under  90,000 
in a 
national population  of  4 million,  two  schools  for each of  those  categories. 
A/47/PV.36 
213 
(Mr. Kamara. Sierra T.epn-) 
each  school  having  less  than  100 pupils, is grossly  inadequate.  But there are ' 
plans  to  improve  the  situation when  funds  and  other  resources  become available.' 
Since  the beginning  of  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons a
•> 
number  of developments  in the disability  field have  taken place  in our 
country,  although  at  a rather  slow pace.  That  is because  of  a number of 
e 
factors  including  economic  decline  and  socio-political  instability,  especially | 
recently  with  the onset  of  the  rebel  incursion  in the eastern  and  southern 
.:: 
regions  of  the  country:  a direct  spillover  from  the Liberian  civil war next  : 
door. 
It  is  rather  unfortunate  that  throughout  the Decade  and until quite 
recently  disabled  persons  themselves  have played  a rather  low-key  role in 
their  own  affairs  in my  country.  This was dictated  largely by economic 
constraints  and  to  some  extent  a lack of motivation.  It was only  towards the 
end of  the Decade 
more  specifically  between  1990 and  this year 
that some 
organizations  of  disabled  persons,  such as the polio victims' association, the 
Sierra  Leone Young Disabled  Persons  Organization  and  the Sierra Leone 
Association  of  the Blind, made  some moves  towards  getting  the voice of the 
disabled  heard  in the  right places. 
For  instance,  in two days' time, on  15 October,  the  Sierra Leone Blind 
Welfare  Society will  be observing  White  Cane Day  for  the  first  time in the 
country's  history.  October  has been declared  the Month of  the Blind in Sierra 
Leone.  My minister  will  be making  a radio broadcast  on Thursday morning. 
A/47/PV.36 
214-215 
(Mr. Kamara. Siarra  Leone) 
The  situation  has been helped  immensely  since  29 April  this year, when  a 
new, energetic, youthful  and concerned  regime  took over  the  reins of 
Governemnt of  the  country.  It has  since manifested  a great  deal  of  interest 
in the welfare  not  only  of  non-disabled  but  of disabled  citizens  as well.  It 
is a manifestation  of  this positive  development  that  I am here  today,  a 
totally blind person  representing my  country  at this very  important 
gathering.  Perhaps, had  it been  another  regime,  a non-disabled  person  would 
have stood here. 
A/47/PV.36 
216 
(Mr. Kamara. Sierra r.enne) 
Various  international  non-governmental  organizations  and members  of the 
United  Nations  family have made very  significant  contributions, directly or 
indirectly,  towards  improving  the  situation  of the disabled  in our country 
over the Decade.  For  instance,  in late  1984 and early  1985 the United Nations 
Children's  Fund  (UNICEF) funded  a national  disability  survey, which was 
carried  out  jointly by the then Ministry  of Social Welfare  and Rural 
Development  and the then Ministry  of National  Development  and Economic 
Planning.  This  survey had  three main objectives:  first,  to determine the 
prevalence  and  incidence  of different  types of disability  in the country; 
secondly,  to establish  the number  of disabled  infants, young  children and 
women  in the country;  and,  thirdly,  to find out the different  types of 
institutions  serving  the different  categories  of disabled  persons  in the 
country, with  the overall goal of  improving  such  services. 
i 
i 
i 
a 
a 
ii 
As a result of  that disability  survey,  it was discovered  that the general :;: 
trend  in the disability  ratio  in the country was within  the United Nations 
ii 
estimate  of  10 per cent of the total population.  It was  also discovered that  :• 
much of this disability  trend was  a result of vitamin deficiency, genetic 
»;< 
defects, childhood  diseases  and  accidents.  Due  to the  rebel incursion that I  ;, 
have  already mentioned,  it is expected  that war-affected  areas of the country  ;:; 
will  experience  a much higher  degree of disablement  as a result of both
:, 
war-inflicted  injuries  and diseases  caused by malnutrition  owing to the lack  ^ 
of  food  in the war-affected  areas.  At this point,  it is interesting  to note
l|(| 
that  even  the present  Head  of State would have ended  up being disabled as a 
.. 
result of  a war  injury he sustained  at the  front  last year, but  for sheer luck , 
on his part. 
V 
A/47/PV.36 
217 
(Mr. Kamara. Sierra  Leone) 
In 1988 UNICEF  sponsored  the participation  of  a senior officer  of my 
Ministry - the  then Ministry  of  Rural Development,  Social  Services  and Youth 
in a symposium  on visually handicapped  infants  and young  children  that  took 
place in Edinburgh,  Scotland,  from 7 to 13 August.  In 1989 UNICEF  again 
manifested  further  interest  in the welfare of disabled  infants  and young 
children by  sponsoring  a one-day  symposium  on childhood  disability  in  Sierra 
Leone and its medical,  social  and economic  implications, which  took place  in 
Freetown in April  of  that year.  More  recently, UNICEF  again  sponsored  a 
one-day symposium  on  the plight  of disabled  infants  and young  children  in 
Sierra Leone, which  took place,  again  in Freetown, on  21 May this year. 
But over  and  above  all  this, UNICEF's  efforts  in the extended  programme 
of immunization  have made  a great mark  and have  contributed  tremendously 
towards curbing  the disability  trend  in the country  caused by the major 
i childhood disabling  diseases,  such as poliomyelitis, whooping  cough, measles, 
i diphtheria and  so on, which often  lead not only  to disability but  even  to 
; death.  Over  the years  since  the  start of  this programme  in the mid-1980s  the 
. coverage of  immunization  against  these  diseases  for children below  five years 
, of age has risen most  impressively,  from about  6 per  cent  at  the beginning  of 
, the programme  to over  60 per  cent. 
It is therefore  with great delight  that  I register  our deep gratitude  for 
, the important  role  that UNICEF  has played  during  the Decade of  Disabled 
Persons towards both  curbing  the  incidence  of disablement  and  addressing  the 
needs of disabled  infants  and young  children  in Sierra Leone.  It  is also 
;  extremely important  to note  that UNICEF  has helped  to  set up  an  organization 
for aid to disabled  infants  and young  children  in the  country. 
A/47/PV.36 
218 
(Mr. Kamara. Sierra Leone) 
In view of  this very  impressive  role that UNICEF  has played  and continues 
to play  in the  field of  disability,  I wish to seize  this opportunity  to appeal 
to other United  Nations  agencies  and other  international  non-governmental 
organizations 
those  already  operating  in Sierra  Leone,  such as the Christian 
Children's  Fund,  Foster  Parents  Plan  International,  Save  the Children Fund, 
Action Aid,  and  so on, and  those not yet  established  in Sierra Leone 
to 
emulate  the brilliant  example  already  set by UNICEF  in the  interests of the 
disabled. 
Finally,  I would  like to mention  something  about my participation  in the 
Seventeenth World  Congress  of Rehabilitation  International, which  took place 
in Nairobi, Kenya,  from  7 to  11 September  this year,  and one of the 
post-Congress  seminars  that  also took place  in Nairobi,  from  12 to 
13 September.  My  reason  for  this  is mainly  to express  the  sincere hope that 
the Nairobi  Plan of Action  for the  1990s and beyond,  as well  as the 
recommendations  in the  Secretary-General's  report, will be  taken  into very 
serious  consideration  not  only by our various  Governments, but  also by 
disabled persons  themselves  and  the general public  in our  respective nations 
to make  them  a reality  and  to ensure  the Decade  is not  forgotten, but that, as 
other  speakers  have  already  said,  it is only  the beginning  of  things to come 
for  the betterment  of  the disabled  in our  countries  and  the world over. 
Mr. TURK  (Slovenia):  At  the outset,  I should  like to express, on 
behalf  of  the delegation  of  Slovenia,  sincere  condolences  to the Government 
and people  of Egypt  at  this  tragic moment, when Cairo has been  struck by a 
terrible  earthquake.  At  this moment  of  tragedy,  the people  of Egypt has the 
solidarity  and  sympathy  of  the Government  and people  of  Slovenia. 
A/47/PV.36 
219-220 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
Our  statement  on  the  conclusion  of  the United  Nations  Decade  of Disabled 
Persons will  be  short  and  concise, concentrating  on certain major  policy 
elements pursued  by  the Government  of  Slovenia. 
Slovenia  is a new Member  of  the United  Nations  and  a new  independent 
State.  Nevertheless,  our  Government  pays particular  attention  to  the 
protection of  disabled  perons  and has  taken  the objectives  of the United 
Nations Decade  of Disabled  Persons  seriously.  In 1991, the year of  Slovenia's 
independence,  the Parliament  adopted  a strategy  of development  for  the 
protection of  disabled  persons,  taking  into account  the objectives  of  the 
United Nations  Decade. 
A/47/PV.36 
221 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
Protection  is one of  the  two principal policy  elements  of  the  strategy. 
It is geared,  however,  towards  creating  conditions  for  the  independent 
existence  of  each disabled person, upholding his or her  dignity  and  full 
enjoyment  of human  rights. 
The policy  includes  a series of measures  targeted  on the protection of 
specific  groups  of  disabled,  namely,  children,  adults, the elderly  and 
disabled  refugees.  Disabled  children enjoy cost-free  education  and  special 
vocational  training  at the primary-school  level.  All disabled  children enjoy 
cost-free  health  care.  Their  parents  and guardians  enjoy  considerable tax 
alleviation  and benefits  in matters  of housing,  as well  as preferential  status 
in matters  of  social benefits.  It  is possible  for disabled  youths  to find 
meaningful  employment  with  the  assistance  of  specialized  institutions. 
Special  benefits  are provided  for  adult  disabled persons; they range from 
tax benefits  to  special  incentives  for enterprises  that  employ  disabled 
persons.  Naturally,  the benefits  in the  field of health  care  and 
rehabilitation  constitute  an important  part of  the Goverment's policy  in this 
domain. 
Elderly  disabled  persons  enjoy other  types  of protection,  including 
special medical  assistance, which  is available  to them  either  at their homes 
or  in specialized  hospitals. 
The  policies  pursued by  the Government  are  an  important  feature of the 
overall  care  for  and protection  of disabled  persons  in Slovenia.  However, the 
Government  is fully  aware  that  Government  action  alone  cannot  yield optimal 
results.  Effective  participation  of  the disabled  is vital 
and  this is the 
second  main  policy  element.  Effective  participation  is necessary  both at the 
level  of policy  design  and  in the  implementation  of policies.  Only such 
A/47/PV.36 
222 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
participation  can produce  appropriate medical,  social  and  occupational 
integration of  disabled  persons  into  the wider  society.  Moreover,  the need  to 
foster prevention,  early detection  and medical  rehabilitation  of  disability 
requires the effective  participation  of  the  disabled. 
In Slovenia  there  are  around  140,000 disabled persons, or  7 per  cent  of 
the total population. 
All  of  them  are  involved  in the work  of  appropriate 
associations  freely  established  by  the disabled  themselves.  The  Government  of 
Slovenia actively  supports  those  organizations  through different  incentives 
and subsidies  and,  above  all, as a source  from which most valuable  initiatives 
emerge. 
In recent months  many  of  those  initiatives  have been devoted  to  problems 
concerning disabled  refugees.  The  total  number  of  refugees  in Slovenia  at 
present is 100,000, which  is roughly  5 per  cent  of  the  total population.  Most 
of them come  from wartorn  areas  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  and many  of  them 
are disabled.  Their  problems,  including mental  problems, are  extremely 
serious and  they  require help.  The Governmnt  institutions  of  Slovenia  and 
institutions  created by  the disabled  persons  in Slovenia  are  rendering  that 
help. 
Slovenia wishes  to be  active  in the  international  efforts  in the  field  of 
assistance to disabled  persons. 
We have expertise  and  professional 
experience.  We  have  already  established  cooperation with  the United  Nations 
Office for  the Decade  of Disabled  Persons  in Vienna.  The  end of  the  Decade 
does not mean  the  end  of  action 
quite  the  contrary.  For  Slovenia,  it means 
the beginning of  the process  of  expanded  cooperation  in the United  Nations 
A/47/PV.36 
223 
(Mr. Turk.  Slovenia) 
effort  in this  domain. 
We  are  looking  forward  to practical  action  for 
expansion  of  that  cooperation,  in particular  through our  cooperation with the 
United  Nations  Office  in Vienna. 
The  PRESIDENT  (interpretation  from  French):  We have  just heard the 
last  speaker  in the debate on  this  agenda  item.  Given  the  lateness  of the 
hour,  and  in order  to  allow  a substantial  number  of Member  States  to 
participate  in the  consideration  of draft  resolution  A/47/L.4,  the General 
Assembly  will  take  a decision  on the draft  resolution  as the  last  item on the 
agenda  of  its meeting  for  tomorrow  morning. 
The meeting  rose at  11 p.m. 
