UNITED 
NATIONS 
ik 
General  Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.5 
25 September  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  5th MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Monday,  21 September  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
later: 
later: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
Mr.  ROGERS 
(Vice-President) 
Mr.  GANEV 
(President) 
Mr.  ROGERS 
(Vice-President) 
Ms.  BONGO 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Belize) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Belize) 
(Gabon) 
Statement  by  the  President 
This  record  contains  the original  text  of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
be printed  in the  Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one week,  to  the Chief,  Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room  DC2-750,  2 United Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61191  1201V  (E) 
A/47/PV.5 
Ka-z) 
Address by Mr. Cesar Gaviria Trujillo, President of the Republic of 
Colombia 
Address by Mr. Alija Izetbegovic, President of the Republic of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
General debate [9] (continued) 
Statement made by 
Mrs. de St. Jorre (Seychelles) 
Address by Mrs. Gro Harlem Brundtland, Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Norway 
Statements made by 
Mr. Velayati (Islamic Republic of Iran) 
Mr. Vayrynen (Finland) 
Mr. Di Telia (Argentina) 
Mr. Nginga (Angola) 
Mr. Shamuyarira (Zimbabwe) 
A/47/PV.5 
2 
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m. 
STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT 
The PRESIDENT:  I should like once more to draw the attention of 
members to document A/47/456, containing a letter addressed to me by the 
President of the Security Council, and to document A/47/L.1, containing a 
draft resolution entitled "Recommendation of the Security Council of 
19 September 1992", which are being circulated under agenda item 8, "Adoption 
of the agenda and organization of work".  In this connection, the General 
Assembly will take up agenda item 8 tomorrow evening, at a meeting to begin at 
9 p.m. 
ADDRESS BY MR. CESAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will now hear an address by the 
President of the Republic of Colombia. 
Mr. Cesar Gaviria Truiillo. President of the Republic of Colombia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour 
to welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic of Colombia, 
His Excellency Mr. Cesar Gaviria Trujillo, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President GAVIRIA TRUJILLO (interpretation from Spanish):  I should 
like to begin by extending a warm welcome to the new States Members of the 
United Nations.  Colombia hopes to be allied with all of them as they strive 
to consolidate the growth of democracy.  I should also like to congratulate 
the President on his election to lead this session of the Assembly, and to 
express our recognition of the leadership and effectiveness shown by 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in making the United Nations the home 
of peace, development and progress for humanity. 
A/47/PV.5 
3 
(President  Gaviria  Truiillo) 
I  address  all gathered here  today  at the General  Assembly  with  a profound 
feeling  of  sorrow, because  at this moment  thousands  of  defenceless  people are 
victims  of  the war  against  Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and  because  in  Somalia 
thousands  are dying  of hunger.  I would  urge  the General  Assembly  of  the 
United  Nations  to  take  at this  session  a decisive  step  forward  in  resolving 
these world  conflicts. 
Among  the trends  that nourish  our hopes  for  the  future  of mankind,  we 
should  highlight  the  decisive  role  that  the United  Nations  has  undertaken to 
play  as  a catalyst  of  the new global  agenda.  But  the  Organization  still has 
many  of  the  features  inherited  from  the  cold-war  period.  Reforms  must move 
forward  with prudence  and patience, but  also with  the  certainty  that  the 
decision-making  mechanisms  of  the United Nations  will  be more  democratic, more 
equal, more  representative  and more  effective.  Only  then will  we be  able to 
advance  the  future  role of  the United  Nations.  The  "Agenda  for  Peace" 
presented  by  the  Secretary-General  is certainly  a guideline  for  our 
achievement  of  these  objectives. 
In the past, when  the world was divided  into  two- irreconcilable  poles, it 
was  almost  impossible  to  reach  agreement  even on  the  simplest  of  ideas.  But 
now conditions  exist  for multilateral  organizations  to become  the  principal 
actors of  the new world  order.  But here  too we must  call  for  caution.  The 
key problems  of  the new world  agenda  cannot  be  resolved without  the  active 
participation  of developing  nations.  This  new principal  role  in the 
management  of  the  international  agenda must  be  recognized  by  the 
industrialized  countries  if we  are  to make  truly  viable  a  multilateral 
approach based  on mutual  cooperation. 
A/47/PV.5 
4-5 
(President  Gaviria  Truiillo) 
At  the  same  time, the  industrialized  nations  cannot  continue  using 
multilaterism  selectively.  Also,  the developed  countries will  have  to  abandon 
the practice  of using multilateral  organizations  as mere  instruments  to 
legitimize  their  unilateral  decisions.  This  is a double  standard  that  puts  at 
risk the success  of multilateral  solutions. 
A/47/PV.5 
6 
(President Gaviria Truiillo) 
Five hundred years ago, thanks to the courage of Columbus, the meeting of 
two worlds that were separated by fear and ignorance became possible.  Because 
of his accomplishment the planet became one, awakening mankind to undreamt of 
horizons of progress and well-being. 
Only a few decades ago the cold war separated the world into two once 
again.  During that time people were not separated into isolated continents 
but into opposing blocs divided by an immense ocean of distrust and hate. 
Now, as the world celebrates the five hundredth anniversary of the discovery, 
humanity once again has an opportunity to forge a truly global community. 
The joy of liberated peoples dancing on top of crumbling walls is, alas, 
fleeting.  Democracy in Europe and America has shown that it is not enough to 
defeat dictatorship in order to achieve true freedom.  The tyranny of poverty, 
drugs, terrorism, fratricidal war, stagnation and paper democracies continues 
to be an unavoidable threat to peace, security and well-being.  Perhaps things 
did seem easier in the past when we believed we had just one enemy  communism 
or militarism.  Now we can see more clearly the real evils afflicting mankind. 
Even though there are powerful reasons for optimism about the future, we 
cannot give up our enthusiasm thinking these difficulties have now all been 
overcome.  We have a new agenda which we must begin to undertake with the same 
effort and dedication with which the cold war was fought. 
The road to  a new international order is plagued by paradoxes.  While the 
developing nations are embracing the benefits of free trade, the 
industrialized nations are sticking to protectionist barriers and creating new 
A/47/PV.5 
7 
(President Gaviria Truiillo) 
restrictive trade procedures.  At the very moment these trends are occurring 
the industrialized nations are cheerfully proclaiming to the four winds the 
triumph of the free market. 
If the world economy continues along the road of protectionism the 
possibilities of creating  a new international order based politically on 
democratic principles and economically on individual freedoms will continue to 
recede.  Without access to markets we will not be able to achieve the levels 
of economic development necessary to defeat poverty and to promote a climate 
of world peace.  Confronting this return to protectionism must be one of the 
principal contributions to peace and the progress of mankind. 
It is equally paradoxical that, when events signal a new era of 
international solidarity, symptoms of growing isolationism exist.  The 
industrialized countries are focusing increasingly on their internal affairs, 
sidestepping their obligation to contribute to peace and progress in the 
global community. 
A world in which hundreds of millions live in poverty without any hope of 
a better life cannot afford the luxury of egoism.  The wealthier countries 
cannot turn their backs on these multitudes by proclaiming that all of 
mankind's problems will be resolved by the invisible hand of the 
market-place.  Now more than ever solidarity is essential. 
When East and West extended their confrontation to the furthest corners 
of the planet the developing countries enjoyed the most perverse dividend of 
the conflict.  There was never a lack of external resources to feed the 
euphoria of war.  Now that the guns have been silenced, international 
assistance for democracy and for alleviating poverty is elusive.  Now that 
there is a need for generosity, and solidarity is the only argument put 
forward in support of it, the helping hand is withdrawn and the back is turned. 
A/47/PV.5 
8 
(President Gaviria Truiillo) 
The Earth Summit was certainly a milestone in the history of mankind. 
Rio de Janeiro is the beginning of a long road that must be travelled to 
reconcile man with nature.  Unfortunately there are dangerous trends in the 
industrialized countries threatening international cooperation on 
environmental problems. 
For example, there is the unilateral imposition of barriers and 
environmental conditions for our countries.  This is not good policy.  It 
could lead to an unacceptable situation in which the North continues to 
advance and pollute and the South remains poor in order to reduce the global 
environmental degradation caused by the industrialized nations.  This new form 
of environmental protectionism is a source of conflict that must be dealt with. 
I know all too well that when Colombia's name is mentioned in the great 
capitals of the world people inevitably think of drug-trafficking. 
Unfortunately this has been so because my people, armed only with their 
strength and their courage, have had to take on an unequal and heroic lone 
battle against the most powerful and most perverse criminals known to mankind. 
Colombia is a victim of the uncontrollable appetite for drugs throughout 
the world.  Three days ago the bullets that killed a valiant Colombian judge, 
Myriam Rocio Velez, were bought with money from cocaine consumers.  The bribes 
that corrupt the law enforcement and prison authorities in our country come 
out of the pockets of drug addicts in the major capitals of the world.  The 
dynamite used in car bombs that assassinate innocent citizens in the streets 
of Colombia is paid for with the money of those who consider their insatiable 
vice as harmless and innocent. 
It hurts us even more that those who point an accusing finger at a 
courageous people who have endured so many sacrifices are precisely those who 
A/47/PV.5 
9 
(President  Gaviria  Truiillo) 
have no problem  ignoring  a neighbour who  uses  drugs, launders money,  trafficks 
in arms, illegally  exports  precursor  chemicals  or  runs drug  distribution 
networks  in  streets  and  cities. 
There  is no doubt  that  in Colombia we have  lost  some battles  and  have 
suffered  severe  setbacks,  including  the  recent  and widely  publicized  escape 
from prison of  a group  of well-known  drug-traffickers.  In spite  of  that 
bitter medicine  we  can  say with pride  that no other  country  in the world  has 
fought  the  scourge  of drugs with  such  resolve  and success. 
The  treason  of  some  corrupt  officials who gave  up  their  dignity  for  a 
handful  of dollars  does  not negate  the  sacrifices  of  the  thousands  of 
Colombians  who  are  fighting  in defence of democracy  and mankind.  Hear  me 
well:  it is true  that  Pablo Escobar  escaped  from  jail but  he will  not  escape 
from  the  firm  resolve of  Colombians  to  see  justice  done. 
I  am convinced  that by  keeping  to our  legendary  firmness, Colombia  will 
soon be  liberated  forever  from violence  and crime.  But,  unfortunately, 
drug-trafficking  is an  international  crime  that  threatens  mankind  in every 
corner  of  the planet.  It  is not  enough  for only  the Colombians  to be  valiant 
and victorious. 
Today  in Colombia we have  drug-traffickers,  tomorrow  they will be  in 
sister  nations.  Today  their  enterprise  is cocaine; tomorrow  they will  be 
looking  for other  new,  lucrative  products  such  as heroin.  Today  they  are 
making millions  from  the demand  in the United  States; tomorrow  they will  be 
getting even  richer with money  from Europe  and  Japan.  We  are  already  seeing 
these changes  and  these  adaptations. 
Drug-trafficking  is a hydra-headed  monster;  it  is not enough  to  cut  off 
just one head  or  only  a few heads.  To eradicate  this  scourge once  and  for  all 
A/47/PV.5 
10 
(President Gaviria Truiillo) 
we need to take decisive, collective action, international and multilateral 
action, against this evil on all fronts. 
Two years ago I stood before the Assembly and called on all Members to 
work together against drug-trafficking.  Now we must ask the question:  what 
have we achieved since then? 
Two years ago the drug cartels looked invincible, were even threatening 
to destroy democracy in Colombia and impose a reign of terror and violence. 
Today most of those enemies of society are dead or in jail. 
Two years ago the industrialized world, with an accusing gesture, held 
responsible for the problem those very countries that are in fact victims of 
the production and processing of drugs.  Today we know that the consumers of 
drugs, are the source of the problem and cannot evade their responsibilities. 
Two years ago international financial centres were accepting funds from 
the most dubious sources without regard as to the propriety of their actions. 
Today we have started to see a change in attitude. 
A/47/PV.5 
11 
(President Gaviria Truiillo) 
Two years ago, drug trafficking was growing out of control. Today, from 
one end to the other of the western hemisphere, we have achieved unprecedented 
levels of drug interdiction. 
Two years ago, the epidemic of drug use looked uncontainable.  Today, we 
are certain that the demand for drugs can be controlled if the necessary 
economic resources are made available. 
Two years ago, no one recognized the close ties between poverty, the 
absence of economic opportunity and the emergence of drug trafficking.  Today, 
we know that alternative development, trade opportunities and economic aid are 
needed to overcome the drug problem. 
But all this progress  real progress  is not enough.  Drug trafficking 
adapts itself easily to the efforts of society to stamp it out.  Criminal 
organizations, now not only in Colombia but practically all over the world, 
have entered into this illegal business.  While consumption is dropping in the 
United States, it is growing in Europe and Asia. 
Today, more than ever before, we must strengthen international 
cooperation in the struggle against this enemy of humanity.  Today, more than 
ever, we need a vision of the future to guide our efforts and guarantee our 
people that the problem can be overcome.  That is why I want to challenge the 
international community today.  I invite you join me in establishing clear 
goals and measurable commitments so that all of us will know where we want to 
go and when we hope to get there.  In this way, we will be able to guide 
political decisions to generate the necessary resources. 
That is also why I propose that the United Nations define global, 
regional and country targets for controlling the problem of drugs.  We must 
commit ourselves to reducing the supply of drugs and the demand for them by at 
A/47/PV.5 
12 
(President  Gaviria  Truiillp) 
least  50 per  cent  by  the year  2000, by  70 per  cent  by  the year  2005,  and  free 
humanity  for  ever  from  the  scourge of  drugs by  the year  2010. 
As of  now, before  the  international  community,  Colombia  assumes  the 
responsibility  of  complying  with  these  objectives  in  its  territory.  We  intend 
to enter  the next  century with  sales  of  arms, the  sale  and diversion  of 
precursor  chemicals  and money-laundering  activities  under  control. 
The  need  to  free humanity  from  the  scourge  of  drugs  requires  a plan for 
global  action.  This  is why  I call  on the General  Assembly  to hold  a United 
Nations  conference  on  the problem  of  illicit  drugs where  the  necessary 
commitments  and programmes  would  emerge  to make  it possible  for  drug 
trafficking  to be defeated  completely  in the next  decade  and  a half. 
It  is beyond  doubt  that  international  criminal  organizations  have 
consolidated  their  extensive  network  of  ties  and  contacts  much  faster  than the 
judicial  system  is capable of  investigating  and prosecuting  those 
responsible.  The  Italian  judges  Giovanna  Falcone  and  Paolo  Borsellino  and the 
Colombian  judge Myriam  Rocio Velez, along with very many  others who  have 
fallen  in the  fight  against  international  organized  crime, were  facing 
powerful  enemies; the existing  laws  and  the mechanisms  were  not  enough. 
The  individual  courage  of  these heroes  of  justice  is  also  not  enough. 
There  must  be no borders  or barriers  if  those who  have  decided  to unite  in 
evil  are  to be prosecuted  effectively  everywhere  on Earth.  We  need  justice to 
be universal,  and  for  it to work  in as  coordinated  a manner  in all  countries 
as  the  international  criminal  organizations  do.  The Mafia,  cartels, camorra, 
and yakuza  are  just  different  names  for  the  same  thing.  The  time  has  come to 
treat  organized  crime  as an  international  crime. 
As  I said  in my  inaugural  address,  it  is vital  to develop  an 
international  criminal  jurisdiction  against  drug  trafficking,  money  laundering 
A/47/PV.5 
13 
(President Gaviria Truiillo) 
and the illegal export of precursor chemicals.  Wherever the guilty live or 
serve their sentences, it must be possible for the courts in all countries to 
be able, voluntarily, to have recourse to international courts where, in a 
secure manner and with all the evidence available world wide, these many and 
serious crimes can be tried.  Now is the time for the United Nations to tackle 
this question in a serious, dedicated way. 
Also, we must improve the machinery at our disposal for judicial 
cooperation between countries.  That is why we would like to see  a United 
Nations convention for judicial cooperation on felonies that would facilitate 
the flow of evidence, the standardization of testimony and supporting 
documentation, and reduce the bureaucratic procedures and legal obstacles to 
coordinated action by the criminal legal systems of different countries. 
We would also like to see real involvement by the European Community and 
by Japan and other countries in Asia in the Cartagena and San Antonio 
agreements and commitments.  In Cartagena and San Antonio, the participating 
countries agreed a set of strategies at all levels in the fight against drug 
trafficking.  This effort has already yielded results, but the moment has come 
to extend this cooperation to the rest of the world community. 
Lastly, let me say that I believe that the experience acquired through 
all these years of the difficult fight against drug trafficking has given our 
authorities some knowledge which, beyond a doubt, is of great value to many 
other countries which are starting to experience the consequences of the 
global spread of drug trafficking.  This is why Colombia has decided to 
establish an international centre for the fight against drug trafficking; this 
will allow us to make available to the global community what we have learned 
through so much sacrifice.  I invite the United Nations and all Member States 
to contribute to, and participate in, this initiative. 
A/47/PV.5 
14-15 
(President Gaviria Truiillo) 
I know that in a short time, supported by my compatriots' courage and 
resolve to fight, by the valour of the judges of Colombia, by the greatness of 
the people of my country, we shall not have to talk about violence and drug 
trafficking here within the walls of the United Nations.  Wars do not go on 
for ever, and I do not recall a single criminal who has resisted the pressure 
of the will of an entire people; and, if my call today has been heard, those 
criminal organizations will be even less able to resist the united will of the 
international community. 
Perhaps then, soon, when we leave behind the dark night of drug 
trafficking, the world will see the other, friendlier face of my country, and 
discover what we really are:  we are the strongest and oldest democracy in the 
region.  We are the most dynamic economy in Latin America.  Our country has 
grown at a sustained rate of nearly 4 per cent per year for the last three 
decades.  Our management of the economy has been prudent and thoughtful, and 
has kept us clear of the problems associated with indebtedness, 
hyperinflation, stagnation and unemployment. 
When someone comes to my country and meets my people, and does not 
encounter all the horrors that have sometimes been painted in the press, he 
becomes our compatriot, and he learns that to be Colombian is a form of pride, 
of hidden tenacity and sharp wit.  He also knows that you do not have to be 
born in our country to be a Colombian for ever. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank 
the President of the Republic of Colombia for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Cesar Gaviria Trujillo. President of Colombia, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall. 
A/47/PV.5 
16 
ADDRESS  BY MR.  ALIJA  IZETBEGOVIC,  PRESIDENT  OF THE  REPUBLIC  OF BOSNIA  AND 
HERZEGOVINA 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly  will  now hear  an address  by  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina. 
Mr. Alija  Izetbegovic. President  of Bosnia  and Herzegovina, was  escorted 
into  the General  Assembly  Hall. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly  I have  the  honour 
to welcome  to  the United  Nations  the President  of  the Republic  of Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, His  Excellency Mr. Alija  Izetbegovic,  and  to  invite him  to 
address  the  Assembly. 
President  IZETBEGOVIC:  Let me begin by expressing my  sincere 
appreciation  to His Excellency Mr. Samir  Shihabi  for his wise  administration 
and leadership  of  the  forty-sixth  session of  the General  Assembly.  It  is also 
my great pleasure  to  congratulate  His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev  on his 
election  to  the presidency  of  the General  Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh 
session and to wish him  a successful  term. 
I also want  you  to  know that we, the people  of Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
are deeply grateful  to the United Nations  for  all  of  its efforts  to  achieve 
peace and  for providing  humanitarian  assistance  under very  difficult 
circumstances.  The  courageous  troops  of  the United Nations  Protection  Force 
(UNPROFOR), with  the  tenacious  leadership  of  Secretary-General, 
Boutros Boutros-Ghali,  deserve  special  recognition  and  gratitude. 
As  is well  known,  I come  from  a  country besieged by barbaric  aggression. 
But,  I must  emphasize,  I have  come here  today  not  to talk of war  but  to 
offer peace. 
It is an offer  of  a nation born of  ethnic  coexistence  rather  than  ethnic 
cleansing. 
A/47/PV.5 
17 
(President Izetbegovic) 
It is an offer of a multicultural and multireligious Bosnia and 
Herzegovina in which democracy and tolerance prevail. 
It is not an offer of a unitary or ideological State, as some will have 
you helieve. 
Some have said that the killing and destruction have caused so much 
hatred that my country's peoples cannot live together in peace any more. 
I submit to you that my country has a centuries-old tradition of 
tolerance and coexistence among its peoples. 
Just one week ago yesterday I celebrated, together with Muslims, Croats 
and other groups, the five-hundredth anniversary of the first settlement of 
Jews in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
Because Muslims, Croats, Serbs, Jews and others have lived together in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina for centuries, virtually all of our towns and cities 
are mixed in population  some more, some less. 
It is therefore not possible to draw lines through our Republic to 
designate ethnically pure regions.  It is not possible to draw lines through 
our towns and cities to designate ethnically pure streets or neighborhoods. 
I submit to you that we, the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, can live 
together, and that we must live together, despite what has happened, provided 
that equality, justice and freedom are secured for all. 
In recent years, people of many nations have chosen democracy as the best 
means to secure their rights, to ensure religious and political liberty, to 
promote cooperation and mutual advancement, to enjoy the fruits of their 
labours and to achieve the greatest good for the greatest number. 
Their efforts have changed the world: they have opened doors where once 
there was an iron curtain. 
A/47/PV.5 
18-20 
(President Izetbegovic) 
This guest for democracy has made an old world order crumble and a new 
one begin. 
So, too, have we, the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, turned to 
democratic government as the means to assure mutual welfare, regardless of 
ethnic, religious or other distinctions. 
Consequently we have sought to build a government that represents all of 
the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina equally and justly. 
I am proposing a constitutional commission for Bosnia and Herzegovina 
which includes inter-ethnic and inter-religious representation.  The 
commission will work with a group of international experts to develop a 
constitutional settlement to the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina which will 
protect the rights of all citizens.  We envision it as encompassing the 
following: 
First, a State founded on the principles of democracy, individual rights, 
tolerance, religious and cultural freedoms and a market economy; 
Secondly,  a constitutional and administrative framework similar to that 
of modern democratic States; 
Thirdly, a decentralized State organized on the principles of 
parliamentary civil democracy; and 
Fourthly, a single legislative, executive and judicial framework for the 
whole territory of the Republic, with decentralized administration in all 
regions. 
A/47/PV.5 
21 
(President Izetbegovic) 
We envision the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as consisting of 
administrative territorial regions to be formed according to economic, 
cultural, historical and ethnic criteria. 
We believe it is impractical and immoral to institute administrative 
territorial regions on an exclusively ethnic basis.  Moreover, it is 
impossible, because we are an ethnically mixed, intermingled country:  a 
living, breathing Jackson Pollack painting. 
Government at every level will respect the equal rights of all the 
peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina.  The Government will be based on the 
principle of parity of representation among the three constituent nations. 
The legislative branch  the Assembly  will consist of two chambers:  the 
Chamber of Peoples will be based on ethnic parity, being made up of 
representatives of the three largest constituent peoples of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; the Chamber of Citizens will be based on proportional 
representation.  All representatives will be elected in free and open 
elections. 
The Chamber of Peoples and the Presidency will reach key decisions by 
consensus, including all decisions that directly affect the equality of the 
constituent nations. 
Bosnia and Herzegovina will seek to establish good relations with all 
neighbouring States, as well as with other States, on the basis of mutual 
respect and cooperation. 
I have related my offer of peace.  I now want to tell the Assembly about 
the offer made by the Government in Belgrade and its proxies in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina.  By their actions and by their statements, they have made an 
A/47/PV.5 
22 
(President Izetbegovic) 
offer that must be clear to all nations of the world.  Their offer is based on 
an entirely different view of Bosnia and Herzegovina:  a view that is alien to 
democracy, but unfortunately familiar in history.  It is  a view of people 
divided, hostile and unequal. 
First, they offer "ethnic cleansing", which is the extermination or 
elimination of people on the basis of ethnic, national or religious 
distinctions. 
Secondly, they offer a brutal division of the Republic along spurious 
ethnic boundaries created by force and by war.  They say that the people 
Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot live together in one State.  But the only 
evidence they have is the false evidence they have manufactured by their own 
aggression. 
Around the world we see diverse peoples living together.  How many 
nations represented here have ethnic purity?  Look west from this building and 
imagine Belgrade's vision applied, for example, to the United States.  Imagine 
Berlin Walls sprouting in every American neighbourhood, separating the French, 
Russian, African-American, Italian, Jewish, Spanish, Japanese, Polish, Korean, 
Irish and other groups until all had been moved to ethnically pure 
neighbourhoods and separated by barbed wire, armed guards and checkpoints. 
Finally, they offer an expanding Serbia.  We know that this will be a 
Serbia in which those who are not Serbs are denied fundamental freedoms. 
Their offer leads to endless insecurity, endless conflict, endless suffering. 
The question, then, is which offer the world will accept today. 
A/47/PV.5 
23 
(President Izetbegovic) 
If it accepts our offer of peace, equality and justice, and if it rejects 
the offer of pain and division made by Belgrade and its proxies in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, then I ask the world community to do three things. 
First, in front of the entire General Assembly, I ask the members of the 
Security Council to implement and enforce fully the existing Security Council 
resolutions and the principles and commitments endorsed at the London 
Conference. 
While we have abided by the confidence- and security-building and 
verification agreement of the London Conference, the aggressors have not. 
Contrary to their commitments, the aggressors have:  failed to place all 
mortars and heavy weapons under international supervision; failed to cease 
military air attacks; failed to close concentration camps; failed to allow 
refugees to return to their homes; failed to allow delivery of relief 
supplies; and failed to end "ethnic cleansing". 
This record of broken promises shows that implementation and enforcement 
must become the next step towards peace.  It shows, for example, that a no-fly 
zone over Bosnia and Herzegovina is essential for stopping the massive 
destruction from air attacks.  A no-fly zone should be implemented and 
enforced immediately.  Implementation and enforcement are absolutely essential 
if the Geneva session of the London Conference is to have any chance of 
success. 
Secondly, I ask the Assembly to set in motion an international war-crimes 
tribunal that would work closely with the Geneva Conference.  It is essential 
that we investigate, prosecute and punish those who have been responsible for 
A/47/PV.5 
24 
(President Izetbegovic) 
war crimes.  Only after the criminals are punished and the victims healed will 
we have a true peace.  Exonerate the innocent and bring a reconciliation of 
our people. 
Thirdly, our country has been plundered and razed.  Its economic base has 
been destroyed.  I would like to take this opportunity to request the 
establishment of an international fund for the reconstruction and development 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Considering the massive scale of the destruction, 
it is necessary that the world community help us take the first step in 
emerging from the ruins. 
Finally, if the Security Council cannot implement and enforce fully its 
resolutions and if the London Conference cannot implement its principles and 
agreements, then I ask the world community to allow us to defend ourselves. 
I have offered  a vision of a secular and democratic State,  a 
decentralized State and a multi-ethnic society based on peaceful coexistence 
and tolerance.  Unfortunately, the offer of peace which I have proposed will 
become irrelevant unless this Organization comes resolutely to our defence or, 
alternatively, fully enables us to exercise our right to self-defence.  The 
international community cannot simultaneously sidestep its commitment to 
defend us and nullify our means of self-defence.  It has become clear that no 
one has come resolutely to our aid.  We must have the unhindered right of 
self-defence. 
Article 51 of the United Nations Charter grants us that absolute right. 
The present arms embargo ties our hands at a time when our country is being 
strangled.  It deprives us of the only effective means of self-defence.  By 
doing so, it helps the aggressor. 
The arms embargo against Bosnia and Herzegovina must be voided. 
A/47/PV.5 
25 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank 
the President of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the statement he 
has just made. 
Mr. Aliia Izetbegovic. President of the Republic of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.* 
Mr. Rogers (Belize), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.5 
26 
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued) 
GENERAL DEBATE 
Mrs, de ST. JORRE (Seychelles) (interpretation from French):  We 
should first like to congratulate Mr. Ganev on his election to the presidency 
of the General Assembly at this session. 
Barely a year ago, the representatives of the United Nations, meeting in 
this same Hall, ventured to believe that  a new era of peace, cooperation and 
understanding was being established.  We glimpsed on the horizon a new order 
in which each would be recognized, in which all nations, large and small, 
would have equal responsibilities and obligations in mutual respect. 
We believed that.  We really believed that, because the mood was one of 
optimism.  After all, the withdrawal of Iraqi troops from Kuwait had marked 
the triumph of legitimacy.  Then, bloc confrontation being over, it was time 
for dialogue, since ideological antagonism had been overcome. 
Today, the world is again experiencing upheavals and disruption.  We are 
seeing States imploding.  Peoples are plagued by hunger, destitution and 
poverty.  We are powerless witnesses to this grim spectacle, whereas we should 
be the artisans of change. 
Who can deny the seriousness of all this?  Noble ideas, lofty sentiments 
and good intentions are not enough for the well-being of humankind.  Perhaps I 
should add:  "are no longer enough". 
This is an obvious fact and should provide  a basic tenet for our work. 
We must all show our interest in it, so that our destiny might express our 
determination.  The world is changing, and in order to control these changes, 
we are building the new order.  This is a voluntary endeavour, based on the 
respect of nations, on partnership, on interdependence.  But who would deny 
A/47/PV.5 
27 
(Mrs, de  St. Jorre.  Seychelles) 
that  the  new world  order  has  something  of  a colossus with  feet  of  clay?  On 
what  kind  of world will  this  system  be  modelled? 
More  than  4 billion human beings  live  in poor  countries.  Whereas  the 
rich nations, with  about  15 per  cent  of  the world's  population,  control more 
than  80 per  cent  of  the world's  income,  about  60 per  cent  of  humankind  live in 
low-income  countries,  and more  than  3 billion people  possess  only  5 per  cent 
of  the  total  income.  With  a population  of more  than  450 million,  sub-Saharan 
Africa has  less  than  1 per  cent  of  the world's  income. 
Can we  accept  the exclusion  of  these millions  of human beings?  It is as 
if history  had  speeded  up, had  shaken up our ways  of  thinking,  leaving  our 
minds  all  confused.  It  is as  if  fragility  had become  the watchword  of human 
adventure. 
No!  At  a time when we  are all  committed  to building  this  new world 
order,  stronger  solidarity  is needed more  than ever, because  poverty  is not 
inevitable,  nor  is  it  a genetic  defect. 
The  challenge  is daunting.  Short-term,  stopgap  solutions  are  not 
enough.  We  simply must  radically  change  the attitude'and  behaviour  of  the 
industrialized  world  to  the chronic  plight  of many  countries  in the  South.  In 
order  to do  this,  there  can be  no double  standards,  tacit  tolerance  for some 
and vague promises  for others.  Have we  the  right  today  to denounce  the 
corruption,  abuse  and  lapses  that  are widespread  in many  developing  countries, 
considering  that  these  same practices were  not  so  long  ago  tolerated  and even 
encouraged  by  some?  Can we welcome  the  changes  that  have  occurred 
and  I am 
referring  to  the democratization  of  institutions 
even  though  in many  cases 
they  are  accompanied  by  chaos  and  suffering? 
Nevertheless, we must  not  underestimate  the  contribution  that  the 
international  community  is entitled  to expect  from  each  country,  considered as 
A/47/PV.5 
28-30 
(Mrs,  de  St. Jorre.  Seychelles) 
it is to be  an  artisan  of  its own development.  Each must,  in particular, 
establish  institutions  and procedures  compatible  with  the  rights  and 
obligations  that  all must  now  shoulder,  regardless  of  level of  development. 
But what  are we  to  think, what  are we  to  say about  the  increasing 
tensions between  the  industrialized  North,  certain  that  it  is  in the  right, 
and the South, which gets poorer  all  the  time, plagued by  contradiction  and 
seeking,  sometimes  clumsily,  fresh  sources of  relief? 
How  sincere  is the wealth of  advice  given  in the options  suggested,  the 
guidelines prescribed?  Are we  not  in  a  diktat  situation when we hear  the 
following:  "Adopt  reforms, democratize  your  institutions, go  ahead  and 
liberalize your economies.  Then,  and only  then, will we help  you." 
What developing  country  seeking  an evolutive  process  has not been on the 
receiving end of  this  kind of message?  How  few, without  adapting,  have 
managed to adopt  new,  realistic  and productive  policies? 
There  is no  single model  exportable  to all.  There  is no absolute  model 
that works  for everyone.  It  is in the name  of principles  and  experiments,  all 
too often garbled  within  the  framework  of  open-economy  programmes  and 
democratization,  that  crushing  failures have  occurred.  Has  the debt  burden 
been eased?  Have  commodity  export  earnings  in the  third world  increased? 
Clearly,  one  figure  speaks  for  all  the others: that  of  the aid given by 
rich countries  to the poorer  ones.  Logically,  it shows  the  importance 
attached by the donors  to  the development  projects  they  are  supposed  to 
support.  But  the  figures  are  rarely  commensurate  with  their  lofty  ambitions; 
that we must  admit. 
A/47/PV.5 
31 
(Mrs, de St. Jorre. Seychelles) 
Can it be expected by any chance  of the smaller countries in 
particular  that they should use other means to generate the resources 
necessary for their own development?  This would be to ignore the economic 
fact of interaction and interdependence, which are difficult to manage and 
cannot really be the sole responsibility of these small countries. 
In seeking financial assistance, expertise and transfers of technology, 
we are trying first to encourage international solidarity, without excluding 
anyone and within as broad a context as possible.  Was not that the great 
lesson of Rio, despite the flaws and imperfections of political dialogue, in 
that it reminded those who had been tempted to forget that everthing is global 
nowadays  for better or for worse, as in marriage  where reason prevails 
over emotion? 
However, despite the urgent need for proper solutions, four months after 
the Rio Conference we are once again deploring the inertia of political 
dialogue, the complaisance of declarations of intent and the lack of 
perseverance in following up decisions. 
The right to make a mistake is not enshrined in any constitution, and yet 
are not famine, war and environmental disasters  to name just three of the 
worst scourges  monumental mistakes?  Silence denotes guilt.  We must not 
quibble or condemn here.  We must agree on what we can do - together.* 
ADDRESS BY MRS. GRO HARLEM BRUNDTLAND, PRIME MINISTER OF THE KINGDOM OF 
NORWAY 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will now hear an address by the Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Norway. 
Mrs. Gro Harlem Brundtland. Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway, was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The President returned to the Chair. 
A/47/PV.5 
32 
The PRESIDENT:  I have great pleasure in welcoming the Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Norway, Mrs. Gro Harlem Brundtland, and inviting 
her to address the General Assembly. 
Mrs. BRUNDTLAND  (Norway):  It is a great pleasure for me to 
congratulate you, Sir, on your election to your high office at such an 
important juncture in the history of the United Nations.  I should also like 
to greet the many new Members that have been admitted to our Organization in 
recent months.  We welcome them all and look forward to cooperating closely 
with them in our efforts to strengthen the United Nations. 
Many of us had hoped to see a new, more equitable world order emerge in 
the wake of the profound changes we have experienced over recent years. 
Unfortunately, this has not been the case.  The tragic conflicts in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina and Somalia illustrate the challenges we are up against.  In many 
ways they are similar.  Underlying ethnic, religious, social and economic 
problems were "frozen" during the cold war.  They were suppressed rather than 
dealt with in a constructive way.  Democratic traditions were not allowed to 
develop.  Some leaders have exploited the absence of democratic traditions, 
appealing to narrow ethnic and even clan interests.  The disastrous 
consequences are brought home to us daily on our television screens.  In 
Somalia the political crisis has been deepened by extreme poverty and by 
environmental degradation. 
We must strongly condemn the unspeakable cruelties being committed in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina and other parts of the former Yugoslavia.  We cannot 
accept, and will not recognize, any attempts to change international borders 
by force.  The parties must understand that they cannot achieve their goals by 
armed force.  I urge the parties to the conflict to cease fighting at once. 
The "ethnic cleansing" in the former Yugoslavia is an unacceptable violation of 
A/47/PV.5 
33 
(Mrs. Brundtland. Norway) 
international law and must be brought to a halt.  An international tribunal 
should be set up to punish all those responsible for the war crimes that are 
now being committed.  All prison and detention camps should be closed down 
immediately, and the captives must be allowed to return freely to their homes 
without any further harassment. 
Strict observance of the sanctions introduced by the United Nations 
Security Council is essential to exert maximum pressure on the parties 
concerned.  As the former Yugoslavia no longer exists, Serbia and Montenegro 
must apply for membership of the United Nations, along with other new States. 
We must all give our firm and uneguivocal support to the London Agreement and 
the Geneva process.  All parties to the conflict must now honour their 
commitments.  The United Nations Protection Force, in which we are proud to 
take part, is doing a tremendous job under exceedingly difficult 
circumstances, particularly in Bosnia.  We must all stand united behind the 
United Nations and refrain from actions that will only prolong the conflict. 
Our first priority must be to alleviate the sufferings of the civilian 
population by providing humanitarian assistance.  A great number of human 
lives will depend upon how the United Nations manages to protect humanitarian 
supplies and monitor heavy weaponry.  I strongly condemn the cowardly attacks 
on United Nations forces engaged in humanitarian supply operations around 
Sarajevo.  Those guilty of these crimes must be found and brought to trial. 
It is now of the utmost importance to prevent the conflict in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina from spreading throughout the Balkan area.  We must consider all 
available means, and support those measures which have already been applied. 
The recent decision by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to 
send observer teams to Kosovo, Sandzak and Vojvodina is an important step. 
A/47/PV.5 
34-35 
(Mrs. Brundtland. Norway) 
While we are grieved by the tragic war, we must not lose hope.  We must 
assist the people of the former Yugoslavia to accept and respect each other 
and to come to terms again, making peace through reconciliation.  We must 
encourage the forces of moderation and good will; we must ensure that all 
parties take part in a peace-making process.  We must act justly - and, if 
need be, forcefully. 
A/47/PV.5 
36 
(Mrs. Brundtland. Norway) 
In Somalia the United Nations must give top priority to providing 
sufficient food and medical supplies to the starving people.  This will be an 
important test of our collective ability to respond quickly and effectively in 
the face of natural and man-made disasters.  Somalia also needs assistance in 
finding political solutions to its internal problems, and, equally 
importantly, in building a more sustainable economy.  Norway supports a United 
Nations peace-keeping presence in this war-torn country, and we are willing to 
participate in such an operation. 
The time for peaceful change in South Africa is running out.  We condemn 
the recent killings of innocent people, and call on the South African 
Government to restrain the police and the army throughout South Africa, 
including the so-called homelands.  We are confident that this can be 
achieved, if it really wants to. 
We urge the South African Government to meet the reasonable demands of 
the African National Congress of South Africa so that negotiations can be 
resumed in order to work out the framework for adopting a new constitution and 
establishing an interim government.  Norway is prepared to contribute at a 
practical level by sending observers to monitor the violence and facilitate 
the negotiation process in South Africa.  We will maintain our economic 
boycott until we see some real progress in the negotiations. 
All these crises and conflicts demonstrate the need for more effective 
international crisis-prevention and crisis-management mechanisms.  The end of 
the cold war has opened a window of opportunity for the United Nations to live 
up to the great objectives of its Charter.  We must seize that opportunity. 
The Secretary-General's report "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277) is a 
starting-point for  a serious discussion on how this can be achieved. 
A/47/PV.5 
37 
(Mrs. Brundtland. Norway) 
We need to consider further the circumstances under which the United 
Nations should resort to real enforcement, mindful of our obligations under 
the Charter.  Burden-sharing is essential with regard to peace-keeping.  Every 
country has a duty to participate, including those which so far, for various 
reasons, have refrained from getting involved. 
Some 35,000 Norwegian men and women have participated in a total of 
16 United Nations peace-keeping operations.  We are prepared to intensify our 
efforts in this field.  But our collective efforts must move beyond 
traditional peace-keeping into such fields as refugee-repatriation, electoral 
assistance and human rights monitoring.  This concept proved successful in 
Namibia and is now being put to a new test in Cambodia.  As a means of 
improving our capacity for such broader operations, we have proposed the 
establishment of a special United Nations institute for education and training 
in peace-keeping and related activites. 
There can be no lasting peace in the world as long as a large part of 
humanity lives in misery and despair.  Maintaining international peace and 
security is a prime responsibility of the United Nations, as is promoting 
economic and social progress and respect for human rights. 
We must adamantly oppose any tendency to ignore the fundamental 
challenges of the continuing North-South divide.  Otherwise the very future of 
our planet is in danger. 
In spite of remarkable economic and social progress in many developing 
countries, the inequalities persist.  According to the United Nations 
Development Programme's latest human development report, the richest 
20 per cent of the world's population receive 83 per cent of total world 
income, whereas the poorest 20 per cent have only 1.4 per cent.  We cannot 
allow these inequalities to persist. 
A/47/PV.5 
38 
(Mrs. Brundtland. Norway) 
The African continent has been particularly hard hit by economic decline, 
and a concerted international effort must be mounted to reverse this 
unfortunate situation. 
To break out of the development impasse, increased contributions from the 
industrialized countries will be needed, in the form of better market access 
for developing countries, more investment, increased development aid and debt 
relief for the poorest countries. 
But the slow rate of economic growth and high level of unemployment in 
most countries in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development 
limit demands for products from developing countries.  The outlook is 
uncertain, and the unfinished business of the Uruguay Round adds to this 
uncertainty.  Capital needs are enormous; competition for capital is fierce. 
Developing countries are the losers. 
The current financial and monetary instability poses great risks to 
countries and individuals.  We need to impose stability and prevent 
speculation from throwing national economies into peril.  There is no 
alternative to effective coordination of financial and monetary policies.  But 
that coordination can succeed only when coupled with social purpose, a fair 
distribution and public efforts to create employment.  In fact, most of the 
economic problems that we are faced with are linked to lack of coordination, 
to rivalry and to laissez-faire attitudes among industrialized countries. 
The developing countries are, as always, the ultimate losers.  Their best 
line of defence is to undertake policy reforms to mobilize their people, 
educate them and and diversify their economies.  Development is not likely to 
accelerate without good governance, democracy, respect for human rights, 
reduced military spending and improved redistribution systems, with increased 
emphasis on health and education. 
A/47/PV.5 
39-40 
(Mrs. Brundtland. Norway) 
Alleviating world poverty is necessary if we are to reduce the rapid 
population increase in many parts of the world.  At present rates, the world 
population is doubling every 40 years, and could reach somewhere between 
8 billion and 14 billion by the middle of the next century.  Keeping to the 
low end of that scale will make all the difference to life on Earth and 
humanity. 
We must deal with population growth through an integrated human rights 
approach, including education and the enhancement of the status of women, 
improved public health and family planning. 
Confronted with these great challenges, we find it a sad paradox that 
development aid flows continue to stagnate and remain at less than half of the 
United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP). 
Norway's official development aid has exceeded 1 per cent of our GDP for more 
than 10 years, which reflects our strong commitment to the fight against 
poverty. 
At the Rio Conference on Environment and Development it was made clear 
that we are heading towards a crisis of uncontrollable dimensions unless we 
change course.  The North as well as the rich in the South will have to change 
consumption and production patterns. 
Developing nations came to the Rio Summit with open economic demands, and 
understandably so:  for them, the Conference was essentially about development 
and justice. 
A/47/PV.5 
41 
(Mrs. Brundtland. Norway) 
At Rio, we achieved progress in many fields, but too little in most 
fields and none at all in some fields.  We opened two important conventions 
for signature.  It is imperative that we make them more effective.  They will 
not work unless all major countries sign, ratify and implement them. 
Furthermore, Rio made it clear that the challenges of dealing with 
environmental threats and poverty are cross-cutting, long term, predictable 
and unavoidable unless we establish a world order of burden-sharing, common 
perceptions and common responsibility. 
Therefore, critical decisions remain to be taken.  Traditional 
international conferences run by consensus can advance only at the pace of the 
most reluctant mover in each field.  The future requires stronger 
decision-making procedures.  Nothing less will serve us.  I welcome the 
high-level Commission on Sustainable Development and expect it to become 
effective under a revitalization of the economic and social responsibilities 
of the United Nations.  Norway proposed the establishment of such a Commission 
and expects to take an active part in its work. 
The challenge of economic and social development requires a more unified 
approach and stronger direction within the United Nations system.  Over the 
years the number of agencies, programmes and councils has mushroomed, with too 
little inter-agency cooperation.  This cannot continue.  We must streamline 
our organization to avoid duplication and to improve effectiveness. 
The Nordic countries have addressed these challenges through the Nordic 
United Nations Project.  Although we have made some headway, we need to 
proceed during the present session of the General Assembly. 
In view of the greater demands now being made on the United Nations, we 
must stress the importance of sound and predictable financing.  Being the 
A/47/PV.5 
42 
(Mrs. Brundtland. Norway) 
eighth largest contributor to the United Nations system in absolute terms, and 
by far the largest in per capita terms, we find it exceedingly difficult to 
understand why so many countries fail to honour their obligations. 
It is disappointing, to say the least, to read in the Secretary-General's 
report: 
"Perennial shortages, the absence of reserves, and a debilitating 
uncertainty over the immediate future, are the main characteristics of 
the financial situation of the United Nations." (A/47/1, para. 46) 
Immediately preceding this sentence the Secretary-General points out that some 
$900 million in assessed contributions are unpaid, together with some 
$844 million dollars towards peace-keeping operations. 
Frankly, this is an unworthy situation.  We must increase our financial 
discipline.  The permanent members of the Security Council have a special 
responsibility in this respect.  And the question must be raised whether 
countries should be eligible at all for membership of the Security Council if 
they have not paid their dues.* 
We must be willing to provide the Secretary-General and his staff with 
the necessary means to promote peace and to wage war against environmental 
degradation and underdevelopment. 
Our daily diet of printed and electronic nens presents a picture of a 
world in need of better governance and of more coordination.  Our present 
forms of cooperation, developed in a less interdependent world, are still too 
weak and unlikely to stand the test of time.  We should not pretend that they 
can. 
* 
Mr. Rogers (Belize), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.5 
43 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank 
the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway for the statement she has just 
made. 
Mrs. Gro Harlem Brundtland. Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway, was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
Mr. VELAYATI (Islamic Republic of Iran) (spoke in Persian; English 
text furnished by the delegation):  At the outset, I should like to offer the 
President my most sincere congratulations on his well-deserved election to 
preside over the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly and to express 
my delegation's gratitude and appreciation for the constructive efforts of the 
President of the forty-sixth session.  It is our earnest hope that the General 
Assembly, drawing upon our President's valuable experience and diplomatic 
skills, will play a significant role in the new international environment.  I 
assure him of my delegation's full cooperation to this end. 
I also take this opportunity to offer my heartfelt felicitations to the 
new Members who have joined us in the United Nations since the last session of 
the General Assembly, most of whom are neighbours of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran.  It is a matter of great joy and satisfaction for me and my delegation 
that the seat of Afghanistan in the Assembly is at long last occupied by the 
representatives of the legitimate Government of that country. 
This session opens at a time, in the aftermath of the cold war, when 
tumultuous developments in the international arena continue to unfold, facing 
the international community with opportunities and challenges alike.  In the 
cold-war era the global arms race, the arming of client States and the 
instigation of regional wars sapped the energy and capabilities of countries, 
especially in the third world, thus debilitating them in their efforts to 
stand up to the challenge of such chronic and endemic problems as poverty. 
A/47/PV.5 
44-45 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
hunger, illiteracy, drug-addiction and drug trafficking, underdevelopment and 
environmental pollution. 
The collapse of the bipolar world has created a propitious opportunity 
for mankind to address those problems in earnest.  It has also brought to the 
fore new threats to international peace and security, such as the devising of 
new ways of expansion and consolidation of domination and hegemony, a further 
widening of the North-South gap and flare-ups of ethnic and racial differences 
and conflicts. 
Due to continuing transformations in geographical, economic, military and 
cultural configurations, the world today is in a vulnerable state of flux, and 
until reliable stability emerges the approach of big Powers to the United 
Nations and that of the Organization to international issues and problems will 
remain very sensitive and significant. 
A/47/PV.5 
46 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
The United Nations, as the only universal body, should contribute to the 
solution of major global problems without resort to short-sighted political 
expediency.  It should do so on the basis of justice and respect for human 
dignity, lofty human values and the rules of international law.  Selectivity 
is certain to turn the Organization into a tool for legitimizing the actions 
of powerful Member States.  This represents the most formidable challenge to 
the Organization's integrity, credibility and relevance. 
In this context I need give just a few clear examples:  first, in dealing 
with internationsl crises, the use of double standards based on the political 
interests of the powerful, as manifested, on one hand, by the Security 
Council's treatment of Iraq's aggression against Kuwait and, on the other 
hand, by the decades-old aggression of the Zionist regime; secondly, the 
non-application, for reasons of political expediency, of the existing means 
and instruments to certain crises, as witnessed in the Council's half-hearted 
approach to Serbia's blatant aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; thirdly, indifference to, or total negligence of, certain 
explosive and tragic situations, such as those in Somalia and Liberia, which, 
despite obvious disruptive regional ramifications, do not seem to have a 
direct bearing on the interests of outside Powers; fourthly, the manipulation 
of cherished human ideals in the field of human rights for short-sighted, 
ulterior political motives. 
Undoubtedly, a fair, objective and non-selective approach by the United 
Nations to internationsl issues and crises will help to ensure that the 
Organization can play an effective role in the future and, away from the 
A/47/PV.5 
47 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
peddling of big-Power influence, put it in the unique position of being able 
to act as the centre for concerted international cooperation. 
At this point I must express to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali our 
appreciation for his efforts to make the Organization more efficient and to 
enhance its role in the resolution of chronic and new international problems. 
The Islamic Republic of Iran has studied with care and keen interest the 
Secretary-General's report of 17 June 1992, entitled "An Agenda for Peace". 
It is our considered view that the report deals with a wide range of 
theoretical and practical issues  issues that are very sensitive and merit 
the General Assembly's careful and in-depth scrutiny. 
It is incumbent on the General Assembly, as the only universal organ of 
the United Nations, to formulate and adopt the Organization's future work. 
Such an endeavour, within the framework of the Charter and based on full 
respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence 
of Member States and on non-interference in their internal affairs, will 
certainly contribute to refinement of the concepts and suggestions embodied in 
the Secretary-General's report, and this will help him to discharge his 
duties.  My delegation is willing to participate actively in a special working 
group of the General Assembly on this matter. 
Among the most sensitive issues dealt with in the Secretary-General's 
report is the active role of the Security Council in the new international 
environment.  The Security Council, in accordance with the United Nations 
Charter, bears primary responsibility for the maintenance of international 
peace and security, but, in the discharge of its responsibilities, the Council 
does not have unfounded authority.  By definition, it must fine-tune its 
decisions and actions with the principles and objectives of the Charter and of 
A/47/PV.5 
48 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
international law.  Discriminatory treatment of issues pertaining to 
international peace and security, the overstepping of mandated authority and 
misuse of the privileges accorded to the members of the Council  the 
permanent members in particular  are among the practices that tarnish the 
Council's image and undermine its stature and credibility and, in the final 
analysis, that of the United Nations.  A thorough and vigorous study and 
formulation of well-defined guidelines will help the Council to adopt an 
objective and non-discriminationary approach, within a specific framework and 
specific terms of reference, to various issues of international peace and 
security.  I must emphasize that the preservation of international peace and 
security is a responsibility entrusted to the Security Council by the 
international community.  That being the case, the Council, in accordance with 
the Charter, is accountable to that community, which is represented by the 
General Assembly. 
The existing international exigencies make especially necessary the 
strengthening of global efforts to facilitate the overall process of 
disarmament and arms control - in particular, the elimination of weapons of 
mass destruction.  To this end, reappraisal of the military doctrines of the 
big Powers in consonance with the new international situation, a change in 
attitudes of domination, and rejection of resort to force as a means of 
promoting political objectives constitute the primary prereguisite for the 
success of all disarmament and arms-control schemes. 
The preparation of a draft convention on the prohibition of the 
production, development, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons represents a 
significant step in the history of arms control.  Undoubtedly, this convention 
A/47/PV.5 
49 
(Mr. Velayati.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
crystallizes many  years' difficult,  even  tedious, negotiations  between  the 
members  of  the Conference  on Disarmament.  Notwithstanding  this  obvious  fact, 
the convention  - on  the one hand, because  the Conference  on Disarmament  acts 
on the basis  of  consensus  and,  on the other, owing  to the  supremacy  of 
political  exigencies  throughout  the process, but  especially  during  the  latter 
stages  - cannot be  regarded  as a document  that  reflects  the principled  views 
and positions  of  all members  of  the Conference  on Disarmament.  This  is 
particularly  true  in  respect  of  the composition  of  the executive  council, 
which,  in our view,  lacks balance  and proportion.  Furthermore,  if  the 
convention  on chemical weapons  is to become  universal  the developed  countries 
will have  to provide  for  the  transfer  of  chemical  technology,  materials  and 
equipment  for peaceful  purposes,  and  the existing  unilateral  discriminatory 
and ad hoc  restrictions  will  have  to be  removed. 
In the  field  of  the non-proliferation  of nuclear  weapons,  the 
non-proliferation  Treaty  can  indeed  acquire  a universal  character  and play  an 
effective  and efficient  role  in preventing  the vertical  and  horizontal 
proliferation  of nuclear  weapons, provided  that  the nuclear-weapon  States 
fulfil  their  obligations  in accordance with  article VI  of  the  Treaty. 
It  is highly  desirable  that  the next millennium  be nuclear-free,  but  the 
achievement  of  that  objective  depends  upon  the  following:  an undertaking  by 
all nuclear-weapon  States  to destroy  all nuclear  weapons  in their  territory  or 
under  their  jurisdiction  or  control; a new pledge by  all  States  not  to  acquire 
or proliferate  nuclear  weapons  and not  to  add  to  their  existing  stocks; and a 
genuine  commitment  to enhanced  cooperation  in technology  for  the peaceful  use 
of nuclear  energy. 
A/47/PV.5 
50 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
Further regional endeavours in the field of arms control, regional 
disarmament and the establishment of zones free of weapons of mass destruction 
can complement international efforts towards the prohibition of such weapons 
and can contribute to the alleviation of the international community's concern 
about the dangerous conseguences of stockpiling armaments at the regional 
level. 
A/47/PV.5 
51 
(Mr. Velayati.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
My country,  as  the  initiator  of  the proposal  for  the establishment  of a 
nuclear-free  zone  in the Middle  East,  is fully prepared  to  participate 
actively  in any  constructive  and  comprehensive  initiative  in this  field.  It 
goes without  saying,  though,  that  the  success  of  initiatives  concerning  arms 
control  and  regional  disarmament  depends  on heeding  a number  of  considerations 
such as the political  and  security  characteristics  of  the  regions  in guestion, 
participation  of  the  regional  countries  in defining  the principles  and 
objectives  of  the  initiative,  the concerns  of  the  countries  in the  region 
vis-a-vis  threats  from within  and outside  the  region,  including  consequences 
of the presence  of  foreign  forces. 
What  seems more  urgent  and  critical  than  regional  disarmament  is  the 
necessity  and desirability  of  searching  for  a comprehensive  and  genuine 
solution  to regional  conflicts,  as an endemic  and  seemingly  intractable  source 
of threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  Over  and  above  the  chronic 
regional  crises,  recent  developments  at the  international  level have  given 
birth to a series of  new crises  in various  regions, thus  further  accentuating 
the need  for  a new  sense of vigilance  and vigorous  endeavour  on the part  of 
the international  community  to confront  these  threats. 
In my brief  survey  of  regional  crises  and  conflicts,  I cannot  but  begin 
with what  is closest  to  the hearts  and minds  of  the  Islamic world  - that  is, 
Palestine.  The  legitimate  uprising  of  the Palestinian  people  in the  occupied 
territories,  as  a  form  of  resistance  against  occupation,  expansionism,  murder 
and unbearable  living  conditions,  is brutally  suppressed.  Alongside  the 
regular  armed  forces, armed  Zionist  settlers  carry out  on a daily  and 
continuing  basis  acts of murder  and plunder,  including  confiscation  of 
A/47/PV.5 
52 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
Palestinian property.  In addition to Palestine, parts of Syrian and Lebanese 
territory are still under Zionist occupation and innocent people are killed or 
abducted on a regular basis by these forces in South Lebanon. 
The Islamic Republic of Iran calls on the international community to 
confront the aggressive and repressive policies of the Zionists in a serious 
and meaningful manner.  The bitter experience of the past decades indicate, 
however, that peace and tranquillity can be restored to the area only through 
struggle, full restoration of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people 
and establishment of an independent Palestinian state in the entire territory 
of Palestine. 
Another crisis which has endangered regional and global security over the 
past year concerns the tragic situation in the Republic of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina.  The crimes perpetrated against the people in that young and 
small Republic have few parallels in the post-Second-World-War era.  The 
aggression against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political 
independence of a Member of the United Nations and the simultaneous torture, 
mass killings and policy of genocide and "ethnic cleansing", as pursued by 
Serbia and its ultra-nationalist Serb agents with the objective of forming 
"greater Serbia", have caused deep consternation throughout the world and 
drawn condemnation from almost all quarters.  Nevertheless, Serbia and its 
agents continue to show utter disdain for the international community's 
decisions, as reflected in numerous Security Council resolutions and General 
Assembly resolution 46/242, continuing their crimes against the people of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular the Muslim population, with a seeming 
sense of immunity and impunity. 
A/47/PV.5 
53 
(Mr. Velayati.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
It is therefore  incumbent  upon  the Security  Council  to  adopt  the 
necessary measures  provided  for  in Article  42 of  the Charter  to put  an end  to 
the aggression  and  to  restore  the  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity, 
political  independence  and  unity of  the Republic  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina. 
The  Islamic Republic  of  Iran once  again emphasizes  the  inherent  right  of  the 
Republic  of Bosnia  and Herzegovina  to  self-defence  in accordance  with 
Article  51 of  the Charter  and  expects  the Security  Council  to  reconsider  its 
resolution on an arms  embargo  against Yugoslavia  in order  to enable  the 
Republic  of Bosnia  and Herzegovina  to exercise  its  inherent  right  to  resist 
aggression. 
Moreover,  I would  like  to emphasize  that  in the view of  a large  majority 
of the Member  States, including  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  the  Socialist 
Federal Republic  of Yugoslavia  no  longer  exists  and  the Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  - Serbia  and Montenegro  - has  no  right  to occupy  the  seat of  former 
Yugoslavia  in international  forums.  We  strongly believe  that  the  Assembly 
should  send  a very  clear  and  unambiguous  signal  to Belgrade,  through  the 
expulsion  of Serbia  and Montenegro  from  all  organs  of the United  Nations,  that 
to be a Member  of  the Organization  it will be  subject  to  all  the criteria  for 
membership  and will  have  to behave  accordingly. 
There  are  two other  continuing  crises  in the  immediate  neighborhood  of 
the Islamic  Republic  of  Iran to which my  country  cannot  remain  indifferent 
because of humanitarian  as well  as national  security  considerations. 
Expressing  its  satisfaction  at the victory  of  the Muslim  mujahidin  of 
Afghanistan  and  the establishment  of  an  Islamic  State,  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran welcomes  the  cessation  of  fratricidal  bloodshed  in  its  fraternal 
neighbouring  country.  My  country extends  its  support  to the  legitimate 
A/47/PV.5 
54 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
Government of Afghanistan, stresses the imperative of non-interference of all 
countries in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, and once again draws the 
attention of the international community to the pressing humanitarian needs of 
the war-stricken Afghan people.  For our part, we have made endeavours in this 
direction and underline our readiness to cooperate with other countries as 
well as international organizations in the provision of food, medicine and 
other essential needs as well as in the reconstruction of Afghanistan. 
In regard to the Nogorno-Karabakh region, the Islamic Republic of Iran 
from the very outset expressed its concern at the continuation and expansion 
of the conflict and exerted every effort to bring the fighting to an end; this 
resulted in the establishment of a cease-fire and commencement of negotiations 
between the Republics of Azerbaijan and Armenia.  It is a matter of deep 
regret that owing to the reticence of the international community - and 
particularly that of the Security Council  the opportunity of propitious 
situation which existed at that time and which could have been further 
solidified through the dispatching of international observers was lost and 
bloodshed flared up and has continued.  In our view, the Karabakh crisis can 
be resolved only through negotiations and on the basis of mutual respect and 
non-interference as well as the preservation of the sovereignty and 
territorial integrity of the two countries. 
The approach of the Islamic Republic of Iran to these two crises and the 
efforts undertaken in regard to them emanate from our overall policy towards 
neighbouring countries, which is based on the promotion and consolidation of 
good-neighbourly relations, expansion of economic, cultural and scientific 
cooperation, and fostering of regional confidence.  For we believe that 
A/47/PV.5 
55 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
security in our region is attainable only through cooperation.  As early as 
1986 the Islamic Republic of Iran, on the basis of this policy, underlined the 
imperative need for the creation of a regional security and cooperation 
arrangement in the Persian Gulf area.  In the General Assembly last year I 
enumerated the principles and objectives of such regional cooperation 
principles and objectives that continue to govern our approach to this 
strategic region.  The relations between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the 
newly established Republics along our northern borders are based on the same 
principles, namely, respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, 
inviolability of international borders, non-resort to force in the settlement 
of disputes, non-interference in internal affairs, and dialogue and mutual 
understanding. 
Cognizant of the fact that the newly established republics of Central 
Asia and the Caucasus are now undergoing the difficult and tumultuous stage of 
state-building, establishment and consolidation of democratic institutions and 
economic stabilization and development, and with a view to the primacy of 
promotion of good-neighbourly relations and fostering of mutual confidence 
between the countries of this region, the Islamic Republic of Iran has taken 
the lead in the sphere of expanding bilateral as well as multilateral ties 
with these countries.  We, along with our regional partners - Turkey and 
Pakistan  have welcomed the Republics of Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, 
Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan into the Economic 
Cooperation Organization (ECO). 
A/47/PV.5 
56 
(Mr. Velayati.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
We  also pioneered  the  formation  of  the Organization  of  the  Countries of 
the Caspian  Sea Basin,  along with  the Russian  Federation,  Azerbaijan, 
Turkmenistan  and  Kazakhstan. 
In the bilateral  field,  the  foundations  of political,  cultural  and 
economic  cooperation,  particularly  in the  areas  of  transportation  and  energy, 
have  been  laid with  the newly established  republics  of  the  former  USSR.  That 
approach by  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is founded  on the  conviction  that the 
expansion  of bilateral  and multilateral  relations  among  countries  of  the 
region  is bound  to contribute  to  stability,  security  and  development  for all. 
In today's world  instability  does  not emanate  solely  from  regional  crises 
or military  conflicts.  Economic  and environmental  problems  too  threaten 
international  peace  and  security.  Continued  further  exacerbation  of  economic 
difficulties  in most  third-world  countries  in the  context,  and  as a  result, of 
the ever-widening  gap between  the North  and  the  South  is perhaps  the most 
serious  and most  explosive  danger  threatening  the  international  community. 
As  stated  clearly  in the World  Economic  Survey  for  1992, world  economic 
output has  decreased  for  the  first  time  since  the  Second World  War; 
international  trade  is also plagued  with myriad  difficulties.  Under  these 
difficult  circumstances, many  developing  countries  are  still grappling  with 
the problems  resulting  from  the economic  recession  of  the  1980s  and  its 
socio-political  conseguences.  Worse  still,  a decreased  flow of  financial 
resources  to developing  countries  has made  the prospects  for  recovery  and 
economic  growth  and development  in those  countries  all  the more  uncertain. 
A/47/PV.5 
57 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
Notwithstanding numerous problems, the recovery of the world economy is 
not impossible to achieve.  Its attainment, though, requires promotion of 
international cooperation and coordination of economic policies, which feature 
among the major purposes of the United Nations.  To this end, the 
International Development Strategy for the fourth United Nations Development 
Decade, the Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its eighteenth 
special session, and Agenda 21 of the United Nations Conference on Environment 
and Development, which reflect long and intensive negotiations and represent 
international consensus on the objectives of development and environment, 
constitute the necessary framework and basis of future measures. 
Yet it is clear that in the absence of concerted international 
cooperation proper economic conditions where all countries enjoy egual 
opportunity for growth and development will remain unattainable.  The United 
Nations and its specialized agencies provide the most appropriate forum to 
facilitate international cooperation with the objective of alleviating world 
economic problems, especially those of the developing countries, thus 
preventing what otherwise seems an inevitable confrontation between North and 
South. 
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the imperative of intensifying 
the activities of the United Nations in step with international developments, 
with a view to achieving a higher degree of efficiency and effectiveness.  In 
this context, the Islamic Republic of Iran is of the view that revitalization 
of the General Assembly should be pursued in earnest, and that effective 
measures to augment the efficiency, and thus the practical relevance, of the 
Assembly should be adopted. 
A/47/PV.5 
58 
(Mr. Velayati. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
The decision of the recent non-aligned summit to convene a high-level 
working group to study ways and means of increasing the effectiveness of the 
United Nations represents a timely, logical and positive step, and can 
certainly assist the United Nations in that purpose.  The General Assembly, as 
the sole universal, democratic and transparent organ of the United Nations, 
with the competence entrusted to it by the Charter to address all 
international issues and problems, should fully exercise its Charter-mandated 
authority in practice.  To that end, the General Assembly should guide other 
organs of the United Nations on a constant and active basis, and take the 
necessary decisions and make the appropriate recommendations for the 
realization of common human ideals, most notably universal peace, security and 
respect for human rights, and balanced prosperity and welfare. 
Mr. VAYRYNEN (Finland):  I wish to begin by congratulating my 
colleague Mr. Stoyan Ganev on his election to the high office of President of 
the General Assembly.  He can rest assured that the delegation of Finland will 
render him its full support in his challenging task. 
On behalf of my Government I wish also to extend a warm welcome to the 13 
new Members amongst us.  Their participation in the work of the United Nations 
will further strengthen the Organization. 
Since the beginning of this year the United Nations has had a new 
Secretary-General.  Faced with many difficult challenges, 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has already shown, in word and in deed, that he is 
firmly in charge.  We wish him all success in his work. 
A/47/PV.5 
59 
(Mr. Vayrynen.  Finland) 
The United  Nations  Charter  was drafted  under  dramatic  circumstances 
during  the  final  stages  of  the Second World War.  After  two world wars, the 
United Nations was given  the  responsibility  for maintaining  peace  and  security 
for  future generations.  Now,  decades  later,  the Organization  also  faces a 
multitude  of  other major  challenges:  those  of development,  protection  of  the 
environment  and promotion  of democracy  and human  rights.  Courageous  and 
visionary  leadership  is now called  for  to create  a new United  Nations  for a 
new international  era.* 
The  Security  Council  demonstrated  such leadership  at  its historic  summit 
meeting held  in January.  After  decades  of  cold war,  the  summit  set  new 
priorities  for  the United Nations  in the promotion  of peace  and  security 
worldwide,  and provided  guidelines  for  a more  active United  Nations 
involvement  in the maintenance  of peace. 
In response  to the  initiative  taken by  the Security  Council  summit  the 
Secretary-General  has  submitted  an excellent  report  under  the  title  "An Agenda 
for Peace".  In  it he has  innovatively  addressed  the question  of how  the  full 
potential  of  the United  Nations  can be most  effectively  used  in the  service of 
peace and  international  security.  The  report  is a comprehensive  effort  by the 
Secretary-General  to  relate preventive  diplomacy,  peace-making  and 
peace-keeping,  as well  as peace-building,  to the changing  political  and 
security  requirements  of  the world  today. 
Ms.  Bongo  (Gabon), Vice-President,  took  the Chair. 
A/47/PV.5 
60 
(Mr. Vayrynen. Finland) 
I am especially pleased to note that the Secretary-General's thinking and 
many of his recommendations are well in line with what Finland, often together 
with the other Nordic countries, has itself long advocated. 
As expressed so clearly in the Secretary-General's report, it is not 
sufficient that the United Nations should succeed in putting an end to 
conflicts.  The best way to deal with conflicts is to prevent them.  This is a 
complicated but vital task, where the capacity of the United Nations should be 
considerably strengthened. 
A/47/PV.5 
61 
(Mr. Vavrynen.  Finland) 
Different  methods  could  come  into question,  depending  on  the  specific 
circumstances  of  each  case.  But  the necessary  basis  for  any prevention  is 
continuous  information-gathering  and monitoring  exercised  both by  the 
Secretary-General  and by  the Security  Council.  Early deployment  of  monitors 
or peace-keepers  should  be  considered  whenever  necessary  for  effective 
prevention. 
May  I add  that  we  are  also grateful  to the Secretary-General  for  the 
innovative  treatment  of post-conflict,  comprehensive  peace-building  in his 
report. 
When  the  capacity  of  the United  Nations  to keep peace  and  prevent 
conflicts has been  stretched  to  its  limit,  it  is natural  that  other 
means  should  be  taken under  consideration.  Here  regional  organizations  and 
agencies  can play  a significant  role.  The  Secretary-General's  repeated  calls 
for closer  cooperation  and  coordination  between  the United  Nations  and 
regional organizations  are  well-founded. 
At  its Helsinki  Summit  in July,  the Conference  on Security  and 
Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE) responded  constructively.  CSCE has  strengthened 
its capacity  for  conflict management  and  peace-keeping. 
We  also  support  the Secretary-General's  idea of periodic  consultations 
between  the United  Nations  and  regional  arrangements  on  confidence-building 
measures. 
The  tragic  situation  in former Yugoslavia  shows  clearly how  a  complex 
problem  requires  an  innovative  approach.  Under  the  joint  leadership  of  the 
United Nations  and  the European  Community,  the Conference, with  its  six 
working groups,  is  seeking  solutions  to the multitude  of political,  ethnic, 
humanitarian  and  other  problems  in the  territory  of  the  former  Yugoslavia. 
CSCE  is also  actively  engaged  in supporting  the  settlement  of  the  conflict. 
A/47/PV.5 
62 
(Mr. Vayrynen. Finland) 
In this context, let me say that Finland supports the Security Council 
recommendation to the General Assembly that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
should apply for membership in the United Nations and should not participate 
in the work of the General Assembly in the meantime. 
While regional organizations should play a greater role in dealing with 
threats to security in their respective regions, the United Nations, through 
its Security Council, retains, of course, its unique and primary role and 
special instruments in maintaining international peace and security. 
The Secretary-General reminds us of the most potent instrument available 
to the Security Council, Article 42 of the Charter.  We agree with him that 
the last-resort option of taking military action is essential to the 
credibility of the United Nations as a guarantor of international security. 
While not underestimating the problems involved, we believe that the Security 
Council and all Members of the Organization should seriously consider the 
proposals of the Secretary-General concerning peace-enforcement units, as well 
as the negotiation of agreements in accordance with Article 43 of the Charter. 
Proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction constitutes a major 
threat to international peace and security.  International norms of 
non-proliferation should be strengthened through universal and credible 
adherence to them. 
Finland welcomes the recently concluded chemical-weapons convention.  It 
is a vital and long-awaited part of the international non-proliferation regime 
and should attract as many original signatories as possible.  Finland, for its 
part, will be among the first States to sign and ratify the convention. 
Unrestrained accumulation of conventional arms can lead to regional 
instability.  It is therefore essential that especially the major 
A/47/PV.5 
63 
(Mr. Vayrynen. Finland) 
arms-exporting countries should exercise restraint individually and 
collectively.  It is also necessary that all relevant transfers should be 
fully reported to the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. 
The Security Council summit represented a firm recommitment to the 
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations.  The 
Secretary-General, for his part, has seized the momentum and turned this new 
commitment into a programme for concrete action.  In the promotion of peace 
and security, this is indeed the beginning of a new era in the history of the 
United Nations. 
On the same positive note, I should like to turn to another summit, the 
Earth Summit, held at Rio de Janeiro.  Alongside the task of maintaining peace 
and security, a new equally courageous and visionary leadership is called for 
on sustainable development.  At Rio a remarkable number of Heads of State and 
Government responded to that call and drew guidelines for world-wide 
sustainable development.  Although our expectations could not all be 
fulfilled, the Earth Summit showed that the United Nations and the 
international community can achieve remarkable results when minds meet. 
Yet Rio was only the beginning of a long process towards sustainable 
development.  In that process,  a fundamental change is needed first and 
foremost in attitudes  a change in our own life-styles.  And we need  a strong 
political will to direct that change.  A sustainable future can be brought 
about only by putting the treaties agreed upon at Rio into force and by 
translating the principles of the Declaration and Agenda 21 into action.  In 
this the Commission on Sustainable Development will have an essential role to 
play. 
A/47/PV.5 
64-65 
(Mr. Vayrynen. Finland) 
The conventions signed at Rio are just an initial core for a 
comprehensive legal framework, which should guide mankind in the right 
direction.  What we do need is a full set of internationally binding 
agreements which redirects production and consumption patterns in each and 
every country.  We also need effective conventions covering natural 
resources.  Here instruments on desertification and sustainable forestry are 
the most urgent ones. 
The future of mankind requires sustainable development, management and 
conservation of forests  of all types of forests everywhere.  Forests have 
both an important national dimension and an important global dimension. 
Forests are a valuable national resource which must be utilized for the 
benefit of the local population.  Sustainable forestry is also economically 
beneficial.  While the sovereignty of nations over their forest resources 
should be respected, that sovereignty should not be misused. 
Finland, for its part, is prepared to participate actively in launching 
the negotiations on the global forest convention on the basis of the forest 
principles agreed upon at Rio.  Here we have to build a better understanding 
of the need for such an international instrument.  We also have to build 
mutual confidence founded on the unique role of forests in the global 
ecosystem. 
To implement what was agreed at Rio is a tall order for any country, and 
particularly for developing countries.  Many of them will need the assistance 
of the international community and the United Nations.  New and additional 
resources reguired by developing countries must be provided in a timely 
manner.  That is a heavy task for the donor community, as it has to shoulder 
the responsibility of also assisting the new democracies in transition. 
A/47/PV.5 
66 
(Mr. Vayrynen.  Finland) 
The  results  of  the Earth  Summit  do  indeed  underline  the unigue  and 
indispensable  role of  the United  Nations  in promoting  development.  They will 
have a crucial  impact  on the entire  economic  and  social  sector  of  the United 
Nations  and on the work  of  the Economic  and  Social  Council.  Development 
deserves  the  same priority  and  attention  as peace  and  security. 
Development  is not  only economic  and  social progress;  it  is also 
promotion of democracy  and human  rights.  No  longer  do questions  of  violations 
of human  rights belong  exclusively  to the  sovereign domain of  States.  On the 
contrary,  respect  for human  rights  and democracy  is an  integral  part  of 
international  relations.  It  is therefore  one of  the main  responsibilities  of 
the United  Nations  to  see  to  it that  they are  respected world wide. 
The Economic  and  Social  Council  is the principal  organ of  the United 
Nations  for development.  It  is important  and urgently  necessary  that  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  be  strengthened  so that  it can gain  the  true 
leadership  role  for  sustainable  development  and promotion  of human  rights  and 
democracy. 
The demands  put  on  the United Nations  today  are unprecedented.  New 
challenges  have  to be met  and  financed.  Finland  shares  the 
Secretary-General's  concerns  regarding  the Organization's  ability  to  function 
in the present  financial  crisis.  We  are  therefore willing  to  consider 
constructively  any of his proposals.  Finland  is particularly  anxious  to  see 
the General  Assembly  take  the  first  step  recommended  by  the  Secretary-General: 
the establishment  of  a peace-keeping  reserve  fund  to meet  the  initial  expenses 
of peace-keeping  operations  pending  receipt  of  assessed  contributions.  The 
Nordic  countries  have  long  advocated  this  step.  With  the  recent  expansion  of 
operations,  the need  for  such a fund  is acute. 
A/47/PV.5 
67 
(Mr. Vayrynen. Finland) 
It is not in keeping with the honour, interests or legal obligations of 
the Member States for the United Nations to exist in "its present mendicancy", 
to use the words of the Secretary-General.  For members of any club, paying 
dues is < duty, not an option.  While exceptional measures may be needed to 
guarantee the uninterrupted functioning of the United Nations in the present 
crisis, the overall funding of the Organization must be built on the 
collective responsibility of the entire membership.  We have a common interest 
to invest in improved security and development towards a more prosperous and 
democratic world. 
The United Nations Charter remains fully valid today as regards the 
maintenance of international peace and security and, by and large, also as 
regards the promotion of international cooperation in the economic, social, 
and human rights sectors.  In facing the new challenges, especially in the 
promotion of sustainable development and democracy, the primary issue is how 
we can best build on the Charter and even amend it, where necessary. 
As it approaches the end of the second millennium, humanity is faced with 
formidable challenges.  Meeting them will not be easy; I have no illusions 
about that.  Yet the United Nations now has  a. better chance than ever to use 
its full potential and show leadership for the sake of a better future. 
Mr. PI TELLA (Argentina) (interpretation from Spanish):  I should 
like to congratulate the President on his election.  I am convinced that his 
work at this session will be crowned with success, as was that of his 
predecessor. Ambassador Shihabi, to whom we express our gratitude for his 
outstanding work. 
We have noted with satisfaction how our Organization, in keeping with its 
universalist vocation, has increased its membership in the course of the past 
year.  We welcome the delegations of Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and 
A/47/PV.5 
68 
(Mr. Pi Telia,  Argentina) 
Herzegovina,  Kyrgyzstan,  Turkmenistan,  Uzbekistan,  Moldova,  Georgia, 
Kazakhstan,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Tajikistan,  and  San Marino.  Their  presence 
is perhaps  the  clearest  demonstration  of  the deep-seated  and positive  changes 
that have  occurred  in  important  parts of  the world  since  the end of  the  cold 
war. 
Moreover, we would  like  to extend  our  recognition  to  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali,  for his hard  and valuable work  in the 
course of  the  first year  of his  term of  office,  thereby  continuing  the 
excellent  job done by his predecessor, Mr. Javier  Perez  de Cuellar.  The 
Secretary-General's  stewardship  has  already had  a sizeable  impact  on the 
current  international  situation. 
In our view,  the general  panorama of  international  relations, despite 
some serious  regional  conflicts, gives  rise  to promising  prospects  throughout 
the world.  The  end  of  the  cold war  and  the considerable  extension  of 
democracy  and  the economic  opening-up  in many  countries  encourage  that 
perception.  This will  necessarily  lead  to a reformulation  of  the  North-South 
relationship  that will  replace  confrontation  with  cooperation.  That 
perception does not  imply  ignoring  the  seriousness  of  some  regional  conflicts, 
in particular  in the  former Yugoslavia  or  the  tragic  situation of  such 
countries  as Somalia.  Neither war, hunger, poverty  nor  disease has been 
eliminated.  Far  from  it:  situations  persist  that  evoke horror  and  concern. 
Morevoer,  in  some  regions  there  are  still  significant  disputes  that, 
though  lacking  the  tragic  aspects  of  the  troubles  I have mentioned,  none  the 
less impede  the  consolidation  of  stability.  The  case of  the Malvinas  Islands, 
to which  I shall  refer  later,  is one example.  In that  regard,  the  situation 
has unfortunately  been  affected  recently by  unilateral  positions  taken by  the 
British Government  on  the  sensitive matters  of hydrocarbons. 
A/47/PV.5 
69-70 
(Mr. Pi Telia.  Argentina) 
In any  case,  apart  from  these  issues, in  recent years  the world  has taken 
important  steps  towards  creating  a better  framework  for  solving  serious 
problems.  The  fundamental  change has  undoubtedly  been  the more  effective 
functioning  of  the  system  of  collective  security  established  in San  Francisco 
in  1945.  That major  development  is the prerequisite  for moving  towards  full 
respect  for  the purposes  and principles  of  this  Organization. 
That  explains  the  fundamental  role of  the  Security  Council,  to which the 
Charter  allocated  paramount  responsibility  for  the maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  and  the necessity  for  all  States  firmly to 
support  that  body  and  implement  its  decisions. 
Convinced  of  that,  in keeping with Article  25 of  the Charter we  strongly 
support  the decisions  of  the Security  Council.  We  did  so with  regard  to the 
Gulf by participating  in the  coalition  to  liberate  Kuwait,  and we  continue to 
do  so through  our  increasingly  active presence  in the peace-keeping  operations 
of  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.5 
71 
(Mr. Pi Telia. Argentina) 
Our support of the Security Council flows from our deeply-rooted beliefs 
about the rules of conduct of civilized nations, from an appropriate 
assessment of the world power balance and from our perception of Argentina's 
actual interests.  After long years of miscalculations and frustrations, today 
Argentina needs to grow and develop.  Our chances of doing so depend to a 
great extent on our own efforts, but also on the existence of a world and 
regional context of dialogue and cooperation that will enable us to devote our 
energy and resources to that task.  As a result, we also favour the regional 
development of more specific formulas for cooperation with the United Nations. 
There can be no doubt that the United Nations cannot on its own guarantee 
the climate of detente that we need, which is to say that each region should 
create mechanisms of its own.  We, therefore, together with other American 
countries, have supported reforms to the charter of the Organization of 
American States with a view to giving it the power to respond politically to 
breakdowns in democracy in our hemisphere.  The organization is studying 
specific responses, which we trust will soon be adopted. 
By the same token, we have contributed, together with our neighbours, to 
consolidating a promising subregional framework.  The climate of harmony and 
cooperation between the countries of the southern cone is a veritable example 
for the world, and is the result of promising agreements on economic 
integration, such as the Southern Cone Common Market, and of specific measures 
to build confidence and transparency in the area of security.  Our countries 
are firmly united in the struggle against the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction.  Argentina, for its part, has turned this struggle into one of 
the fundamental axes of its foreign policy. 
The achievements have been particularly significant in the relationship 
between Argentina and Brazil; in a few short months, we have signed a 
A/47/PV.5 
72 
(Mr. Pi Telia. Argentina) 
bilateral agreement on nuclear safeguards, set up a bilateral agency for 
accounting and control of nuclear materials, signed an agreement on full 
safeguards with the International Atomic Energy Agency - which has already 
been ratified by my country  and have successfully pushed for amendments to 
the Treaty of Tlatelolco to allow it to come fully into force. 
In this latter effort we have also joined with Chile and, later, with 
Mexico.  The changes to the Treaty of Tlatelolco are very positive, since they 
offer guarantees that did not exist before on the control system, special 
inspections and the protection of technological secrets.  Argentina, Brazil 
and Chile have committed themselves to beginning the process of legislative 
approval of the amendments promptly.  We are sure that in a few months all of 
Latin America and the Caribbean will be protected by a nuclear-free zone in 
full operation. 
In addition to measures taken in the nuclear area, the southern cone 
countries have signed the so-called Mendoza Peclaration on chemical and 
bacteriological weapons.  This model document, which eradicates these weapons 
from our region, is in complete conformity with the Convention on Chemical 
Weapons recently negotiated in Geneva; that Convention has Argentina's 
support, and is an undeniable triumph in the struggle against the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
Argentina's firm commitment in this area has also been reflected in 
concrete form in our domestic legislation.  This year the Argentine Government 
issued a decree which regulates sensitive nuclear, chemical, bacteriological 
and missile exports, and incorporates major international agreements, such as 
the Missile-Technology Control Regime (MTCR) outlines and the so-called 
Australian "List of chemicals", into Argentina's legal system.  It also 
stipulates that Argentina shall coordinate its actions in the area of 
A/47/PV.5 
73 
(Mr. Pi  Telia.  Argentina) 
non-proliferation  with  other  countries  that have  a similar  approach.  We  plan 
to accept  the  invitation  to  join the group  of  nuclear-exporting  countries  in 
the near  future.  Naturally,  if  the main  elements  of  the MTCR  are  incorporated 
into Argentine  legislation,  they would  expect  our  country  to become  a member 
of that  system. 
I  should  like  to emphasize  that, besides  contributing  effectively  to 
non-proliferation,  the new policy  should  serve  to  reopen  Argentina's  access  to 
high technology  through  international  cooperation.  Its  former  ambiguous 
policy  in this  regard was  a major  obstacle  in this  field  and was  responsible, 
to a great  extent,  for  the  technological  backwardness  of our  country,  and  for 
hindering procurement  even  of  spare parts  and minor  supplies  for our  defence. 
Another  important  contribution  to  stability  in our part  of  the world  has 
been the complete  normalization  of diplomatic  relations  between Argentina  and 
the United  Kingdom  and  the development  of growing  and  fruitful  economic  and 
trade  links between  the  two.  However,  the dispute  concerning  sovereignty  over 
the Malvinas, Georgia  and  South  Sandwich  islands  still persists.  Today I 
reaffirm  the  sovereign  rights of my  country  over  these  territories  and  their 
maritime  areas.  The permanent  defence  and  reaffirmation  of  these  inalienable 
rights are  at the  core of Argentine  foreign  policy. 
Thus,  the  recent  decision  of  the United  Kingdom  Government  to move 
unilaterally  into prospecting  for oil  in the  area  in dispute  is  strongly 
rejected by my  country.  This  rejection has been  immediately  transmitted  to 
the United  Kingdom  Government  and  to  the potential prospecting  companies. 
This imprudent  step by  the United  Kingdom  stands  in the way of  the  real 
opportunities  for  cooperation  in the  South Atlantic  and does  not  strengthen 
the good bilateral  relationship  in which both  countries  are  strongly 
interested. 
A/47/PV.5 
74 
(Mr. Pi Telia.  Argentina) 
These developments  hinder  our  developing  creative  and pragmatic  formulas 
which, without  undermining  our  inalienable  rights, would  foster  cooperation in 
the  South Atlantic.  We  are convinced  that  the establishment  of  a  cooperative 
framework  rather  than of  a confrontational  one would  benefit  all  those who 
live  in the  South Atlantic  area,  including  the  inhabitants  of  the Malvinas. 
It  is the duty of  the Argentine  and British  Governments  to do  their  utmost 
towards  that  end by overcoming major  problems  such  as  the  ones  that  I have 
described. 
The  Secretary-General  is the author  of  the document  entitled  "An Agenda 
for Peace"  (A/47/277), which  is a fundamental  contribution  towards  outlining 
the  future  structure  of  the United Nations.  The  document  clearly  indicates 
what  road must  be  taken  to strengthen  the Organization,  particularly  in the 
area of preventing  and  ending  conflicts.  Argentina  supports  this  document, 
which  is to  a great  extent  in  line with  the  conclusions  of  the  Rio Group.  We 
share,  in particular,  the opinion  of  the Secretary-General  that  it  is 
necessary  to  set  in motion  all  the mechanisms  of  collective  security  provided 
for  in the  Charter,  in a framework  of  strict  observance  of  the  areas of 
competence  established  therein. 
Peace-keeping  operations  have become  one  of  the main  instruments  of the 
international  community.  This year we have witnessed  an  unprecedented 
participation  by  the Blue Helmets  in four  continents.  Argentina has  decided, 
for  its part,  as  a major  component  of  its  foreign policy,  to  participate 
actively  in  this  new development  by providing military  personnel  and materiel. 
In  that  connection,  I wish  to point  out  that  the  financing  of 
peace-keeping  operations must  be effected  in a manner  that balances  the need 
to  ensure  the effectiveness  of  such operations  and  the  financial  capabilities 
of Member  States.  In that  connection, we  emphasize  the  special 
A/47/PV.5 
75 
(Mr. Pi Telia.  Argentina) 
responsibilities  of  the permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  in that 
respect,  as well  as the greater  capability  of  the more  economically  developed 
countries  to  cope with  such expenditures. 
The  Secretary-General's  report  is at the  same  time  an essential  document 
in the development  of  approprite  responses  to current  conflicts.  Some of 
these need  decisive  action  on  the part  of  the  international  community. 
It is vital  for  us  to continue  to exert maximum  pressure  to put  an end to 
the tragedy  in former Yugoslavia.  Argentina  supports  the  steps  taken by  the 
Security Council,  the  Secretary-General  and  the European  Economic  Community, 
and joins with  those who  demand  respect  for  self-determination,  for  minorities 
and for the boundaries  of  the  republics  of  former  Yugoslavia. 
The tragedy  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina, with which Argentina  is  in the 
process of  establishing  diplomatic  relations,  is a challenge  to us all.  We 
join in the  appeal  to  all parties  to respect  the principles  I have  mentioned, 
and we demand  that  Belgrade  contribute  effectively  to putting  an end  to the 
aggression  in Bosnia  and  Herzegovina. 
The presence  of more  than  a thousand  Argentine  soldiers  in the United 
Nations Protection  Force bears witness  to our  interest  in a solution  that 
respects both  the Charter  of  the United  Nations  and  international  law. 
We are  also  following, with  concern,  the difficulties  in Cambodia  and  the 
lack of progress  in Western  Sahara,  and we  are  following  political 
developments  in  southern Africa with great  attention.  Argentina,  for  its 
part, is paying  particular  attention  to  the  special  situation  in  South 
Africa.  Argentina  and  South Africa  share  the  South Atlantic  area  and have 
A/47/PV.5 
75(a-z) 
(Mr. Pi Telia.  Argentina) 
great  opportunities  for  future  cooperation.  That  is why we  again  urge  the 
Government,  the African National  Congress  of  South Africa  and  all  parties 
involved  in the  search  for a concerted  solution  to persevere,  through 
negotiations,  in their  efforts  to  find  a solution  to  the  serious  problem 
created  by  the policy  of  apartheid.  The process  of eradicating  these  terrible 
practices must  be  completed  and,  at the  same  time,  the establishment  of a 
democratic,  free  and peaceful  society must be  ensured  in that  great  country. 
A/47/PV.5 
76 
(Mr. Pi Telia.  Argentina) 
I have mentioned  the  South Atlantic.  We  are  firmly  convinced  that  the 
time has  come  for  all  the  countries  involved  to  set up  concrete mechanisms  of 
cooperation  in  that  important  maritime  area.  The  South Atlantic  is one  of  the 
few areas  in the world  on which  there  are no  specific  agreements.  Argentina 
advocates  decisive  advancement  in that  area. 
Progress  in the Peace  Conference  strengthens  our hope  for  a solution  to 
the Arab-Israeli  conflict.  We  feel  that  the  role of  the General  Assembly  at 
this crucial  stage  is not  so much  to  ratify well-known  positions  as  it  is to 
contribute  decisively  to promoting  agreement  and  flexibility  among  the 
parties.  Argentina  is prepared  to cooperate  actively  in the efforts  to 
achieve  that goal.  We must  say  that we  feel deep  admiration  and  respect  for 
the Middle Eastern  leaders who have had  the courage  and vision  to put  aside 
the rigidity  of  dialectics  and undertake  these  crucial  negotiations  with 
determination  and  in a conciliatory  spirit. 
We Argentinians  have  also  suffered  the consequences  of  the  irrational 
violence  unleashed  everywhere  as  a result  of  that  serious  situation.  The 
attack  carried  out  last  17 March  against  the  Israeli  Embassy  in Buenos Aires, 
with  its heavy  toll, was  an unmistakable  sign of  the  tragic  imprint  left by 
these conflicts  at  the  criminal hands of  international  terrorism. 
As  regards  other  regional  situations, we  are pleased  to note  the  current 
progress  in the high-level  talks between  the Cypriot  leaders  and  the 
Secretary-General.  As  a result, we  look  forward  to  a prompt  agreement  in the 
framework  of  the good-offices  mission of  the  Secretary-General.  We wish  to 
commend  the parties  involved  in this  conflict,  including  Greece  and  Turkey, 
for their  spirit  of  cooperation,  and  the permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  for  their  active  role  in this process. 
A/47/PV.5 
77 
(Mr. Pi Telia. Argentina) 
We reiterate our firm support of the Security Council decisions regarding 
the situation in the Persian Gulf and we insist that Iraq should abide by its 
resolutions and fully respect the human rights of all minorities and of the 
population as a whole. 
One of the essential conditions for peace is the full enjoyment of human 
rights.  Argentina reaffirms its active role in the protection and promotion 
of human rights and fundamental liberties in the deliberative international 
bodies on human rights, both at the United Nations and the Organization of 
American States (OAS). 
It is also fitting to mention some serious problems that the 
international community must face, attack and eliminate once and for all.  I 
am referring to drug trafficking, terrorism and corruption. 
The first one  drug trafficking - is at present a subject deserving of 
concerted action by States.  This, however, is not enough.  We must get to the 
deepest roots of this scourge at all its stages, from production to 
consumption, and in particular the movement and laundering of its financial 
resources.  In their actions in this area, States must recognize the various 
characteristics of the countries that are most involved.  Argentina has joined 
and will join any initiative that will allow us to put an end to this malady 
that affects the whole of the international community, without exception. 
As for terrorism, there can be no questions, only an answer in the form 
of the strongest, most determined and implacable commitment of each State to 
struggle against it until it is eradicated.  Its activities are always deadly 
and cruel.  This year Argentina suffered one of the most savage terrorist 
attacks in the annals of international crime.  Our country will support all 
steps or processes that will strengthen law and the respect for standards of 
coexistence among nations. 
A/47/PV.5 
78 
(Mr. Pi Telia.  Argentina) 
Finally,  the  cancer  of  corruption must  be  rooted  out.  It is harmful  and 
pernicious  and  undermines  the efforts  of  States  and  their  civilian  societies 
for the healthy  development  of  their political,  economic  and  social 
institutions.  Corruption  knows  no borders  and  coexists, or  attempts  to do so, 
with any political  or  legal  system  on our planet.  Argentina  is  in the  front 
lines of  the  struggle  to  combat  this  crime  and  to create  the mechanisms  for 
doing  so. 
Allow me  to  return  to our  region  and  refer  to  some other  facts of  great 
significance. 
Argentina's  foreign policy  is geared  towards  creating  an external  context 
favourable  to  the  competitive  incorporation  of Argentina  into  the world 
economy.  In that  regard, we have made  the Southern Cone  Common  Market 
(MERCOSUR) the  axis  of our  activity  in Latin America.  The  agreement  on  trade 
and investment with  the United  States, called  "Four plus  One",  shows  that  the 
concepts of MERCOSUR  and  the  Initiative  for  the Americas  are  fully 
compatible.  With MERCOSUR  we  endeavour  to  create  a stable external  context 
for the economic  growth of  the  four  countries  through  the  implementation  of 
collective  economic  discipline  freely  agreed  upon by  the parties.  The  concept 
is characterized  by  a marked  realism  as to our  potential  and  limitations. 
MERCOSUR  is not, nor  could  it be,  the embryo  of  a new economic  fortress. 
Before the end of  1994 we will  have  a common  external  tariff, but we  have 
already  clearly  determined  that  it must  allow  for  the  increasing  international 
competitiveness  of  our  economies.  It would make  no  sense  to close  at  the 
subregional  level  the  doors  that  each of our  countries  is opening  at  the 
national  level. 
The  reference  to MERCOSUR  leads me  to  recall  that Argentina  expects  the 
creation of great  economic  blocs  to be  the  forerunner  of  freer, more  efficient 
A/47/PV.5 
79 
(Mr. Pi Telia. Argentina) 
international trade, not of a greater space to make protectionism legal or to 
disguise clear market reserves.  Argentina prefers to believe in the sincerity 
of the purposes stated in the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and in the principles outlined to launch the 
Initiative for the Americas, the same ones that form the basis of the Treaty 
of Asuncion, in which MERCOSUR is defined.  But my country notes with 
justifiable concern the way in which the most powerful economies on our planet 
interpret the concept of opening the market, since they promote such opening 
only for those sectors in which their countries are competitive or where they 
themselves exert influence on international prices. 
Part of that conception is to be found in the section on agriculture and 
other decisions that have so far stalled the Uruguay Round of GATT.  Precisely 
in the agricultural sector, the leaders of those economies do not display 
excessive courage or desire to put an end to annual subsidies of more than 
$300 billion for production and foreign trade, with which they distort 
international markets and, besides, contribute to environmental degradation. 
Some of their decisions reflect a greater interest in solving minor 
difficulties in domestic policy than in avoiding isolationism and trade wars. 
Only very rich countries can pursue policies that are so harmful and costly 
that they undermine the finances of their urban populations and of course do 
considerable harm to the developing countries. 
This is also an apt occasion to confirm our great satisfaction at the 
political agreements reached by Canada, the United States and Mexico to create 
a free-trade zone.  We trust that this achievement will be one of the central 
modules of the broader zone foreseen when launching the Initiative for the 
Americas to make of the hemisphere one great market.  While this takes shape, 
A/47/PV.5 
80 
(Mr. Pi Telia. Argentina) 
we are worried at the many legislative attempts fiat tend to hinder the access 
of developing countries to the various international markets. 
Argentina has started a process of sustained economic stability based on 
a market economy in the framework of a democratic system.  This has allowed us 
to initiate proceedings for our admission to the Organisation for Economic 
Cooperation and Pevelopment  (OECD), where we hope to take part in the 
discussion of global and sectoral economic policies that may contribute to 
economic growth. 
At this session, the General Assembly will consider the report of the 
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held at Rio de 
Janeiro.  No previous international event had convened so many Heads of State 
or of government.  In the framework of the new international situation, it has 
been possible for the first time ever to reach basic agreements on guestions 
that are important for the survival of this planet as we know it. 
The progress achieved on the American continent does not preclude the 
persistence of some specific problems.  At the last two sessions of the United 
Nations Commission on Human Rights, Argentina made clear its position 
regarding the situation in Cuba.  At all times my country has expressed a 
desire that Cuba should bring about the necessary  reforms to allow its full 
integration, both political and economic, into the community of democratic, 
pluralistic nations.  I repeat that it was expressed as a brotherly wish, not 
as interference in the affairs of that country 
Argentina strongly condemned the coup d'etat against the President of 
Haiti and supported the relevant resolutions adopted by the Organization of 
American States (OAS).  I myself was part of the delegation that accompanied 
the Secretary-General of the OAS to Port-au-Prince.  We have kept our 
A/47/PV.5 
80(a-z) 
(Mr. Pi  Telia.  Argentina) 
diplomatic  ties with Haiti, have maintained  our  embassy  there  and have  spared 
no  effort  to  support  an understanding  between  the parties  to  the  conflict. 
As  regards  El  Salvador,  the  signing  of  the peace  agreement  is  a  landmark 
in  the process  of peace-making  in Central  America  and we hope  that  the 
understanding  reached  can be extended  to  the  rest  of  the  region. 
A/47/PV.5 
81 
(Mr. Pi Telia.  Argentina) 
Peru,  our  sister  country  on  the Pacific,  continues  to  face  serious 
problems  in  its development  and progress,  suffering  the effects  of  drug 
trafficking  and  of bloody  nihilistic  terrorism.  We  should,  however,  note  the 
advances  recently  made  on  that  front.  We  also welcome  the process which will, 
we hope,  lead  to  a well-balanced  and  full  return  of Peru's  representative 
democracy.  We  are  awaiting with  close  attention  and  a willingness  to 
cooperate  the constituent  elections  of  22  November. 
With  regard  to Chile, we  continue  to move  slowly  and  inexorably  closer  to 
a final  solution  to  all  of  the unresolved  border  problems,  along  the  world's 
third longest  frontier.  Very  little  still  remains  to be done before we  reach 
a full understanding,  which  is already  yielding  fruitful  results  in advance, 
with greater  and very promising  economic  cooperation.  We  are  replacing  a long 
history of discord with  a full  and  fraternal  relationship. 
I cannot  conclude without  commenting  on  the  actions  of  the Rio Group.  I 
reaffirm my  conviction  that  it has proved  to be  a highly  effective  mechanism 
for consultations  and  for  reaching political  agreements,  as was  shown  in such 
situations  as the one which earlier  this year  endangered  institutional 
stability  in Venezuela.  The  Rio Group has  also  demonstrated  an  important 
presence  and participation  in connection with Peru  and Haiti.  It has  provided 
an excellent  tool  for  communication,  information  and  consultation  with, 
inter  alia,  the European  Community,  with which,  in addition  to  the  enormously 
important  Santiago  Declaration  in May  of  this year,  a significant  cooperation 
agreement was  signed. 
In 1992 we have been  able  to confirm  that  the United  Nations,  free of  the 
shackles  imposed  on  it by  the  cold war,  is now  fulfilling  the  essential  role 
entrusted  to  it by mankind  in 1945.  Although  the  sources  of distress  still 
persist, we  can  affirm  that we  are moving  towards  the  consolidation  of  the 
A/47/PV.5 
82 
(Mr. De Telia. Argentina) 
ruling principles that guide the United Nations, and we reiterate our hopeful 
conviction that the closing years of the strife-torn twentieth century will 
enable us to strengthen universal respect for the letter and spirit of the 
Charter, which will mean the triumph of wisdom, solidarity and justice. 
Mr. NGINGA (People's Republic of Angola) (spoke in Portuguese; 
English text furnished by the delegation):  Allow me, first of all, on behalf 
of the Angolan Government and on my own behalf, to congratulate you. Sir, on 
your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh 
session and to wish you success in carrying out your mandate.  I am sure that 
your experience and competence will guarantee the success of our work.  The 
Angolan delegation wishes from the outset to assure you of our complete 
cooperation. 
To the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Samir Shihabi, I should 
like to express my appreciation for the valuable work done during his mandate. 
To Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, I express my Government's 
profound appreciation of his goodwill and selfless efforts, demonstrated in 
the constant search for just and lasting solutions aimed at preserving peace 
and international security. 
My Government supports and will contribute in a positive way to the 
realization of the valuable concepts formulated in his report "An Agenda for 
Peace", whose sub-heading includes the words "Preventive diplomacy" (A/47/277). 
On behalf of the Government and people of Angola, I wish to welcome the 
new States that have been admitted to the United Nations; we are certain that 
their participation will contribute to the Organization's betterment. 
The world has witnessed important political transformations occurring in 
Angola in the past.  The armed conflict that had ravaged the country since 
1975 was ended with the signing of the Bicesse Accords on 31 May 1992.  There 
A/47/PV.5 
83 
(Mr. Noinga.  Angola) 
is no occasion more  appropriate  than  the present  one  to  sum  up  the  situation 
which has  followed  the peace  accords.  The Angolan people  is preparing  for  and 
awaiting with great  expectations  the holding  of  the  first multiparty  general 
elections  on  29  and  30 September,  which  demonstrate my  Government's 
determination  to  comply with  the obligations  it has  assumed  under  the  Bicesse 
Accords. 
While  the  incidents  taking place  in my  country  represent  transitional 
occurrences  in a process  as  complex  as ours, their  recurrence  in almost  all 
parts of  the  country  is a source of grave  concern  to my  Government  and  to the 
Angolan people.  In this  regard my Government  believes  that  the United  Nations 
and the rest of  the  international  community  have  an  important  role  to play 
during this decisive  phase of  the Angolan peace process. 
The environment  of peace  and  relative  tranquillity  that prevails  in my 
country is the  result  of persistent  and  arduous work  and of  the  tenacious  will 
of the Angolan people, which  counted  upon  the  international  community.  The 
Angolan people has provided  proof  of  civilian  rule and political maturity  by 
spontaneously  and massively  participating  in electoral  registration  and  in all 
the activities which will bring  about  the elections  in  spite  of  the  difficulty 
in communications. 
Of the estimated  number  of  slightly more  than  5 million voters, 
4.8 million have  registered.  The  national  electoral  council  has  demonstrated 
foresight  and has performed  its work with praiseworthy  efficiency.  And  from 
this podium,  I wish  to express  once more Angola's  appreciation  to  all  those 
countries  and organizations  which  lent us  their  support  in  so many  forms. 
My  Government  sincerely  hopes  that before  the election  definitive  accords 
can be  reached  on  certain  aspects which  continue  to be  a source  of  concern 
with regard  to  the  conduct  of  free and  fair  elections  at the  end  of  this 
A/47/PV.5 
84-85 
(Mr. Nginga, Angola) 
month.  I am speaking, in particular, of the disbanding of the present 
governmental armed forces and the military wing of UNITA, of the cessation of 
the wave of violence and intimidation provoked by the Government's 
co-signatory to the Bicesse Accords and of the formation of a national army. 
The process of peace and democratization under way in my country, to 
which I have previously referred as a historic event in the life of Angola, 
cannot but have positive repercussions and effects in the international 
sphere.  Associated with this is another factor of profound significance for 
the southern region of our continent.  I am referring to the negotiations 
being conducted in South Africa within the framework of the Convention for a 
Democratic South Africa (CODESA), which Angola considers the most appropriate 
means to find a fair, lasting and satisfactory solution for all the parties 
involved. 
As a result, Angola supports and shares the African position that CODESA 
should achieve concrete objectives, such as the establishment of a 
transitional government and the creation of mechanisms for elaborating a 
constitution for a democratic South Africa and for holding free elections 
based on the principle of "one person, one vote". 
A/47/PV.5 
86 
(Mr. Nginga.  Angola) 
I should  like  also  to make  reference  to  the  situation  in Mozambique  and 
in other parts  of  the African  continent.  The Angolan people  stand  in 
solidarity with  our brethren  in Mozambique.  For  that  reason, my  Government 
encourages  the Government  of Mozambique  to persevere  in  its peace  effort  for 
the country  and  urges  the  international  community  to give  its assistance  to 
the parties  involved with  a view  to  achieving  peace  and  national 
reconciliation. 
Another  question  that  still worries  us  is the unjust  situation  that 
persists  in East Timor.  The position  of  the Angolan  Government  is well  known 
by all; we continue  to defend  the principle  of direct  negotiations  between 
Portugal, as the administering  Power,  and  Indonesia, without  excluding  the 
presence of  the  legitimate  representatives  of  the Maubere  people,  so that  a 
comprehensive  solution  can be  found,  taking  into  consideration  the  aspirations 
of the Maubere people.  In this  context, we express  our wish that  the  next 
meeting of the Ministers  for  Foreign Affairs  of  Indonesia  and Portugal, under 
the auspices of  the  Secretary-General, will produce positive  results. 
In relation  to Western  Sahara, my Government  supports  the holding  of a 
referendum  in that Territory  and  sincerely  hopes  that  the obstacles  that  still 
exist will be  removed  as soon  as possible. 
Angola  looks with  concern  to  the  situation which prevails  in the  former 
Socialist  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia, where  the  short-term  outlook  for 
reaching a lasting  peace  is poor,  and where  the  lives  of  innocent  people  are 
being taken. 
A/47/PV.5 
87 
(Mr. Nginga. Angola) 
In relation to the Middle East, the Angolan Government has always 
favoured holding an international conference to reach a comprehensive solution 
on the Middle East, in particular the Palestinian question.  Therefore, we 
support the rounds of negotiations that are taking place; we hope that 
although there are many obstacles to overcome, the concerted efforts and the 
good will of the parties will bring positive results and that the tragedy of 
the Palestinian people will finally end. 
A fact which cannot but bring us satisfaction and which has our total 
support and encouragement is the holding of direct negotiations between Israel 
and the other parties concerned on the occupied Arab territories.  We hope 
that those negotiations will yield fully satisfactory results for the parties 
participating in the negotiations, and that peace will finally be restored in 
the region. 
In our view, whatever measure is taken, or whatever solution is advised, 
will never be satisfactory or lasting unless it takes into account and is 
based upon the true interests and concerns of the peoples involved. 
The great changes that have recently taken place in the international 
arena have in a certain way dictated the necessity of providing our 
Organization with greater dynamism in taking decisions and greater efficiency 
in implementing and monitoring them. 
The increase in the membership of the Organization, while strengthening 
it numerically, has also created the need for greater participation, on an 
equitable basis, in the various agencies of the United Nations system which 
bear mandates of fundamental importance in resolving the affairs of mankind 
with respect to problems of peace, international security, development and 
environmental protection. 
A/47/PV.5 
88 
(Mr. Nginga. Angola) 
We hope that the work under way for the restructuring and revitalization 
of the United Nations will take our needs into consideration.  Angola 
considers such restructuring to be opportune provided it is directed towards 
eliminating mechanisms for taking action that are outdated or are no longer 
attuned to the present reality, and provided that the restructuring has as its 
fundamental objective the strengthening of the role of the Organization to the 
benefit of all mankind. 
In recent decades the world economic situation has swung widely in 
various corners of the planet.  But the general trend has been towards 
polarization.  As a result, while we observe an increase in economic growth 
for the developed countries, we note a substantial decrease in growth for 
developing countries.  The situation in some cases is critical. 
The second Conference of the Least Developed Countries, held at Paris in 
September 1990, concluded that the economic and social situation of those 
countries as a whole has deteriorated over the past decade, since, with very 
rare cases of better performance, the average annual growth rate was 
2.2 per cent.  In many cases the rates were negative. 
Faced with this sad reality, the Conference set forth a new programme of 
action for the present decade which provides for national and international 
measures in favour of these countries and indicates the basic principles which 
must orient relations between those countries and other countries and 
organizations which cooperate with them for development.  In each case, 
effective implementation of that programme will require serious and profound 
reflection, and commensurate action. 
A/47/PV.5 
89 
(Mr. Nginga.  Angola) 
With  the  end of  the  cold war,  a new era has begun  in which decisions  on 
matters  of world  interest  are dealt with more  and more  on  the basis  of 
consultation  and  understanding,  instead  of  confrontation  and  competition. 
This has  rapidly  transformed  isolated  cases  of  integration  into  a general 
trend, with  countries  in various  regions  organizing  themselves  into more 
closely  aligned  economic  and political  entities. 
This  trend  towards  the  formation of  larger  economic  blocs will  inevitably 
transform  the world  economically  and politically.  This poses  a challenge  for 
which we must  be duly prepared  in order  to avoid  deepening  still  further  the 
gap  that  separates  rich countries  from poor  countries.  It  is  a challenge with 
respect  to which  all of  us, rich countries  and poor,  large  countries  and 
small, must make  a commensurate  collective  effort  to maintain  effective, 
multifarious  international  cooperation  directed  always  towards  the  development 
of  the parties  involved,  based  always  upon  the  true needs  of  the  development 
process. 
However,  certain political  situations  are now viewed  as  faits  accomplis. 
or  as  conditions  to be perpetuated.  These must  be  the object  of  immediate and 
radical  revision, with  a view  to harmonizing  positions  and  interests, and 
weakening  wide barriers  that  impede  true  cooperation  between  countries  and 
nations  separated  by vast  differences  in their  levels of  economic,  social, 
scientific,  technical,  cultural  and  educational  development. 
In our view,  this  revision  should  consist,  inter  alia,  of  the  following 
elements:  abolition  of protectionist  measures  by developed  countries  that 
block  or  impede  access  to  their markets  for products  from  underdeveloped 
A/47/PV.5 
90 
(Mr. Nginga. Angola) 
countries, or their limitation to those that are strictly necessary; total or 
partial cancellation by the developed countries of the underdeveloped 
countries' external debt; in the granting of loans or credits, the imposition 
of no further conditions with respect to concomitant, mandatory adoption of 
political measures that are not always in keeping with the level of 
development of the beneficiary country; concessions or an increase in grace 
periods, and rescheduling of payment; a reduction of interest rates and the 
non-capitalization of interest; favouring of investments in nationally defined 
areas, with particular emphasis on industrial development; and transformation 
of technology and its application to development. 
Those are some of the basic aspects around which the strategy of 
international economic cooperation must revolve if we intend, as is our duty, 
to eliminate the poverty in which the majority of the inhabitants of our 
planet languish.  Poverty grows daily, especially in our African continent. 
It is worsened by natural calamities that exacerbate the present grave 
economic and social situation in Africa. 
A/47/PV.5 
91 
(Mr. Nginga. Angola) 
Angola is a country with many natural resources.  It exports petroleum, 
diamonds, coffee and other products, and with the advent of peace we intend to 
diversify fully our export products, in this manner participating more 
effectively in the division of international labour. 
However, we are concerned by the exaggerated protectionist measures 
practised by developed countries in international trade, which are manifest in 
the unprecedented drop in the prices of raw materials and in the deterioration 
of the terms of trade, as well as the lack of success in the General Agreement 
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiation rounds. 
As a third world country, and with the objective of correcting the 
distortion in its economy, Angola reformulated its socio-political situation 
with measures which will necessarily have positive effects on the economic 
life of the country and which are consonant with this new situation.  We 
recently adopted a Government programme of action designed to decentralize the 
economy, liberalize trade, revitalize business, democratize the banking sector 
and encourage foreign investment. 
In this manner, we believe that adequately carrying out this programme in 
response to these new conditions will permit us, as is our desire, to 
participate actively in international economic cooperative efforts, making our 
contribution, to the extent possible, to the socio-economic development of 
Africa and the world. 
Allow me to express here my country's profound interest in the need to 
protect the environment.  The Rio Conference, held in June this year, not only 
constituted a means for an interesting exchange of experiences and viewpoints 
concerning a most important programme but also provided a moment for 
reflection on the continuing need for coordinated efforts for the benefit of 
A/47/PV.5 
92 
(Mr. Nginga.  Angola) 
all mankind.  Most  certainly,  the Conference  allowed  us  to  see  clearly  that, 
given current  trends  in scientific  and  technical  development,  any brash 
misstep detrimental  to the environment  could  lead  to  the  destruction  of  our 
planet. 
I wish  for  this  reason  to reaffirm  here my  country's  commitment  to 
observe  and  fully  apply  the decisions  of  the Conference  and  to express  our 
readiness  to engage  in unrestricted  cooperation with  the  international 
community  in undertaking  all  necessary  steps  so that we, together,  can  save 
the Earth. 
Mr.  SHAMUYARIRA  (Zimbabwe):  I should  like,  at the outset  to 
congratulate His  Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev,  Peputy  Prime Minister  and 
Foreign Minister  of  Bulgaria, on his  unanimous  election  to  the presidency  of 
the General Assembly  of  the United  Nations  at its the  forty-seventh  session. 
His election  is recognition  of his diplomatic  skills  and  the  respect  for 
international  law in his  country.  We  are  confident  that  the  international 
community  will benefit  from his  presidency. 
I also  take this opportunity  to express  our  sincere  appreciation  to his 
predecessor. His Excellency  Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi  of  Saudi Arabia, who 
diligently presided  over  the General  Assembly  at  its  forty-sixth  session  in an 
exemplary manner.  We  thank him  for his  efforts. 
The Secretary-General  of  the United Nations, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali, 
has been at the helm  of  our  Organization  for  nearly  a year  now.  We  have 
already appreciated  his  style  of work  and  the vigorous  responses  to  the 
various crises  that  have beset  the  international  community.  We want  to 
reiterate our  confidence  in his work  and our  continuing  support  for  his 
leadership. 
A/47/PV.5 
93 
(Mr. Shamuyarira. Zimbabwe) 
I welcome into our midst, as others before me have done, the 12 new 
Members of the United Nations.  Their admission draws the United Nations 
closer to the realization of the principle of universality of membership. 
This development is particularly welcome at this time, when a rejuvenated and 
vigorous United Nations is closely involved in the resolution of many 
conflicts and crises around the world.  It makes the pronouncements and 
actions of the world body that much more effective. 
It has now become clear to all that the end of the cold war has not been 
a panacea for the world's ills, especially the ills of third world countries. 
In some areas, and in some respects, these problems have been compounded by 
the upsurge in intense nationalism and new brands of religion.  The end of the 
cold war has not yet brought tangible results and change for the Palestinian 
people in the Middle East, the black majority in South Africa, or peace to the 
peoples of Afghanistan, Cambodia, the Western Sahara and many other areas of 
conflict in the world.  However, new and determined efforts are being made to 
resolve some of these problems peacefully, and we hope that these efforts will 
succeed. 
The tenth Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, held recently in Indonesia, 
drew attention to the failure of all the multilateral talks aimed at narrowing 
the gap between developed and third world countries.  In many areas, this 
economic gap has widened.  The Summit confirmed the validity of the Movement 
in the current international situation, but it urged its members both to join 
hands in fighting the common economic and financial problems of the South and 
to promote economic cooperation among members of the South themselves.  The 
fast-growing economies of South-East Asian countries have shown the capacity 
for intra-regional cooperation among developing countries and what can be 
A/47/PV.5 
94-95 
(Mr. Shamuyarira. Zimbabwe) 
achieved.  In the place of cold-war issues, the Movement has put economic and 
financial matters on its agenda, and we hope that these will be tackled very 
forcefully over the next three years. 
In our region of southern Africa, our economic problems have been 
compounded by the very severe drought we are all facing.  In the past, we used 
to export large guantities of white maize, but this year we have had to import 
13 million tons of grain alone.  Although the States in the region are fully 
cooperating in the areas of transport and energy supply, other areas of our 
cooperation would be greatly increased were the evil apartheid system in South 
Africa brought to an end and a non-racial and democratic system established in 
that country. 
The regime of President F. W. de Klerk  which has been commented upon by 
a number of speakers  has put the brakes on the transition process that was 
being discussed at the Convention for a Pemocratic South Africa (COPESA).  It 
has also very effectively undermined the entire process by condoning and 
abetting the escalating violence against innocent black people and 
demonstrators. 
A/47/PV.5 
96 
(Mr.  Shamuyarira.  ZimbahwM 
Mr. de Klerk has  lost  credibility  in the eyes  of  the  international 
community.  He must  take  steps now  to release  all political  prisoners; we are 
told  there  are  140 prisoners  still  languishing  in  jail.  He must  abandon or 
close  down  the  single men's hostels, which  are being  used  by  armed gangs as 
camps.  He must  forbid  the carrying  of  any weapon  for  any purpose  in public 
places.  He  should  disband  all  extraterritorial  battalions,  such  as Koevoet 
and  Battalions  31 and  32; in  fact, he  should  ban  all private  armies  and 
militia  units.  These  are not drastic measures  by  any means.  They  are the 
minimum  steps  that must  be  taken  to  level  the playing  field  so  that  all South 
African political  parties  and  teams  can play  on  it. 
The  current problems  of prisoners, hostels, weapons  and private  militias 
are  a direct  consequence  of the evil  system  of  apartheid  itself, which the 
international  community  has described  as a crime  against  humanity.  We must 
stress  that  that  system  has not yet  ended,  although  some bold  steps have been 
taken  in the  last  two years  towards  removing  it.  But  it  is  still  there. 
We  commend  the  role  the  international  community  has  played,  and  continues 
to play,  in South Africa  in line with  Security  Council  resolution  765  (1992) 
of  16 July  1992.  It is  still  our belief  that  to deal  adequately  with the 
situation  of violence  in the country  a substantial  number  of  observers 
many 
more  than  the  current  50 or  so - should  be dispatched  to the  country  so that 
they  cover  all potential  flash points.  Only  a credible  and  effective 
international  presence  can prevent  the violence  and  restore  the  confidence 
among  the parties  in South Africa  that  is necessary  for  successful 
negotiations. 
A/47/PV.5 
97 
(Mr. Shamuyarira. Zimbabwe) 
It has become obvious that the international community has made the 
greatest headway on the South African issue when it has acted in unison.  We 
need unity-in-action from the international community.  The De Klerk 
Government must come out unequivocally on the side of majority rule as 
understood by all civilised nations, without any conditions or vetoes for 
minorities.  The regime's primary responsibility is to provide security and 
safety for all South Africans, and therefore it needs to take decisive action 
not only for the protection of all citizens of the country, as I indicated 
earlier, but also to carry forward the current process of eliminating 
apartheid through peaceful means. 
Developments elsewhere in our region give much greater cause for hope, 
but the peace processes in question need to be carefully nurtured if success 
is to be guaranteed.  In Angola adequate preparations appear to have been made 
for the general elections that are to take place in the next few days.  The 
Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs of Angola gave a detailed account of the 
arrangements that have been made for the elections in that country.  The 
Angolan people, he indicated, will be given an opportunity to elect a 
government of their choice. 
The greatest praise for this achievement must go to the Angolan people 
themselves, who have shown great maturity and patriotism in the face of 
difficulties and mutual suspicions nurtured by 16 years of war.  Some praise 
must, however, also go to the United Nations, which has steadfastly supported 
the Angolan peace process, particularly through the deployment of the United 
Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM II), a peace-keeping operation in 
which my country, Zimbabwe, is also playing a modest part. 
A/47/PV.5 
98 
(Mr. Shamuyarira. Zimbabwe) 
We are glad that the problems that had arisen with regard to the 
registration of voters, particularly logistical problems of access by 
voter-registration officials to various parts of the country, have now been 
resolved and that incidents of violence in the electioneering process have not 
been allowed to get out of hand.  We also commend the pledge by the main 
parties in the Angolan elections that they will respect the poll result and 
that if they win they will endeavour to establish a government of national 
unity and reconciliation.  The concept of bringing all sections of society 
into government is indeed an act of statesmanship that takes into account the 
traditions of the African people. 
With regard to Mozambique, we believe that a comprehensive cease-fire 
will be signed on 1 October 1992.  We hope that this solemn commitment will be 
upheld and respected by all the signatories and, in fact, by all the 
Mozambican people.  After so many years of fighting, Mozambicans want peace, 
tranquillity and progress, but to achieve peace a lot of work still remains to 
be done.  There is need for flexibility on both sides, and for active 
participation by all States in the region, including the Republic of South 
Africa, in the peace process. 
Zimbabwe has done, and will continue to do, all in its power to help 
maintain the momentum and keep the peace process in Mozambique moving 
forward.  As all delegates are aware, the Rome Declaration envisages an 
eventual United Nations monitoring role in Mozambique's electoral process, and 
we trust that all States will support such an undertaking by this world body. 
A/47/PV.5 
99 
(Mr. Shamuyarira.  Zimbabwe) 
The  situation  in Somalia,  to which many  speakers  have  referred,  is a 
cause of deep  concern  in my  country;  2 million people may die  and  5 million 
need  food  aid.  The  extent  of  the  suffering, which  is now  labelled  the  world's 
worst human  disaster,  could have been greatly  alleviated  had  the world  body 
acted earlier  and with  speed.  However, we  commend  the decisive  steps  that 
have now been  taken by  the  Security  Council, especially  the decision  to 
dispatch 3,500 troops  to protect  food  shipments  and  distribution.  My  country 
is proud  to be participating  in this operation, which  is aimed  at averting a 
famine of genocidal  dimensions  in  Somalia. 
We urge  the various  clan militias  in the country  not  to disrupt  the 
United Nations  effort, but  to engage  in negotiations  aimed  at  reuniting  and 
bringing peace  to their  tortured  people.  The  leaders of  the  three  political 
factions  in Somalia must be  condemned  for  intensifying  civil  strife  in a 
society that  is already  ravaged by  so much  famine  and drought.  They  should 
instead be unifying  and  reconciling  their  people,  reconciling  the nation,  in 
order to enable  it to withstand  the drought more  effectively. 
In West  Africa  the continued  elusiveness  of  a solution  to  the  Liberian 
conflict  is also  a cause  of grave  concern.  We  commend  the efforts  of  the 
Economic  Community  of West African  States  (ECOWAS) Governments  to bring  peace 
and democracy  to Liberia.  Fighting between  rival  factions  in recent  days may 
embroil  forces of  the ECOWAS  Cease-fire  Monitoring  Group  (ECOMOG)  in more 
fighting  and make  the whole  situation  intractable.  We  urge  our  Liberian 
brothers  to put  the  safety  and  future  of  their people  and  country  before 
personal gain  and  aggrandizement,  and we  urge  our  ECOWAS  brothers  also  to 
continue with  their  efforts  in attempting  to bring peace  to  Liberia. 
A/47/PV.5 
100 
(Mr. Shamuyarira. Zimbabwe) 
The crisis in the Middle East has dragged on for a long time, dating from 
the cold-war era.  Our hopes were raised that a solution would be found in the 
current round of peace talks that began with the Madrid Conference.  We still 
place our hopes in that process, and hope that the advent of a Labour 
Government in Israel will result in a more imaginative and flexible attitude 
that can lead to a solution adequately addressing the legitimate aspirations 
of the Palestinian people.  Clearly, the new Israeli Government must accept 
the principle of the complete withdrawal of its troops of occupation from 
Palestine and the assumption of full control by the Palestinians over their 
own resources, including water resources, as fundamental to the resolution of 
the Palestinian issue.  Further, it is important for the United Nations to 
assume a central role in the peace process, particularly as its resolutions 
served as terms of reference for the Madrid Conference. 
A/47/PV.5 
101 
(Mr. Shamuyarira.  Zimbabwe) 
There  are many  other  areas  of crisis  and  conflict  that  require,  and  are 
getting,  the  attention  of  this world body,  such as Cyprus,  Cambodia, 
Afghanistan, Western  Sahara  and others.  The United Nations must  continue  to 
ensure that  in Western  Sahara,  the  referendum  plan  is carried  out  in a manner 
that reflects  the genuine  aspirations  of  the Sahrawi  people;  that  in Cambodia, 
full and  comprehensive  implementation  of  the Paris Accords  is achieved;  that 
in Cyprus, a solution  that preserves  the unity of  the country  and  its 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  is found;  and  that  in Afghanistan  also, 
the unity  of the  country  is ensured  and peace  realized. 
The most  explosive  areas  in the whole world  today, however,  remain  the 
countries of  the  former Union of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics  and  the  former 
Socialist  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia, which have  been  the  subject  of much 
comment by earlier  speakers.  In these  areas, once  the communist  parties  that 
held power  collapsed,  the  remaining,  separate  ethnic  entities were  engulfed  in 
intense  local  tribalism  and  in an upsurge  of  religious  fundamentalism.  Our 
experiences  in Africa  reveal  that  social  situations  of  tribalism  and/or 
religious  fundamentalism  cannot be  resolved  simply  by  calling  an election,  or 
by using military  force  alone; what  is often  required  is a deliberate  act of 
national  reconciliation  that  establishes  a government  of national  unity  and 
distributes power  and  influence  to every  segment  of the  society.  This  is a 
political game  in which  there  should  be no  losers:  the purpose  of  an  election 
becomes that of  establishing  the  relative  strengths  of  the  participating 
parties and  therefore  the weight or  seats  they  should  have  in a government  of 
national  unity. 
A/47/PV.5 
102 
(Mr. Shamuyarira.  Zimbabwe) 
In the  case of Yugoslavia,  from  the very beginning my  delegation  felt 
that when  the upsurge  of  tribal  feeling hit  that  unhappy  land,  a conference of 
national  reconciliation  should  have been  convened.  If  some  tribes  insisted on 
getting  out  of  the  federal  arrangement,  they  should  have been  required  to sign 
a treaty guaranteeing  the  rights of  the minority  tribes  to power-sharing  and 
to enforcement  of  full human  rights within  their  own  territories, 
because 
let us  face  it  - the main problem  in Yugoslavia  is the patchwork of 
tribal  units  that  are  spread  throughout  that  land. 
We  ourselves  have  never believed  that  the European  Economic  Community's 
policy  of  early  recognition  of Croatia  and  Slovenia on  the  one  hand  and the 
severe punishment  of  Serbia  and Montenegro  on  the other would  solve  the 
problems  of  tribal  and  religious  feelings  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  where the 
numbers  in the ethnic  mix  are  almost  egual.  We  strongly  condemn  the obnoxious 
policy  of  so-called  ethnic  cleansing  by the  competing  tribes  in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina. 
The  expulsion  or  killing  of  any one person  in the process  of  so-called 
cleansing  does not  solve  any problem;  instead,  it creates  a pyschological, 
vicious  circle  of  communal  violence.  However, when we  discuss  the question of 
Yugoslavia  in  this world  body  soon, we would  urge  a word  of  caution:  to seek 
reconciliation  and  not  to  ridicule  any of  the warring  tribes  of  former 
Yugoslavia.  The  fact  that  persons  drawn  from  different  ethnic,  racial, 
religious,  linguistic  and  cultural  groups  live  together  should  be  a point of 
strength  rather  than weakness;  in fact,  former Yugoslavia  used  to pride itself 
on  that very  fact.  Here  in the United  States  of  America,  the  country  draws 
much  strength  from  the  cultural  diversity  of  its people, who  live  together 
happily  under  one political  system.  That  is broadly what we  should  aim at in 
the  context  of  the Balkans. 
A/47/PV.5 
103 
(Mr. Shamuyarira. Zimbabwe) 
The subject of restructuring the United Nations system has been on our 
agenda for some time now.  My delegation put some specific proposals before 
the summit of world leaders held here last January.  The thrust of our 
contribution was the need to democratize the international system and the 
empowerment of the voice of third world countries within that system. 
We are pleased that the Secretary-General has followed up the work of 
that summit with a comprehensive statement entitled "An Agenda for Peace" 
(A/47/277).  We agree with most of the well-thought-out conclusions and 
suggestions in the report; in particular, we agree with the emphasis he puts 
on democratic practices and the commitment to full human and political rights 
within our societies.  On the subject of tribalism and nationalism, which we 
have been discussing, he says: 
"if every ethnic, religious or linguistic group claimed statehood, there 
would be no limit to fragmentation, and peace, security and economic 
well-being for all would become ever more difficult to achieve". 
(A/47/277, para. 17) 
We also endorse the recommendation that more should be done to assist the 
countries that become victims of economic sanctions applied by this world body 
against other States.  A meaningful and fair programme and mode of 
compensation for victim States would encourage them to apply United 
Nations-sponsored sanctions more faithfully, which would result in greater 
effectiveness of those sanctions. 
It is also our view that the United Nations should have its own dedicated 
and committed armed units on a permanent basis, so that in its enforcement 
actions the world body acts as the world body, not as only some of its parts 
or some of its Members.  The Charter itself provides for the United Nations to 
A/47/PV.5 
104 
(Mr. Shamuyarira. Zimbabwe) 
function in that fashion, and we believe that it is time the relevant 
provisions in this regard were reactivated. 
Given the centrality of the Security Council to the question of the 
maintenance of international peace and security, any discussion of security 
issues cannot be complete without a look at the procedures of that body 
itself.  We are aware of the circumstances in which the power of veto was 
given to those who now possess it in the Council.  The point at issue now is 
whether arrangements that appeared fair  or at least justifiable  47 years 
ago are still viable today.  We believe this is an issue which needs rational 
discussion in which all States would participate egually and all views would 
be given a fair hearing.  Only such a fair exchange of views can result in the 
peaceful new world order that we are all seeking. 
Needless to say, conflicts are not only the result of injustice within 
and among nations but also the result of poverty, want and despair.  The past 
decade has seen a massive deterioration in the standards of living of peoples 
in the developing world.  This poverty is traceable not only to the policies 
of individual third world Governments but also to the capricious and 
pernicious international environment in which they operate:  not only have the 
prices for raw materials - the mainstays of our economies - been seriously 
depressed throughout the past decade, but we have also faced extremely high 
interest rates and increased protectionism from the markets of developed 
countries.  Far from being recipients of capital, we have become net exporters 
of hard currency, and today we jointly labour under a foreign debt of some 
$1.3 trillion.  Some of us have, in addition to all this, suffered natural 
disasters such as the drought, to which I have referred, that is ravaging 
southern Africa at the present time. 
A/47/PV.5 
105 
(Mr. Shamuyarira.  Zimbabwe) 
Poverty  and want  breed  despair,  and despair,  of  course, breeds  conflict. 
If the  international  community  is to address  peace  and  security  issues 
adequately,  it needs  to attend  seriously  to the  causes of  despair  in the world 
today.  There  can be  no human  right greater  than the  right  to food,  the  right 
to shelter  and  the  right  to  life  itself 
and,  during  life, the  right  to 
literacy.  The world  body  and  its  specialized  agencies must  address  these 
issues as a matter  of  urgency. 
A/47/PV.5 
106 
(Mr. Shamuyarira,  Zimbabwe) 
In this  regard, we  are pleased  at the plethora  of  projects  now under way 
to make  the United  Nations  focus on  issues of  economic  development  and  social 
and humanitarian  issues,  such as  the Nordic  project.  We believe  the  time has 
also  come when  a frank  appraisal  should  be made  of  the global  economy  with a 
view  to eliminating  some of  the built-in obstacles  to growth  for  developing 
countries. 
I must  return  again  to the theme  of  the Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries, namely,  how  to close  the widening  economic  gap  between  rich and 
poor  nations.  My delegation  supports  the convening  of  an  international 
conference  on  social  development,  planned  for  1994 or  1995.  Such  a gathering 
would  assist  in defining  clearly  the basic  needs  of human beings  on  this Earth 
in this nuclear  age, needs which must be met  in order  for  them  to  live a 
decent,  satisfying  and  enriched  life  - in answer  to  the guestion.  What does 
an ordinary  human being need? 
and  it would  also map  out  a genuine  path of 
development  for  third world  countries  in the  South.  The  conference  could play 
a very  important  part  in  showing  the correct  path  to development.  The paths 
that  have been  chosen  for development  have  led  us  in different  directions, and 
some of  them have  led  us  into culs-de-sac.  We  need  to  think  deeper  and to act 
more  decisively  in order  to chart  the correct  path.  To  that  extent,  we 
strongly  support  the  convening  of  the  conference  on  social  development. 
That  should  be  the  essence  of  the new world  order  to which we  should all 
aspire.  It  should  be  an  international  order guided by  the  twin  objectives of 
universal  peace  and  security,  on  the one hand,  and  an  improved  quality of life 
for  all  the  Earth's  inhabitants, on the other.  It must  also be  an order 
characterized  by  justice  and  respect  for  international  law.  We  third world 
countries  should  join enthusiastically  in the promotion  of  the  current Decade 
A/47/PV.5 
107 
(Mr. Shamuyarira. Zimbabwe) 
of International Law, because that is our only shield against the arbitrary 
actions of some big Powers.  Our sovereignty and our national 
self-determination are deeply rooted in our political philosophies, of various 
kinds, but they are also anchored in the practice of international law.  We 
should uphold that shield even more vigorously in the so-called new world 
order that is emerging.  We should also uphold the Charter of the United 
Nations, which gives us some of the basic principles on which the 
international system has operated for so many years, nearly half a cencury. 
Today we stand at a crossroads.  The collapse of the old order gives us 
the rare opportunity to build something new in its place.  Shall we use this 
opportunity wisely, or not?  History has taught us salutary lessons about the 
price mankind has had to pay for opportunities that are missed.  In our 
deliberations in this forum and in others, we shall all help determine the 
shape of this new order that is coming.  Zimbabwe intends to participate, with 
others, actively in that debate to ensure that the much-heralded new world 
order will be a just, humane and enlightened one that will bring an 
improvement to the quality of life of all of humanity and provide for the 
basic needs of all human beings, and especially in our developing societies. 
The global community has the means and the capacity to provide for those basic 
needs. 
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):  I shall now call on 
those representatives who wish to speak in exercise of the right of reply. 
May I remind members that, in accordance with General Assembly 
decision 34/401, statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited to 
10 minutes for the first intervention and to five minutes for the second and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 
A/47/PV.5 
108 
Mr. MORA GODOY (Cuba) (interpretation from Spanish):  A few minutes 
ago we heard the statement of the Minister from Argentina, in which he 
referred to my country and expressed a fraternal aspiration for the future of 
Cuba.  Such an aspiration cannot be a friendly one, and we reject it.  It 
would be really friendly and fraternal if he would express concern for Cuba 
with a view to rejecting the growing external aggression and the hostile 
policy of which our country is the victim, and if he would demand respect for 
the sovereignty and national integrity of Cuba, as he does for his own 
country, in accordance with the principles of international law and the 
Charter of the United Nations. 
That would be an aspiration worthy of being expected from a Latin 
American representative.  However, the statement of the representative of 
Argentina coincides, and is in line, with the position of the Government of 
the United States.  We do not recognize in it any fraternal concern, inasmuch 
as the role he is playing would, in this case, be the role of Cain. 
Mr. RICHARDSON (United Kingdom):  I apologize for taking the floor 
at this late hour; however, in his address a short while ago, the Foreign 
Minister of Argentina referred to the alleged sovereign rights of his country 
over the Falkland Islands, the Georgias and the South Sandwich islands and 
over their maritime jurisdiction. 
I must repeat that my Government has no doubts about its sovereignty over 
the British dependencies in the South Atlantic. 
The Foreign Minister also referred to the "imprudence" of the British 
Government in advancing unilaterally in oil prospecting in the area in 
dispute.  In fact, the announcement by the British Geological Survey of the 
intention of the Falkland Islands Government to invite applications to 
A/47/PV.5 
109-110 
(Mr. Richardson. United Kingdom) 
carry out seismic surveys will have come as no surprise to the Argentine 
Government, which has been kept informed at every stage from the beginning 
about the invitation to apply. 
My Government therefore rejects any suggestion that it has acted 
imprudently.  We will continue to work with the Argentine Government to create 
an atmosphere of stability and cooperation in the South Atlantic, and we have 
made considerable progress in that respect.  That progress is predicated on 
the understanding that sovereignty is not a matter that we are prepared to 
discuss. 
Mr. CHIARADIA (Argentina) (interpretation from Spanish):  My 
delegation wishes to refer to the statement we heard recently from the 
delegation of Cuba. 
We do not believe that this is the right time to cast doubt on the value 
of democracy.  The Argentine delegation, through its Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, simply said, and I shall quote, that: 
"At all times, my country has expressed a desire that Cuba should bring 
about the necessary reforms to allow its full integration, both political 
and economic, into the community of democratic, pluralistic nations." 
(supra, p. 80) 
I have nothing to add to that, and simply wish to reaffirm those words. 
With regard to the statement by the delegation of the United Kingdom, I 
simply wish to reaffirm in all respects the references the Minister of Foreign 
Affairs of my country made in this Hall to the guestions to which the United 
Kingdom delegation alluded. 
A/47/PV.5 
111 
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):  I now call on the 
representative of Cuba, who wishes to speak a second time in exercise of the 
right of reply.  The intervention is limited to five minutes. 
Mr. MORA GODOY (Cuba) (interpretation from Spanish):  Really, I am 
not going to use up my five minutes, but I am going to say that neither is 
this the moment to be trifling with the interests of the powerful, and I shall 
also reaffirm that what happens in Cuba, as far as our system is 
concerned - and I think the representative of Argentina forgot this in his 
speech  is decided by the Cuban people and nobody else. 
The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m. 
