INITED 
IATIONS 
General  Assembly 
ON  LIBRARY 
'  r  ? 9 i9i-' 
UN/SA COLLECTION 
/ 7C ^ 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.19 
12 October 1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh session 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 19th MEETING 
Held at Headquarters, New York, 
on Wednesday, 30 September 1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
later: 
later: 
Mr. GANEV 
Mr. HAYES 
(Vice-President) 
Mr. GANEV 
(President) 
Mr. NANDOE 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Ireland) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Suriname) 
General debate [9] (continued) 
Statements made by 
Mr. Karzay (Afghanistan) 
Mr. Diallo (Niger) 
Mr. Al-Sahaf (Iraq) 
Mr. Al-Nuaimi (United Arab Emirates) 
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English 
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages.  The final text will 
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembly. 
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only.  They should 
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within 
one week, to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61279  1524V (E) 
A/47/PV.19 
l(a-z) 
Address by Mr. Percival J. Patterson, Prime Minister of Jamaica 
Statements made by 
-v 
Mr. Nwachukwu (Nigeria) 
Mr. Jameel (Maldives) 
Mr. Booh-Booh (Cameroon) 
Adoption of the agenda and organization of work:  letter from the 
Chairman of the Committee on Conferences  [8] (continued) 
A/47/PV.19 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.25  p.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  9  (continued) 
GENERAL  DEBATE 
Mr.  KARZAY  (Afghanistan):  I shall  read out  the  following  statement 
on behalf  of  the Deputy  Prime Minister  and  Foreign Minister  of  Afghanistan. 
"Allow me  to express my warmest  congratulations  on your  election  as 
President  of  the  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly.  I am 
fully  confident  that  the work  of  the Assembly  will yield  fruitful,  indeed 
radiant,  results  under  your wise guidance,  and with  the endeavours  of  the 
Secretary-General. 
"It  is a source  of pleasure  for the delegation  of  the  Islamic  State 
of Afghanistan  to  see  the new Bulgaria, having  renounced  communism, 
taking  its place  in the  international  community  with new principles  and 
values  in line with  the true  aspirations  of the Bulgarian  people. 
"The wise  and  effective  stewardship  of your  predecessor. 
Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi, will  always be  remembered  by  those  who 
participated  in the  forty-sixth  session of  the General  Assembly.  We were 
glad  to  see a  record  of  such high quality  placed  at  the disposal  of  the 
General  Assembly  by  » skilful  diplomat  who  represented  the  brotherly 
country  of  Saudi  Arabia. 
"The universality  of  this  Organization  has been  further  strengthened 
this year by  the  admission  of  13 new Members.  We welcome  them  to  this 
world  family  and  assure  them  of  our  cooperation  in the  realization  of  the 
purposes  of  this  Organization. 
"It  is the grace  of Almighty  Allah  that gives me  the great honour  of 
conveying  this message  to the General  Assembly  for  the  first  time  since 
the establishment  of  an  Islamic  State  in Afghanistan. 
A/47/PV.19 
3-5 
(Mr. Karzay. Afghanistan) 
"The forty-seventh session of the General Assembly is convened in 
conditions where the remnants of the cold war and a polarized world are 
melting, where colonial structures are falling apart and where a new and 
just order is being forged on our planet. 
"The 14-year resistance of the heroic Afghan mujahideen, of the 
liberation movements of nations under tyranny, and of reform movements in 
the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, coupled with the unjust and 
unrealistic nature of communism and totalitarianism, contributed to the 
collapse of those systems and consequently to smashing the myth of 
world-power polarization.  This weakened the concept of military pacts 
and to some extent changed the political map of the world.  The years of 
cold war came to an end and the hope of a new and fair world order 
emerged.  Such positive developments  and their subsequent outcomes 
have given shape to new horizons for the world order, and also to the 
role of the United Nations in world affairs. 
"For my delegation, the forty-seventh sesssion of the General 
Assembly session has two significant features.  First, the 
representatives of the Afghan nation are taking their seat once again in 
this Organization and, secondly, we are participating in this session 
with the expectation that the United Nations and other international 
organizations, as well as international financial institutions and Member 
States will continue to extend their assistance to the second phase of 
our struggle:  the economic reconstruction and social rehabilitation of 
our country. 
A/47/PV.19 
6 
(Mr. Karzay.  Afghanistan) 
"I would  like to  avail myself  of  this opportunity  to express,  on 
behalf  of  the people  and  the  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan,  my  profound 
appreciation  to all  those Member  States  that  firmly  stood by our  side  in 
condemning  the aggression  of  the  former  Soviet Union  and  supported  the 
righteous  struggle  of  the Afghan people  for  the  restoration  of  the 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and political  independence  of 
Afghanistan,  and  its non-aligned  and  Islamic  character.  Their  dynamic 
political  and generous  humanitarian  support has been  a source  of 
encouragement  during  the entire  years of  our  struggle,  in which we  have 
never  felt  alone, believing  that God Almighty  and  righteousness  were  on 
our  side. 
"In this  respect,  our  special  heartfelt  thanks  and gratitude  is 
extended  to the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran, the Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  and  the Arab Republic  of Egypt.  We 
will  always  remember  the  strong political  and generous  humanitarian 
assistance  of  the United  States  of America,  the People's  Republic  of 
China,  the United  Kingdom, Western  European  countries  and  Japan. 
"We thank  the Secretary-General  of  the United  Nations, his  Special 
Representative  and  the Office of  the Coordinator  for United  Nations 
Humanitarian  and  Economic  Assistance  Programmes  Relating  to  Afghanistan 
(UNOCA) for playing  a conciliatory  role  for bringing  peace  to 
Afghanistan,  as well  as channelling  assistance  to our  people. 
"We would  expect  that  this Organization may  continue  to  assist 
Afghanistan  in the  realization  of  the noble  aspirations  of  our  people. 
"Speaking  for  the  first  time  after  the establishment  of  the  Islamic 
State of Afghanistan,  I deem  it necessary  to make  a brief  reference  to  a 
matter  that  concerns  the  circumstances  that  culminated  in the  collapse  of 
A/47/PV.19 
7 
the previous regime and the establishment of an Islamic State in the 
(Mr. Karzay. Afghanistan) 
country. 
"The understanding reached between the leaders and commanders of 
Jihad with the regular and irregular forces of the previous Government in 
the country contributed to a smooth and peaceful transition of power from 
that Government to the newly established Islamic Government of 
Afghanistan on 28 April 1992, avoiding, perhaps,  a blood-bath in the 
capital. 
"Based upon the high objective of avoiding further loss of life and 
bloodshed, the newly established Islamic State has tried to solve 
existing political problems, which are the legacy of the 14 years of war 
and destruction in the country, through peaceful means of dialogue, 
negotiations, tolerance and understanding, thus preparing the ground for 
holding free and fair elections as a viable procedure of guaranteeing 
democracy and social justice. 
"It should be obvious that holding a general election in a country 
requires, first and foremeost, an atmosphere of complete peace and 
security.  Unfortunately, the recent irresponsible non-stop three-week 
rocket attacks on Kabul resulted in the tragic loss of some 2,400 
innocent people, as well as 9,000 injuries.  These senseless attacks have 
also seriously disturbed the speedy and final resolution of the present 
political problems.  This situation, as well as the ongoing programme of 
repatriation of refugees and that of the resettlement of displaced 
people, as well as the lack of adequate security and financial resources, 
and facilities that are essential requirements for holding a general 
election, brought the Government to the poirt of taking a preliminary 
A/47/PV.19 
8 
(Mr. Karzay.  Afghanistan) 
step, which would  prepare  the ground  for  the holding  of  a free  and  fair 
election.  This  first  step  is the convening  of  a traditional  Loya 
Kirgah" 
a Grand Council,  a Council  of  Representatives:  in other words, a 
Shura-i-Ahli-Hal-wa-Aqd,  a term  used  for the  same gathering,  in Arabic 
"comprising  the  representatives  of  the people  of Afghanistan.  This 
assembly  is to be held  at the earliest  convenience,  probably  within  the 
next  two months.* 
"During  the past month,  some  assemblies  have  been  convened  in 
different  parts  of Afghanistan  to deliberate  on the present  political 
situation  in the  country.  On  8 September  1992, an assembly  consisting  of 
2,500  Jihad  commanders, heads  of tribes, ulama" 
religious  scholars 
"and  influential  Afghan personalities  representing  16 of  the  29  provinces 
of Afghanistan  was held  in the  city of Ghazni, somewhere  near  Central 
Afghanistan.  After  discussing  various  issues pertaining  to  security 
conditions,  the political  situation  and basic  needs  in the provinces,  and 
especially  in Kabul, the  assembly  made  a request  to the Government  to 
call  a Loya Jirgah, which would be  the best  and  shortest path  for 
resolving  the present  crisis.  Their  deliberations  call  for  convening,  by 
the end of  October,  a Shoura,  that  is, a Jirgah or  a Council, of  all 
segments  of Afghan  society,  including Afghan  refugees  living  abroad. 
"On 12  September  1992, another  assembly  was  convened,  in the  city  of 
Kandahar.  In  this gathering,  Jihad  commanders  and heads  of  several 
tribes of  southern  and  southwestern  Afghanistan  called  for  the  convening 
*  Mr. Hayes  (Ireland), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.19 
9 
(Mr. Karzay.  Afghanistan) 
of  a Loya Jirgah.  It is noteworthy  that  the participants  in  this 
assembly,  among other  things, requested  the Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference  and  the United  Nations  jointly  to  supervise  the convening  of 
such  a grand  assembly. 
"In addition  to the above-mentioned  assemblies,  there have  been a 
number  of other gatherings  throughout  Afghanistan  that  have  asked  the 
Islamic  State  to convene  a  Loya Jirgah  as the only  authoritative  platform 
to decide  on the political  future  of  the  country. 
"The position  of  the  Islamic  State of Afghanistan,  which  reflects 
the  righteous  demands  and  suggestions  of  the valiant  people  of 
Afghanistan,  obligates  it to ensure  that  all ways  and means  and  are 
utilized  in seeing  that  this wish of  the nation,  echoed  through  the 
convening  of various  assemblies,  is  heeded. 
"The  safeguarding  of  the unity,  sovereignty,  independence  and 
territorial  integrity  of Afghanistan  could  only be  ensured  if  the will of 
the nation, which  is the  source  of  sovereignty,  is expressed.  Such 
aspirations, under prevailing  conditions,  could  be  reflected  through  the 
convening  of  a Loya Jirgah, which  in the absence  of  the possibilities  of 
holding  elections  is the only  authoritative  and  inclusive  body  to 
determine  the political  destiny  of  the  country. 
"The  Islamic  State of Afghanistan  is exerting  every  effort  to bring 
about  appropriate  safeguards  and guarantees  for  facilitating  the  speedy 
transition  of power  to an elected  government  through  Loya  Jirgah. 
However,  for  the purpose of  ensuring  appropriate  safeguards  and 
guarantees,  the  Islamic  State of Afghanistan,  if necessary,  may  request 
the United  Nations  and  the Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  to 
supervise  the proceedings  of  such an  assembly. 
A/47/PV.19 
10 
(Mr. Karzav.  Afghanistan) 
"Our  struggle  has been victorious because  of  the  14 years  of 
continuous, valiant  and dedicated  sacrifices made by our Muslim  nation 
against  a super-Power  and  its  supporters.  This victory  is a brilliant 
milestone  and  turning-point  in our history.  But  the price  of victory  has 
been very  high. 
"To portray  the extent  of  death  and destruction  in Afghanistan,  it 
is perhaps  sufficient  to quote  the  first paragraph  of  the  'Consolidated 
Appeal  by  the  Secretary-General  of  the United  Nations  for  Emergency 
Humanitarian  Assistance  for Afghanistan',  which  says:  'Few countries  in 
history have  suffered  to  the extent  Afghanistan has over  the past 
14 years.  Aside  from  the physical  destruction,  which was often  nothing 
short of  cataclysmic,  the  results  of  the war  include  over  1 million 
people  killed,  over  2 million  disabled,  nearly  6 million  refugees  in 
neighbouring  countries  and  2 million  internally  displaced  persons'. 
"The  total  destruction  of most  of  the villages  and  towns has  been 
estimated  at  200,000 hectares  of  forest,  8,000 water  arteries,  6 million 
cattle,  114 medical  centres,  2,700  kilometres  of main  roads  and more  than 
2,000  school buildings.  Almost  all our  power  stations  and  communications 
systems have been  either  totally  destroyed  or very badly damaged.  The 
real estimate  of  losses  is to be  reckoned.  There  are about  10 million 
mines  implanted  by  the  Soviet  occupying  forces  all over  Afghanistan. 
Perhaps  the  coming  Afghan generations  may  not be  able  to walk  without 
fear on their  own  soil.  And  this  is the  saddest part  of  it. 
"The completion  of  the  repatriation  programme  is directly  related  to 
de-mining.  According  to United  Nations  reports,  in recent months  there 
have been many  returnees who were  killed  or  injured  by  the mines. 
A/47/PV.19 
10(a-z) 
(Mr. Karzay.  Afghanistan) 
Medical  clinics  in the border  town of Peshawar  in Pakistan  are 
overcrowded  with  the mine-affected  returnees.  In this  respect, we  call 
upon  the  international  community  to  respond  positively  to the  appeal  of 
the  Secretary-General  in supporting  financially  the  related  projects  of 
the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV. 19 
11 
(Mr. Karzay.  Afghanistan) 
"While  the  international  community  is celebrating  the end of  the 
Decade of Disabled  Persons, there  are 2 million people who  fall  into  the 
same category  in my  country,  and  their  destitute  and meagre  existence 
deserves  special  attention. 
"Our problems  are  so great  that we, with our  limited  capabilities, 
cannot  address  the  critical  needs of disabled persons.  The  Islamic  State 
of Afghanistan,  with  its war-shattered  economy  as one element  affecting 
its rehabilitation  programmes,  has prioritized  the  construction  of  new 
hospitals  and  clinics which  need to be  financed by  international 
assistance  programmes. 
"The efforts  of  this Organization  in adopting principles  for  the 
purpose of  ensuring  the  implementation  of measures  and  a  monitoring 
system  for  the  rights of disabled persons  is commendable.  However,  the 
problem  in my  country  is of  a different  nature.  We have  to  create 
appropriate  national machinery  to  support  almost  2 million  disabled 
persons, victims  of  armed  conflict.  Without  appropriate  international 
assistance,  that objective  cannot be  achieved. 
"As for  the orphans  of war, if we estimate  that  each Afghan  killed 
in the  14 years  of war  had one child,  there  are  1.5  million orphans  in 
Afghanistan.  Because  of  that great  number,  the  Islamic  State  of 
Afghanistan  is  in critical  need  of  international  assistance  for  the 
rehabilitation  of  orphans  of war. 
"In appreciation of  the  severity of  the problems  of  orphans  of war 
and armed  conflicts  and  their  deserving  of particular  international 
attention, my  delegation proposes  the establishment  of  a special  fund  in 
the  framework  of  the United Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF) for  the 
rehabilitation  of  orphans  as a result  of  armed  conflicts, wherever  they 
„A/47/PV.19 
12 
(Mr. Karzay. Afghanistan) 
are and to whatever country they belong.  In this regard, it may also be 
appropriate to declare the year 1994 the international year of the orphan. 
"There can be no political stability in any country without economic 
viability.  The Islamic State of Afghanistan has inherited a country that 
is physically devastated, psychologically battered, economically 
depleted, and politically and socially tormented; the population is in 
dire need of moral and material support.  The Islamic State was 
established as a result of immeasurable sacrifices and the great 
suffering that the Afghan nation has endured for the sake of its freedom 
and its conviction to its faith.  Our people's struggle has had 
international significance in general and has had wide-ranging impact on 
the promotion of freedom and the emergence of new States.  Without a 
sound economy, the peace that has been achieved at such a terrible cost 
cannot be guaranteed, and instability in Afghanistan is sure to affect 
the region. 
"The war has destroyed the economic infrastructure of Afghanistan. 
Rebuilding the country's economic structure is crucial for the future 
existence of Afghanistan as a productive and self-supporting member of 
the world community.  Comprehensive and methodical economic programmes, 
with the assistance of friendly countries and the United Nations, will 
ensure the reconstruction process, a solid foundation upon which future 
economic progress can be built. 
"At the moment, however, the issue of emergency humanitarian relief 
efforts takes priority because of the obvious food shortages, lack of 
clean water and electricity and inadequate medical care, which are 
threatening the survival of the nation as a whole and the capital in 
A/47/PV.19 
13 
(Mr. Karzay.  Afghanistan) 
particular.  Unfortunately,  the  Islamic  State of Afghanistan  has  not 
received  adequate  support  from  the  international  community  in this  regard. 
"The United  Nations  Special  Representative  on Afghanistan  recently 
expressed  dismay  at  the  lack of enthusiasm  on  the part  of  the 
international  community  in responding  urgently  to meet  the  $180  million 
target  of  assistance  proposed by His Excellency  the Secretary-General  of 
the United  Nations  in his  appeal  of  5 June  1992.  So  far,  almost 
$40.5 million  has been  received  in response  to that  appeal.  The  positive 
response  of  some  countries  is greatly  appreciated  by  the  Islamic  State  of 
Afghanistan. 
"Aside  from  the human  calamities,  in the  first week of  September  of 
this year  a natural  disaster  hit  Gulbahar  and other neighbouring  towns of 
Parwan  Province  of Afghanistan.  That  flood was  of  a severity  unmatched 
for many  decades.  According  to  reliable  reports, about  3,000 people  were 
killed,  and hundreds  of houses were  totally demolished.  It is 
astonishing  that  international  authorities have  not  addressed  their 
attention  to that  large-scale  calamity.  We  are  requesting  the 
international  community  to provide emergency humanitarian  assistance  for 
the  flood victims  and  their  families. 
"The  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan wishes  to  solicit  the  support  of 
United Nations Member  States  in ensuring  due  consideration  of  item  141 of 
the agenda  of  the  current  session  of  the United Nations  General  Assembly, 
entitled  'Emergency  international  assistance  for  the  reconstruction  of 
war-stricken  Afghanistan'-  It is our  sincere  and earnest  hope  that 
Member  States will  consider  extending  their  full  support  to the  two 
separate  draft  resolutions  that  are to be  submitted  by  the delegation  of 
the  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan  on agenda  item  141. 
A/47/PV.19 
14 
(Mr. Karzay. Afghanistan) 
"The Islamic State of Afghanistan is of the opinion that, in spite 
of many positive changes in international relations, some of the main 
objectives of the United Nations, such as total disarmament - especially 
with respect to nuclear arms  settlement of conflicts through peaceful 
means, the observance of human rights and the establishment of a new and 
just international economic order, have not been fully realized.  Perhaps 
it would be more in line with the aim of realizing the purposes of this 
Organization for the positive new climate of international understanding 
to be utilized for the purpose of strengthening the role of the United 
Nations in bolstering the socio-economic advancement of the developing 
countries, especially the least developed ones.  The willingness of the 
developed countries to ensure greater cooperation with the needy 
countries could contribute positively to the realization of this 
objective. 
"The Islamic State of Afghanistan holds the conviction that the 
multidimensional problem of the environment already threatens the future 
of our world.  At the recent summit of Heads of State or Government in 
Rio de Janeiro, this global problem was discussed extensively, and a 
credible document entitled Agenda 21 was adopted, providing a sound basis 
for solving global environmental issues. 
"It is promising to see that dependence on ideology in the 
settlement of regional conflicts is vanishing and a tendency is emerging 
in favour of strengthening international cooperation for the settlement 
of existing conflicts. 
"The Islamic State of Afghanistan will work for international peace 
in full cooperation with the United Nations \nd stand by and respect the 
United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and all 
A/47/PV.19 
15(a) 
(Mr. Karzay.  Afghanistan) 
accepted  norms  of  this world  body.  In the  arena of  international 
relations,  the  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan,  as one  of  the  founders  of 
the Non-Aligned  Movement, will  continue  to pursue  an active  non-aligned 
policy,  free  judgement  on  international  issues,  sincerely  supporting  the 
objectives  of  the Non-Aligned  Movement  and  of the Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference, strengthening  friendly  ties with  all  countries  on  the 
basis  of parity  and mutual  respect  for  independence,  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  and  non-interference  in each other's  affairs.  The 
Islamic  State  of Afghanistan  pledges  sincere  adherence  to all 
international  agreements,  stands  against  every  form of  colonialism  and 
all  racial  ideas,  supports  the elimination  of nuclear  weapons  and will 
help  in erasing  international  and  regional  tensions. 
"The  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan welcomes  the  current  negotiations 
between  the  concerned  parties  in the Middle  East  and hopes  that  they will 
result  in the  realization  of  the  legitimate  right of  the people  of 
Palestine  to establish  their  own  independent  State.  Without  an  immediate 
halt  to Israeli  settlement  in the occupied  territories,  there  can be  no 
firm  assurance  that  those  negotiations  will  lead  to permanent  peace  and 
stability  in  that  region.  Afghanistan,  in conformity with  the  principle 
of  the  right  to  self-determination  and  in compliance  with  the  resolution 
of  the  Islamic  Conference  of  Istanbul,  supports  the  rights of  the  people 
of Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and  asks  for  an  immediate  halt  to the  massacre 
of the  innocent  population  of  that  Republic.  We  denounce  the heinous 
policy  of  'ethnic  cleansing',  which,  in spite  of world-wide  condemnation, 
is still  taking place.  Afghanistan,  as one  of  the  sponsors  of  draft 
resolution  A/46/L.76  of  the  resumed  forty-sixth  session  of  the 
A/47/PV.19 
15(b-z) 
(Mr. Karzay. Afghanistan) 
United Nations General Assembly on the situation in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, advocates decisive action, under Chapter VII of the 
United Nations Charter, aimed at ensuring the rights of the people of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina to self-defence and to the protection of their 
territorial integrity and sovereignty. 
A/47/PV.19 
16 
(Mr. Karzav.  Afghanistan) 
"While  supporting  the  right  of  all people  to  self-determination,  the 
delegation  from  the  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan believes  that  the 
question  of Kashmir  should  be  settled  through negotiations  and  dialogue 
on the basis  of  the  resolutions  adopted by  the United  Nations. 
"The  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan,  while  desiring  friendly  relations 
with  all  countries,  attributes  special  importance  to  its  relations  with 
the neighbouring  countries  Pakistan  and  Iran,  as well  as with  the 
fraternal  country  of  Saudi  Arabia. 
"We have  a sincere  desire  to maintain  and  strengthen  our  traditional 
friendship with  the United  States of America.  Afghanistan  seeks  friendly 
relations with Japan  and with Western  European  and other  Far  East 
countries. 
"The  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan  aspires  to positive  and  friendly 
relations  with  the new Muslim  Republics  of Central  Asia  and wishes  to 
strengthen  its  commercial,  economic  and  cultural  ties with  those 
republics. 
"The  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan  also wishes  for  friendly  relations 
with non-aligned  India  and hopes  that  India will  cooperate  with  the 
people  of Afghanistan  in the needed  areas. 
"Our  country  desires  close  and  friendly  relations with  the  People's 
Republic  of  China  and hopes  that  technical  cooperation  and  trade  with 
that neighbour  will  be  expanded. 
"Afghanistan wishes  for  the  improvement  of  friendly  relations  with 
the Russian  Federation  and  expects  that  the Russian  Federation  will 
participate  fully  in the  reconstruction  and  rehabilitation  of 
Afghanistan.  The  Russian  Federation,  as  the  inheritor  of  the  former 
A/47/PV.19 
17 
(Mr. Karzay. Afghanistan) 
Soviet Union, has the responsibility to compensate for the destruction 
caused by armed aggression of the former Soviet Union against Afghanistan. 
"It is also necessary to express our concern for the suffering 
families of more than 30,000 Afghans still missing after the years of the 
former Soviet Union's aggression in our country.  This tragedy has 
seriously affected the sentiments of all Afghans, and they expect that 
the Commonwealth of Independent States will address this issue urgently 
and seriously.  Believing that  a sincere desire based upon goodwill and 
mutual trust between the parties concerned could positively contribute to 
resolving this important humanitarian issue, the Islamic State of 
Afghanistan will try to use bilateral channels as a first step towards 
resolving this issue, unless circumstances require otherwise. 
"In closing, I deem it necessary to point out that the United 
Nations, which plays an increasingly important role in the settlement of 
regional conflicts and world problems, should increasingly focus its 
activities on overcoming global problems and difficulties.  As  a Member 
of the United Nations, the Islamic State of Afghanistan is prepared to 
extend its full cooperation to the Organization in overcoming the world's 
existing difficulties and will spare no effort in implementing the 
resolutions and decisions of the present session. 
"May Allah  Glory Be Unto Him  bestow ever greater successes to 
all participants of this current session of the Assembly." 
Mr. DIALLO (Niger) (interpretation from French):  The delegation of 
Niger is pleased to add its voice to all those who have preceded us and 
express to Mr. Ganev our heartfelt congratulations on his election to the 
A/47/PV.19 
18 
(Mr. Diallo.  Niger) 
presidency  of  the General  Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session.  This 
election  is  testimony  to  the high esteem  and prestige  enjoyed  by his  country, 
Bulgaria,  on  the  international  scene  and  its contribution  to the  achievement 
of the  ideals  of  our  Organization,  and  is an acknowledgement  of his  talents  as 
a seasoned  diplomat  and man of  experience. 
We  should  like  to  include  in these  congratulations  the other members  of 
the Bureau  and  to  assure  them  of  the  full  and  total  cooperation  of  the 
delegation  of Niger  in accomplishing  their  task. 
I  should  like  to express  to Mr. Ganev's  predecessor. 
Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi  of  Saudi Arabia, our great  satisfaction  and 
compliments  on his  excellent  guidance  of  the work  of  the  forty-sixth  session. 
We hail  and welcome  the  countries  that have  just  joined  the great  family 
of the United  Nations, whose  admission  is in keeping with  the universality  of 
our  Organization. 
I  should  also  like  to express  once again  to Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali, 
Secretary-General  of  the United  Nations, the heartfelt  congratulations  of 
His Excellency Mr. Cheiffou  Amadou,  Prime Minister  and Head  of Government  of 
the Republic  of Niger,  on his  election, which  is the crowning  of  a brilliant 
career.  The Government  of Niger  also wishes  to extend  to him  its 
encouragement  and  support  for  the dynamism  he has  already  imparted  to the 
Organization. 
Niger  rejoices  at  the end  of East-West  rivalries  and  at the  climate  of 
confidence  that  has  thus been  created.  It is a decisive  turning-point  in the 
history  of mankind,  marked  by profound  and  rapid political  and  social  changes 
brought  about  by powerful  currents  towards  freedom,  justice,  democracy  and 
human  rights.  This  positive  development  in international  relations,  and 
A/47/PV.19 
19 
(Mr. Diallo. Niger) 
particularly the hopes and expectations to which it has given rise, makes it 
imperative for us to engage in the search for a new world balance that takes 
into consideration the aspirations and needs all of the components of 
international society.  In this connection, the sessions of the General 
Assembly are for the international community opportunities to achieve further 
progress in the search for peace, justice and harmony among peoples, in 
keeping with the ideals and principles of the Charter. 
Thanks to the climate of international detente, prospects of general and 
complete disarmament and the hope that that will release additional resources 
for development seem increasingly achievable.  Niger notes with satisfaction 
the positive results already on record in this field and wishes to 
congratulate the Secretary-General on his efforts towards general and complete 
disarmament. 
International peace and security require that all countries make greater 
efforts towards a reduction of all armed forces and all deadly weapons of 
destruction.  In this regard, I should like to announce that Niger has just 
ratified the Treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
The climate of international detente is felt also in the evolution of 
regional conflicts.  The "Agenda for Peace", which is a compendium of 
extremely relevant recommendations and measures for the prevention of 
conflict, peace-keeping and peacemaking, is an invaluable contribution of the 
Secretary-General to current thinking on ways of safeguarding international 
peace. 
Niger hopes for a speedy and equitable solution to the conflict in 
Western Sahara through the organization of a self-determination referendum. 
A/47/PV.19 
20 
(Mr. Diallo. Niger) 
The Government of Niger expresses the hope that the recommendations of 
the meetings of Lome, Bamako and Yamoussokro and che most recent summit in 
Dakar of the Economic Community of West African States be taken into account 
by all parties to the conflict in Liberia, with a view to the establishment of 
peace and national reconciliation. 
A/47/PV.19 
21 
(Mr. Diallo. Niger) 
The situation in Somalia is tragic and repugnant.  We witness daily the 
appalling suffering of an entire people, victim of the most tragic drought 
exacerbated by a fratricidal war that makes the provision of humanitarian 
assistance difficult.  Niger joins the rest of the international community in 
urging the rival factions to cease their hostilities and accept the presence 
of United Nations observers and a United Nations peace-keeping force to ensure 
respect for the cease-fire agreement and to ensure the distribution of food 
aid. 
Recent developments in South Africa give us hope.  Niger believes that 
the international community must continue to encourage the South African 
regime to take further measures to accelerate the democratization process 
while at the same time maintaining the necessary pressure until a democratic, 
non-racial Government is formed.  The Organization must make the Pretoria 
regime adopt urgent measures to put an end to the organized violence that is 
tearing apart the country's black community and that constitutes a serious 
obstacle to the resumption and proper conduct of negotiations in the framework 
of the Convention for a Democratic South Africa. 
With respect to security, the Middle East remains the most sensitive 
region in the world.  Niger believes that no just and lasting peace can be 
established in the Middle East unless Israel withdraws completely from 
occupied Palestinian and Arab territories, including Al-Quds Al-Sharif.  We 
encourage all efforts to that end, and we welcome the dialogue that has begun 
since the Madrid conference, as well as the current peace negotiations on a 
just and final settlement of the Middle East conflict. 
A/47/PV.19 
22 
(Mr. Diallo.  Niger) 
With  respect  to the Arabian-Persian  Gulf, Niger  strongly  condemned  the 
aggression  against  and occupation  of Kuwait.  Kuwait  has  been  liberated,  but 
the threat  of war  persists.  Respect  for  Security  Council  resolutions  and  the 
delimitation  of  the boundaries  between  Iraq  and Kuwait  are  indispensable  if a 
lasting peace  is to  return  to the  region. 
The  tragic  situation  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina  is inadmissible  in  the 
twentieth  century.  Niger  vigorously  condemns  the acts  of barbarism  committed 
by forces of  Serbia  and of Montenegro  against  the populations  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  in violation  of  the  sovereignty,  independence  and  integrity  of 
that country.  Niger  fully  supports  Security  Council  resolutions  770  (1992) 
and 771  (1992),  as well  as  the  resolutions  of other  international  bodies 
condemning  the  aggression  and  calling  for  cooperation  by  all  States  in helping 
Bosnia and  Herzegovina. 
The quest  for peace  in the world  is one of  the Organization's  loftiest 
objectives.  But  to be  complete, world peace must  be backed  by action  to 
eliminate poverty.  At  the  1990 Paris Conference  of  least developed  countries, 
the world was not  surprised  to  learn  that the number  of  least  developed 
countries had grown  from  28 to 42, most  of  them  African. 
The  ever-growing  burden of debt  and debt  servicing  continues  to  deprive 
developing  countries  of  resources  they need  for  their  development.  Reasons 
for  the grave  crisis  in Africa  include  the  constant  drop  in commodity  prices, 
the rise  in prices  for manufactured  goods, the  lack of  access  to 
developed-country  markets, and  the decline  in development  assistance.  The 
continuing  deterioration  in Africa's  economic  situation  is condemning  hundreds 
of millions  of  individuals  to  stagnation  and permanent  poverty. 
A/47/PV.19 
23 
(Mr. Diallo.  Niger) 
In 1986, the United  Nations, which we  invoke each year,  adopted  the 
United  Nations  Programme  of Action  for African  Economic  Recovery  and 
Development.  It was  then  the consensus  view  that  the economic  crisis  in 
Africa was  essentially  structural.  African  countries  had  committed  themselves 
to adopt  structural-adjustment  policies,  and  developed  countries  and  financial 
institutions  had  committed  themselves  to provide  assistance  and  financial 
flows. 
Unfortunately,  despite  the policies  and  reforms  undertaken  by  African 
countries  and  the  recommendations  made  at all  international  conferences,  the 
situation  continues  to deteriorate.  Despite  the  social  cost  of  the  reforms 
and  sacrifices  of African  countries,  the  results have  been  disappointing, 
because  of  a lack  of  follow-up measures. 
But  there  is growing  awareness  of  the need  to  tackle  this  extremely 
serious  situation more  resolutely.  Measures  to  lighten  the  debt  burden  of the 
poorest  countries  should  be viewed  in that  context.  The  same  is  true  of the 
proposal made by  the  former  Secretary-General, Mr. Javier  Perez  de Cuellar, on 
development  financing, which was  considered  at the  forty-sixth  session  of the 
General  Assembly. 
We welcome  the decision of  the Japanese  Government  to organize  a  1993 
international  conference  on development  in Africa with  the participation  of 
African  Heads  of  State. 
We wish  finally  to mention  the move  to  reinvigorate  international 
cooperation  stemming  largely  from  the  revitalization  and  restructuring  of 
United  Nations  activities  in the economic  and  social  fields.  Those  activities 
should  be  strictly  based  on  the  recommendations  adopted  by  the most  recent 
A/47/PV.19 
24 
(Mr. Diallo.  Niger) 
international  conferences.  These  include:  the Declaration  adopted  at  the 
eighteenth  special  session  of  the General  Assembly  on  international  economic 
cooperation;  the  International  Development  Strategy  for  the  fourth United 
Nations  Development  Decade;  the Programme  of Action  adopted  at  the World 
Summit  for Children;  and  the Programme  of Action  and other major  decisions 
adopted  at the Earth  Summit 
the United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development 
at Rio  de  Janeiro. 
The  right  to development  presupposes  the  right  to a healthy  environment. 
The Earth  Summit  at Rio  defined  the  links between  environment  and 
development.  It defined  the  responsibilities  of  the North  and of  the  South 
for the deterioration  of our  ecosystem.  It also made  it possible  to  adopt 
legal instruments  designed  to  reconcile man  and nature.  I speak here  of  the 
Earth Charter  and  of  the  conventions  on biodiversity  and on climatic  change. 
As a Sahelian  country,  Niger must  deal with  the effects  of  repeated 
drought  and  increasing  desertification.  It  is of particular  interest  to us 
that at this  session  the Assembly  should  define  the modalities  for  the 
negotiation  and  adoption  of  an  international  convention  on drought  and 
desertification. 
Turning  to  the  social  sphere, we  encourage United Nations  efforts  to 
promote  the  struggle  against  acquired  immune-deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS), 
illegal  trafficking  in narcotics,  and drug  abuse.  Those  scourges must  remain 
at the centre  of  our  concerns.  That  is true  too of  efforts  at the  integration 
of women  into  the development  process  and  of measures  to protect  the  disabled, 
children  and  other  vulnerable  groups. 
A/47/PV.19 
25 
(Mr. Diallo.  Niger) 
The  international  conference  on human  rights  in  1993, the  conference  on 
population  and  development  in 1994, the world  summit  on  social  development  and 
the  fourth world  conference  on women,  both  in 1995, will  offer  opportunities 
to  review  all  these  problems  at  the highest  level. 
Natural  disasters  and other  calamities  are on the  increase,  and we must 
continue  to  focus  on them.  Each  time, the devastating  consequences  of  these 
phenomena  remind  us of  the urgent  need  to enhance  the  ability  of  the United 
Nations  to act more  effectively.  We  are pleased  at  the  Organization's 
examination  of  these  subjects  and  at  the  appointment  of  distinguished 
individuals  to deal with  these  issues. 
Today,  developing  countries  are  fully  aware  of  their  primary 
responsibility  for  development.  The political  renewal we have  seen  in many 
African  countries,  including my  own,  stems  from  that  awareness.  Indeed,  as 
members  know, Niger  convened,  from  29 July  to 3 November  1991, a conference on 
national  sovereignty  at which we engaged  in a stark assessment  of  30 years of 
efforts  and  to  identify  courses of  action, guidelines  and decisions  to be 
implemented  over  a transitional  period  of  15 months. 
A/47/PV.19 
26 
(Mr. Diallo.  Niger) 
Since  then, the democratically  elected  transition  organs  have  knuckled 
down to  implementing  the political, economic,  social, and  cultural  measures 
adopted by  the Conference.  These mainly  involve  improving  and  rebalancing  the 
economic  and  financial  situation;  undertaking  institutional  reforms  in every 
field; establishing  self-confidence;  and  consolidating  national  solidarity  and 
unity.  Such measures,  the outcome  of  a national  consensus,  are based  on  the 
fundamental  choice by  the people  of Niger  of  a democratic  and  republican 
course. 
Following  its National  Conference,  Niger  embarked  resolutely  on  the  road 
towards  a pluralistic  democracy with  respect  for human  rights  and  guarantees 
of the effective  exercise  of public  freedoms.  The process  initiated  11 months 
ago is following  its charted  course, gaining  strength  and  further  entrenching 
itself every  day.  There  are difficulties  inherent  in the nature  of  the 
undertaking, but  there  are  also  results  that encourage  us  to persevere. 
While perhaps  modest,  this experience  of  a young democracy  has made  it 
possible  to assess  the  constraints  imposed  by  such  a  social project,  the  risks 
of derailment  it entails,  the  impatience  that must  be  stifled,  and  the 
legitimate  expectations  that must be met  in order  to ensure  that  this  lofty 
enterprise  succeeds.  The  establishment  of  stable  institutions  designed  to 
guarantee human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms, social  justice  and  national 
unity through  regular  and  transparent  elections will  be crowned,  we  are  sure, 
with success by  the establishment  of  a state  of  law and  a true  democracy. 
I am pleased  to  announce  that  Niger  is making progress  in the  electoral 
consultations  for  the  adoption  of  a constitution  and  the holding  of municipal, 
legislative  and presidential  elections.  Thus, on  the  threshold  of  the year 
1993, Niger  will  become  democratic  on a firm  footing. 
A/47/PV.19 
27 
(Mr. Diallo.  Niger) 
We  are aware, however,  that  no democratization  policy  can be  considered 
as  lasting  if measures  are  not  taken  to  foster  conditions  favourable  to 
progress  and  the  flourishing  of humanity.  That  is why we  turn with hope to 
the  international  community,  and more  specifically  to  the United  Nations, to 
nurture  a new  spirit  of  solidarity  and  justice  among nations.  Niger  cherishes 
the hope  that  the General  Assembly  at this  session will  contribute  to  the 
solution of  the great  challenges  facing  the  international  community. 
Mr. AL-SAHAF  (Iraq)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  It gives  me 
pleasure  to  convey my  sincere  congratulations  to Mr. Ganev  on his  election to 
the presidency  of  the  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly.  I am 
confident  that he will  devote  his  rich experience  and  diplomatic  expertise to 
ensuring  the  success  of  this  session. 
I  am also pleased  to welcome  the new States  that  have  recently  joined the 
membership  of  the United Nations. 
The great  hopes  for  the emergence  of  a world  enjoying  peace,  stability, 
economic  growth,  justice, and  equality  for  all  remain  in  all  our minds.  But 
we  cannot help wondering whether  the  international  community  is  any  closer 
today  to  realizing  these hopes  than  it was  in the past.  The  rapid 
developments  and  radical  changes  that have  taken place  in the world  since 1989 
still  continue  apace.  These  developments  and  changes  have  led  the  world 
situation  to the  threshold  of a new era, whose  features  have  not become  clear 
yet.  We  can  say, however,  that our world  today  - despite  the end  of  the 
ideological  conflict  that  divided  a large part  of  the world  into  two blocs, 
the North Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  and  the Warsaw  Pact  - continues  to be 
unstable,  and  continues  to be prey  to  racial  conflicts  and  armed  disputes  in 
Europe, Asia, Africa,  and Latin  America. 
A/47/PV.19 
28 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
On the other  hand,  the economic  crisis has  intensified,  bringing  greater 
misery  to the developing  countries, which experience  famines of  unprecedented 
magnitude  in modern history.  All  indications  point  to  an exacerbation  of  the 
division of  the world  into North  and  South,  a world without  equality,  justice, 
or equity between  the  rich and  strong  countries  of  the North  and  the poor  and 
weak countries  of  the  South.  These  signs  also warn  against  the advent  of a 
new era of big-Power  hegemony  not only  over weaker  States but  also over  all 
international  organizations  with  a view  to using  them  as  instruments  to 
implement  their policies  and  serve  their  interests. 
The  challenges which  face us, particularly  in the developing  countries, 
make  it imperative  for  the United Nations  to discharge  its  responsibilities 
under  the Charter, with  regard  to  the maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security, within  the  framework  of  a world  order  in which  the United  Nations, 
through the collective  will  of  all  its Member  States, should  play  an  effective 
and influential  role  in protecting  the  sovereignty  and  independence  of  the 
Member  States  and  in achieving  the economic  and  social  development  which 
constitutes  the greatest  and principal  challenge  to the developing  countries. 
However,  actual  reality  shows  that  the United  Nations, which  continues  to 
strive  to attain  these  aspirations,  faces many  obstacles  that  impede  its 
progress  towards  them.  The most prominent  hurdle  is the  attempt  by one  State 
or group of  States  to  impose  hegemony  over  the policies  of  the United  Nations 
and its  institutions.  The most  flagrant  aspect  of  that hegemony  is what  has 
been taking place  in the  Security  Council  since  the  course  of  international 
changes  acquired  its new,  accelerated  pace.  As  a result  of  this  hegemony, 
which  is being  spearheaded  and  intensified  by  the United  States  of  America, 
resolutions  and measures  adopted  by  the Security  Council  have  become 
conspicuous  for  their  double  standard  and  selectivity  in applying  the  text  of 
A/47/PV.19 
29-30 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Irag) 
the United  Nations  Charter.  In  so doing,  the Security  Council  has  distanced 
itself  from  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the principles  enshrined  in the  Charter 
and  from  the provisions  of  international  law and  the principles  of  justice and 
fairness  that  are necessary  if  a balance  is to be maintained  between  the 
obligations  and  the  rights  of Member  States. 
A/47/PV.19 
31 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
There  is no doubt  that  this  imbalance  will  lead  inevitably  to 
opportunistic  dealings  that may very well  stem  from  the  ability  of  the 
stronger  to deal  and not  from  the  foundations  established  in the Charter  for 
the relationship  between  the Council  and Member  States.  Such a state of 
affairs would pose  a grave  threat  to peace  and  security  on both  the  regional 
and the  international  levels. 
What  Iraq  has been  subjected  to over  the past  two years, and  the 
practices  it continues  to  face under  the  cover  of  so-called  international 
legality,  are the most  telling  examples  of double  standards  selectivity,  and 
of the  failure  to  strike  a balance  between  rights  and obligations. 
The will  of  the  Security  Council has become  divorced  from  the Charter  and 
its resolutions  have  been  transformed  into political practices  aimed  at 
destabilizing  a State Member  of  the United  Nations, undermining  its  security, 
starving  its people  and  depriving  its  sick  and  ailing  citizens  of  the medicine 
they need.  All  this  is being  done  to  serve declared political  objectives  that 
in no way  relate  to  the  letter  or  spirit of  the United Nations  Charter  or  to 
the rules  of  international  law. 
In the name  of  international  legality  and under  its  cover,  Iraq has  been 
made the victim  of  an  all-out war  that has destroyed  its  economic 
installations  and  the  infrastructures  of  its civilian  life  in a manner  that  is 
unprecedented  in modern history.  The motive behind  this  overkill  and 
arbitrary use  of  armed  force  against  Iraq was  to throw  a whole people  back 
into the pre-industrial  age, as  then United  States  Secretary  of  State  Baker 
told the  Iraqi  Foreign Minister,  Tariq  Aziz,  in the  course  of  their  Geneva 
meeting on  9 January  1991.  The  studies  and  reports  of  the United  Nations,  the 
International  Committee  of  the Red Cross  and  other humanitarian  organizations 
A/47/PV.19 
32 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf. Iraq) 
have highlighted the magnitude of the destruction inflicted upon Iraq as a 
result of that aggression and the subsequent huge losses sustained as a result 
of the blockade and the embargo.  I do not need to go into the details of 
those reports, which contain the findings of people commissioned by the United 
Nations and which have been distributed as official United Nations documents. 
Notwithstanding all the excesses and the untold iniquities perpetrated 
against Iraq, we have striven in all sincerity and earnestness to honour our 
commitments vis-a-vis the resolutions of the Security Council and to cooperate 
with United Nations organs in doing all that is required of Iraq in every 
field.  Many acts of provocation have been committed by persons who have been 
planted in the mechanisms entrusted with the implementation of Security 
Council resolutions with the aim of obstructing Iraq's discharge of its 
commitments and thereby making Iraq appear to be rejecting the resolutions of 
the Security Council.  The obvious aim has been the creation of a climate that 
would justify new military strikes against Iraq and block any consideration of 
lifting the unjust and iniquitous blockade imposed upon it. 
However, we have been able to foil the efforts aimed at achieving that 
evil objective and all the attempts made with the aim of creating crises 
between the United Nations and Iraq have been contained.  Iraq has 
demonstrated full cooperation with the United Nations in order to ensure the 
sound and balanced implementation of the resolutions of the Security Council. 
While Iraq is earnestly striving to implement its commitments vis-a-vis 
Security Council resolutions, we have yet to see the Council take any step 
towards lifting the blockade or even loosening its economic shackles which it 
has imposed upon the people of Iraq and which have had very grave effects 
indeed on the daily lives of the Iraqi people at every level. 
A/47/PV.19 
33 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
It has become  evident  from  the  firm determination  of  the  Security  Council 
not  to ease  the  comprehensive  economic  sanctions  imposed  upon  Iraq  that  the 
Council  does  not  follow  the  rule of balancing  obligations  and  rights, but  is 
rather  acting  in  line with declarations  of  the officials  of  the countries  that 
exercise hegemony  over  the Council  that  the economic  blockade  against  Iraq 
will  never be  lifted  until  Iraq's political  system  is  overthrown. 
Here, we  feel  entitled  to pose  a question  to  the whole world  from  this 
rostrum,  asking whether  the  Security  Council,  in dealing  thus with  a State 
Member  of  the United  Nations, has  acted on the basis  of  the provisions  of  the 
Charter,  international  law and  the principles  of  justice  and  fairness, or 
whether  the Council  has  succumbed  to the will  and diktat  of  the Powers  that 
exercise hegemony  over  it with  a view  to  serving  those  Powers'  interests 
before  all  else. 
The present  relationship  between  the Security  Council  and  Iraq does  not 
fall within  the  framework  of  implementing  the  resolutions  of  the Council  but 
rather within  the  framework  of  implementing  the  foreign policy  objectives  of a 
very  limited  number  of  States.  If those  States, which  are  led by  dubious 
policies  in the United  States, were  to be given  a free hand,  then  the grave 
danger would  spill  over beyond  Iraq  and  engulf  other nations;  it would  spill 
over beyond  the present  and engulf  the  future.  The  campaigns  of  threats  and 
intimidation  under  the  cover  of  the Charter  continue  unabated  in order  to 
create  the  appropriate  climate  for  continuing  the economic  blockade  against 
Iraq  and  justifying  new military  strikes  against  it with  the  aim of 
destabilizing  its political  system  and  finishing  off  its vital  economic 
installations  and  infrastructures  which  are  still  suffering  from  the  impact  of 
the first military  strike. 
A/47/PV.19 
34-35 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf. Iraq) 
A flagrant example of the injustices to which Iraq is being subjected 
within the framework of this relationship can be seen in the practices of the 
sanctions Committee set up under Security Council resolution 661 (1991).  This 
Committee too is subject to the rule of veto despite its camouflage as a 
committee conducting its work on the basis of consensus. 
As I have informed the Secretary-General in official letters citing 
factual instances, a review of that Committee's work would show how the 
objection of one or two members of the Committee is sufficient to prevent any 
response to Iraq's basic needs  and even to make it ignore the special 
exemptions stated in the resolutions concerning civilian needs in such spheres 
as food, electricity, agriculture, water and sewage, medical and educational 
requirements, and clothing. 
A/47/PV.19 
36 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
Iraq has been  allowed,  in theory,  to  import  food  and medicine.  But,  for 
two years  now,  Iraqi  assets have been  frozen while  Iraq has not been  able  to 
sell any oil  or  export  any other  commodity  in order  to pay  for  its basic 
humanitarian  needs.  On top of  all  this, we  see  attempts  now being made  to 
seize  completely  Iraqi  frozen  assets  abroad  through  a  draft  resolution 
currently  tabled  before  the Security  Council.  This  draft  resolution  has no 
justification  or  legality  whatsoever,  not even  in the  light  of  the  pretexts 
contained  in the draft  itself.  Iraq has  cooperated,  in good  faith and  in 
earnest, with  the United  Nations  Secretariat  in order  to reach  an agreement  on 
the export  of quantities  of  Iraqi oil  and  the use of  the  revenues  thereof  to 
provide  for basic  civilian  needs  and  cover United  Nations  costs.  The  reason 
an agreement  is yet  to be  reached  has been  the  refusal  of certain  countries  in 
the Security  Council  to  remove  from  any prospective  agreement  their 
humiliating political  preconditions, which  are not  in any way  related  to the 
substance  of  the  agreement  desired. 
Iraq  is prepared  to  address  this question  according  to the  following 
formula:  first,  that  Iraq be  allowed  to export  crude  oil  and oil products  to 
produce  a net  return of  no  less  than $4 billion  for  a period  of  six months, 
which may be  extended  for  a further  period  if by then  the embargo  of  Iraqi  oil 
exports has  not been  completely  lifted. 
Secondly,  that  the net  returns of  the exports  be deposited  in an escrow 
account  set  up by  the United Nations,  then to be used  for  the purchase  of 
foodstuffs, medicines  and  other  essential  civilian  needs, the  importation  of 
which will be  subject  to  the  special measures  of  the Committee  established 
under  Security  Council  resolution  661  (1990). 
Thirdly,  that  the  Security  Council  name  certain  countries  from  which 
goods may be purchased  according  to normal  commercial  practices. 
A/47/PV.19 
37 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
Iraq  is prepared  to grant  5 per  cent  of  the net  return  of  this  operation 
to  the  International  Committee  of  the Red  Cross  and  the  International 
Federation  of  Red Cross  and  Red Crescent  Societies  as a contribution  towards 
international  relief work  in Somalia,  for  the benefit  of  the  Palestinian 
people  through  the United  Nations  Relief  and Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees  in the Middle  East,  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and  in other  areas. 
This will be  donated  in keeping with  Iraq's humanitarian  principles  and 
outlook.* 
In April  1991  the United  Nations  began  its humanitarian  relief  programme 
to alleviate  the  suffering  of the  Iraqi people with  simple  and  limited means. 
Interference  from parties  hostile  to Iraq  began  to  surface  in order  to 
influence  the  course  of  the programme  by using  it as  a pretext  and  a gateway 
through which  to  interfere  in the  internal  affairs  of  Iraq.  It became  clear 
that  the programme  dealt with  the humanitarian  needs  of  the  Iraqi  people 
according  to the political  desires, intentions  and  schemes  of  the  countries 
presenting  the  aid,  a fact  attested  to by  some officials  in the  programme. 
Therefore,  the humanitarian  programme  has  not  assumed,  in  actual 
application,  the effectiveness  that would  have made  it possible  to  achieve its 
desired  humanitarian  objectives.  Iraq  reiterates  the necessity  for  the United 
Nations  humanitarian  programme  to  remain within  the  framework  of  purely 
humanitarian  objectives,  away  from political  considerations  and  from  the 
tendency  to  interfere  in the  internal  affairs  of  Iraq.  We  are prepared  to 
cooperate  in the  achievement  of  any purely  humanitarian  goal  sought  by  the 
United  Nations. 
*  The  President  returned  to  the Chair. 
A/47/PV.19 
38 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
Calls  and  allegations  are  increasingly  made  about  alleged  violations  of 
human  rights  in  Iraq.  The parties  that waged  a destructive  war  on  Iraq 
in the name of  international  legality  would  like  to  forget  that  the  suffering 
of the people  of  Iraq  resulted  from  their  own actions which  constitute  the 
most  flagrant  violation  of human  rights witnessed  by humanity  in all  its 
history. 
I ask here, before  this  international  gathering:  what  words  can  describe 
an action in which  one hundred  twenty-five  thousand  tons of explosives  were 
dropped on the people  of  Iraq,  bringing  death  to thousands  of  its  children, 
men and women of  all  ages, and  raining  destruction  upon  all  its vital  economic 
installations,  its civilian,  residential  centres  and  its  schools, hospitals, 
formula milk plants, kindergartens  and houses  of worship?  Is this  not  a most 
flagrant violation  of human  rights  and negation  of  all moral  and human  values 
and standards, in addition  to being  a  violation  of  the Charter  of  the United 
Nations and  the  covenants  related  to  it? 
The  false  accusations  being  levelled  at  Iraq  are  the  stuff  of lies, 
rumours  and distortions.  They go  nowhere near  the very minimum  of  any 
objective,  impartial  or  reasoned  approach. 
The  real motive behind  this orchestrated  vociferous  campaign  is to  serve 
the very  same political  objectives  that were behind  the military  aggression 
perpetrated  against  Iraq  and  that  are  still  operative  in the  continued 
economic blockade  against  Iraq,  the  starving  of  its people,  the  trumped  up 
pretexts of  interference  in  its  internal  affairs  and  the undermining  of  its 
national unity.  The  so-called  no-fly  zone over  southern  Iraq  has  been  imposed 
by a decision of  the United  States, Britain  and  France,  this  time  nakedly, 
without  any  Security  Council  cover,  thus  underscoring  the  flagrant  aggressive 
A/47/PV.19 
39-40 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
policy  currently  pursued  in order  to partition  Iraq  rather  than  defend  its 
"civilians",  as the Western  imperialist  countries  claim  while  they  maintain 
their  embargo  against  Iraq  after having  killed  thousands  of  its  civilian 
population  through  an  aerial  onslaught  with bombs  whose  explosive  force 
equalled  that  of  a number  of  atomic  bombs  of  the type  that  removed  Hiroshima 
from  the  face of  the earth.  It  is these very  countries  that  continue  to 
impose  an embargo  even  on  toys  for  the children  of  Iraq. 
No  one  can deny  that  the main  cause  of  suffering  among  the people  of Iraq 
was  the military  aggression  that  destroyed  Iraq's  economic  infrastructure  and 
brought  to  a halt  its  services.  The  suffering has  also been  caused,  and 
further  intensified,  by the  continued  imposition  of  this  iniquitous  blockade, 
which has visited yet more  economic  hardship  and human  suffering  on  the people 
of  Iraq,  in addition  to continued  foreign  interference  in the  internal  affairs 
of  the  country,  the creation of problems  and  fuelling  of  internal  conflicts 
and  obstruction  of  the efforts  of  the central  Government  to  carry out  their 
duties  and discharge  their  responsibilities  towards  the maintenance  of  law and 
order  and preserve  security  and  stability. 
The  only way  to put  an end  to this  injustice  and  ensure  some  justice  is 
to  lift  the embargo  imposed  upon  Iraq  and allow  its people  to  rebuild what has 
been  destroyed  and  resume  their normal  life.  With  its known potential,  Iraq 
is a country  that  can do without  donations  given by  this or  that  country  as a 
cover  for well-known  intentions. 
A/47/PV.19 
41 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
Indeed,  Iraq  can participate  effectively  in providing  humanitarian 
assistance  to countries  in other  regions of  the world where  such  assistance  is 
needed,  once  it  regains  its economic  health.  It had been providing  such 
assistance before  the blockade.  Instances  of  this  are numerous  indeed,  in 
Asia, Africa  and  Latin America,  and many  of  the  representatives  listening  to 
this  statement  know quite well  that  this  is a  fact. 
The  circumstances  which were  used  as a pretext  for  imposing  the  blockade 
against  Iraq no  longer  exist.  Therefore,  lifting  the blockade  is an urgent 
necessity  on the  legal  and humanitarian  levels.  As a matter  of  fact,  this 
step ought  to have been  taken  immediately  after  the disappearance  of  the 
circumstances  to which  I have  just  referred.  Persistence  in imposing  the 
blockade  constitutes  a naked  violation  of  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
Security Council  resolutions, contravenes  all humanitarian  principles  and 
values, and must make  it clear  to the  representatives  here,  as  it has made 
clear  to us, that  the  reasons behind  it are  and have been  the  inhuman 
intentions  harboured  against  Iraq by well-known parties, now  and  in the  past. 
It is indeed,  in the  interest  of  the human  rights of  the people  of  Iraq, 
that neighbouring  countries  should  abide by  the  terms of  international 
agreements  and undertakings  and  desist  from  sending  infiltrators  into  our 
country to perpetrate  acts of murder,  robbery  and plunder  against persons  and 
property of  the  civilian population,  as well  as against  the  State  assets,  just 
as they perpetrated  their  criminal  acts  against  us  in March  and April  1991, as 
I believe everyone  now  knows. 
The  Security  Council's  silence with  regard  to the criminal  acts  and 
operations  of military  aggression perpetrated  in Palestine,  Lebanon  and  other 
A/47/PV.19 
42 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
occupied Arab  territories  by  the pampered  and American-veto-protected  Zionist 
entity  are  the most  damning proof  that  the practices  of  the  Security  Council 
are devoid  of  justice  and  international  legality because  of  the  total 
domination  by  the United  States  over  the Council  and  its procedures. 
The violations  that  the  Zionist  entity has  committed  over  the years, and 
continues  to commit  with  impunity,  against  the people  of  Palestine  and  the 
other  occupied  Arab  territories  - in breach of  the principles  enshrined  in the 
Charter,  the Universal  Declaration  of Human Rights  and  the Geneva  Conventions 
of  1949, as well  as  in resolutions  of  the United  Nations 
would  take  an 
entire volume  to  list  if  those  Israeli  practices were  to be  classified 
according  to  the breach of  every  article  and paragraph  dealing with  human 
rights  and  the  rights  of nations. 
In  return  for  all  these policies  of  aggression  and  expansionism,  the 
annexation  of  lands,  the displacement  of populations,  and  the  killing  and 
repression  of  civilians  under military  occupation,  the  Zionist  entity  receives 
nothing  less  than ever  increasing  political, military  and  economic  aid  which 
enables  it to persist with  impunity  in its policies  of  aggression  against  the 
Palestinian  people  and  its denial  of  their most  basic  and  inalienable  right 
the  right  to  return  to  their  homeland  and  to establish  an  independent  State in 
Palestine  under  the  leadership  of  their  sole  legitimate  representative,  the 
PLO. 
On  the other hand,  the  impotance  of  the Security  Council  vis-a-vis  the 
armed  conflicts  that  are  currently  raging  in a number  of  regions, and  its 
inability  to address  the  attendant  human  tragedies  as in  the  case  of  Somalia, 
whose plight  is one  of  the most horrendous  human  calamities,  are  further  proof 
A/47/PV.19 
43 
(Mr. Al-Sahaf.  Iraq) 
of the double  standards  and politically  motivated  considerations  that  govern 
the conduct  of  the  Security  Council  and  the measures  that  it adopts  in 
accordance with  the wishes  and dictates  of  the United  States of America  - the 
Power  that  dominates  the Council. 
I wish,  in conclusion,  to point  out  that  the peoples  of  the world  as a 
whole  do  look  forward  to  the day when  the United Nations  will play  a real  and 
effective  role  in bringing  about  a world  of  security,  stability  and 
prosperity.  However,  that  day will  come only when  the Organization  applies 
the letter  and  spirit  of  its Charter  and  the principles  of  international  law 
in dealing with  the major  issues of mankind.  That  day will  come only when  the 
United Nations  refuses  to bow to any pressure  or blackmail  and,  thereby, 
avoids becoming  hostage  to the will  of  the big  Powers  and  refuses  to be 
sidetracked  from  the noble human objectives  that  it was  established  to  achieve. 
Unless  such  a state  of  affairs pertains  clearly  and decisively,  as the 
States of  the world  that  are  jealous  of  their  independence  and  freedom hope, 
the world will  suffer  disastrous  consequences  and  the very  foundations  of  the 
United Nations will  be weakened  as non-compliance  with  the United  Nations 
Charter would  put  into question  the very  credibility  of  the Organization,  and 
that might  result  in bringing  upon  it the  same  fate  that  overtook  the old 
League of Nations, or  some  such undesirable  fate. 
Mr. AL-NUAIMI  (United  Arab Emirates)  (interpretation  from  Arabic): 
It gives me great pleasure, on behalf  of  the delegation  of  the United  Arab 
Emirates, to extend  to you. Sir,  sincere  congratulations  on your  election  to 
the presidency  of  the General  Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session.  We  are 
confident  that  your vast  experience  in the  area of  international  relations 
will enhance  the  role of  the Organization  and promote  its goals. 
A/47/PV.19 
44-45 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
We wish  to express  our gratitude  for, and our  deep  appreciation  of  the 
tireless  efforts  of your predecessor, Mr. Samir  Shihabi, during  his  tenure as 
President  of  the General  Assembly  at  its  forty-sixth  session, which  was 
characterized  by many  constructive  achievements. 
This  session  represents  a historic  turning-point  in the enhancement  of 
the universality  of  the United  Nations.  Hence, we believe  that  the  admission 
of  the new  States Members  will  strengthen  the  role of  the  Organization, 
especially  in the current  international  situation,  and we  reiterate  our 
commitment  to  cooperation with  all  States  in maintaining  international  peace 
and  security. 
A/47/PV.19 
46 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
I  take this occasion  to  reaffirm  our  confidence  in and our  support  for 
the efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the United Nations, 
Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  to contain existing  problems  and  to  find  peaceful 
solutions  thereto within  the  context  of  a strengthened  role  for  the 
Organization  in consolidating  the basis of  international  peace  and  security. 
As we  approach  the beginning  of  a new century,  the United Nations  passes 
through a very  delicate phase  that will have  far-reaching  effects  on  the 
nature  and  course of  international  relations.  One of  the most  outstanding 
features of  that  phase  is the disappearance  of bipolarity  and  its  attendant 
phenomena.  This  is a development  that  ushers  in a new era whose  principal 
characteristic  is that most  countries  of  the world,  particularly  the major 
Powers, now  resort  to  the United Nations, thus  strengthening  the  Organization 
and enhancing  the effectiveness  of  the  role envisioned  for  it by  the  Charter. 
Consequently,  the Organization  has become  the appropriate  forum  for  resolving 
regional  conflicts  and maintaining  international  peace  and  security. 
Over  the past  few years, the world has been witnessing  the emergence  of a 
new world  order  after which  every nation has been  aspiring.  We  in the United 
Arab Emirates welcome  this development  and  consider  that  it  is positive  in its 
basis,  substance  and goals, as, in our view,  it will promote  cooperation 
towards  the building  of  a better  future  of  respect  for  the  rights of  nations 
and equality  between  States, freedom  and  independence  for  all peoples  and  the 
peaceful  settlement  of disputes. 
My  country,  proceeding  from  its traditions,  cultural  values  and  history, 
firmly believes  in the United Nations  Charter.  We  also  support  the organs  of 
the United  Nations  as well  as  the peaceful means prescribed  in the Charter  for 
A/47/PV.19 
47 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab Emirates) 
the settlement of inter-State disputes, and reject violence as a means of 
settling such disputes. 
In spite of the optimism created by the recent changes in the world and 
the constructive role played by the United Nations in creating an environment 
of peace, there is still a number of problems that endanger international 
peace and security and require a great deal of hard work.  Moreover, the new 
spirit of detente that pervades world politics does not mean necessarily that 
we now live in a world of absolute harmony.  The security of small nations is 
still threatened, in the still existing maelstrom of regional conflicts, by 
the dangers arising from the ambitions of those States that still seek 
hegemony and expansion at the expense of their neighbours.  This, of course, 
contravenes the principles of the United Nations Charter, undermines the rule 
of international law and runs counter to the desire of the international 
community to live in peace and to resolve disputes by dialogue, peacefully. 
Consequently, we must take the appropriate collective measures that are 
capable of preventing those who wish to create situations that threaten 
international peace and security from perpetrating such actions.  Such an 
undertaking on our part would be compatible with the new international 
realities especially now when we are on the verge of turning a new leaf and 
ushering in a new era of international relations based on peaceful coexistence 
and mutual respect.  One of the most important lessons history has been 
teaching us since the Second World War is that aggression does not pay and 
that we must forswear the use of force to achieve political expansionist 
goals.  It is indeed the responsibility of the United Nations to focus 
attention on this lesson and to translate it into concrete action through the 
A/47/PV.19 
48 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
exercise  of  a collective  will  that  is capable  of  deterring  aggression  and 
warding off  the grave  dangers which  threaten  international  peace  and  security. 
Over  the past  few years, the Gulf  region has witnessed  grave  events,  from 
the Iran-Iraq  war  to  the  Iraqi  aggression  against  the  sisterly  State  of 
Kuwait.  These events had  deleterious  effects  on the  region's  security, 
economic,  social  and environmental  conditions.  Because of  those  events  and 
the changes  in the world  situation which have  arisen  from  the end of 
bipolarity  and  the emerging  features  of  a new world  order based  on 
understanding,  dialogue, the maintenance  of  security  and  stability,  peaceful 
coexistence,  and  the peaceful  settlement  of  regional  disputes, we have  been 
trying, together with our  sister  States, members  of  the Gulf  Cooperation 
Council, to translate  those  new concepts  into  rules and principles  that  would 
govern the  relations  and  ties of  the States of the  region. 
While we have been  taking  substantial  strides  along  this  peaceful 
constructive  path  towards  restoring  stability  and  security  to our  region,  and, 
in the context  of  this effort, have been  trying  to  initiate  dialogue with  the 
Islamic Republic  of  Iran  to  settle  the outstanding  issues between  our  two 
countries, especially  the  Iranian military  occupation  of  the three  Arab 
islands  that belong  to the United  Arab Emirates, namely Greater Tunb,  Lesser 
Tunb and Abu Mousa,  the  Iranian  authorities  have  embarked  upon  the  adoption  of 
a number  of unlawful measures with  regard  to the  island  of Abu Mousa  in 
violation of  the Memorandum  of Understanding  concluded  in 1971. 
My  country has declared  its rejection  of  these measures  since  they  are 
in flagrant violation  of  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  the 
United Arab  Emirates.  They  also  run counter  to the principle  of 
good-neighbourliness  and  contravene  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the Memorandum  of 
A/47/PV.19 
49-50 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
Understanding,  which,  in effect,  lacks equality  and  justice  as  it was  imposed 
by  coercion  and  the  threat  of  force. 
Iran's  recent measures  aim  at controlling  and  annexing  Abu Mousa  island, 
thus  following  in the  footsteps  of  the previous  Iranian  Government  which,  in 
1971 militarily  occupied  the  two  islands belonging  to  the United  Arab 
Emirates, namely. Greater  Tunb  and Lesser  Tunb.  Naturally,  the  recent  Iranian 
measures will  increase  tension  and  threaten  stability  and  security  in the 
region.  They  contravene  the principles  of peaceful  coexistence  and 
good-neighbourliness  and undermine  the  traditional  relations  between  the two 
countries. 
On  29 November  1971, Iranian  armed  forces  attacked  and  occupied  the 
islands  of Greater  Tunb and  Lesser Tunb.  This  resulted  in the  killing  of a 
number  of  civilians  and  the eviction of  the  rest by military  force.  On the 
next  day,  30 November,  Iran occupied  Abu Mousa  island. 
A/47/PV.19 
51 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
In response,  the United  Arab Emirates moved  on every Arab  and 
international  level, and  at every  forum,  including  the  Security  Council, to 
resolve  this  issue  and  regain  those  three  islands, which  are  an  indivisible 
part  of  its  territory.  Throughout  more  than  20 years of  Iranian  occupation  of 
those  islands, the United Arab  Emirates  opted  for quiet  diplomacy  and  used 
every diplomatic  channel  in the  firm belief  that  right  is on  its side and  that 
the three  islands will  return  to  its  sovereignty.  This  conviction has  been 
strengthened  by  the  current  international  climate  and  the desire of both  the 
United Arab Emirates  and  the  international  community  to  resolve  regional 
conflicts, with  the  aim of maintaining  international  peace  and  security  by 
diplomatic means, in accordance with  international  law. 
Proceeding  from  the desire  of  the United  Arab Emirates  to  settle  all 
outstanding  issues  and problems  relating  to the continued  occupation by  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran of  the  two  islands of  Greater  Tunb  and  Lesser  Tunb 
and its violation  of  the  1971 Memorandum  of Understanding  relating  to the 
island of Abu Mousa,  and  in the  interests  of  stability  and  security  in the 
region, meetings  between  the  two countries were held  recently  in our  capital, 
Abu Dhabi, with  a view  to reaching  a peaceful  negotiated  settlement.  However, 
the Iranian delegation  refused  to discuss  ending  the military  occupation  of 
the two  islands  of Greater  Tunb  and Lesser  Tunb  and  refused  to have  the  case 
referred  to the  International  Court  of Justice.  Consequently,  the United  Arab 
Emirates had no  recourse  but  to put  the  issue before  the  international 
community.  My  statement  today  stems  from our  desire  to  find  a peaceful 
settlement  of  this dispute based  on the principles  of  the United  Nations 
Charter  and  the  norms of  international  law. 
A/47/PV.19 
52 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
International  documents  and historical/geographical  facts, confirm  that, 
from  time  immemorial,  sovereignty  over  the  three  islands  in question  has been 
the United  Arab  Emirates'.  Iran's military  occupation  of  the  islands  has not 
changed  their  legal  status.  Under  international  law,  occupation  by  the use of 
force  does  not bestow  upon  the occupying  Power  sovereignty  over  the  territory 
it occupies,  regardless  of  the  length of  that  occupation. 
Iran's  occupation  of the  islands  and  the  subsequent  measures  it has taken 
contravene  the principles  and purposes  of  the Charter  of  the United  Nations 
and  run counter  to the principles  of  international  law, particularly  the 
principle  of  respect  for  the  independence,  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  of  States, good-neighbourliness,  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs  of  others, the non-use  of  force  or  the  threat  of  force  and  the 
settlement  of disputes  by peaceful  means. 
My  country  has been  and  continues  to be prepared  to  resolve  this matter 
by peaceful means  in accordance with Article  33 of  the United  Nations  Charter, 
taking  into  consideration  that  sovereignty  over  the  three  islands  of  Abu Mousa 
and Greater  Tunb  and  Lesser Tunb belongs  to  the United  Arab  Emirates.  In this 
context, we  call  upon  the Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to move 
towards  the  settlement  of  this problem  by  those means  in accordance with  the 
rules  of  international  law and  the  fundamental  principles  that  govern 
international  relations. 
The  Gulf  region  still  suffers  from  Iraq's  aggression  against  the  sister 
State  of  Kuwait.  The  international  response  to that  aggression,  as  embodied 
in Security  Council  resolutions  and  the  subsequent  steps  that  culminated  in 
the  liberation  of Kuwait,  represent  a positive  application  of  the  principles 
of  the Charter  and  international  law.  It  is also  a clear  indication  of  the 
A/47/PV.19 
53 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab Emirates) 
international community's commitment to respect the independence and 
sovereignty of States, and to defend them. 
In this respect, we reaffirm our insistence that it is incumbent upon 
Iraq to implement all relevant Security Council resolutions.  Moreover, we 
urge the international community to exert more pressure on the Iraqi regime to 
secure the speedy release of Kuwaitis and other detainees and prisoners of war 
so as to put an end to this human tragedy which runs counter to the most 
fundamental principles of human rights and international law. 
The end of the cold war and of the possibility of military confrontation 
between East and West has led to the settlement of certain intractable 
regional disputes.  Moreover, it has become possible, under the prevailing 
conditions of international legality reflected in the unanimity of the 
Security Council, to move forward to resolving other chronic disputes. 
Proceeding from this, we would have hoped to experience the effects of 
these positive trends in the new world order in our Arab area, and 
particularly in the endeavours to settle the Middle East conflict and the 
Palestinian problem, which is the core of that conflict.  Our region has 
suffered greatly from the devastating negative effects of those two unsolved 
problems.  It was against this backdrop that the United Arab Emirates welcomed 
the call to convene the Madrid Conference, supported the current Middle East 
peace negotiations and participated in the multilateral negotiations on the 
basis of the international legality embodied in United Nations resolutions, 
most notably Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). 
My country has called and continues to call for Israel's withdrawal from 
all the occupied Arab and Palestinian territories, including the Syrian Golan 
Heights and the Holy City of Al-Quds and for enabling the Palestinian people 
A/47/PV.19 
54-55 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
to exercise  their  right  to  self-determination.  In conformity  with  the United 
Nations  Charter, we  express  our  opposition  to  the  acquisition  of  territory by 
force.  Moreover, we  call  upon  Israel  to desist  from  confiscating  Palestinian 
and Arab  lands  and  completely  to halt  its  settlement  activities  and  the 
deportation  of  Palestinians. 
My  country  supports  the unremitting  efforts  of  the Government  of  sisterly 
Lebanon  to extend  its national  authority  to all  of  the  territory  of  Lebanon 
within  the  framework  of  the Taif Agreement,  which was  accepted  by  all  the 
parties  concerned.  In this  context, we  call  for  the  full  implementation  of 
international  legality,  as embodied  in Security  Council  resolution  425  (1978), 
which  calls  for  Israel's withdrawal  of  its armed  forces  from  all  of  Lebanon's 
territory.  We  also  urge  the  international  community  to help  the  Lebanese 
Government  in the  reconstruction  of Lebanon  and  the achievement  of  peace, 
stability  and  security  in the  country. 
We  follow with great pain  and  sadness  the  suffering  of  the  fraternal 
Somali  people.  The  fighting  raging  in Somalia has  resulted  in  substantial 
loss of human  life  and property.  We  appeal  to all  the parties  concerned  and 
to all national  forces  in Somalia  to put  an end  to  the bloodshed  and  to  set 
aside  their  differences.  Dialogue  should  replace  this  internecine  fighting, 
and  all  the parties  concerned  should give  their  full  support  to  the 
international  efforts  aimed  at bringing  about  a peaceful  settlement  of  their 
disputes. 
A/47/PV.19 
56 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
Through  its  financial  support  and  active participation  in  international 
relief efforts, the United  Arab  Emirates has  tried  to alleviate  the  suffering 
and distress  of millions  of  our brethren  in Somalia.  We have  also  supported 
the Arab and  international  efforts  aimed  at  reaching  a settlement  that  would 
restore and  safeguard  the  territorial  integrity,  stability  and  internal 
security of  Somalia. 
We commend  the unremitting  efforts  of  the  international  community  as 
represented  by  the League  of Arab  States, the  Islamic  Conference,  the 
Organization  of African Unity,  and the United Nations  to provide  humanitarian 
assistance  and  support  to Somalia  and  to  facilitate  the  return of peace  and 
stability to that  country  in  implementation  of  all  relevent  Security  Council 
resolutions. 
The unspeakable  tragedy  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina  is cause  for  grave 
concern to us  all.  The entire world  is shocked  at the  immeasurable  loss  of 
human lives  and  the brutality  of  the  crimes  that  are being  committed  against 
the people of  that beleaguered  republic  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina who  are 
being massacred  daily because  of  their  ethnic  and  religious  identity.  And 
this is in addition  to the  arbitrary  destruction  of historic  and  religious 
monuments. 
We,  like others, put  the blame  for  this  tragedy  squarely  on Serbia  and 
Montenegro  and  their policy  of  "ethnic  cleansing",  aggression,  expansion  and 
violation of  the  independence  and  territorial  integrity  of  the Republic  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  In  this  respect we  condemn  the practices  of  the 
Serbian  forces  and  the Yugoslav  army  and  the  criminal  acts  they  continue  to 
perpetrate  against  the  Republic  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina.  We  call  upon  the 
A/47/PV.19 
54-55 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
to  exercise  their  right  to  self-determination.  In conformity  with  the United 
Nations  Charter, we  express  our  opposition  to the  acquisition  of  territory by 
force.  Moreover, we  call  upon  Israel  to desist  from  confiscating  Palestinian 
and Arab  lands  and  completely  to halt  its  settlement  activities  and  the 
deportation  of  Palestinians. 
My  country  supports  the unremitting  efforts  of  the  Government  of  sisterly 
Lebanon  to extend  its national  authority  to  all  of  the  territory  of  Lebanon 
within  the  framework  of  the Taif  Agreement,  which was  accepted  by  all  the 
parties  concerned.  In this  context, we  call  for  the  full  implementation  of 
international  legality,  as embodied  in Security  Council  resolution  425  (1978), 
which  calls  for  Israel's withdrawal  of  its armed  forces  from  all  of  Lebanon's 
territory.  We  also  urge  the  international  community  to help  the  Lebanese 
Government  in the  reconstruction  of Lebanon  and  the  achievement  of peace, 
stability  and  security  in the  country. 
We  follow with great pain  and  sadness  the  suffering  of  the  fraternal 
Somali  people.  The  fighting  raging  in Somalia has  resulted  in  substantial 
loss  of human  life  and property.  We  appeal  to  all  the parties  concerned  and 
to  all  national  forces  in Somalia  to put  an end  to  the bloodshed  and  to  set 
aside  their  differences.  Dialogue  should  replace  this  internecine  fighting, 
and  all  the parties  concerned  should  give  their  full  support  to  the 
international  efforts  aimed  at bringing  about  a peaceful  settlement  of  their 
disputes. 
A/47/PV.19 
56 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
Through  its  financial  support  and  active participation  in  international 
relief  efforts, the United Arab  Emirates  has  tried  to  alleviate  the  suffering 
and distress  of millions  of  our brethren  in Somalia.  We  have  also  supported 
the Arab and  international  efforts  aimed  at  reaching  a settlement  that  would 
restore  and  safeguard  the  territorial  integrity,  stability  and  internal 
security of  Somalia. 
We  commend  the  unremitting  efforts  of  the  international  community  as 
represented  by  the  League  of Arab  States, the  Islamic  Conference,  the 
Organization  of African Unity,  and  the United  Nations  to provide  humanitarian 
assistance  and  support  to Somalia  and  to  facilitate  the  return  of peace  and 
stability to  that  country  in  implementation  of  all  relevent  Security  Council 
resolutions. 
The unspeakable  tragedy  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina  is cause  for  grave 
concern to us all.  The  entire world  is shocked  at the  immeasurable  loss  of 
human lives  and  the brutality  of  the crimes  that  are being  committed  against 
the people  of  that beleaguered  republic  of Bosnia  and Herzegovina who  are 
being massacred  daily because  of  their  ethnic  and  religious  identity.  And 
this is in addition  to  the  arbitrary  destruction  of historic  and  religious 
monuments. 
We,  like others, put  the blame  for  this  tragedy  squarely  on Serbia  and 
Montenegro  and  their policy  of  "ethnic  cleansing",  aggression,  expansion  and 
violation  of  the  independence  and  territorial  integrity  of  the Republic  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  In  this  respect we  condemn  the practices  of  the 
Serbian  forces  and  the Yugoslav  army  and  the  criminal  acts  they  continue  to 
perpetrate  against  the Republic  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina.  We  call  upon  the 
A/47/PV.19 
57 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
Security  Council  to take all  the necessary measures  prescribed  in the  Charter 
in order  to preserve  the  sovereignty  of Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  to 
safeguard  its  security, political  independence  and  territorial  integrity. 
The  recent  positive  developments  in South Africa,  most  notably  the 
meeting  of  the  leaders  of  the parties  to the  conflict,  reinforce  our belief in 
the  importance  of  exerting  additional  international  efforts  in  support  of this 
peaceful  process with  the  aim  of  reaching  an agreement  that would  lead  to the 
establishment  of  a democratic,  non-racial  society  in which  equality  will 
prevail  regardless  of  race, colour  or  creed. 
The  new world  order, which  seeks  to  rid  the world  of  nuclear,  chemical, 
biological  and other weapons  of mass  destruction,  must  be based  on  the 
principles  of peaceful  coexistence, prohibition  of  the use  or  threat  of use of 
force, non-interference  in the  internal  affairs  of  other  States, and  the right 
of  every  State  to choose  the  course  that best  suits  its development  and  the 
conservation  of  its natural  resources.  These  are  the principles  that  have 
guided  the United  Arab Emirates  since  its  independence.  Today,  these 
principles  assume greater  significance  because we  are  committed  to  the 
building  of  a  world  order  anchored  in justice  and  equality,  without  the  threat 
of  force.  Recent  events have proved  that political  goals  cannot  be  achieved 
by military means.  It  follows,  therefore,  that  the  logical  choice before us 
is to work  towards  achieving  security  for  all  through  total  nuclear 
disarmament  and  the  total elimination  of  other weapons  of mass  destruction. 
We  believe  that  such  courageous  steps,  if taken, will promote  international 
and  regional  security  and  strengthen  the  role of  the United  Nations  in  this 
regard. 
A/47/PV.19 
58 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
The end  of  the cold war  and  its bipolarity  places  a greater 
responsibility  on  the United  Nations  in dealing  with world  economic  problems. 
This emphasizes  the general  consensus  at  the  last  session  of  the Economic  and 
Social Council, which  affirmed  that  the goals  of peace, development  and 
justice  are  complementary. 
At present,  the  developing  countries  continue  to  face an  unfavourable 
international  economic  climate  that  limits  their  development  efforts.  That 
climate has  several manifestations  the most  prominent  of which  is the 
increasing  deterioration  of  the  conditions  of many  developing  countries. 
Needless  to say,  this  deterioration  has  a  deleterious  effect  on  the world 
economy  as a whole. 
The  role of  the United  Nations  in the area of promoting  international 
cooperation  for development  is based  upon  the principles  set  forth  in the 
Charter, which  take  into  consideration  the universality  of  the United  Nations 
and the equality  of  all  its Member  States. 
The new  importance  attached  to development  and  environmental  issues  marks 
a significant  step  forward  in international  economic  cooperation  for 
development.  The  Rio  de Janeiro  Summit  gave  rise  to a new concept  of 
international  cooperation based  on  international  participation within  the 
framework of  the  right  of  every State  to utilize  its natural  resources  in 
accordance with  its developmental  and environmental  strategies. 
There  is no doubt  that  cooperation between  the countries  of  the  South 
themselves  is indispensable  for  the  resumption  of  the dialogue  between  North 
and South.  By virtue  of  its promoting  common  interests,  such dialogue,  if 
resumed, will  promote  the process  of  social  and economic  development  and  thus 
contribute  to the  emergence  of  a more  secure  and  stable  world. 
A/47/PV.19 
59-60 
(Mr. Al-Nuaimi. United 
Arab  Emirates) 
This  session marks  the beginning  of  a phase  of  transition  from  a past 
mired  in ideological  conflicts,  confrontation  and  rivalry  to  a future  that may 
well  usher  in an era of understanding,  cooperation  and peaceful  coexistence in 
a world  of  equality,  development  and  justice  for  all. 
In the words  of  the  Secretary-General  in his  report  on  the work  of the 
Organization, 
"We need  a new  spirit  of  commonality,  commitment  and  intellectual 
creativity  to transform  a period  of hope  into  an era of  fulfilment." 
(A/47/1, para.  8) 
This  is more  than an expression  of  faith.  It  is, indeed,  our  duty 
towards  humanity  and our  future generations. 
A/47/PV.19 
61 
ADDRESS  BY MR.  PERCIVAL  J.  PATTERSON,  PRIME MINISTER  OF  JAMAICA 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly  will  now hear  an address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Jamaica. 
Mr. Percival  J.  Patterson. Prime Minister  of Jamaica, was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  PRESIDENT:  I have great pleasure  in welcoming  the  Prime 
Minister  of Jamaica,  His Excellency  the Honourable  Percival  J.  Patterson,  and 
inviting him  to address  the General  Assembly. 
Mr. PATTERSON  (Jamaica):  On behalf  of my  Government  and  the  people 
of Jamaica,  I take this opportunity  to congratulate  you. Sir, on your  election 
to the presidency  of  the General  Assembly.  I am confident  that your  vision 
and energy will guide  this  session  to a successful  conclusion. 
I must  also  take  this opportunity  to  congratulate 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has  assumed  the post of  Secretary-General  of 
the United  Nations  at a most  challenging  period  for  this  Organization  and  a 
turning point  in the history  of world  affairs. 
We are  all gathered  here  today  to present  our varying  viewpoints  about 
the many  issues which  are of  concern  to us as  individual  nations  and  as a 
world body.  That  in  itself  gives  all  of us a sense  of hope  that  our  problems, 
which  loom  so large  on  the world horizon,  are not  insoluble  if we  all 
determine  to use  this  forum  as  a  vehicle  for working  together  to  solve  them. 
In the past  the  admission  of  new Member  States has been  largely  the 
result of the decolonization  processes  in Asia,  the Pacific,  Africa  and  the 
Caribbean.  The  current phenomenon  of new States  from  Europe  signals  the 
fundamental  realignment  of political  boundaries  on that  continent.  I wish 
formally, on behalf  of  the Government  and people  of  Jamaica,  to welcome  warmly 
the 13 new Members  to  the  family of  the United Nations. 
A/47/PV.19 
62 
(Mr. Patterson. Jamaica) 
We meet in the aftermath of fundamental changes in the political 
landscape which have profound implications for each of us as individual 
nations.  They also impact on the world community collectively and therefore 
on the agenda and future activities of this Organization.  The end of the cold 
war heralds a new era in which the United Nations is expected to take decisive 
action based on the merits of each issue, rather than in response to fixed 
ideological positions buttressed by the use of veto power. 
The world economy is experiencing revolutionary alteration.  No country, 
developed or developing, is immune.  In all of this, the fundamental and 
unchanging reality is the widening gap between the relatively few rich 
industrialized countries of the North and the many poor developing ones in the 
South. 
In so many ways so much has changed, and yet so much remains the same. 
It was 12 years ago, in 1980, that as Foreign Minister of my country I last 
addressed the Assembly.  It was a time of great optimism.  There was ongoing 
dialogue between North and South.  We seemed to share a common understanding 
of the requirements for international cooperation and development.  Barely had 
the decade of the 1980s begun than the dialogue abruptly ended.  The 
international economic environment became even more unfavourable.  The 
developing countries of the South were left to grapple with enormous external 
debt.  Most of us spent the decade undertaking major structural reform. 
The painful adjustment has weighed heavily on the poor and the 
vulnerable.  Only now are we beginning to see prospects for growth and 
development as a result of these reforms.  It is important that a favourable 
international economic environment be established so as to complete the 
process.  It is imperative that the United Nations, this universal 
A/47/PV.19 
63 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
Organization,  play  a central  role  in enabling mankind  to meet  the  challenges 
and grasp  the present  opportunities. 
All Member  States, be  they  large  or  small, have  the  right  to  articulate 
their views  and express  their  aspirations.  We have  an equal  obligation  to 
contribute  to  finding  a common  solution.  Today  I address my  remarks  from  the 
perspective  of my  own country, which exemplifies  in many  respects  the  goals 
and concerns  of  the developing  world. 
When  Jamaica  joined  the United  Nations  in 1962 we  recognized  that  to make 
a better  life  for  our people we were  required  to consolidate  our  democracy, 
respect human  rights, ensure  the  rule of  law and promote  racial,  religious, 
and cultural  tolerance.  Ours  is a society which  reflects  a varied  mosaic 
"Out of many,  one people"  is our motto.  Ideally,  this mirrors  the  central 
purpose of  the United Nations 
"Out of many  nations, one  world". 
To achieve  sustainable  development  and  fulfil  the promise  of  a better 
life for our people, we must  create  the conditions  for economic  growth  and 
development  for  all our  countries.  To  achieve  this, we must  reduce  the 
vulnerability  of developing  countries  to external  shocks.  I call upon  the 
General Assembly  to  issue  a summons  to all Member  States  for a new  agenda 
which provides  the basic  conditions  for human  survival  everywhere. 
Over  the past  45 years  the peacemaking  function of  this Organization  has 
been circumscribed  by  the  dictates  of  the  cold war.  The  threat  of  a nuclear 
holocaust was  averted  not  so much by  reason but  by  the certainty  of  mutually 
assured destruction.  The United Nations was  relegated  to  the  role  of 
spectator,  fearful  of  the  consequences, but  powerless  to act.  Peace  and 
security  in many  regions  was breached.  This  often  reflected  the  surrogate 
conflicts between  the  super-Powers, exploiting  the  reality  of  economic 
disparities  and  nationalist  or ethnic  animosities. 
A/47/PV.19 
64-65 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
The United  Nations  can no  longer  remain  impotent  to prevent  conflict, to 
make peace,  to build  peace  and  to keep  the peace.  The  Secretary-General's 
"Agenda  for Peace" contains  many  innovative  proposals  in  these  areas.  They 
provide  a  constructive  basis  on which Member  States may  formulate  effective 
responses  to conflicts,  actual or potential,  around  the world.  Jamaica will 
contribute  to  the  search  for  a full  consensus  on the  effective  role  for  the 
United  Nations  and  its organs  in the new  scenario.  The  interface  between the 
General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council,  the Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
the  International  Court  of Justice  can best provide  the  requisite  framework 
for  legitimacy,  authority  and  the operational  context  of  international  law. 
We  note  the hopeful  signs  that are emerging  in South Africa,  the Middle 
East,  Cambodia  and  the Korean peninsula.  The  current  round  of  direct 
negotiations  between  Israel  and  its Arab neighbours  is an  encouraging 
devlopment  which  Jamaica  fully  supports.  But  there  is still  a long way  to go 
in achieving  the goals of peace  and  security.  The world  community  cannot 
afford  to  relax  either  its vigilance  or  its commitment  to  a just  and  lasting 
resolution  of  these problems. 
We  began  1992 with hope  that the progress  towards  ending  apartheid  in 
South Africa would  gain momentum.  The  referendum  in March  formally  sanctioned 
the  reform  process.  Hope  has  turned  to despair  as violence  has  continued to 
pose  a serious  threat  to that process.  The blood  of  South Africans  continues 
to be  shed  in the  long  struggle  to end  the abhorrent  system  of  apartheid.  The 
incidents  that have  taken place  since July  in Boipatong  and  the  Ciskei 
homeland  have  nearly  torpedoed  the prospects  for peace  and  the process  of 
negotiating  towards  democratic  rule  in South  Africa. 
A/47/PV.19 
66 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
The Government  and people  of  Jamaica have  long  supported  the 
anti-apartheid  struggle  in that  country.  We were heartened  by  the  appearance 
of progress.  We would  not wish  to  see  the process  derailed. 
The  international  community  must  signal  its clear  and  unswerving 
determination  to  see concrete  results  that  end  the cycle  of violence  and 
ensure  the  success  of  negotiations  aimed  at achieving  a democratic  and 
non-racist  society.  Jamaica will  not be  satisfied  until  there  is the  reality 
of one-person,  one-vote. 
There  are other  areas  in urgent  need of effective United  Nations 
initiatives.  In Central  and Eastern Europe,  in the Persian  Gulf,  in South 
Africa,  in Somalia,  in Haiti, the problem  varies  in magnitude  and  in 
complexity.  There  is a real  chance  that  the United  Nations  can make  a 
significant  contribution.  It cannot  do  so without  the  resources  and  full 
support of the  rich  and powerful  nations. 
In my own  region,  in the Caribbean  country  of Haiti, a repressive  and 
illegal  regime  continues  to hold  power  a year  after  overthrowing  the 
democratically  elected  leader  of  that  country.  President  Jean-Bertrand 
Aristide  remains  a virtual  exile.  Measures  taken by  the Organization  of 
American  States  (OAS) to  resolve  the  situation have  not yet  achieved  the  hoped 
for results.  In particular,  the embargo  is being  flouted by  some  European 
countries  and even by  some member  countries  of  the OAS  itself. 
We owe  it  to the people  of Haiti  and  to ourselves  to continue  support  for 
their cause  for  a restoration  of  constitutional  rule.  All  those who  espouse 
freedom must  remain  resolute  in the conviction  that  the democratic  flame  which 
flickered briefly  should  remain  for ever  alight  in that  country. 
A/47/PV.19 
67 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
The machinery  of  the United Nations,  in concert with  the OAS, must  render 
positive  assistance  to the Haitian people.  We  urge  the  General  Assembly  to 
lend  its weight  in support  of  the  legitimate  Government  and people  of  one of 
its Member  States. 
The  Secretary-General  has  correctly  highlighted  the  importance  of  the 
concept  of  the  rule of  law  in international,  no  less  than  in national, 
affairs.  The  International  Court  of Justice  should  be  strengthened  and  its 
jurisdiction must be extended  to command  universal  acceptance.  Its  judgements 
must  have binding  force  and  effect. 
We would  also urge  the major  industrial  countries  to give  concrete 
expression  to  their  commitment  to  international  law by  ratifying  the 
Convention  on  the Law of  the  Sea without  delay.  The  informal  consultations 
initiated by  the previous  Secretary- General,  and  still  continuing,  have 
resulted  in significant  progress.  The work must  now  revert  to  the  Preparatory 
Commission,  which has  the  competence  and  authority  to make  the  necessary 
decisions. 
Let  us now  review  the world  economic  scene  and  the new agenda  on which 
the Organization must  immediately  embark. 
The  link between peace,  security  and economic  well-being  is  recognized by 
our  Charter.  It mandates  the United Nations  to promote  the economic  and 
social  advancement  of  all peoples  through  international  action. 
The break-up of  the  integated  trading  system  of  the  former  Soviet  Union 
and  Eastern  Europe,  coupled with  the  rapid movement  to dismantle  their 
centralized  economic  system  and  substitute  one  that  is market-oriented,  has 
undoubtedly,  in its  immediate  aftermath,  posed  severe  challenges  to  the 
peoples  of  those  countries. 
A/47/PV.19 
68 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
The Governments  of  the Western  industrialized  countries were quick  to 
recognize  the threat  to peace  and  security,  if  these  unstable  and  chaotic 
conditions were not  effectively  and  immediately  addressed.  They have  moved 
with commendable  speed  to  identify  and provide  the  assistance  required. 
Regrettably,  the  same urgency  and  attention has never  been  forthcoming  in 
respect of what  has been  a problem  of  longer  standing,  that  is  far  more 
fundamental  and potentially  catastrophic.  I speak of  the ever-widening  gap 
between the  affluent  countries  of  the North  and  the poverty  rampant  in most 
countries of  the  South. 
The decade of  the  1980s brought  sustained  economic growth  and  increasing 
affluence  to the  industrialized  countries  and  rapid  development  to the  newly 
industrialized  countries  of  South-East  Asia.  For  the  rest of  the  developing 
world 
in Latin America  and  the Caribbean,  in Africa  and  in the  rest  of 
Asia - this has, with  few exceptions, been  a period  of  relative,  and  often 
actual, decline  in economic  growth  and  living  standards, exacerbated  by  rapid 
population  increases. 
The  last decade witnessed  a severe  fall  in commodity  prices,  the 
reduction of private- and public-sector  flows, and  a mounting  debt  burden 
which have  resulted  in outflows  to the  international  financial  institutions 
and to the developed world.  Those  trends must  be halted  and  reversed. 
In the  search  for  lasting peace we must  prevent  increasing  poverty  for a 
substantial  portion of  the human  race.  The  affluent  also have  a vital 
interest  in the  reduction  of human misery.  This  is no time  for  recrimination 
as to who  created  this  fundamental  problem.  We must  all be part  of  finding  an 
urgent  solution  to avoid political  instability  and  social  unrest. 
A/47/PV.19 
69-70 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
Most  of  our  countries  have  embarked  with determination  on  the  difficult 
task of economic  restructuring.  We have been  reducing  government  budgets, 
opening  our  economies,  emphasizing  the pre-eminent  role of  the private  sector 
and  creating  conditions  for competitive  market-driven  economies.  Undoubtedly, 
these  are necessary  prescriptions. 
There  is, however,  no denying  that  in the  short  run,  they have  imposed 
considerable  hardships  on all  sectors of  our population,  particularly  the 
poorest 
our women  and  our  children.  In this  critical  situation,  a 
supportive  international  economic  environment  is an urgent  necessity  to 
mitigate  the  short-term  effects. 
There  is need  for  a greatly  increased  flow of public  and  private 
financial  resources  into  the  countries  of  the South.  We must  devise  machinery 
to  facilitate  the transfer  of  relevant  technology.  We must  create  a  climate 
of  international  trade which  rejects protectionism  and  stimulates  export-led 
growth. 
Of  increasing  importance  in the world  economy  is the  trend  towards 
regional  economic  integration movements  and  the consolidation  of  trading blocs 
among  the  countries  of Europe  and North  America. 
For  the developing  countries,  the trend  towards  regional  integration of 
economic  structures  is an essential  step  in the process  of  our  own 
development.  To  the extent  that  this expands  our  home market  base  and 
promotes  the  cooperative  sharing  of  financial  and  technical  resources,  it will 
strengthen  our  economies,  increase  our  purchasing  and productive  power  and 
contribute  positively  to  the growth  of world  trade.  From  this  exercise  we 
will  all  benefit. 
A/47/PV.19 
71 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
The  developed  countries  already  control  the major  share  of world  trade, 
financial  resources  and  technology.  If  the trading blocs  of Europe  and  North 
America  create  defensive  mechanisms  against  each  other  and  establish  barriers 
impenetrable  by  the  rest  of  the world  economy,  the  result  is likely  to be a 
growing marginalization  of  the developing  countries  and  a concomitant  widening 
of the gap between North  and  South. 
Such  a process will  lead  to  stagnation  and  an eventual  shrinkage  of world 
trade.  An  increasing world  population  alongside  the prospect  of more 
impoverished  countries  is a recipe  for  explosion. 
A fair  trading  system  is required  to encourage  the development  of 
regional  integration  processes  among developing  countries  to  recognize  their 
need  for temporary  preferential  and protective  measures  in specific  areas  and 
promote  the maximum  openness  in the economies  of  the developed  countries. 
This path  is essential  to  a more  equitable, prosperous  and peaceful  world. 
The  iron curtain between East  and West has  finally been dismantled.  It 
is now high  time  to bridge  the gulf  that perpetuates  the great  divide  between 
the North  and  the  South.  This  Organization 
the United  Nations  - must 
provide  the  forum  for meaningful  dialogue  and  chart  the  course  for practical, 
effective  action. 
The  abatement  of  cold war  tensions, the outbreak  of  ethnic  conflicts,  the 
reality of global  interdependence,  dictate  that  the world  community  must  seize 
this opportune  moment  to give  concentrated  focus  on a secure  peace  that  rests 
on the foundations  of meaningful  development  and  sustained  economic  growth  for 
all. 
We must  approach  this  dialogue  in sober  recognition  of  the  fact  that  no 
part of  the world  can  long  remain  immune  to events  in any other  part.  Famine, 
A/47/PV.19 
72 
(Mr. Patterson. Jamaica) 
disease, ecological degradation, the desperate iteration of people in search 
of survival, the inhumanity of poverty, cannot indefinitely be ignored by any 
creature on planet Earth. 
Meaningful development must have a social dimension and must be 
sustainable.  In respect of the former, we welcome the proposal for the 
convening of a world summit on the theme of social development. 
The Earth Summit, recently concluded in Brazil, served to underscore the 
interlinkages between security, disarmament, debt, trade, technology, the 
environment and development.  Heads of State and Government were obliged to 
accept the interrelationships of these perennial concerns.  We were forced to 
admit that these issues could not be treated in splendid isolation, but 
required concerted action.  This very admission suggests that the time is 
propitious for a new beginning. 
The spirit of Rio must not be lost.  Time will tell whether the political 
will exists for us to cooperate with each other against the common threat to 
the environment we all share.  Mere lip service will not suffice. 
I expect this session of the General Assembly to settle the institutional 
machinery that ensures decisive action in the period following the United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development.  It will need to address 
the concerns of small island States and the enhancement of scientific and 
technological capacity among developing countries. 
Jamaica supports the decision to form a high-level commission for 
sustainable development.  We intend to assist the commission fully once the 
important details of its programme of work have been agreed. 
I expect the Assembly also to confront the q >estion of financial 
resources in order to implement Agenda 21.  An initial commitment of at least 
A/47/PV.19 
73 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
$600 billion  annually  is required  so that  the work we have  painstakingly 
accepted  can be  adequately  implemented. 
The  key donor  countries  and  agencies will  need  to  look  at  several 
proposals within  the Global  Environmental  Facility,  the  International 
Development  Association,  regional  development  banks, private-sector  funding 
and financial  transfers  from  Governments,  to  see how best  a  realistic 
international  economic  effort  can be organized.  But we must  all  resist  the 
tendency  to use  resources  for  environmental  protection  and management  as but 
one more device  to bring  developing  countries  under  the dictates  of  the 
multilateral  financial  institutions. 
The development  that we  seek  in the present  and  the coming  century  is 
impossible without  managing  our  environment  efficiently.  The  case  for  acting 
in concert  is overwhelming.  The  time  for action  is now. 
Our  agenda  of political, economic  and environmental  changes, which  all 
our citizens  demand,  no  longer permits  the United Nations  to  remain  a passive 
spectator.  It must play  a catalytic  role  and  assume operational  leadership. 
This makes  it  imperative  that we  re-order  our priorities.  This  can be 
accomplished  only  in the context  of  institutional  restructuring.  The 
Secretary-General  has  already  demonstrated  his own commitment  to  this 
process.  His proposals  have been  supplemented  by proposals  from many  other 
sources.  All of  this provides  a  framework  and  a point  of  departure  for  our 
discussions  and decisions  in the months  ahead, here  in the General  Assembly 
and in other  organs  of  the United  Nations. 
The debate must  be  informed  by  the principles  enshrined  in the  Charter. 
The decisions  we make must  ensure  that  the vision  is realized  and  our  purposes 
are met.  This  Organization must  always  act  in a transparent  manner  so that  it 
A/47/PV.19 
74 
(Mr. Patterson.  Jamaica) 
is never  subverted  by  the  introduction  of hegemonism  from  any quarter.  Any 
new world  order  must  be based  on the  rule of  law.  In creating  or  shaping it, 
we need  to be  inclusive,  not exclusive.  All  nations  and peoples must  be 
encouraged  to  satisfy  their  legitimate  aspirations  and  fulfil  their  dreams. 
While  the new  spirit  of  cooperation  in the  Security  Council  is  a most 
welcome  development,  that body must  reflect  all  interests  in  its 
determinations.  Maintaining  the  confidence  of  the General  Assembly  requires 
its  acceptance  of  accountability  to this body.  The  role  and  function of the 
General  Assembly  must  be enhanced.  There must  be non-selectivity  in the 
taking  of decisions  and  the  consequent  action  to enforce  them. 
Definitions  of human  rights  are not  susceptible  to  differing 
interpretations  imposed  by  any one  State  or group  of  States.  The  relevant 
international  covenants  on economic,  social, cultural, political  and  civil 
rights must  be universal  standards.  Once  this  is accepted we  can  deal 
effectively  and even-handedly  with  all violations  of human  rights  wherever 
they may  occur.  Resolute  international  action, based  on  the  Charter  and other 
rules  of  international  law, must be  applied. 
Once more,  this Organization  is presented  with  a real opportunity  to 
fulfil  its noble purposes  and  to be an effective  instrument  in creating  a 
world  order  of  lasting peace, economic  prosperity  and  social  justice.  Its 
success  depends  on the  commitment  and practical  support  that we,  the  sovereign 
nations  that  constitute  its membership,  bring  to  those  purposes. 
There  is a clarion  call proclaiming  that  a new dawn  is  at hand.  If we 
succeed,  the  fruits  are glorious. 
The  fact  is, everything  is at  stake; we  are  all  at  risk,  and  so we dare 
not  fail. 
A/47/PV.19 
75 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly,  I wish  to  thank 
the Prime Minister  of  Jamaica  for  the  statement  he has  just made. 
Mr. Percival  J.  Patterson. Prime Minister  of Jamaica, was  escorted  from 
the  rostrum. 
A/47/PV.19 
76 
Mr. NWACHUKWU  (Nigeria):  On behalf of the Nigerian delegation, I 
congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the United Nations 
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session.  Your election is testimony to 
your sterling qualities as a statesman and a diplomat. 
I wish also to pay tribute to your distinguished predecessor, 
His Excellency Mr. Samir Shihabi of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, for the 
outstanding manner in which he steered the affairs of the General Assembly 
during its forty-sixth session. 
I wish to express on behalf of President Babangida, the Government and 
the people of Nigeria our appreciation to the many delegations which sent us 
messages of condolence following the loss of lives resulting from the tragic 
plane crash near Lagos. 
I should also like to take this opportunity to commend 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for the admirable manner in which he has been 
performing his duties as Secretary-General of the United Nations.  I am 
confident that Mr. Boutros-Ghali, an accomplished diplomat, a distinguished 
statesman and a scholar of repute, will remain true to the worthy ideals of 
our Organization and bring his versatile experience to bear on the crucial 
issues confronting the international community. 
Nigeria welcomes the new Members of our Organization. Their participation 
will enrich our discussions and strengthen international legitimacy and the 
rule of law. 
I should also like to take this opportunity to inform the Assembly that 
in January 1993 Nigeria will complete its transition to democracy with the 
handing over of power to an elected Government.  As you are aware, elected 
governments at the local and state levels are already in place.  Elections to 
A/47/PV.19 
77 
(Mr. Nwachukwu, Nigeria) 
the Senate and the House of Representatives have also been concluded.  Our 
untiring efforts to evolving a democratic arrangement suited to our 
environment reflect our commitment to pluralism and dialogue. 
In no other period in this century has there been greater hope for global 
peace and security than now.  The end of the cold war, the noteworthy efforts 
in the field of nuclear disarmament and the ever-widening circle of democracy 
all promise to create an international environment that is more conducive to 
the attainment of international peace and security. 
However, many problems still threaten our quest for global peace, 
cooperation and development.  In some parts of the world, political conflicts 
have degenerated into violence.  We are also witnessing the resurgence of 
long-dormant ethnic and boundary disputes in Europe.  Indeed, no region of the 
world today is spared the scourge of war.  These wars have drained states and 
the international community of resources that could have been used for 
development.* 
Africa, in particular, has experienced severe and persistent strife, 
especially in Sudan, Western Sahara, Somalia, Liberia and Rwanda.  These 
conflicts have caused untold hardship, economic dislocation and a massive 
refugee burden.  In addition, the conflicts have worsened Africa's weak 
economic condition and made more distant our hope for growth and development. 
In accordance with its obligations under the Charters of the Organization 
of African Unity and the United Nations, Africa has continued to make efforts 
to settle these conflicts.  Nigeria, for instance, hosted a peace conference 
on Sudan in May 1992 and also undertook  a mission to Somalia to urge the 
*  Mr. Nandoe (Suriname), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.19 
78-80 
(Mr. Nwachukwu. Nigeria) 
various factions to resolve their differences peacefully.  In Liberia, we 
continue to work through the Economic Community of West African States 
(ECOWAS) in search of peace.  We remain, as ever, committed to the restoration 
of lasting peace in that country.  The ECOWAS Cease-fire Monitoring Group 
(ECOMOG) is an admirable example of regional arrangements recommended under 
Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter.  It should not be allowed to 
fail.  We appeal to all the parties in Liberia to cooperate with ECOWAS in 
implementing the agreements reached so far.  The international community, 
particularly the United Nations, should complement our regional peace-keeping 
and peacemaking efforts through greater involvement and increased humanitarian 
assistance. 
The situation in Western Sahara continues to be a source of great 
concern. We commend the efforts of the Secretary-General to revive the stalled 
peace process.  Nigeria believes strongly that the joint peace plan of the 
United Nations and the Organization for African Unity provides the best 
framework for ensuring peace while safeguarding the right to 
self-determination of the people of Western Sahara. 
In response to pressures from the international community, change is 
indeed taking place in South Africa, and we welcome it.  However, the 
difficulties in maintaining the momentum of the Convention for a Democratic 
South Africa (CODESA) talks give serious cause for concern.  We urge the South 
African Government to intensify efforts to ensure an environment conducive to 
completing the transition to a non-racial democratic South Africa.  The threat 
to CODESA by anti-democratic forces must not be allowed to succeed. 
A/47/PV.19 
81 
(Mr. Nwachukwu.  Nigeria) 
But more  importantly,  and  as a measure  of  its  commitment  to  democratic 
rule, the South African  Government  should  agree  to the  immediate  establishment 
of an interim  government  of national  unity  that will  supervise  the  transition 
to a democratic  order.  The  role of  the United Nations  remains  crucial  in this 
process.  That  is why we welcome  the dispatch  of United Nations  obervers  to 
South Africa.  We  call  on  the Organization  to increase  the number  of  observers 
to enable  them  to oversee  the  transition more  effectively. 
The Nigerian  Government  applauds  the  recent  efforts  to advance  the peace 
process  in the Middle  East.  The  present  international  climate  is conducive  to 
negotiation  and  compromise.  We  urge  all parties  to the  Middle  East  conflict 
to take  advantage  of  this momentous  period  in history  to find  a just  and 
lasting  solution  to  all  aspects  of  the conflict.  Such  a lasting peace  can be 
built only on  a foundation  that  assures  justice  for  all  and  the  peaceful 
coexistence  of  all  States  in the Middle  East,  in accordance with  Security 
Council  resolutions  242  (1967) and  338  (1973). 
For  the past  few months  the people  of what was  formerly Yugoslavia  have 
not known peace.  The parties  to the  conflict  should heed  the  appeal of  the 
international  community  by  respecting  cease-fire  agreements  and by  resolving 
their differences  through negotiations.  They  owe  their  people  and  us  all  the 
sacred  duty  of  achieving  peace. 
There  cannot  be  security  in our world  so  long as nuclear  and  other 
weapons of mass  destruction  exist.  As  the United Nations  begins  discussion  on 
extending  the non-proliferation  Treaty,  all  nations  should  place  at  the  fore 
of that debate  the objective  of  achieving  a comprehensive  nuclear-test  ban. 
The chemical weapons  Convention,  which was  recently  concluded,  represents  a 
A/47/PV.19 
82 
(Mr. Nwachukwu.  Nigeria) 
significant  milestone  in the history  of disarmament.  Nigeria will  sign the 
Convention  and  urges  all  States  to do  the  same. 
As  the Assembly  is aware, Member  States  spend  over  $1 trillion  annually 
on armaments.  This  huge  expenditure  is no  longer  necessary  as States move to 
an era of  cooperation  and peace.  Expenditure  on  armaments  should  be  sharply 
reduced  in order  to divert  resources  from  this  sector  to  development 
programmes  world wide. 
The  economies  of African  States  continue  to be depressed  by  the debt 
burden,  unfavourable  commodity  prices, net outflow  of  resources  and 
protectionist  trade policies.  There  is need  for new  funds  to be  injected into 
Africa  to  reverse  the  continent's  economic  decline.  We  acknowledge  that our 
economic  recovery  and  development  depends  primarily  on  the policies  pursued by 
African  Governments.  However,  the  success of  such policies  rests  in part on 
the  fairness  of  the  international  economic  system  and  the  transfer  to African 
States of  adequate  resources  to enhance  our growth-oriented  policies. 
The  Rio  Summit  in our  view was  a success.  The  effective  implementation 
of Agenda  21 programmes  depends  on the provision  of  financial  resources to 
match  the  commitments.  While we  appreciate  the  support  of  the  international 
community  on  the questions  of desertification  and  drought, which  are  causing 
extensive  environmental  degradation  in Africa, we  appeal  to  all Member  States 
fully  to  support  the  setting  up  of  an  intergovernmental  negotiating  committee 
to prepare  an  international  convention  on desertification.  We  also  expect 
that  the  composition  of  a commission  on  sustainable  development  will  be 
finalized  at  this  session of  the General  Assembly. 
At  its  summit meeting  in January  this year,  the Security  Council 
reoriented  itself  to pursue  the  objective  of preventive  diplomacy,  of 
A/47/PV.19 
83 
(Mr. Nwachukwu.  Nigeria) 
peacemaking  and peace-keeping  within  the ambit  of  its  responsibility.  The 
Secretary-General  has now produced  a report  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
with far-reaching  implications  for  our Organization.  My  delegation  notes with 
appreciation  the  recommendations  contained  in that  report,  especially  with 
respect  to the  role of  regional  and  subregional  arrangements  in promoting 
international  peace. 
Almost  half  a century  ago  the United Nations  had  51 Members.  The 
Membership  has  now grown  to  17 9.  The  Security  Council, which  is vested  with 
the primary  responsibility  of dealing with  issues of  international  peace  and 
security, has maintained  its permanent  membership  of  five.  In his  address  to 
the General  Assembly  at  its  forty-sixth  session,  the President  of Nigeria, 
then in his  capacity  as Chairman of  the Organization  of African Unity,  said: 
"The  limitation  of  the permanent membership  to the present  five has 
become both  anachronistic  and  unreprasBntative."(A/46/PV.22. p.  54-55) 
The composition  of  the permanent  membership  of  the  Security  Council  represents 
three out of  five  regions.  Seen  in the North-South  context,  four  of  its 
members  come  from  the North.  In addition,  new demands  on  the  issue  have 
emerged with  the  recent  changes  in the  international  system.  The  parameters 
of democracy  as well  as  size  and  role within  the global  system  have  become 
relevant  criteria  for  adjudging  the  issue  of  representation. 
The need  to  increase  the number  of permanent  seats  in the  Security 
Council  is in our view  an  idea whose  time has  come. Therefore,  it  should be  a 
natter  of principle  for  the  international  community  that  Africa must  not 
continue  to be  a region without  representation  in the permanent  membership  of 
the Security Council.  Nigeria,  the most  populous  African  nation, with  the 
largest econonomic  potential  and  its proven  commitment  to  the cause  of world 
A/47/PV.19 
84-85 
(Mr. Nwachukwu. Nigeria) 
peace and security, possesses the qualifications to fulfil Africa's 
aspirations in this regard. 
Let me seize this opportunity to place on record our appreciation for the 
courage of the Secretary-General in drawing the attention of the international 
community to the situation in Somalia.  Since then events have shown that that 
courage was not misplaced.  In the same vein, we expect that the 
Secretary-Gneral will ensure that Africans are adequately  represented in the 
upper echelons of the United Nations Secretariat. 
As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the 
Organization, let us rededicate ourselves to the ideals enshrined in the 
Charter.  The gains manifested in the politcal and security fields in recent 
times must be matched by corresponding gains in the economic and social 
fields.  For this to materialize, we must strengthen international cooperation 
in tackling the economic and social challenges facing our world.  My 
delegation looks forward to the crystallization of such cooperation.  We must 
therefore resolve to eradicate poverty, ignorance and disease; promote and 
protect human rights in all their facets; prevent the degradation of the 
environment; eliminate war as an instrument of State policy; and, above all, 
promote a virile, efficient and democratic United Nations. 
A/47/PV.19 
86 
Mr. JAMEEk  (Maldives):  It is my  great  honour  and pleasure  to 
congratulate Mr. Ganev of  Bulgaria  on his election  to  the presidency  of  the 
General Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session.  His  election  to this  important 
office  coincides with  a critical  juncture  in the history  of  the United  Nations 
when the world  is taking  a turn  towards  a new era  in international  relations, 
and I wish him  success. 
I should  also  like  to take  this opportunity  to extend my  delegation's 
deep appreciation  to his predecessor.  Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi  of  Saudi 
Arabia, who demonstrated  outstanding  skills of  diplomacy  and  dedication  during 
his term  of office. 
It is also my  pleasure  to pay  tribute  to the  Secretary-General 
Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  for  the  leadership  and vision he has  brought  to the 
Organization  at  a time of  crucial  change. 
Since we met  last year,  13 new Member  States have  taken  their  seats  in 
our midst.  I should  like  to extend  a warm  welcome  to Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina,  Croatia,  Georgia,  Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  the  Republic 
of Moldova,  San Marino,  Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan  and Uzbekistan.  I 
am confident  that our Organization, which has  always  striven  for  universality, 
will greatly benefit  from  their participation  in the work  of  the United 
Nations. 
We  face  a time of  challenge  and opportunity.  The  impasse  that 
characterized  international  affairs  for more  than  four  decades  through 
super-Power  confrontation  has  ended,  giving way  to  a  new  era of  international 
cooperation.  We  dare  to hope  that  the noble  aspirations  envisioned  in the 
Charter of  the United Nations may be within  reach.  Yet  the way  ahead  is not 
without  obstacles.  New  conflicts motivated  by  ultra-nationalism,  ethnicism 
and even  religious  intolerance  confront  us  daily. 
A/47/PV.19 
87 
(Mr. Jameel. Maldives) 
In these  turbulent  times  the United Nations  must  play  an active  and 
constructive  role  in soothing  the  fears  and  anxieties  of  its Member  States. 
In order  to do  so, the United Nations will  need  the  full  support  and 
cooperation  of  all Members  at  the highest  level, both  large  and  small.  The 
United Nations must  be provided with  the  requisite  support  and  resources 
needed  to address  the vital  tasks  that  lie  ahead.  Never  has  the  need  for a 
strong  and vibrant United Nations  been greater, when we  are  on  the  threshold 
of  a new  century,  a  new  awakening. 
We  believe  that  the  concepts  put  forward  by the  Secretary-General  in his 
report,  "An Agenda  for  Peace", deserve  serious  consideration.  The  need  for 
both peace-keeping  and peacemaking  efforts with greater  emphasis  on  the use of 
preventive  diplomacy  and post-conflict  peace-building  measures  has  never been 
more  urgent.  None  of  these  indeed  is a mutually  exclusive  concept,  but  they 
are  closely  interrelated  and need  to be  implemented  in a  comprehensive 
manner.  Too  often,  a conflict  is allowed  to rage on  for  too  long,  before the 
international  community  is convinced  to act  firmly,  and  too  often  this may be 
too  late. 
Maldives  is aware  of  the  increasing  financial  pressure  placed  on  the 
Organization  as  it  is called  upon  to play  an ever greater  role  in both 
conflict  prevention  and  conflict  resolution.  It  is imperative  that  the 
membership  of  the United Nations  be  committed  to  supporting  these  activities 
not by mere  rhetbric  but  in substance.  However,  it may be  fair  to  say  that 
the  smaller  and  the  economically  weaker  members  of  this  community  will  not be 
able  to  share  on an equal  level  the burdens  of  the  rapidly  expanding 
peace-keeping  and peacemaking  activities  of  the  Organization. 
Unchecked  escalation  of  conflicts  anywhere  in the world  affects  all of us 
A/47/PV.19 
88 
(Mr. Jameel. Maldives) 
in varying  degrees  owing  to the  integrated  nature  of  the global  political 
economy.  Yet we  do not possess  equal  resources  to address  these problems. 
Perhaps  it may be  appropriate  to consider  directing  a portion  of  the  so-called 
peace dividend  hoped  for  in  the post-cold-war  period  towards United  Nations 
peace-keeping  and peacemaking  efforts.  That would  ease  the  financial  pressure 
being acutely  felt by member  nations,  frequently  unwitting  victims  of others' 
wars. 
During  the past  year we  have witnessed  a  number  of dramatic  developments 
in the international  arena, which  inspire both hope  and  despair. 
The  situation  in the Middle  East  and  the question  of Palestine  still 
remain to be  solved.  We  are encouraged  by  the ongoing  peace  talks  and  commend 
all parties  involved  in the peace  effort  for  their  courage  and  fortitude  in 
coming to the negotiating  table.  We  feel  that no permanent  peace  in the 
Middle East  can ever be  attained  unless  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people  are protected,  the Arab  lands  occupied  during  the  1967 war 
are returned  and  the  right  of  all  States  in the  region  to  live  in peace  is 
guaranteed.  In this  respect we  firmly believe  that  the guiding  principles  in 
any negotiated  settlement  should  be United Nations  Security  Council 
resolutions  242  (1967) and  338  (1973). 
My delegation  supports  the efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to  facilitate 
the establishment  of  a national government  in Cambodia by  the middle  of  next 
year.  The participation  of  all  concerned  is vital, and we  encourage  all 
parties  fully  to  cooperate with  the Secretary-General  in the  implementation  of 
the peace  settlement. 
The progress  that  has been made  in South Africa gives  us  reason  for 
hope.  However, we  are disturbed  by  the  repeated  incidences  of violence  that 
A/47/PV.19 
89-90 
(Mr. Jameel. Maldives) 
have hindered the process of negotiations and disrupted efforts for 
dismantling apartheid and for the constitutional reforms that will ensure the 
rights of the black majority.  We were heartened by the resumption of talks 
between the Government of South Africa and the African National Congress 
(ANC).  We hope that the momentum will not be halted by a further outbreak of 
violence yet again. 
Despite the liberation of Kuwait at the end of the Gulf War, the 
international community and the people of Kuwait continue to be haunted by the 
tragic consequences of the invasion and the brutal occupation of Kuwait by 
Iraq.  Maldives believes in the inviolability of international borders between 
countries and in this respect fully supports Security Council resolution 
773 (1992), which addresses the root causes of the conflict.  We are deeply 
concerned about the fate of all Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners still 
being held in Iraq and hope for their early release and return to their homes 
and families.  We consider this to be an issue of an urgent humanitarian 
nature. 
A/47/PV.19 
91 
(Mr. Jameel. Maldives) 
In my  address  to the Assembly  last year, I cautioned  that we  should  not 
allow our post-cold-war  euphoria  to blind  us to the possibility  of new  threats 
which may  endanger  international  peace  and  security,  such as  nascent 
belligerent  nationalism, political  hegemony, excessive  protectionism  and 
racism  coming  to the  forefront once  again. 
It is with  regret  that  I note  that many  of  the fears  that  I had  then are 
coming  all too true  today.  The  emergence  of  age-old  rivalries based purely  on 
ethnic differences  and  religious  intolerance  in the Republics  of  the  former 
Yugoslavia have  shocked  and horrified  the  international  community.  The 
atrocities  being  committed  against  the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina  in the 
name of  "ethnic  cleansing"  defy description.  The oppression of  ethnic 
minorities, indiscriminate  killings  and  illegal  arrests  of  innocent  civilians 
must cease  immediately.  The  international  community  should  commit  itself 
fully to the task  of  restoring peace  in that  region  so that  its peoples may 
resume their  lives  in peace  and harmony. 
The world has  seen  remarkable progress  in the realm  of disarmament  in 
recent years.  Most  noteworthy  in this  respect has been  the agreement  reached 
between the United  States  and  the Russian Federation  to reduce  their  nuclear 
arsenals by nearly  70 per  cent.  While we welcome  that  agreement, we  should 
not be satisfied  until  the danger  of  nuclear proliferation  is  totally 
eliminated  and the  existing  stockpiles  are drastically  reduced. 
The  international  community may  consider putting  its  foot down harder  in 
regions where  the possibility  of nuclear  proliferation  and  the use of  nuclear 
arms exists.  Such pressure  should  be extended  sooner  rather  than  later, as 
proven in the experiences  of  the  recent Gulf  crisis.  But that  approach  should 
be considered  an integral  part of  the process  of global  disarmament. 
A/47/PV.19 
92 
(Mr. Jameel. Maldives) 
We have always supported the concept of establishing nuclear-weapon-free 
zones and zones of peace.  However, such zones cannot be realized without the 
desire and commitment of the States of the respective regions.  We feel that 
the convening of international conferences or broad-based meetings on the 
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones and zones of peace should be 
preceded by consultations and a degree of agreement amongst the States 
concerned. 
Maldives considers that proposals for zones of peace and the 
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones should be re-addressed or revived 
in the context of the current and newly emerging international situation. 
With regard to the proposals relevant to our own region, Maldives continues to 
support the establishment of a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean and the 
establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia.  However, it may 
now be time to reinvigorate the process through the application of new and 
fresh ideas.  We believe that the current international climate may make 
nations receptive to many of the ideas that were formerly not acceptable when 
the world was held captive to bloc politics. 
Maldives has always supported the prohibition and elimination of all 
forms of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear, chemical and 
biological ones.  We are happy to note that during the current session, a 
convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons is to be adopted.  We fully 
support this convention and intend to become one of its first signatories. 
While we are heartened at the progress being made in the field of 
disarmament, we have yet to see a very tangible return in the form of a peace 
dividend.  The continuing economic deprivation in the developing countries 
poses a greater threat in many ways to the security of mankind than did the 
cold war.  It is imperative that the developed countries direct their 
A/47/PV.19 
93 
(Mr. Jameel. Maldives) 
attention and resources to the assistance of the developing countries in their 
efforts to become more self-reliant. 
The continuing and widening disparity between the developed and 
developing countries remains a matter of concern.  It is futile to believe 
that the world may enjoy peace and progress while two thirds of humanity lives 
in utter deprivation.  We call on the developed countries to liberalize their 
trade practices and expeditiously to conclude the Uruguay Round of 
multilateral trade negotiations.  The inequities inherent in the international 
economic system must be remedied and the developing countries given a fair and 
just opportunity to improve the socio-economic well-being of their peoples. 
This is the first opportunity the entire international community has had 
to comment jointly on the legacy of Rio.  It is to be hoped that we all 
emerged from Rio imbued with a sense of commitment and the determination to 
implement the policies emanating from the United Nations Conference on 
Environment and Development.  More than any other, my country is aware of the 
severe consequences inherent in ignoring the continuing degradation of the 
environment. 
Maldives is proud to have been one of the initial signatories of both the 
Climate Change and Biodiversity Conventions and we shall very shortly ratify 
them.  We urge all others to do the same in order that the provisions of the 
Conventions may be implemented. 
One of the very important documents of the Rio Summit was Agenda 21. 
This session of the General Assembly has been charged with the task of 
organizing and implementing certain decisions included in that Agenda.  One of 
those is the establishment of a commission on sustainable development, which 
Maldives fully supports. 
A/47/PV.19 
94 
(Mr. Jameel. Maldives) 
As  a small  island  State with minimal  resources  that  are  inadequate  to 
confront  the monumental  environmental  challenges we  face, Maldives  eagerly 
anticipates  the  convening  of  the Conference  on  the Sustainable  Development of 
Small  Island  States  in 1993.  We hope  that  all  countries will  participate in 
that  conference  to  the  fullest  extent  possible. 
I  should  also  like  to  recall  at  this  juncture  that  during  this  session we 
are marking  the  second  anniversary  of  another  summit  of  equal  importance 
the 
World  Summit  for  Children.  The Declaration  endorsed  by  that  Summit  has now 
been  signed  by  some  140 Heads  of State  or Government,  and over  130  countries 
have  prepared  or  are  in the process  of developing  national  programmes  of 
action  to achieve  the goals  set  out  in the Declaration.  It  is now  time for 
the  implementation  of  these programmes.  Maldives  has  been working  closely 
with  the members  of  the South Asian Association  for  Regional  Cooperation 
(SAARC)  to execute  the national  programmes  of  action  adopted  in the  region. 
We have  just  completed  a ministerial  conference  on  children,  held  in Colombo, 
where  the Colombo  Resolution  on Children was  adopted.  It  is our hope  that the 
objectives  set  forth  at the Summit  for Children will  also  continue  to be given 
the highest  priority  by all  countries  and  that  its noble  aims will  never be 
neglected. 
Experience  has proven  that peace  can never  be  achieved  through  force or a 
balance  of military  strength.  We have  laid  to waste  so much  of  our  precious 
and  irreplaceable  resources.  It  is time we  forged  a new path  for  peace based 
on partnership  and  cooperation.  That  is what  the United Nations  has  always 
striven  for.  We,  for  our  part,  renew  our  pledge  of  full  support  and 
commitment  to  the noble  objectives  and principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter. 
A/47/PV.19 
95 
(Mr. Jam««1-  Maldives) 
As  I stated  at the beginning,  this  is a time of  challenge  and 
opportunity.  Let us not walk  away  from  these  challenges.  Let  us  face  them 
with resolve  and dedication.  Our goals  can be  achieved  only  through  political 
will.  The world  deserves  no less. 
A/47/PV.19 
96 
Mr. BOOH-BOOH (Cameroon) (interpretation from French): 
Mr. President, the contribution that your country, Bulgaria, is making to the 
building of a new world order accords with the genius of its people.  We are 
gratified by your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its 
forty-seventh session, and we wish you every success in the discharge of your 
mandate. 
We take pleasure in hailing and paying tribute to His Excellency 
Ambassador Shihabi of Saudi Arabia, who skilfully handled his responsibilities 
at the forty-sixth session, which was marked by, among other major events, the 
election of the new Secretary-General of our Organization. 
We also take pleasure in addressing heartfelt congratulations to His 
Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros Ghali.  The energy and distinction with which 
he has assumed his new functions reinforce our conviction that he will succeed 
in lending the necessary impetus to the indispensable transformation that will 
enable the United Nations system to rise to the growing expectations of a 
world seeking peace, security and prosperity for all. 
His Excellency Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar of Peru admirably strove 
towards the same ends during his remarkable term at the helm of our 
Organization.  Cameroon offers him its profound thanks. 
Thirteen new States have just been admitted to the United Nations. This 
is a resounding victory of the inalienable right of peoples to decide for 
themselves, and we see it as a sign of the times:  the beginning of a new page 
in the history of humankind. 
We therefore take pleasure in welcoming among us the representatives of 
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, San Marino, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and 
Uzbekistan. 
A/47/PV.19 
97 
(Mf. Bpoh-Booh. Cameroon) 
The forty-seventh session of the General Assembly is being held at a time 
when the international community is still trying to cope with the sweeping 
changes brought about by the end of the cold war.  None the less, there is 
increasingly gaining ground a convergence of wills in confronting the new 
kinds of challenges that threaten our collective security, and in meeting old 
challenges such as poverty and want, whose continued existence in this new day 
and age seems like a negation of our shared humanity. 
The historic Security Council summit of 31 January 1992, the very first 
of its kind, provided  a striking illustration of that point, reviving the hope 
that the collective responsibility of our Organization in the quest for 
solutions to global challenges will henceforth be based on more effective 
international solidarity. 
Cameroon thus agrees with the rest of the international community as to 
the need to revitalize the United Nations so as to increase its efficacy, its 
prestige and its authority to enable it to discharge the responsibilities 
conferred upon it by the Charter. 
The shared vision of the Member States as to the central role the 
Organization must henceforth play in the realm of international peace and 
security, as also in the equally vital area of development, implies the 
prerequisite that decisions be taken on the basis of consensus.  That being 
so, the restructuring process now under way must neither tend towards 
side-lining certain States nor lead to redeployments based on selective 
priorities. 
In that context it is appropriate to welcome the pertinent study "Agenda 
for peace" submitted by the Secretary-General at the request of the Security 
Council.  The bold proposals it embodies will, we are convinced, stimulate 
A/47/PV.19 
98 
(Mr. Booh-Booh. Ca m e r o o n) 
joint reflection on all the issues connected with peace, which are priority 
concerns of the international community.  We share in the global vision that 
emerges from that study.  The fact is that the problems of peace cannot be 
analysed solely in terms of the prevention and management of conflicts, 
because peace and security are contingent upon factors that are at once 
socio-economic, political and military in nature. 
Therefore we welcome the latest spectacular strides taken in the arena o£ 
disarmament, as consolidated by the recent conclusion of work on the 
Convention on Chemical Weapons.  But progress remains to be made in checking 
the risk of the proliferation of nuclear technology and coping with supply and 
demand in conventional weaponry. 
In fact, though it is certain that the elimination of weapons of mass 
destruction does contribute to strengthening international peace and security, 
the definition of a minimum threshhold of weaponry necessary to ensure the 
security of States reassures the international community as to the desired 
achievement of general and complete disarmament. 
We might thus be able to build a lasting peace and release major 
resources for the building of a new world order that will be more equitable, 
marked by greater solidarity and oriented towards the advancement and 
fulfilment of all human beings. 
That is the rationale that fits the initiative taken by the member States 
of the Economic Community of Central Africa aimed at the implementation of 
measures likely to build confidence and enhance security and development in 
our subregion. 
Thus, in conformity with General Assembly resolution 46/37 B, adopted by 
consensus at the forty-sixth session, the Secretary-General has proclaimed the 
establishment of a standing advisory committee responsible for matters of 
A/47/PV.19 
99 
(Mr. Booh-Booh.  Cameroon) 
security  in Central  Africa.  Indeed,  the  11 States  of  our  subregion,  having 
met at Yaounde  from  27 to  31 July  1992 under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations,  adopted  that Committee's  action  programme,  which  revolves  around  a 
set of measures  notably  involving  establishing  a centre  for  training 
peace-keepers; entering  into  a non-aggression  pact;  and establishing  an 
international  headquarters  and  staff  for  crisis  management. 
In this  regard  I wish on behalf  of  its promoters  to express  our 
appreciation  to the Organization  for  the  assistances  that has  been  provided 
thus far  in the  implementation  of  confidence-building  measures  in  Central 
Africa. 
We sincerely  hope  that  the United Nations  and  individual Member  States, 
and governmental  and  non-governmental  organizations  alike, will  provide 
assistance  to the Committee's  action  programme. 
The elimination  of poverty  and  underdevelopment  must  have priority  among 
the present  concerns  of  the  international  community.  To  that  end, we  have 
decided upon  strategies  and  action programmes  to be  implemented.  The  same  is 
true of the Declaration  that  emanated  from  the eighteenth  special  session of 
the General Assembly,  on  international  economic  co-operation.  The  strategy 
for the Fourth United Nations  Development  Decade  is  a  part  of  this  trend,  as 
indeed are the conclusions  reached  at  the  recent United Nations  Conference  on 
the Environment  and  Development. 
Furthermore,  I would  observe  that  our  countries  have  taken  a certain 
number  of  steps  in economic  and political  terms.  Economically,  they  have 
undertaken painful  reform  in the  context  of  structural  adjustment,  and, 
politically,  they have  set  in place  a process  of  democratization  to ensure 
their people of  advancement  and more  effective  enjoyment  of human  rights. 
A/47/PV.19 
100 
(Mr. Booh-Booh.  Cameroon) 
To meet with  success, however,  the efforts  thus  undertaken  by developing 
countries must  be  accompanied  by  respect  on  the part  of  the  developed 
countries  for  commitments  undertaken  so as  to  seal  the  new  contract  of 
worldwide  solidarity  in  favour  of development,  a contract  that  expresses the 
convergent  vision of  the  international  community  as  to  strategies  and plans of 
action  to be  implemented. 
Against  that background,  the present  international  economic  environment 
must,  especially with  regard  to  raw materials,  stop being  a jungle  in which 
the  ruthless  law of  speculation holds  sway  and  contempt  is shown  for  the 
legitimate  demands  of our  countries  for more  equitable  compensation  for our 
commodities. 
Beyond  that,  it  is high  time  to find  a satisfactory  solution  to the debt 
problems,  the weight  of which  is paralysing  our  economies,  in  terms  of 
debt-servicing  leading  to unsustainable  investments  of  net  financial  flows 
towards  the  rich countries  and multinational  institutions. 
A/47/PV.19 
101 
(Mr. Booh-Booh.  Cameroon) 
In this  respect,  I should  like,  in particular,  to welcome  the  Rio 
resolution with  regard  to  financial  resources 
a resolution  that  extends  the 
benefit  of debt  cancellation  to medium-income  countries.  We hope  that  this 
major  decision will  be  translated  into  action. 
It is hardly  necessary  to emphasize  the extreme  seriousness  of  the 
situation  in Africa, where  there  is an unprecedented  economic  crisis, 
aggravated  by natural  disasters,  civil wars  and  the  social  consequences  of 
structural  adjustment,  which  threaten  the process  of democratization.  While 
this situation  devolves,  first  and  foremost,  on  the African  countries 
themselves,  the  international  community  cannot  be  indifferent  to  it. 
The United Nations was  therefore  fully  justified  in deciding  to give 
special  attention  to this  situation.  All of  us have  a duty  to  see to  it  that 
the United Nations New  Agenda  for  the Development  of Africa  in the  1990s  does 
not suffer  the  same  sad  fate  as  the United Nations  Programme  of Action  for 
African Economic  Recovery  and Development.  Thus  the plan must  be  launched 
urgently  and  the necessary  resources must  be provided  for  the plans  of  action 
envisaged  by  the  institutions  and bodies  concerned with  its  implementation. 
We hope  that  the  conference  on  the development  of Africa,  to take  place 
in Japan in 1993, will  provide  an opportunity  to mobilize  additional  resources 
to relaunch growth  and  start  economic  recovery  in our  continent.  The 
Secretary-General's  initiative with  regard  to the  convening  of  an 
international  conference  on  finance  for development  is based  on  these  very 
concerns  and deserves  the  international  community's  support. 
The  resources  available  in the world  are  commensurate  with  the  great 
challenges of our  time.  In  fact,  the  international  context  has never  been  so 
favourable  for  the beginning  of  a genuine North-South  dialogue  taking  into 
A/47/PV.19 
102 
(Mr. Booh-Booh. Cameron^) 
account the interests of all.  In this regard,  a global summit on social 
development would provide an opportunity to embark on an in-depth analysis of 
human development in all its aspects, in the context of the forthcoming 
international meetings on human rights, women, and population.  Indeed, we 
must agree to attach to the economic, social and cultural rights of the 
individual the importance that is now attached  unfortunately, too often 
selectively  to civil and political rights.  Thus we could conquer poverty 
and create the conditions for sustainable development, taking into account 
simultaneously the needs of growth and the imperatives of protection of the 
environment, in the interest of mankind.  The establishment during the present 
session of a committee for sustainable development would be an important step 
towards achieving this goal. 
Progress and economic and social development are possible only in a 
climate of global peace and security.  Unfortunately there are still numerous 
conflicts and hotbeds of tension, which seriously imperil peace.  Therefore, 
we are particularly alarmed at the deplorable violent ethnic conflicts that 
are tearing apart the peoples in the former Yugoslavia.  Cameroon appeals to 
the sense of reason of the parties to the conflict to halt this war, which is 
the result of an obsolete and deplorable ideology.  We shall continue to 
support all steps taken by the Security Council, the European Community and 
other bodies to achieve a satisfactory solution. 
With regard to the Middle East, the peace process that was launched in 
Madrid and is still under way must be maintained with a view to keeping alive 
the possibility of achieving a peace capable of standing the test of time and 
of men and, once and for all, reconciling the peoples of that region. 
A/47 /PV. 19 
103 
(Mr. Booh-Booh. Cameroon) 
With respect to South Africa, a harmonious transition to a democratic, 
non-racial and united country free of violence is in the interests of all. 
The prospects that emerged from the recent Mandela-de Klerk summit are 
positive, and we firmly support them. 
While welcoming the maintenance of the cease-fire in Cambodia, we call on 
all the parties involved to cooperate fully with the United Nations 
Transitional Authority so that it may be enabled to carry out its mission 
within the framework of the Paris Agreements.  Cameroon is proud to have been 
able to able to contribute to the United Nations Transitional Authority in 
Cambodia (UNTAC) by sending to that friendly country a contingent of civil 
forces and a group to supervise the cease-fire.  We take this opportunity to 
reiterate our willingness to serve the cause of peace. 
We also welcome the culmination of the peace process in Angola, where 
elections have just been held under the aegis of the United Nations.  In that 
fraternal country, there is opening up an opportunity to achieve internal 
reconciliation and to embark on the work of national reconstruction, which 
will inject new dynamism into the efforts to attain economic integration in 
our subregion. 
We earnestly hope that there will be a similar course of events in 
Somalia, Liberia, Mozambique, Western Sahara and all other regions of the 
world that are still torn by conflicts. 
Unfortunately, international peace and security, the environment and 
development are not the only major challenges of the day.  The acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (AIDS) pandemic, drugs, terrorism and other scourges call 
for ever greater mobilization, and we shall continue to support measures 
decreed by the international community to counteract them.  Action taken in 
A/47/PV.19 
104-105 
(Mr. Booh-Booh. Cameroon) 
this area must be pursued and strengthened.  That is why we repeat our support 
for initiatives to convene a global summit on social development, the world 
conference on women, the conference on African children, the conference on 
population and development, and the conference on human rights. 
Finally, with regard to natural disasters and man-made emergencies, we 
approve the steps the Organization has taken towards restructuring, 
rationalization and coordination  steps that have led to the establishment of 
the Office of the United Nations Coordinator for Disaster Relief. 
As was emphasized last year, Cameroon has opted for democracy and has 
resolutely begun profound changes designed to establish a more democratic 
society with ever greater respect for the fundamental human rights and 
freedoms of its citizens.  Following legislative elections, in which 
transparency and proper conduct were noted by numerous independent observers 
of various nationalities, Cameroon acquired a multiparty Parliament, in which 
democracy is given free expression. 
The pluralist, democratic and adversarial nature of the new society in 
Cameroon has led to the establishment of a coalition Government responsible to 
Parliament.  In a few days' time  on 11 October  this process will culminate 
in the holding of presidential elections involving at least eight candidates. 
We owe all this progress to President Paul Biya  a man of renewal whose 
attachment to openness and whose commitment to democracy in Cameroon have 
never been denied. 
Cameroon wants to play its part in meeting the needs inherent in the 
« 
embryonic new world order.  Clearly this is a long-term objective, which must 
be pursued at a pace appropriate to our society and which, if it is to be 
successful, requires the assistance and cooperation of all people of good 
will.  I know that we can count on that. 
A/47/PV.19 
106 
* 
The  PRESIDENT:  I shall  now  call  on  those  representatives  who  wish 
. 
. 
. 
to speak  in exercise  of  the  right  of  reply. 
ill 
May  I remind members  that,  in accordance with General  Assembly  decision 
34/401, statements  in exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 minutes 
for the first  intervention  and  to  five minutes  for  the  second,  and  should  be 
made by delegations  from  their  seats. 
Mr. ASSADI  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  This  afternoon  the  Assembly 
i: 
18! 
heard the statement  by  the Foreign Minister  of  the United Arab  Emirates.  My 
delegation would  like  to draw  the Assembly's  attention  to the  following  points 
in connection with  that  statement. 
As for  references  in the United Arab  Emirates  statement  to my  country, 
let me reiterate very briefly  our overall  approach  to and policy  towards  the 
Persian Gulf  region and our  neighbours  in this  area, which  are based  on the 
maintenance  and promotion  of  friendly  and good-neighbourly  relations.  We 
":believe that only  such an approach  can guarantee  stability  in the area.  My 
Minister expounded  on this matter  last week  in his  statement  to the  Assembly, 
: and in fact he presented  a detailed plan of  action  to the Assembly  last  year. 
" 
Having  said  that,  let me  add  that  from  the very beginning,  the  Government 
Vof the Islamic  Republic  of  Iran tried  in earnest  to  resolve  the 
S misunderstandings  regarding  the  situation of  non-United  Arab  Emirates 
i residents of the Abu Mousa  island. 
II 
To that end,  and  cognizant  of  the  imperative  need of  the  region  for 
tranquillity more  than ever before,  and  also  that  understanding  and 
ii good-neighbourliness  should  govern  relations  among  the  countries  in the 
^Persian Gulf  area, we  entered  into  negotiations with  the other  party.  We 
i hoped that  the other  party would  reciprocate  such  an approach  and  attitude; 
I yet the United  Arab  Emirates  party  raised  certain  issues  in the  negotiations 
A/47/PV.19 
107 
(Mr. Assadi. Islamic 
Republic of Iran) 
which were totally irrelevant to the issue at hand, thus forcing the bilateral 
talks to a halt at that stage.  Such an attitude does not lend itself to 
problem resolution. 
The Islamic Republic of Iran is of the view that the other party's 
approach to the issue, including the issuance of a hasty statement on the 
state of negotiations, runs contrary to the interests of the two countries and 
the region at large.  The Islamic Republic of Iran, while reiterating its 
principled approach to the situation in the Abu Mousa island and its 
commitment to the existing agreements and understandings, including those 
arrived at in 1971, once again reaffirms its readiness to continue bilateral 
talks for the resolution of recent misunderstandings, on the basis of respect 
for the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and 
good-neighbourliness and the imperative of the maintenance of security and 
tranquillity in the area. 
We have had a history of cordial relations with the United Arab Emirates, 
and we are confident that wisdom and prudence will ultimately prevail, thus 
denying further opportunity to extraneous elements that have, in their 
statements and official pronouncements, played holier-than-thou, all the while 
trying to fan the flames for interests that are not those of the United Arab 
Emirates, Iran or the Persian Gulf region. 
Mr. AL-SUWAIDI (United Arab Emirates) (interpretation from Arabic): 
In exercise of-the right of reply, I have taken the floor to reply to the 
statement made by the representative of Iran. 
Regarding sovereignty over the islands of Abu Mousa and Tunb, I should 
like to state here, once again, that that sovereignty is that of the United 
Arab Emirates.  On behalf of my delegation, I should like to stress that, 
A/47/PV.19 
108 
(Mr. Al-Suwaidi. 
United Arab  Emirates) 
since 1971, the United Arab  Emirates  has  consistently  refused  to acquiesce  in 
the Iranian military  occupation  of  the  islands  of Abu Mousa, Lesser  Tunb  and 
Greater Tunb.  We  continue  to reject  that occupation, which we  consider  as an 
illegal act that contravenes  the United Nations  Charter, and  the principles  of 
international  law. 
My country  has once  again  reiterated  that  rejection by  reaffirming, 
within the Security  Council  and  at other  levels within  the United Nations, its 
sovereignty  over  those  islands.  In my  country's view, Iran's presence  there 
is no more  than an act of  occupation. 
My country had hoped  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran would  return  those Arab 
islands to the United Arab  Emirates  as compensation  for  injustices  inflicted 
in the days of  the Shah.  In  light of  all of  that, and mindful  of  the historic 
ties between our  two  countries, my  country  has  striven to settle  this  dispute 
by peaceful means, especially  in the context of bilateral  talks.  It is 
regrettable  indeed  that  the Government of  Iran has not  responded  to our 
endeavours, but, to the contrary, has  tended  recently  to escalate  the  dispute 
by resorting  to certain measures  and practices  that are quite  illegal  and  are 
aimed against the nationals of  the Emirate  on the  island  of Abu Mousa, 
including the use of  armed  force. 
Nevertheless, my  country wishes, once  again, to reiterate  its desire  to 
resolve this dispute  by  any of  the peaceful means prescribed  by  the Charter  in 
order for  it to regain  its sovereignty  over  the  three  islands, which  are  part 
and parcel of our  territory.  My  country  is convinced  that  stability  in the 
Gulf region  requires  cooperation  between  the  States  of  the  region,  together 
with respect, on  the part  of every  State  for  the  sovereignty  of  the others. 
A/47/PV.19 
109-110 
(Mr. Al-Suwaidi. 
United  Arab  Emirates) 
and  also  requires  the  settlement  of  disputes  by peaceful means.  We  call upon 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  respond  favourably  to our  stated  position. 
The  PRESIDENT:  I now call on  the  representative  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran, who wishes  to  speak  a second  time  in exercise  of  the  right 
of  reply.  The  intervention  is limited  to  five minutes. 
A/47/PV.19 
111 
Mr.  ASSADI  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I did not  think  I would 
again, as I supposed  our position had been made  clear here  in the Assembly  in 
the earlier  statement made by our Minister  and  also  in my very  brief 
intervention  a few minutes  ago.  The  situation  is quite  clear; our position  is 
very clear.  It is unfortunate  that  the delegation of  the United  Arab  Emirates 
uses provocative  and  inflammatory  language  for  a problem, namely  the  situation 
in the island of Abu Musa, that, as we have  stated on  several occasions, can 
be resolved very easily  on the basis  of  the undertaking  that we  accepted  in 
1971. 
The  idea of territorial  claims, especially  in the Persian Gulf, is very 
strange.  Everybody  knows  that  in our  region  if countries were  to  raise  such 
old claims  the whole  area would  again be  in flames.  There  is no point  in 
making such territorial  claims.  What  has  just been  received  in a news  report 
this afternoon  is that  there has been  an armed  clash between Saudi Arabia  and 
Qatar in which  an Egyptian  and  a national  of Qatar have been  killed.  That  is 
the situation  in the area.  Who wants  to open this Pandora's  box? 
What we need  in the  area  is peace, tranquillity,  stability, 
good-neighbourly  relations, understanding  and  fraternal  sincerity  and 
honesty.  We  call on our brothers  in the United Arab Emirates  to heed wisdom 
and prudence.  We  call on  them  very  sincerely.  Let us not  allow, as  I said  a 
few minutes  ago, some extraneous  elements  to  fan the  flames.  I am sure  this 
delegation is as confident  as the other  delegation  at the other  end of  the 
Hall that fanning  the  flames  by others  does not  serve  our  interests. 
A/47/PV.19 
112 
AGENDA ITEM 8 (continued) 
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ORGANIZATION OF WORK:  LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF 
THE COMMITTEE ON CONFERENCES (A/47/409/Add.2) 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will now turn its attention to document 
A/47/409/Add.2, which contains a letter dated 25 September 1992 addressed to 
the President of the Assembly by the Chairman of the Committee on 
Conferences.  As Members are aware, the Assembly, in paragraph 7 of its 
resolution 40/243, decided that no subsidiary organ of the General Assembly 
should be permitted to meet at United Nations Headquarters during a regular 
session of the Assembly unless explicitly authorized by the Assembly. 
As indicated in the letter I have just mentioned, the Committee on 
Conferences has recommended that the General Assembly authorize the Board of 
Trustees of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research to hold a 
special meeting at Headquarters from 16 to 18 December 1992 during the 
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. 
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts the recommendation of the 
Committee on Conferences? 
It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m. 
