UNITED 
NATIONS 
{j£*\
General Assembly 
.<A!:7 
2  1992 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.6 
29 September 1992 
ENGLISH 
L'r
A 
Forty-seventh session 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORP OF THE 6th MEETING 
Held at Headquarters, New York, 
on Tuesday, 22 September 1992, at 10 a.m. 
President: 
Mr. GANEV 
(Bulgaria) 
Address by El Hadj Hassan Gouled Aptidon, President of the Republic 
of Djibouti 
Address by Mr. Roh Tae Woo, President of the Republic of Korea 
General debate [9] (continued) 
Statement made by 
Mr. Hurd (United Kingdom) 
Proc \'me of work 
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English 
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages.  The final text will 
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembly. 
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only.  They should 
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within 
one week, to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61197  1224V (E) 
A/47/PV.6 
Ka-z) 
General debate [9] (continued) 
Statements made by 
Mr. Kozyrev (Russian Federation) 
Mr. Van Den Broek (Netherlands) 
A/47/PV.6 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at  10.20  a.m. 
ADDRESS BY EL HADJ  HASSAN  GOULEP APTIPON,  PRESIDENT  OF THE  REPUBLIC  OF  DJIBOUTI 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly  will  now hear  an address  by  the 
President of  the Republic  of Djibouti. 
El Hadi  Hassan  Gouled  Aptidon.  President  of  the Republic  of Djibouti, was 
escorted  into the General  Assembly  Hall. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly  I have  the honour 
to welcome  to the United  Nations  the President  of  the Republic  of Djibouti, 
His Excellency  El Hadj Hassan  Gouled  Aptidon,  and  to  invite him  to address  the 
Assembly. 
President  APTIDON  (interpretation  from  French):  First  of  all, let 
me convey to all members  of  the General  Assembly  the greetings  of  the  people 
of Djibouti. 
I should  like  to take  this opportunity  to  address  to you, Mr.  President, 
my warmest  congratulations  on your  election  to the presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its  forty-seventh  session.  I am convinced  that you will guide  our 
deliberations  in such a way  as to bring  them  to a successful  conclusion,  and I 
wish you every  success. 
That was  the  case at  last year's  session,  at which Mr. Samir  Shihabi, 
Ambassador  of  a great  fraternal  country,  the Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia,  presided 
over the General  Asssembly.  We  are  indebted  to him  for  the  important 
achievements  in  the  field  of  restructuring  and  revitalizing  the  United 
Nations.  I should  like  to express  to the  former  Permanent  Representative,  who 
is leaving us, our best wishes  for the  future. 
A/47/PV.6 
3-5 
(President  Aptidon) 
I  should  also  like to pay  a well-deserved  tribute  to  the  son of  Africa 
and  the Arab world,  my brother  and  friend Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali, 
Secretary-General  of  the United  Nations,  for  the dignified  and enlighted way 
in which,  for  almost  a year, he has been  discharging  his  duties  in the 
Secretariat.  I wish  to emphasize  that my  country  fully  appreciates  the 
efforts Mr. Boutros-Ghali  is making  to  find  lasting  solutions  to  the various 
crises  and wars  throughout  the world,  thus promoting  peace  and  international 
cooperation. 
Moreover,  in his  annual  report  on the  activities  of  the  Organization, the 
Secretary-General  has highlighted  the many vital  issues before  the United 
Nations  ranging  from  the Organization's  financial  crisis  to  its  added 
responsibilities  as a result  of  the  changes  under way, which  are  sorely 
testing  the  resources  available  to the  Organization. 
In this  respect,  the establishment  by  the  Secretary-General  of  an 
advisory  group  of eminent  persons  to  study  and  formulate  proposals  to make the 
United  Nations  financially  solvent  seems  to us to be  an  appropriate  and timely 
initiative. 
Lastly,  it  is with great  pleasure  that  I welcome  the  States which have 
joined  the United  Nations  this year. 
The  end  of  the cold war has brought  important  issues  into  sharp focus, 
namely,  sovereignty,  peace-keeping  and democracy.  National  boundaries  are 
fast  collapsing  and  internal  civil  strife  is growing with  increasing  intensity. 
A/47/PV.6 
6 
(President  Aptidon) 
The changing  context  of  the  international  political  landscape  and  the 
concomitant  flareup of  conflicts  in many  regions of  the world  are  sufficient 
reason to reflect  upon  new ways  and means  to contain  the evolving  threats  to 
international peace  and  security.  In that  regard,  the  Secretary-General's 
Agenda for Peace  contains  ideas  and proposals  such as  the use  of  preventive 
diplomacy, peace-keeping  and peace-making;  it deserves  the  fullest  attention 
of the General  Assembly. 
States new and old  are  ravaged  by ethnic  and  clan  rivalries.  The  United 
Nations therefore  needs  the unwavering  support  of  the  international  community 
in order  to be able  to  respond  urgently,  effectively  and  substantially  to 
these new phenomena of  our  time.  Will  the nascent  democracies,  in their  weak 
and poorly equipped  condition, be  able  to cope with urgent  demands  for 
material  improvement?  And  if they cannot  deliver,  could  they not  lose popular 
support?  Democracy  under  relatively  favourable  conditions  is obviously  far 
different both  in theory  and  in practice 
indeed,  in every  respect 
from 
democracy  in a country  in a vicious  circle  of dependence,  poverty  and 
instability. 
The proliferation  of political  parties  in a pluralistic  system  invariably 
leads to parties based  on ethnicity.  Clearly,  there must  be  an  alternative 
framework  for these  democracies  suffering  from dire  economic  conditions  and 
from chronic problems  of debt,  disease, hunger  and poverty.  The  Speaker  of 
Namibia's National Assembly  described  the  situation  forthrightly: 
"We have  learned  that  once you have  acquired  a constitution  and  achieved 
the goal of political  independence  and  freedom,  you will  find  that  you 
cannot eat  votes  in a ballot  box". 
A/47/PV.6 
7 
(President  Aptidon) 
In Africa  and many  countries  elsewhere  in the  developing  world,  we see 
pressure  being  exerted  to  reduce  and  disperse  national  sovereignty.  This is a 
dangerous  precedent  in the new  regional  and  international  order  that  is 
emerging.  In his  address  to the  summit  of  non-aligned  countries  at Jakarta, 
the  Secretary-General  forcefully  expressed  his  apprehension,  saying  that 
"Recent  geopolitical  changes  are characterized  by  a greater  degree 
of homogeneity  in the world,  which we welcome  as  a precious  harbinger of 
concord  and unity.  Yet  neither  decolonization  nor  the  dismantling  of the 
blocs has  erased  the phenomenon  of power.  Attempts  to dominate, either 
world-wide  or  regionally,  remain.  They  continue  to  threaten  the weakest 
and poorest  States, which  are  still  the most  numerous  in  the world". 
I  share  the view of  the Secretary-General  that  the  new world  order must 
be based  on democracy  in international  relations,  and  that  at  the  same time 
each  of  us, particularly  the developing  countries, must  remain  steadfast on 
the  fundamental  principles  of national  sovereignty,  non-intervention  in the 
internal  affairs  of  a State, and  international  cooperation. 
In my  last  address  to this Assembly,  on  21 September  1977, on the 
occasion  of my  country's  admission  to the United Nations,  I described 
in 
addition  to  the  joy we  felt on  acceding  to our  freedom 
my  determination to 
contribute  to  adherence  to  respect  for human  rights  in the Horn of Africa. 
That  ambition  was  no doubt  too  lofty,  or premature,  for  since  then  too many 
events  - often  tragic 
have  occurred;  their harmful  consequences  show no sign 
of  abatement. 
A/47/PV.6 
8-10 
(President  Aptidon) 
We  are  aware  of,  and grateful  for, the vital  and essential  role played  by 
the Secretary-General  in bringing  the question  of  Somalia  squarely  before  the 
Security Council,  in the  signature  of  the cease-fire  agreement  concluded  in 
New York between hostile brothers,  and  in the deployment  of United  Nations 
forces to deliver  humanitarian  assistance. 
Thus,  to the  international  community,  which has  now made  a massive 
response with humanitarian  assistance, we  convey  all  our  gratitude  and  our 
support  in this urgent  task, which  includes  the  restoration  of  civil peace  and 
security  in Somalia. 
A/47/PV.6 
11 
(President  Aptidon) 
The  nightmarish  sight  of  children breathing  their  last  in their mothers' 
emaciated  arms, and  those  equally  unbearable  images  of women  and  old men who 
no  longer  have  the  strength  even  to walk  or  to  show the  least  expression  in 
their  faces  and whose  death  is already  in their  eyes,  shocked  us  as  they 
shocked  the whole world.  In the name of what might  could  a whole  nation 
condemn  itself  to  self-destruction?  The  tragedy  in Somalia  is not  inevitable; 
that  is to  say, human  stupidity  sometimes  causes more devastation  than natural 
disasters.  While  the world  has belatedly  come  to  realize  the  full  extent of 
what  is happening  today  in that  country,  there  is nothing  to  indicate  that 
this  tragedy will  not  claim more victims 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  them  in 
the months  to  come. 
Somalia  as we  knew  it no  longer  exists.  In the  absence  of  national 
government  and  central  authority,  the nation has been plunged  into  total 
anarchy.  Indeed,  it has  returned  to a state of veritable  barbarism. 
The  differences  involved  have  nothing  to do with  ideology  or politics. 
It is  simply  sheer, blind  obsession with power.  We  clearly  see  the  result of 
the  tenacity  of  the oppressive,  tyrannical warlords  and  clans who have reduced 
a whole  country  to  rubble. 
Somalia, which has  never  in  its history  known  such  a  famine  or  such a 
disaster,  needs  all  of  us  to  save  it  from  this  apocalypse  that  has  descended 
on  its people, victims  of  the  folly  and narrow-minded  egotism  of men.  A whole 
country  has been  razed,  reduced  to  rubble, by war, drought  and  famine.  It is 
a wasteland  ruled  by  armed  gangs  of bandits  and  looters.  Peath,  human misery 
and  abject  poverty  are  rampant. 
Providing  humanitarian  assistance  under  such  conditions  of warfare is 
extremely  dangerous.  In Somalia's  neighbouring  countries,  including Pjibouti< 
A/47/PV.6 
12 
(President  Aptidon) 
the Somali  refugees  are either  in urban  centres, straining  already-limited  and 
underdeveloped  resources, or  in camps  that  are dangerously  crowded,  facing 
shortages of  food  and medical  supplies. 
Nobody  can  say with  certainty  how many people have  already  died,  but  at 
least 1.5 million people, one-third  of  the population,  are  threatened  with 
starvation,  children, women  and  old people being  especially vulnerable.  I can 
only echo the desperation  of  a Red Cross official  in Baidoa who  said,  "We are 
in the middle  of  the  tunnel, and we  can't  see  the  light  yet." 
Our hearts go out  to the personnel  of  the  international  humanitarian 
organizations who, despite  the dangers, care  for, feed  and  save  the  lives of 
the innocent victims  of  this  senseless  fratricide. 
The question before  us today  is not only how  to  save  lives  through  the 
delivery of  sufficient  food  to end  the  famine or how to  stop  the  senseless 
fighting.  Rather,  in a scenario  like  that of  Somalia,  the question  is what 
the United Nations, together  with  the  international  community,  can  devise 
collectively  to reorganize  a new nation of Somalia.  Let  us make  a  commitment 
today that we  are bound  together by  the purposes  and principles  enshrined  in 
the Charter not  to  let  any country  simply vanish  from our  midst! 
There  is another  persistent  crisis which  continues  to  shock  us all, 
namely, the conflict  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina.  The entire world  is horrified 
at the war being waged  in that  very young  republic.  For  several  months  now, 
the country has been  facing  armed  aggression  from outside.  The  efforts  made 
to date by the  international  community  to halt  the  aggression  by  Serbia  and 
Montenegro by political  and economic  means  and  to  settle  this  crisis 
peacefully have been  in vain.  It is, on the contrary,  becoming more  and more 
A/47/PV.6 
13-15 
(President  Aptidon) 
evident  that  the Serbian  authorities  are using  this  conflict  to carry out a 
policy  of  "ethnic  cleansing". 
If peace  is to prevail  in that  region,  all  the provisions  of  the 
agreement  reached  at the London Conference  must be  implemented  immediately. 
And  if hostilities  still  continue, we  call on  the  international  community to 
implement  all  the provisions  of  the  Security  Council  resolutions  concerning 
recourse  to  all  necessary measures,  including military  force,  to come  to the 
aid  of  that martyred  country. 
Pjibouti  is addressing  the Organization  today  at a time when  it  is in the 
process  of  overcoming  a war  that has been  imposed  upon  it.  It will  succeed, 
thanks  to the unfailing  attachment  of Pjiboutians  to their  homeland  and their 
will  to  live together  in peace; thanks  to  the support of  fraternal  and 
friendly  countries, and  thanks, lastly,  to the continued  assistance  of the 
United  Nations  in defence of our  right  to  sovereignty,  independence  and peace. 
A/47/PV.6 
16 
(President  Aptidon) 
Since  its  accession  to independence,  on  27 June  1977, the  Republic 
of Djibouti  has had  to  face not only complex problems  of  economic  and 
social development,  but  also 
and  above  all  - the negative  impact  on its 
precarious  socio-economic  infrastructure  of  the constant,  destabilizing 
wars in the  region. 
Devastation  is never  confined  to the geographical  area of one 
country or one  subregion;  it extends  across  frontiers  and endangers  the 
stability of neighbouring  countries, whose populations  are, in most  cases, 
of the same origin. 
This  is precisely what  is happening  in Pjibouti, whose population  is 
increasing daily as a result  of  the  continual  influx of men, women  and 
children with no alternative but  to  abandon their  country  for  a more 
hospitable environment.  For many months  now Pjibouti has been  playing 
host to an alarming  number  of  refugees  and displaced  persons.  I therefore 
feel compelled  to  look  to the  future needs of our  State, which  cannot 
indefinitely  share  its meagre  resources without  risking  to  the  adverse 
reactions of  the community  whose  interests  it has  a duty to  safeguard. 
While we have been  struggling  through  this difficult  ordeal  the 
international  community,  rather  than  relieving  and helping  us, has 
unfortunately perceived  the problem  only  from  the purely  humanitarian 
standpoint,  thus disregarding  the negative  consequences  for the  entire 
social and economic  life of my  country. 
In response  to  the egalitarian  ideas we have been hearing  for many 
years, which  originate  from beyond  our  frontiers, my Government  has  been 
constantly engaged  in examining  all possibilities  which might  lead  to  the 
restoration of peace.  It has  also pursued  a process  leading  to  the 
A/47/PV.6 
17 
(President  Aptidon) 
establishment  of new  institutions, which were put  to the  judgement  of  the 
voters  at  the beginning  of  this month. 
The  response  of  the people was  astonishingly  clear.  The vote was 
preceded  by  a law  instituting  a general  amnesty  relating  to events  during 
the period  characterized  by  the de  facto partition,  brought  about  on the 
initiative  of  a negligible  portion of  the population.  They  had 
considerable  foreign  reinforcements, who  came  from  not  very  far  away, and 
whose motives,  as well  as the origin of  the  resources  they  received,  were 
not hard  to  ascertain. 
Some may  consider  that  this  is only  a phase, despite  the 
introduction  of  a multiparty  system  and  the  fixing of  dates  for  the people 
to choose  their  representatives  at all  levels of political  life.  I 
believe  that  I have  reason  to hope  that, with  the understanding  of 
friendly  countries,  the  support  of  international  organizations,  the good 
will  of  our people  and  the help of  the Almighty,  our  nation  can  look  to a 
future  full  of possibilities  and with  renewed  hope. 
The  serious  recent  events  in South Africa 
in particular,  the 
Boipatong massacre  on  17 June  1992 and more  recently  the  killing  of  28 
demonstrators 
show the extent  to which violence  is still  the order of 
the day.  The  refusal  of  the South African  authorities  to  control  that 
violence  is casting  a shadow over  the progress made  in South  Africa's 
political  life  and  is disrupting  the process  of peaceful  change which the 
majority  of  the  South African people  so earnestly  desire. 
A/47/PV.6 
18-20 
(President  Aptidon) 
There  is no alternative  to negotiations  for peaceful  change  in  South 
Africa.  To  this end,  the  international  community  will  have  to  continue  to 
put pressure  on the  authorities  in Pretoria  to take the  energetic  measures 
required  to contain  once  and  for  all  the  forces opposed  to  the  elimination 
of apartheid.  To do this,  they must  create  a climate  of  security 
conducive  to the  resumption  of  dialogue  for  the emergence  of  a  united, 
democratic  and non-racial  South  Africa. 
We welcome  the deployment  of United Nations  observers, who  I hope 
will help  to avoid  further massacres  and  to relaunch  a  constructive 
dialogue between  the Government  and  the majority  of  the South  African 
population. 
All of our  attention  has been  focused  on the  initiatives  and  efforts 
under way  in Washington  to promote  a credible peace  that will  lead  to a 
just and comprehensive  solution  to the Arab-Israeli  crisis.  In welcoming 
those developments, Pjibouti  pays  tribute  to  the Government  of  the United 
States of America  and  to all  those  contributing  to the establishment  of a 
just and lasting peace  in that  part  of  the Middle  East. 
Nevertheless, the  following  are essential  conditions  for  peaceful 
coexistence  among  the peoples  of  the  region;  the  self-determination  of  the 
Palestinian people;  a total  freeze  on settlements; the abandonment  of  all 
repressive policies  and practices  against  the population  of  the  occupied 
territories; and  the withdrawal  from  all  the Arab territories  occupied 
since June  1967, including  East  Jerusalem. 
A/47/PV.6 
21 
(President  Aptidon) 
Like  all  nations  of  the world,  the Arabs want  peace.  They  have 
demonstrated  this desire  and proved  it time  and  again  through  a  series of 
goodwill  gestures  and  indeed  through  substantial  major  compromises  in the 
current  negotiating  framework.  This wisdom  and  this  openness  of mind  have not 
to date  been  reciprocated  by  compatible  language.  What  the  Arabs  are calling 
for  is comprehensive  and genuine  talks  that  fully  and  seriously  address the 
key  issues  of peace,  land  and  security.  Let us  see  if  Israel will  start once 
and  for  all  to negotiate  in good  faith.  Let us  see  if  it will  move  in tandem 
with  the propitious  international  political  climate.  By  continually  demanding 
more  security  and more  concessions while  the  status quo over  territory and 
peace persists,  Israel  is simply  squandering  a precious  moment.  It  is high 
time  that  reason prevailed  over  age-old  hatred,  acrimony,  injustice  and 
obstinacy. 
In his  annual  report  on the work  of  the Organization,  the  economic 
situation  in the world  in general  and,  in particular,  the  constant 
deterioration  of  the economies  of most  of  the developing  countries,  the 
Secretary-General  amply  illustrates  the bleak  economic  situation  that exists 
in most  of  the world.  Although  the  responsibility  for  solving  economic 
problems  at  the national  level  rests  in the  first  place with  the  countries 
concerned,  no national  effort, however  forceful  it may be, can be  viably 
sustained  unless  it  is undertaken within  the  framework  of  a  responsibility 
shared with  the  international  community  and,  even more  important,  unless it is 
backed  by  appropriate  arrangements,  a favourable  environment  and  effective 
international  assistance. 
A/47/PV.6 
22 
(President  Aptidon) 
The  task  facing  the Africans  is complex  and of  considerable  scope.  It 
will call  for great  efforts,  indeed  sacrifices, on our  part.  In this  respect 
the new programme  for  the development  of Africa  in the  1990s, which  is a 
contract between Africa  and  its  international  partners, merits  the  support  of 
the international  community. 
I cannot disregard  the  fact  that  the  impressive  changes we have  mentioned 
have taken place  against  a background  of  rising  levels of poverty  among  vast 
sectors of the world's population.  Redefining  international  cooperation  for 
development must  conseguently  be  the new priority  of the  multilateral 
programme.  It is thus essential  to define  a broader  approach  to  this 
cooperation,  one which pays particular  attention  to the developing  countries 
in general, and  to  the  least  developed  countries  in particular, with  a view to 
achieving  sustainable  development. 
The adoption  of  the Rio Peclaration,  Agenda  21 and  the other  agreements 
reached  at the historic  Rio  Conference  demonstrates  that  the  international 
community  is prepared  to work  in partnership  for the protection  of  the 
environment  and  the  introduction  of  a development  taking  into  account  the 
economic equilibrium  of  all.  The  "Spirit of  Rio" has engendered  great  hopes 
for the one billion human  beings  living  in extreme  deprivation.  Now 
everything depends  on  the  follow-up  and  implementation  of  the  programmes 
agreed. 
The new mechanisms  and practical measures  to be negotiated  during  this 
session of  the General  Assembly  ought,  in our view,  to permit  access by  the 
developing  countries  to technology  and  additional  financial  resources.  We 
express the hope  that  the pledges  to  finance  the objectives  of Agenda  21 will 
be commensurate  with  the  task;  the credibility  of  the  international  community 
A/47/PV.6 
23-25 
(President  Aptidon) 
is at  stake.  The  new  commission  on  sustainable  development,  soon  to be 
established,  will have  to provide  the  necessary  infusion of  energy  and 
institute  bold policies  that will  enable  us to  face  the  attendant  challenges. 
In  conclusion,  we  in the Republic  of Pjibouti  are  confidently  awaiting 
the day when  all  the peoples  of  the Horn  of Africa will  have  overcome  the 
spectre  of  famine  and poverty  and will  live  in peace  and  prosperity. 
The  PRESIPENT:  On behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I wish  to thank 
the President  of  the Republic  of Djibouti  for  the  statement  he has  just made. 
El Hadj Hassan Gouled  Aptidon.  President  of  the Republic  of Djibouti, was 
escorted  from  the General  Assembly  Hall. 
A/47/PV.6 
26 
ADDRESS BY MS. ROH TAB WOO,  PRESIDENT  OF THE  REPUBLIC  OF  KOREA 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will  now hear  an address by  the 
President  of  the Republic  of  Korea. 
Mr. Roh Tae Woo. President  of  the Republic  of Korea, was escorted  into 
the General  Assembly  Hall. 
The PRESIDENT  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly  I have  the honour 
to welcome  to the United  Nations  the President  of  the Republic  of Korea,  His 
Excellency Mr. Roh Tae Woo,  and  to  invite him  to address  the  Assembly. 
President  ROH  (spoke  in Korean; English  text  furnished by  the 
delegation):  I should  like to extend my  congratulations  to you. Sir, on your 
election  to the presidency  of  the General  Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh 
session.  I am confident  that  under your  able  leadership  the Assembly  will be 
highly productive.  I pay my  respects  also  to the Secretary-General  for  his 
dedicated  efforts  to promote world  peace  - the primary  objective  of  this 
body.  His experience  and  sagacity  have  so strengthened  the Organization  that 
it has been  able  to meet  effectively  the new and varied  challenges  of  this 
rapidly changing world.  I take  this opportunity  to extend  a warm welcome  to 
those nations  that became Members  of  the United Nations  since  the  last  session 
of the General  Assembly. 
Today the world  is beginning  a new chapter  in history.  As  I stand  at 
this rostrum  for  the  third  time  since  1988, I cannot but  recall  the profound 
and comprehensive  transformations  the world  has undergone  over  the past  four 
years.  The global  confrontation  over  ideologies  is rapidly  disappearing  as 
dictatorial  and  authoritarian  Governments  crumble  in succession.  Instead,  we 
are witnessing  the birth  of  freedom,  equality  and  respect  for human  dignity 
and individual  creativity.  This epic  transformation  is neither  a victory  for 
any one country  nor  a triumph  of any group  of nations;  it is a victory  for  all 
A/47/PV.6 
27 
(President  Roh) 
of  us  living  in this historic  era.  Peace  and prosperity  are  no  longer distant 
dreams;  they now  stand  as  realistic  goals within  our  reach,  for  magnificent 
and  inexorable waves  of  freedom  and  openness  are  sweeping  across  the world. 
Human endeavour  towards  peace  and prosperity  continues  today.  From 
Eastern Europe  to the Cape  of Good Hope,  and  from  the Atlantic  Ocean  to the 
Pacific  shores, we witness  solid progress  towards  a more harmonious  and 
prosperous  world.  Not  only have  the United  States  and Russia begun  all-out 
reductions  of  nuclear  weapons, but  regional  disputes  too  are being  resolved, 
one  after  another.  Through  the efforts  of  the United  Nations,  the  12 years of 
internecine  strife  in El  Salvador  have  ended,  and Cambodia  is  in the process 
of  regaining  peace  and  stability.  Today United  Nations  peace-keeping efforts 
are becoming more effective  everywhere. 
However, violence  and  the  illegal  use of  force persist,  even  in this age 
of  reconciliation  and  cooperation.  The  situation  in  Iraq,  the  dispute in 
South Africa,  the  famine  in Somalia  - these  and other problems  are  evidence 
that before we  celebrate  the  arrival  of  an age of peace we must  marshall 
greater  efforts  to prevent  undue  suffering  and  misery. 
Watching  the  tragic bloodshed  in the  former Yugoslavia,  I could  not but 
feel  that  a long  and  tortuous  road  remained before  we  could  secure  lasting 
peace  in our world.  The  Republic  of Korea extends  encouragement  and support 
to  the United  Nations  Protection  Force  for  its courageous  activities, under 
extremely  adverse  conditions,  to maintain  peace  and provide  humanitarian 
relief  and  assistance  in the  former Yugoslav  region.  We  also  strongly support 
the diplomatic  efforts  of  the United Nations  and  the European  Community 
towards  an early  resolution  of  this  dispute. 
A/47/PV.6 
28 
(President  Roh) 
We  are well  aware  of  the many  invaluable  contributions  the United  Nations 
has made  in the  fields  of peace-keeping,  refugee  relief  and  related 
humanitarian  causes.  I sincerely hope  that  the  tragic  situation  in  that 
region will be  resolved  quickly  and  that  the  role of  the United  Nations  will 
be further  strengthened. 
Today  the world  is becoming  a larger whole  capable of  transcending 
confrontations  and  rivalries.  A new world  order  is emerging  on  the basis  of 
law and morality  rather  than  in terms  of power.  The United Nations  has worked 
for half  a century,  and  the time  is now opportune, to foster harmony  and 
cooperation between nations.  We must  seize  this moment  to  forge  a new 
international  order  so that  a permanent  peace  structure may be  secured.  The 
United Nations  should  play  a central  role  in our efforts  to attain  this 
cherished goal, because  this body  is the one  just  arbiter  and  the  forum  where 
disputes may be  resolved  through dialogue  and  compromise. 
Speaking  from  this  rostrum  last year,  I emphasized  that  the United 
Nations  should  redouble  its efforts  to prevent  regional  disputes  and  to 
strengthen  further  the collective  security measures  to prevent  the  illegal  use 
of force.  For  these  reasons  I believe  that  the  "Agenda  for Peace"  recently 
submitted by the Secretary-General  is very  timely and meaningful  in promoting 
our common  cause.  This Agenda  is a very  forward-looking  and  substantive 
proposition, which will  definitely  strengthen  the  role of  the United  Nations 
in all areas  of world  peace  and  security,  including  preventive  diplomacy, 
peacemaking, peace-keeping  and peace-building.  I sincerely  hope  that  the 
members  of  this body 
at the General  Assembly  during  the course  of  this 
session and  in  related  organs  - will  seriously  consider  the  proposals 
contained  in the Agenda  so that  consensus  may  emerge within  the  international 
A/47/PV.6 
29-30 
(President  Roh) 
community.  The  Republic  of Korea will  faithfully  and  actively  particip-.ce in 
all United  Nations  endeavours  to maintain world  peace  and  security  and to 
safeguard  the  future  of  mankind. 
A new  international  order  demands  a new  concept  of  international 
security.  The  era  in which  security was based  on military  power  and  on 
weapons  of mass  destruction  has passed.  Recently  the United  States  and Russia 
agreed  to destroy  all ground-launched  ballistic  missiles within  the next 10 
years  and  to  reduce  drastically  the number  of  nuclear  warheads. 
A/47/PV.6 
31 
(President  Roh) 
I wholeheartedly  welcome  this decision  and hope  that  it will  serve  as  the 
impetus  for  accelerated  reduction of  nuclear  arsenals  throughout  the  world. 
Today one of  the most  destabilizing  trends  in the  field of  international 
security  is the  rapid  spread  of nuclear  and  sophisticated  conventional  weapons 
to existing  areas  of dispute  and potential  regions  of  conflict. 
My Government  places  great  importance  on the nuclear  non-proliferation 
Treaty  and  fully endorses  the  strengthening  of  the proposed  nuclear  safeguard 
measures by the  International  Atomic  Energy Agency.  Furthermore, we  will 
wholeheartedly  support  the extension  of  the Treaty  in 1995. 
My Government  welcomes  the draft  Convention  on the prohibition  of 
chemical weapons, which  the Geneva Conference  on Disarmament  successfully 
negotiated.  I hope Member  States will  unanimously  approve  this  important 
treaty at this  session; my Government  will  accede  to the Convention  without 
delay. 
As the Secretary-General  pointed  out  in his  report, we  face  a number  of 
critical challenges,  such as the eradication  of  starvation  and world  poverty, 
the plight  of  refugees,  respect  for human  rights  and  the protection  of  the 
environment. 
Emancipation  from  the yoke  of poverty  and underdevelopment  is an urgent 
issue that we must  resolve  for  the  lasting peace  and prosperity  of  mankind. 
We can speak of peace  and prosperity  only  after we  successfully  eliminate  such 
fundamental  threats  to human  life  as poverty, hunger,  disease  and 
underdevelopment.  To  the  starved  and wretched,  justice  sounds hollow.  To  the 
sick and disaffected,  peace  is meaningless. 
Just as ardent  aspirations  to  freedom  and prosperity  ended  the cold war, 
we must now combine  our  efforts  to eradicate  poverty  and  underdevelopment. 
A/47/PV.6 
32 
(President  Roh) 
Today,  although  the East-West  confrontation  has  ended,  the gap  between 
North  and  South  is widening  by  the day.  What  is most  needed  to mitigate this 
disparity  is a concerted  effort between  the  advanced  and  developing 
countries.  For  their part,  developing  countries  should  concentrate  greater 
efforts  on economic  development  and  the  improvement  of  their  standards of 
living.  In efforts  to eliminate  poverty  from  underdeveloped  regions  and to 
improve  living  standards  there,  advanced  countries  should  provide  succour in 
the  forms  of  economic  aid,  investment  and  the  transfer  of  technology  on an 
active  and  continuing  basis. 
We  can  surmount  these  challenges  if we  all  agree  that  there  is but one 
world  community,  of which  all  of us  are  a part. 
The  Korean people  inherited  generations  of  chronic  poverty.  What  little 
remained  on  their  land was  reduced  to ashes  in the  course  of  the  Korean War, 
the most  violent  conflagration  of  the post-war  period.  Rising  from  the 
destruction  of war, we have built within  a generation  an economy  that  ranks 
among  the dozen  largest  trading  nations  in the world.  Our  country  is not 
endowed with  rich natural  resources,  and we have  carried  a heavy  defence 
burden.  We  stand prepared  to  share  this experience with  the developing world 
and  those  countries  under  fundamental  reforms. 
We distinctly  remember  the miseries  of poverty  and underdevelopment and 
the generous  assistance  and  cooperation we  received  from  advanced  countries. 
We will  act  as a bridge  between North  and  South by  sharing  information and 
know-how  and by promoting  exchange  and  cooperation.  Korea will  actively 
participate  in, and make  contributions  commensurate  with  its ability  to, the 
effective  resolution  of  the North-South  problem. 
A/47/PV.6 
33 
(President  Roh) 
The natural  environment  is not ours  to abuse.  It not only  represents  our 
past, but  also  foreshadows  our  future.  The United Nations  Conference  on 
Environment  and Development  last June will be  recognized  as a new beginning  in 
the preservation  of  our  environment.  Having  reconfirmed  the  fact  that  our 
Planet Earth  is the very  source of  life not only  for our generation but  for 
posterity  as well, the world  community  agreed  on  a plan of  action  to protect 
our environment  at  the global  level. 
I  sincerely hope  that  all  countries will  take the necessary  steps 
domestically  and  cooperate  in implementing  measures  internationally  in the 
spirit of the Rio Declaration  and  the Rio  Conference. 
Environmental  preservation  and economic  development  should  no  longer  be 
treated  as mutually  exclusive  goals, but  as complementary  objectives. 
However,  it would  not be  fair  to  impose  unreasonable  environmental 
restrictions  on those  developing  countries  that began  industrialization 
belatedly due  to chronic  poverty,  underdevelopment  and  the  lack of  sufficient 
resources.  A new path  toward  a century  of peace  and prosperity  should  not be 
designed  at the expense of  the developing  world. 
Environmental  protection  has now become  a national  objective  of my 
country.  Last  June  Korea  adopted  for  the  first  time a National  Charter  for 
the Environment,  and we  set up  a special  intragovernmental  coordinating  body 
to oversee environmental  policy  implementation. 
The United  Nations  is a most  effective  organization  for  solving  such 
global  issues  as environmental  protection.  Korea will  actively  participate 
and undertake  appropriate  roles  in all United Nations  efforts  toward  this  end. 
Systematic  human-rights  violations  persist  even  as the waves  of  freedom 
and the rights of  individuals  sweep  across  the world.  The violation  of 
A/47/PV.6 
34 
(President  Roh) 
fundamental  human  rights  cannot be  justified  under  any pretext.  The 
protection  of  these  rights  is our  collective  responsibility.  International 
relief  and  assistance  efforts  should  be  strengthened  to protect  refugees from 
war  and  internecine  strife  as well  as from  poverty. 
The protection  of minorities  is a human-rights  issue  directly  linked not 
only  to the  stability  of  the  countries  concerned,  but  also  to world peace. 
Consequently,  all Member  States must  observe  their  obligations  faithfully. 
The  Republic  of Korea  extends  full  support  to  the  1993 World  Conference 
on Human Rights.  I hope  it will  serve  as  a momentous  occasion  for 
strengthening  an  international  system  for  the protection  of  human  rights. 
The winds  of  reconciliation  and  cooperation  that  swept  across  the 
Eurasian  continent  are now blowing  over North-East  Asia.  I am pleased to 
report  that  the Republic  of  Korea  and  the People's  Republic  of  China 
normalized  relations  last month.  As a result,  the  cold-war  rigidities that 
kept North-East  Asia  frozen  for the past  47 years have  finally  begun  to melt 
away.  This  is a significant  step  towards  alleviating  the  agony of  the tragic 
fratricidal  war  in Korea.  The vigorous  pursuit  of  a Northern  Policy  to bring 
lasting  peace  to  the Korean peninsula  has  returned  a favorable  response. 
Puring  the past  four  and  a half years Korea established  diplomatic 
relations with  39 countries,  for  a total of  165 countries.  Piplomatic 
relations  between  Korea  and  China  and my  official  visit  to Beijing  next week 
are expected  to contribute  to  reduced  tensions  on the  Korean peninsula  and to 
peace-making  efforts  in North-East  Asia.  North-East  Asia has  thus begun the 
march  towards  a new era of  lasting peace  and  common  prosperity. 
Speaking  to the Assembly  from  this very  rostrum  four  years  ago, I 
mentioned  the  desirability  of  a consultative  conference  for  peace  in 
A/47/PV.6 
35 
(President  Roh) 
North-East  Asia.  I note  that many hurdles  still  stand  in the way of  the 
realization of  such a proposal.  Times  are  changing, however.  Pepending  on 
our determination, we  can turn  such  ideas  into  reality. 
In the highly  sensitive  region of North-East  Asia, which has  seen  five 
major wars  in the past  100 years, efforts  to build  a structure  of  lasting 
peace are very desirable  for both  regional  stability  and world  peace. 
Therefore,  I hope  an opportunity  for dialogue between  all  interested  parties 
will be found  for  the purposes  of building  trust  and promoting  mutual 
understanding,  confidence  and  common  prosperity. 
Once mutual  understanding  and  a forum  of  cooperation  are established,  I 
believe  that we  can realistically  expect  the emergence  of  a new order  of peace 
in North-East  Asia. 
A/47/PV.6 
36 
(President  Roh) 
Two years  ago dialogue  between  the Prime Ministers  of  the  two Koreas was 
initiated.  Thus  far, eight  rounds  of meetings  have been held  alternately in 
Seoul  and  Pyongyang,  and  a number  of  issues have been discussed.  Late  last 
year,  the  two Koreas  adopted  an  "Agreement  on Reconciliation,  Non-aggression, 
and  Exchanges  and  Cooperation between  the  South  and  the North"  and  a "Joint 
Declaration  on the Denuclearization  of  the Korean  Peninsula."  Both  documents 
came  into  effect  in February  of  this year. 
We were  filled with  a sense  of anticipation.  For  an  ethnically 
homogeneous  people  that has  spent  the past  47 years  in confrontation,  this was 
a dramatic  achievement.  However, we have yet  to  see  the  implementation  of the 
specific measures  agreed  upon by the  two sides.  The  reality  on the  Korean 
Peninsula  is that  humanitarian  projects,  including  the exchange  of  visits by 
separated  family members,  remain  unrealized.  The  terms  of  the  "Joint 
Declaration  on  the Denuclearization  of  the Korean  Peninsula"  called  for the 
two Koreas  to  conduct mutual  nuclear  inspections  by  last  June.  But  this 
measure  also has yet  to be  carried  out. 
I must  point  out  that mutual  nuclear  inspections  are  the most  serious 
obstacle  on  the path  towards  further  progress  in inter-Korean  relations. 
North Korea's  suspected  nuclear  development  is casting  dark  clouds  over the 
future  of  the Korean  Peninsula.  It  is becoming  a new  factor  threatening peace 
in North-East  Asia  and  the world  at  large. 
As members  are well  aware,  reconciliation,  cooperation,  openness  and the 
creation  of  a new order  of peace  are  clearly  the  current  global  trends.  I 
sincerely  hope  that  North  Korea will be  able to  improve  its  relations with 
other  countries.  Participation  in all  regional  cooperative  bodies  and a 
A/47/PV.6 
37 
(President  Roh) 
partnership with  their  southern brethren  towards  a new order  of peace  and 
common prosperity  are what  all my  countrymen  wish  for North  Korea. 
Where  there  is  suspicion, however,  there  can hardly  be  true  friendship. 
As a Member  of  the United Nations, North Korea  is  responsible  for  allaying  all 
suspicions  surrounding  its nuclear  development  and  thereby  being  accepted  by 
the community  of  nations.  At this very hour  some  1.7  million heavily  armed 
soldiers  stand  alert  along  a line dividing  the Korean  Peninsula.  I find  it 
difficult  to explain why brothers  should  aim  rifles  at each  other  day  and 
night  in an atmosphere  of  anxiety  and  tension.  But  I have  faith 
faith  that 
our people will be  reunited. 
The 47 painful  years we have  lived  apart  is but  a brief  moment  for  a 
people that has  lived  together  as one nation  for over  five millennia.  We  will 
not be impetuous,  nor will we be  frustrated.  With patience, we will  continue 
to foster dialogue, exchange,  and cooperation with North Korea.  On our own, 
we can and will open  a wide  avenue  of exchange  and  join hands  in  cooperation. 
And in the near  future we  should  recover mutual  trust  on the basis of  our 
common heritage  and  achieve  the historic  task of peaceful  reunification. 
The Korean people  is confident  that  it has  transformed  yesterday's 
despair  into tomorrow's hope.  In this  endeavour  we  acknowledge  the  friendly 
support and  cooperation  offered by  the United Nations  and  the  international 
community,  for which we  shall be  forever  grateful.  If Korea has  achieved  any 
miracle  in recent  years, that miracle belongs  not  only  to the Korean people, 
but also to the  community  of nations  represented  in this Hall.  This 
experience has  nurtured  our  confidence  that we  can meet  the  challenges  ahead. 
The task now before  the Korean people  is peaceful  national  unification. 
Recent history  dictates  that  freedom  and  independence  await  the  subjugated  and 
A/47/PV.6 
38-40 
(President  Roh) 
that  reunification  awaits  the divided.  Only when  the  last  scar  of  the cold 
war 
that which  divides  the Korean peninsula  - disappears  from  the map will 
the world be  able  to close  the historic  chapter  of  the  cold-war  era. 
Last  year  I concluded  my  address with  the  following  commitment: 
"Henceforth,  the Republic  of Korea will  play  a leading  role  in building a 
world  that will  be  a blessing  to our posterity 
a world  that will be 
freer,  safer  and happier; above  all, a world  of peace."  (A/46/PV.6. 
pp.  39-40) 
Today  I reconfirm  my  resolve.  Just  as the divided  Korean Peninsula was a 
focal point  of  tension  and  confrontation  in North-East  Asia,  a unified Korea 
will  serve  as a  fountainhead  of peace  and prosperity  for  that  region. 
Today we have  a most propitious  opportunity  to  realize  the  founding 
ideals of  the United Nations  envisaged  half  a century  ago.  What  is needed is 
a united will  to cooperate  and make  the necessary  sacrifices.  This  is 
posterity's  demand  upon our generation  and history's  command  to our era.  To 
build  a more peaceful  and prosperous  twenty-first  century  is to  realize the 
ideals of  the United  Nations  and  the  security  and well-being  of  all mankind. 
As  I leave  this  rostrum,  I foresee  that  a reunified  Korea will  usher in a 
peaceful  and prosperous  twenty-first  century  and  that, when  the  first Head of 
State  of  a unified  Korea  finally  stands before  the General  Assembly,  its 
members  will  join as one with  the Korean people  in applauding  that momentous 
occasion. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly,  I wish  to thank 
the President  of  the Republic  of  Korea  for  the  important  statement  he has just 
made. 
Mr. Roh Tae Woo. President  of  the Republic  of  Korea, was  escorfd fro"1 
the General Assembly  Hall. 
A/47/PV.6 
41 
AGENDA  ITEM  9  (continued) 
GENERAL  DEBATE 
The  PRESIPENT:  I should  like to  remind  representatives  that,  in 
accordance with  the decision  taken by  the General Assembly  at  its 3rd  plenary 
meeting,  the  list of  speakers will be  closed  tomorrow  at  6 p.m. 
Mr. HURP  (United  Kingdom):  I am privileged  to speak  this morning  on 
behalf of  the European Community  and  its  12 member  States.  It is a pleasure 
to do so under your guidance, Mr. President 
under  the guidance  of  a  fellow 
European Foreign Minister whose  country has made  such great progress  in  recent 
years and whose  foreign  affairs, under your  leadership, have  also made  a very 
substantial  step  forward. 
It is also  a pleasure  to  speak  in the presence  of  the  Secretary-General. 
I do not wish to heap  compliments  upon you at this  stage, 
Mr. Secretary-General, but  I hope  that  the contents  of what  I have  to  say and 
what we offer you  in terms  of  support  for your practical  policies  you will 
accept as an adequate  compliment. 
As my  colleagues  from  other  regions  of  the world have  no doubt  noticed, 
we in the European  Community  are  conducting  a lively discussion  on how to 
achieve the ever  closer  union  to which we  are all  committed.  I am not  going 
to speak about  that  subject  today because  I want  to  speak  about  Europe  and  the 
wider world, but  I do want  to emphasize  on behalf  of  us  all  that  so far  from 
turning away  from  that wider world,  we  in Europe  are  increasingly  active  in 
it.  And  I want  to make  it clear  that  the European Community  and  its  member 
States are determined  to build  up  the place  and  the  role of  the Community  and 
its 12 member  States  in world  affairs.  We  intend  to work  together  for  the 
better world  order  in which we  all believe  and we  intend  to carry  that  work 
forward with greater  impetus  and greater  effectiveness. 
A/47/PV.6 
42 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
Two  years  ago, when  I first  came  to  speak  at  the Assembly,  the world was 
celebrating  the end  of  the  cold war,  the beginnings  of  freedom.  Everyone was 
optimistic, because  everything  had  changed  - it appeared  for  the  better 
since  I had  first  attended  a session of  the General  Assembly,  at  the height of 
the  cold war back  in the 1950s. 
At  the end of  1992 we  see  things  differently.  The world  after  the cold 
war  is a better  place, but  it  is also  less  stable.  We have  seen both a 
democratic  spring  and  a demagogic  spring,  an outpouring  of  hope but  also, in 
places,  an outpouring  of hate. 
International  order  is threatened  in the  short  term  by  the unleashing of 
extreme  nationalism,  of  challenges  to  the  rule of  law.  In the medium  term we 
have  to  reinforce  the  system  of  collective  security  based  on  the United 
Nations.  Respect  for good  government,  respect  for human  rights must move to 
the  centre of our  stage.  In the  long  term we  face  the  threat  to  international 
peace  and  security posed by poverty,  posed  by environmental  degradation.  We 
cannot  afford  to postpone  action on  the  longer-term  problems while we wrestle 
with  the  short-term  problems.  I should  to  look, very briefly,  at each of 
these  three  challenges  in  turn. 
The  short  term 
the  immediate.  Nationalism,  of  course,  is not  a fault 
in  itself;  it  is a natural  instinct  of man  in society.  We  see  its benign 
manifestations  in many places 
in the  former  Soviet Union  and  Czechoslovakia, 
though even  there,  there  are problems.  Yugoslavia  is the worst  example of the 
bitterness  of  nationalism  producing  intolerable  results.  That  is why both 
Europe  and  the United  Nations  have  to work  strenuously  for peace with justice, 
for  the  relief  of  suffering  in those  tortured  lands of  the  former  Yugoslavia. 
A/47/PV.6 
43 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
Since  last  autumn  the European Community  and  the United  Nations  have 
indeed been working  closely,  the United Nations  leading  on peace-keeping  and 
the European Community  on peace making  through Lord  Carrington's  Peace 
Conference.  This  cooperation  has helped  stop  the killing  in,  for example,  the 
Serb Krajina  in Croatia, where  the United  Nations  Protection  Force  (UNPROFOR) 
and the European  Community  monitoring mission have  achieved  a good  result. 
As conflict  escalated,  particularly  in Bosnia,  the United  Nations  and  the 
European Community  decided  with wide  international  support  to harness  their 
efforts more  closely  together  through  the process  launched  by  the  London 
Conference  last month.  The  International  Conference  on the  former  Yugoslavia 
is now working  in Geneva under  the co-chairmanship  of Mr. Cyrus Vance  for  the 
United Nations  and Lord  Owen  for  the European Community.  It  is powered  by  the 
determination  of  the  international  community  to bring  an end  to  the violence 
in the former Yugoslavia. 
The Conference  has  two main objectives:  humanitarian  and political; to 
alleviate  the  suffering  of  the victims  of  the  conflict  and  to bring  that 
conflict permanently  to an end by negotiating  a political  settlement.  This 
is, of course, difficult  work,  requiring  a deep  understanding  of  the problems, 
requiring the  respect  and  cooperation  of  the parties,  requiring  the  unstinting 
support  and, when necessary,  the mobilizing  of pressures  from  the 
international  community. 
In this  context,  I believe  that  Prime Minister  Panic's  new approach  shows 
great courage  and  I salute  that  courage.  It offers  a different  way  forward 
which we believe  should  be  supported.  But while  the  killing  and  suffering 
continue,  as they  did yesterday  and  as they do today, we  cannot  relax our 
efforts.  We have  to measure  progress  by deeds  and not promises. 
A/47/PV.6 
44 
(Mr. Hurd. United Kingdom) 
We have to continue to deal with other problems left by the rolling back 
of the cold war.  In Cambodia, we must not let the peace process drift.  The 
Khmer Rouge have not joined phase II of the cease-fire arrangements.  They are 
delaying the implementation of the comprehensive political settlement.  On the 
positive side, the military deployment of the United Nations TransitionaL 
Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) is now fully complete and the civilian component 
is beginning to take control of the key ministries.  We have to make every 
effort to hold to the timetable for elections next April. 
Some States still show a willingness to challenge the rule of 
international law and, indeed, to resort to terrorism.  The invasion of Kuwait 
by Iraq was the first test of the post-cold-war era, and the liberation of 
Kuwait was one of this Organization's great successes.  Unfortunately, we have 
to note that Saddam Hussein continues to defy the United Nations, that his 
Government is failing to meet Iraq's obligations under Security Council 
resolution 687 (1991), that he continues to repress his own population, 
particularly in northern and in southern Iraq.  That is why pressure must 
and will - continue until he implements the resolutions of the United Nations 
in full.  The message has to be that all States must comply with Security 
Council resolutions.  We still wait for Libya to implement Security Council 
resolution 731 (1992). 
Those are just some of the short-term challenges that we have to meet. 
There are long-running problems which we must not forget, and one of 
particular concern to the European Community is Cyprus.  This year, 
Mr. Secretary-General, you have made an energetic effort.  It is not yet 
decisively successful.  You are renewing the effort next month.  There is a 
A/47/PV.6 
45 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
need  for  fresh  impetus,  it seems  to us, on the key  issues of  territory  and 
displaced  persons.  There must be  a willingness  to negotiate  on  all  sides; 
otherwise  there will  be no  lasting  settlement. 
A/47/PV.6 
46 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kinga™*) 
You have  our  full  support, Mr. Secretary-General,  as you  renew your 
effort.  Not  only  does  it deserve  to succeed,  but  it  is  in the  crucial 
interest  of  Europe  and the  international  community  that  it  should  succeed. 
In the medium  term we have  to build  a stronger  system  of  collective 
security.  And here, everybody  looks,  rightly,  to  the United  Nations.  But as 
the  Secretary-General  has pointed  out, we  are  in danger  of  loading  the 
Organization with  too heavy  a burden:  a burden  of  intervention  and a burden, 
in effect,  of partial  administration. 
"Something must  be done."  That phrase  is on many  lips; it  is  the impulse 
which we  all  feel  as we  read  about  or  as we watch on  television  screens some 
fresh  evidence  of man's  inhumanity  to man.  But we have  to  realize where that 
impulse,  that phrase  "Something must be done",  leads us.  We  should  not wander 
down  that  road without  serious  thought  because  it would  involve  a 
restructuring  of  armed  forces  so that  they  could  take  a full part  in the 
growing  number  of peace-making  and peace-keeping  exercises  of  the United 
Nations.  It would mean  a massive  increase  in the  funds which  the United 
Nations  and  its humanitarian  agencies would  require  from Member  States  from 
us:  from  all  of  us 
in regular  contributions  and  in aid,  in times when many 
Member  States  face  severe budgetary  problems.  These  are  just  two of the 
implications  of  the course  on which  the world  is beginning  to propel  the 
United  Nations  because  "something must  be done". 
How do we  prevent  these  demands  from getting  out  of hand?  The best way, 
of  course,  is to prevent  those  conflicts  which give  rise  to  the demands - in 
short,  diplomacy:  preventive  diplomacy.  I know that  diplomacy  is 
unfashionable  in the world  of  the  kneejerk  reaction  and  the  dogmatic 
sound-bite  on  television.  Diplomacy  lacks news value;  it  lacks glamour; it 
A/47/PV.6 
47 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
involves  compromise;  it takes  time;  it is easy  to mock.  It  just happens  to be 
indispensable. 
That  is true,  to  take one example  of many  one  could  take, of  conflicts  in 
the Middle  East. There  the parties  have  from  time  to time  tried  to cut  the 
knot; they have  tried  to  resolve  their  disputes  by  force, but  in vain.  This 
is a critical moment  in the Arab-Israel  peace process, which we  in Europe 
strongly  support.  We  in the Community  know  that  all  concerned must  seize  this 
opportunity;  the  tide must  be caught.  The  negotiation  of  a final  settlement 
based on Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967) and  338  (1973) will  take  time 
yet, will  take hard work yet.  What  is important  in the  immediate  future  is 
for all parties  to work  towards visible progress, building  step on agreed  step. 
Diplomacy  is partly  a matter  of  institutions  and  strengthening  them. 
Speaking  as a European on behalf  of  Europeans,  I hope  that  one  day  the 
Conference on Security  and Co-operation  in Europe  (CSCE) will be effective  in 
the prevention  of  conflict  throughout  Europe.  With the  adoption of  the 
Helsinki  document  the CSCE has begun  to give  itself  the tools  to  tackle 
problems by  conciliation before  they  slide  into violence,  and  to manage  crises 
once they develop.  That  document  shows  that  the CSCE  is a  regional 
arrangement  according  to Chapter VIII  of  the United Nations  Charter.  That 
makes a crucial  link between European  and global  security. 
But of  course  the United  Nations  is the centre  of  this  thinking,  and 
reform of the United  Nations  is crucial  to  its performance.  Early  this  year 
the Secretary-General  made  a determined  start  on administrative  reform. 
I 
believe  that will  turn out  to be a decisive  step.  This  is being  followed  up 
both in the Secretariat  and  in the vast  superstructure  of  intergovernmental 
bodies which have grown  up over  the past  40 years  in the economic,  social  and 
other  fields. 
A/47/PV.6 
48 
(Mr. Hurd. United Kingdom) 
We welcome  the work  of  the General  Assembly 
to which  I know  that you 
personally, Mr. President,  are devoted 
to  rationalize  its  agenda.  All this 
is welcome;  all  this has  to be  carried  forward. 
A  summit  of  the  Security  Council  met  last  January  at  the  initiative of my 
Prime Minister  to consider  next  steps.  We  asked  the  Secretary-General  to 
prepare  a report  on the ways  in which  the United  Nations  could  help  tackle the 
new  challenges  of which  I have  spoken.  On  17 June, you, 
Mr.  Secretary-General, published  your  ideas on preventive  diplomacy, 
peace-keeping,  peace-making  and what  you called peace-building.  This 
collection  of  ideas  is going  to turn out  to be  a turning-point  in the history 
of our  Organization.  You  tried  to address  a need which  is not  some distance 
ahead,  but  which  is here  and now.  I believe you  are  in  the  extraordinary 
position  of  someone who  is being  asked  to manufacture  a vehicle while he is 
driving  that vehicle  on  the  road.  It is not  easy, but  it  is  necessary. 
The  general  debate  should  be a genuine  debate  on  the  ideas  advanced in 
the  report.  All United Nations  bodies, notably  the  Security  Council  and the 
General  Assembly,  should  follow up  swiftly  in the  light  of  the  debate. 
Preventive  diplomacy  I have  already mentioned.  Obviously,  it is 
quicker.  It  is more helpful  to peoples  about  to be  embroiled  in conflict than 
even  the most  successful  peace-keeping  operation which  comes  after  the 
outbreak  of violence.  It  is also  less  costly  in terms  of  lives  and  in terms 
of  cash.  The  Secretary-General  should be  ready  to make  full  use  of his powers 
under  Article  99 of  the Charter  to draw  the  attention  of  the  Security Council 
to any matter  which  in his opinion may  threaten  international  peace  and 
security.  Greater  use  is already  being made  of  fact-finding  missions; we 
would  like  to encourage  this  trend. 
A/47/PV.6 
49 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
Preventive  deployment  of  troops might  take place  to deter  aggression  or 
conflict between States, possibly  involving  deployment  to only one  side of  an 
international  border.  Of  course  there may be difficulties  about  timing  the 
dispatch of  such a force  in a given  crisis, but we believe  this  is  essentially 
a sound  idea that  could  be  applied  case by  case. 
I warmly welcome what  President  Bush  said yesterday  on his  initiatives  to 
strengthen the peace-keeping work of  the United Nations. 
In the European  Community  we want  to  follow up the  idea of  preventive 
deployment  in the event  of  an  internal  crisis, where  the Government  concerned 
requests help, with humanitarian  assistance  or conciliation.  No  two  cases 
would be the  same.  There would  need  to be careful  discussions  with 
Governments  and the parties  concerned  before  the international  community  could 
usefully deploy monitors. 
Recognizing  that,  the European Community  and  its member  States  have 
already decided  in principle  to send  civilian monitoring missions  to  States 
which want  them where  this  could  avert  a crisis  and possible bloodshed.  In 
South Africa,  for example, with  the agreement  of  all  the parties,  established 
during a recent visit  of  the  troika, the United Nations will be  joined by the 
European Community  and by  the Commonwealth  in sending observers  to  reinforce 
the national peace  accords  there. 
Of course, part  of this prevention  of conflict  must  involve prevention  of 
the proliferation  of  armaments, especially weapons  of mass destruction. We 
welcome the agreement  on a global  convention  on chemical weapons. This  is a 
step towards  a safer  and more  secure  world. 
A/47/PV.6 
50 
(Mr. Hurd. United Kinga*,,) 
We  recognize  that peace-making  brings pain  to  some.  Bringing  pressure -
even peaceful pressure,  say, of  sanctions 
on warring  parties, means 
sacrifice  for  innocent  third  parties.  We  understand  the  economic  difficulties 
often  caused  to  third parties by  the  imposition  of  sanctions  under 
Chapter  VII.  Countries which need balance-of-payments  help,  countries which 
may  also  at  the  same  time be  carrying  out prudent  adjustment  programmes, can 
be badly  affected.  The  international  financial  organizations  are  in the best 
position  to assess  and  then take  into  account  the effects  of United  Nations 
mandatory  sanctions when  the;_' design  support  packages  for  the  countries 
concerned. 
A/47/PV.6 
51 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
The Secretary-General's  report  contains  a number  of proposals  for  Member 
States  to earmark  forces  for enforcement  action  and  for peace-keeping.  All  12 
States members  of  the European Community  have  responded  to his  guestionnaire 
on this and  all Members  of  the United Nations  should, we believe,  keep  it 
under  regular  review. 
Then  there  is money,  financial  contributions.  The  Secretary-General 
rightly,  continuously  underlines  the  importance  of  financial  as well  as 
military  contributions  to peace-keeping.  The  figures  speak  for  themselves. 
The 12 States members  of  the European Community  are  supposed,  under  the rules, 
to contribute  one  third  of  the  cost of peace-keeping  operations  financed 
through assessed  contributions.  At  the end of August we, the Twelve, had  in 
fact given not  33 per  cent but  over  40 per  cent of  total  contributions 
actually  collected  so  far  for  the various  new operations  launched  or  expanded 
since the end of  the  last  session of  the General  Assembly.  Those  European 
Community  member  States, of which mine  is one,  joining  in the new operation  in 
Bosnia, will bear  all  their  own costs.  We believe we  are doing our bit  so far 
as this  is concerned  in Europe,  and  look to others  to do the  same.  The 
Secretary-General  is quite  right:  the  financial  problems  of  the United 
Nations must  not be allowed  to  slide, must  not be allowed  to  fester.  We 
support  the proposed  peace-keeping  reserve  fund,  subject  to negotiation  on the 
detail,  and we believe  the General  Assembly must  follow this  up. 
The  role of  the United  Nations  does  not  stop once a conflict  is over. 
That  is why  the Secretary-General's  study  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
rightly  looks  at how we  can build  peace  after  a conflict.  Take  El  Salvador, 
an illustration  that has  already been used by His  Excellency  the President  of 
the Republic  of Korea.  The promotion  of  free elections  and  democratic 
A/47/PV.6 
52 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
institutions  is a key part  of  such peace-building,  and  so, to  take  a very 
different  example,  is de-mining.  Is  it not  a sad  commentary  on  the  state of 
the world  that  the  removal  of mines  in the aftermath  of  conflict  has to be 
high on our  agenda, whether  in Cambodia,  northern  Somalia  or  Angola? 
But we of  the European Community  welcome  the emphasis  the 
Secretary-General  gives  to human  rights, democracy  and  development.  Perhaps 
during  the  cold war  some of us tended  to concentrate  exclusively,  or  almost 
exclusively,  on  abuses of human  rights  in the Soviet bloc.  Elsewhere  there 
was  lip-service when  there  should have been  action.  But  all people  are 
entitled  to  full human  rights.  We want  the World  Conference  on Human Rights 
at Vienna  in June  1993  to take  real  steps  in that  direction. 
We warmly welcome  as part of  that  effort what we  see  as the  tide of 
political  reform  now  flowing  in the continent  of Africa.  We  are helping to 
promote  good government  and  sound human  rights  and electoral  practices.  Both 
at  the national  and  the Community  level, we have  already  shown  that we are 
ready  to meet  requests  for help  in election monitoring,  notably  in Ethiopia, 
the Congo  and,  later  this year,  in Kenya  and Ghana,  and  also  in  the 
inter-parliamentary  work going  on in Namibia. 
But  of  course  in the  longer  term  collective  security  can be  undermined by 
deeper  economic  and  social  forces,  such as poverty  and  environmental 
degradation.  Relief must  be  followed by  recovery  or  else  the  countries 
afflicted will be overwhelmed  by despair.  Is that  not what we  see  in 
Somalia?  This  appalling  tragedy  is a warning  of what  could happen elsewhere, 
of what  could become widespread,  because  Somalia  is  just  the most  extreme form 
of  a problem  now affecting  large parts  of  sub-Saharan  Africa. 
A/47/PV.6 
53 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
I  say this  all  the more  strongly because  at the beginning  of  this month I 
led a European Community  Troika visit  to Mogadishu.  What we  saw there  is what 
many colleagues  have  spoken of, and  I echo  their voices.  We  saw the 
disintegration  of  a society.  We marked  the absence  of  all  legitimate 
authority.  We witnessed  the  collapse  of  a State  and of  all  services  connected 
with a State.  Instead  of order,  instead  of  law, teenage gangsters  roam  the 
streets,  toting  their Kalashnikovs  and offering protection  at a price. 
Instead of a distribution  system, whether  capitalist  or  socialist,  there  is 
blackmail  and  looting. 
Against  that background  we  saw the new humanitarian  relief  arrangements 
being put  into place by Mr. Eliasson and many  other devoted  people.  We  saw 
how the United Nations  has  to work naturally,  intimately  and without  rivalry 
with non-governmental  organizations.  We  saw how urgently  the Somalis  need a 
reconstruction  of  civil  authority.  We  fully  support  Ambassador  Sahnoun's 
efforts  in Mogadishu,  in Somalia.  He  is an outstanding  civil  servant  on 
behalf of us all.  Last month  the Security  Council  rightly voted  to  strengthen 
the United Nations  Operation  in Somalia  (UNOSOM) so that  its security  units 
will be better  able  to distribute  aid.  Among  the States Members  of  the 
European Community,  Belgium,  with  the  support of  all of us, plans  a 
substantial  contribution  to that  security. 
Of course  not  all disasters  are man-made, though  it looks  as  if an 
increasing proportion  are.  There  is the drought  in the Horn of Africa  and 
southern Africa, which will  require  a major  international  effort  over  the 
coming year. 
For the  first  time, over  the  last  two or  three years, the environment  has 
become a priority  for  all  countries.  I have  to  say that  the  road  from Rio  de 
A/47/PV.6 
54 
(Mr. Hurd. United Kingdo^) 
Janeiro  may be harder  than to the  road  to  it.  The United Nations  Conference 
on Environment  and Development  in Rio  attracted  the world's  leaders, the 
world's media  and  the world's  imagination.  But  sustainable  development has to 
stay  at  the  top of  the  international  agenda.  That  is why,  immediately  after 
his  return  from Rio de Janeiro, Prime Minister Major  proposed  an  eight-point 
follow-up plan picking  up  the key elements  agreed  upon  at Rio  de Janeiro. 
That  initiative was broadly  endorsed  at our  European  Council  in Lisbon and at 
the Economic  Summit  in Munich. 
The  Sustainable  Development  Commission,  which  is to be  set up by the 
General  Assembly,  will be crucial  to the  follow-up.  The  Assembly  must create 
an effective  instrument  to ensure  that  the  impetus  built  up  at  Rio  is not 
dissipated  and  lost. 
To  conclude,  for the medium  and  long  term we  need  to  turn hope  into 
reality.  In the  short  term,  time after  time, in place  after place, we must 
bring hope  to what  is already  a grim  reality.  The  legacy  of  the  cold war is a 
mixed  one.  In facing  it, the  international  community  must  be  realistic, 
because history  cannot be denied,  cannot be uprooted.  The  solving  of problems 
which have  their  roots deep  in the centuries  is a slow,  frustrating business. 
After  the brief gleam  of optimism  in  1989  and  1990, when  all  seemed easy, 
we  are  now more  realistic.  Progress  towards  a more  decent,  orderly world will 
never  be without  effort.  Our best  hope  is to take  two  steps  forward  for each 
step back.  Even  that  imperfect  progress will  require  the  rapid  strengthening 
of our  institutions  and  in particular  of  the  family of  institutions  called the 
United  Nations  - not  essentially  by more  conferences  and more  speeches, but by 
the practical  effort which  the United  Nations, under  the guidance  of the 
A/47/PV.6 
55 
(Mr. Hurd. United  Kingdom) 
Secretary-General, mounts  today  in Somalia, Yugoslavia,  Cambodia  and  countless 
other troubled  places. 
The trucks of our  agencies, painted white,  and  the blue berets  of our 
United Nations  contingents  do not bring magic  or  instant  happiness, but  they 
bring a glimmer  of hope where  till  then there may have been  despair.  In the 
effort of bringing hope,  in the  short  term  and  in the  longer  term,  the 
European Community  and  its member  States will  take a persistent,  energetic  and 
worthy part. 
A/47/PV.6 
56 
PROGRAMME  OF WORK 
The  PRESIDENT:  I should  like  to  inform members  of  the  possible 
scenario  for  agenda  item  8, to be  considered  this  evening  immediately 
following  the general  debate.  The general  debate  is expected  to end at around 
8.30  this evening 
that  is, if  the  length of  speeches  is what  delegations 
have  indicated  to the  Secretariat. 
Immediately  afterwards we  shall  take up agenda  item  8.  The  draft 
resolution will  be  introduced,  and we  shall proceed  to hear  the  speakers 
inscribed  on the  list.  Thus  far, three  speakers  have  inscribed  their names on 
the  list  of  speakers,  in addition  to the member  State  introducing  the draft 
resolution. 
The Assembly  can then act on the draft  resolution, hearing  explanations 
of vote,  if any, before  and  after  the vote. 
I hope  this outline  is helpful  for delegations  to plan  their work. 
AGENPA  ITEM  9  (continued) 
GENERAL  DEBATE 
Mr. KOZYREV  (Russian  Federation)  (interpretation  from  Russian): 
First,  I wish  to congratulate  you, Mr. President,  on your  election  to this 
important  post.  The  fact  that  a representative  of  Bulgaria  has  assumed this 
post  at the head  of  the Assembly  at precisely  this  time  is a sign of the 
importance  that  the world  community  attaches  to the peaceful  democratic 
revolution  in Eastern  Europe.  And we  are proud  that  our  countries,  linked by 
ties  of  traditional  friendship,  are treading  this path  together. 
The  democratic  movement  has prevailed  in the cold war.  For  the first 
time  in history  unprecedented  opportunities  have  opened  up  for  the 
implementation  of  the principles proclaimed  by  the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.6 
57 
(Mr. Kozyrev.  Russian 
Federation) 
The post-confrontational  and post-communist  world  is not  a 
pax Sovietica.  a pax Americana,  a pax  Islamica or  a pax Christiana,  nor  is it 
a monopolistic  system  of  any  kind, but  rather  the multipolar  unity  in 
diversity that  the United  Nations has  symbolized  from  the very  outset. 
For  the present,  such  a  world  is only  a possibility  yet  to be  realized 
through our  joint  efforts.  Realism  leaves no  room  for euphoria.  A  difficult 
period of transition  lies ahead.  But  realism  compels  us to  reject  any 
alternative  to the democratic  choice. 
Russia, which has  rejected  communism,  has, perhaps more  than  any other 
country, learned  from  its own experience  that  there  can be no alternative  to 
democratic development;  our  country voted  for democracy  during  the  first 
nation-wide presidential  election  in its history,  and defended  it at the 
barricades  around  the Moscow White House.  Neither  the President,  nor  the 
Government, nor  the majority of Parliament,  nor  the country  at  large will  turn 
aside from the path of  reform,  no matter  how difficult  it may prove. 
Totalitarianism  robbed  Russia both of  its unique  identity  and of  the 
possibility  of  self-fulfilment  in its relations with other nations.  Through 
its self-imposed  isolation,  the  richest  country of Eurasia became  the  sick man 
of Europe and Asia.  In contrast, only an open  society and a policy of 
openness will enable  Russia to find and play  to the  fullest  extent  its  unique 
and historic  role. 
This policy has  its  roots  in an age-old  Russian  idea.  Back  in the 
thirteenth  century  Saint Alexander  Nevsky,  one of  the  founders  and  defenders 
of the Russian State,  said:  "God  is to be  found not  in power but  in truth". 
A/47/PV.6 
58 
(Mr. Kozvrev.  Russian 
Federation) 
Today  this  is the policy  of  the  true national  interests  of  the  Russian 
State  as a normal  rather  than an aggressive  great  Power,  as one  that 
recognizes  and  shoulders  its  responsibilities  as a permanent  member  of the 
Security  Council. 
The basic  elements  of  this policy  are  as  follows:  partnership  and 
alliance  for democracy  and  a dynamic market  economy  with  countries  that share 
these  values; good-neighbourly  relations with  all  neighbouring  States; 
comprehensive  strengthening  of  the Commonwealth  of  Independent  States, 
strategic  partnership  with Ukraine,  Belarus, Kazakhstan,  Uzbekistan  and all 
other  countries  created  in the place  of  the  former  Soviet Union;  and 
solidarity  and mutually  advantageous  cooperation with  all  the members  of the 
world  community. 
Russia  intends  to act  in support  of United Nations  efforts  to address 
the  twofold  task of  the democratization  of  societies  and  the  renewal  of 
international  relations.  This  is consonant  with  the concluding  statement of 
the  summit  meeting  of  the  Security  Council, with  Secretary-General 
Boutros  Boutros-Ghali's  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" and with  the  first 
statements  already made  from  this  rostrum.  Russia  is  ready  to give practical 
support  to  the proposals  made yesterday  by George  Bush, President  of the 
United  States. 
First  of  all,  it  is necessary  to extinguish  armed  conflicts. 
The  Russian  Federation will  increase  its efforts  to eliminate  conflicts 
inherited  from  the past  in the  territory  of  the  former USSR,  bearing  in mind 
the  special  interest  and  responsibility  of Russia  in strengthening  the 
civilized  principles  of  the United  Nations  and  the Conference  on  Security and 
Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE) in this part  of  the  world. 
A/47/PV.6 
59 
(Mr. Kozyrev.  Russian 
Federation) 
Russia  supports  the participation  of  the new  independent  States  in  these 
two organizations  and other  international  forums.  We welcome  their 
representatives  in this Hall. 
We  categorically  reject  imperialistic  ambitions,  diktat  and violence, 
both in the  area of  the  former USSR  and  in other parts of  the world.  Should 
political means  fail, force  can and  should be used  to separate  the warring 
sides, to protect  human  rights  and humanitarian missions  and  to  restore  peace 
in strict  conformity with  the Charter  of  the United Nations. 
Agreements  for  cease-fires  and  for  the establishment  of  peace-keeping 
forces, concluded with Russian participation,  are already  in effect  in 
Ossetia, the Dniester  region  and Abkhazia, where Russian  soldiers  are  carrying 
out their peace-keeping  duties.  Together with CSCE, we will  strive  to end  the 
war and bring peace  to Karabakh  and  to  secure  the  integrity of Tajikistan  and 
bring national  reconciliation  to that  country.  In all  those efforts we  count 
on continued  active  cooperation with  the United  Nations. 
We  support  efforts  aimed  at  forcing  Iraq  to implement  the decisions  of 
the United Nations  and ensuring  at  the same time the territorial  integrity  and 
the peaceful  nature of  that  State.  For  that purpose, Russia has  sent  two 
naval vessels  to the Persian  Gulf. 
We also must  ensure  that  the demands  of  the Security Council  are 
complied with by  all  the Yugoslav  sides  and must  enable  them  to maintain 
contact with  the United  Nations.  A Russian  infantry battalion  is  serving 
honourably with  the United  Nations  forces  in Yugoslavia. 
I agree with the preceding  speaker  concerning  the need  to  support  the 
efforts of Mr. Panic  for  the practical  implementation  of  the  intentions he  has 
declared. 
A/47/PV.6 
60 
(Mr. Kozyrev.  Russian 
Federation) 
Russia will  continue  to cooperate  actively with  the  other  permanent 
members  of  the Security  Council  and with  all  the parties  concerned  in 
order  to  seize  the opportunity  for  a peaceful  settlement  in the Middle 
East,  Cambodia,  Angola  and other  areas of  conflict. 
We have no doubt  that  it is the  task of  the United  Nations  to  combat 
violence  with  force based  on  law, with  its potential  for  enforcing peace. 
The Blue Helmets  should  take  action  in response  even when  they  are  fired 
upon. 
It  is time  to strengthen  the capacity  of  the  Security  Council  to 
take  swift  and decisive  action  in humanitarian  emergency  situations 
arising  from mass  violations  of human  rights  and  inter-ethnic  clashes, 
including  those within  national borders. 
A/47/PV.6 
61 
(Mr.  Kozyrev. 
Russian  Federation) 
It is important  to strengthen  the preventive  component  of United  Nations 
activities.  This  includes  the establishment  of hot  lines  to United  Nations 
Headquarters,  the  submission  of  intelligence  information  to  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  further  development  of  fact-finding. 
Enhanced United  Nations  efforts  to  safeguard  human  rights  and  the  rights 
of national minorities  are also  a priority.  In the past  it was  chiefly  the 
victims of totalitarian  regimes  and  ideologies who  needed protection.  What  is 
increasingly  needed  now  is to combat  the aggressive  nationalism  that  is 
emerging  as the new global  threat. 
The  replacement  of  ideological  intolerance with national  and  religious 
intolerance would  threaten  the world 
which  is increasingly  becoming  one 
world - with  rifts  just  as  serious  and with national,  regional  and global 
catastrophes.  Democratic  Russia  categorically  rejects  any  form of  chauvinism, 
be it Russophobia  or  anti-Semitism. 
We feel  special  concern  at the growing  discriminatory  practices  against 
Russians, Ukrainians, Jews  and  all other non-indigenous  nationalities  in some 
of the new States that have emerged  in the territory of  the  former  USSR, 
particularly  in Estonia  and  Latvia.  A  situation  in which 42 per  cent  of the 
population of the Estonian Republic  are disenfranchised  is  totally 
inconsistent with  international  law. 
We have  raised  and will  continue  to raise  these  issues  in the United 
Nations and other  forums.  We have  the  right  to do  so, among other  reasons, 
because the countries  in question won  their  independence,  to a  substantial 
extent, through  the  triumph  of  the democrats  in Russia.  The practices  I have 
referred to can in no way be  justified  by  invoking  the problem,  inherited  from 
the USSR, of  the withdrawal  of  armed  forces  from  the Baltic  States.  We  are 
A/47/PV.6 
62 
(Mr.  Kozvrev. 
Russian  Federation) 
already working  together  to  resolve  that  problem,  and we  intend  to  resolve it 
as  soon  as possible; however,  due  regard must  also be given  to  the  rights of 
those who  are  in military  uniform. 
It would be  appropriate  to give  thought  to  a joint  interpretation  of the 
international  trusteeship  system  set  forth  in the Charter  of  the United 
Nations, particularly  since  one of  its basic  objectives  is 
and  I guote the 
Charter  - "To encourage  respect  for human  rights  and  for  fundamental  freedoms 
for  all without  distinction  as to  race, sex,  language, or  religion".  That 
system  has brought many  nations  to  independence.  Today  national  minorities 
desperately  need  the trusteeship  of  the world  community. 
The  fate of  former  Soviet  servicemen  taken prisoner  in  Afghanistan 
remains  one of  the gravest humanitarian  problems.  We  call  upon  the General 
Assembly  to proclaim  its  support  for  the urgent  resolution  of  this  problem. 
The  rejection  of  the game  of  "nuclear  roulette"  in  favour  of  cooperation 
in the  interests  of  strategic  stability  for  all  and with  the participation of 
all  States  concerned  is  reflected  in the  agreements  on  further  drastic  cuts in 
strategic  offensive  arms  and on a global  defense  system  reached  in Washington 
by  the Presidents  of  Russia  and the United  States of  America. 
Reaffirming  its commitments  under  the Treaty  on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons,  the Russian  Federation  invites  all  countries  that  have not 
yet  done  so to  join the Treaty  as non-nuclear-weapon  States.  It  is our belief 
that  all  the  former  Republics  of  the USSR,  including Ukraine,  Belarus and 
Kazakhstan,  will  do  so.  This  step  should  be  taken  as  soon  as possible, since 
the entry  into  force  of  the  treaty on  strategic  offensive  arms  depends on it. 
A/47/PV.6 
63 
(Mr.  Kozyrev. 
Russian  Federation) 
We expect  that  a sense of high  responsibility  and a readiness  to  reach 
compromise  solutions will  prevail  in the decisive  phase  of  the  approval  of  the 
Convention on the banning  of  chemical weapons. 
Russia  is in  favour  of  control,  including  control  through  the United 
Nations, over  international  arms  transfers, especially  over  offensive  and 
highly destructive weapons.  The  approach taken with  respect  to  regimes  that 
disregard  the  standards  of  international  law should be particularly  strict. 
There  is an obvious  need  for the development  of  concrete 
military-industry  conversion  programmes, not only  through the efforts  of 
individual  countries  but  also  through  the combined  action of  the  international 
community.  The United Nations  and  its specialized  agencies  could play  a 
pioneering  role  in this endeavour.  In the long  run,  real  disarmament  and  the 
conversion of military  industries  to peaceful production will make  it possible 
to release  additional  resources  for the needs  of  development. 
But development  cannot be  achieved without  ensuring  full political  and 
economic  rights  and  freedoms, without  releasing human  creative  potential  in a 
market environment.  Russia has  learned  this  from  its own experience. 
For a successful  solution of  the problems  of development,  it is  extremely 
important  to strengthen  the  interaction between  the United  Nations  and  the 
Bretton Woods  institutions.  Herein  lies  the key to the harmonization  of  the 
world community's  efforts  in such areas  as  support  of macroeconomic  reforms 
and technical  assistance  and  the provision  of help  in resolving  social 
problems.  Both developing  and developed  countries will benefit  from  this. 
The United  Nations  Conference  at Rio de Janeiro  reinforced  the  consensus 
on the need  to  integrate  development  policies  and environmental  protection. 
A/47/PV.6 
64 
(Mr.  Kozyrev, 
Russian  Federation) 
The  task of  renewing  international  relations  calls  for  the 
rationalization  of  the United Nations  itself  and  of  the United  Nations 
system.  The  desire  of  some  States  to play  a more  active  role  in the United 
Nations  is guite  natural.  The  Charter  provides  ample  scope  for  this.  In 
particular,  the Charter  permits  the Security  Council  to establish  auxiliary 
bodies  in which many  States would participate.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
United  Nations  and other  international  organizations  will  play  a growing role 
in regulating  international  relations. 
In conclusion,  I should  like to  address you, Mr.  Secretary-General. 
Russia  supports  your  efforts  to bring  about  the  settlement  of  international 
crises,  to  improve  the efficiency  of  the United  Nations  Secretariat  and the 
coordination  of  the  activities  of  all  international  agencies. 
Support  of  the United Nations  presupposes  the  fulfilment  of  financial 
obligations  to the Organization.  Despite  its economic  difficulties,  in the 
period  from  September  of  this year  to March  1993  Russia will  pay  $130 million 
as partial  payment  of  our  arrears  to the United  Nations  and  an  additional 
$30 million  to other  agencies. 
Your  recent  statements  in Moscow, Mr. Secretary-General,  have  confirmed 
the  similarity  of our vision  of  the great  future of  the United  Nations. 
Mr. VAN  DEN  BROEK  (Netherlands):  It  is a great pleasure  to see you, 
Sir,  a youthful  symbol  of  a profoundly  changed  Bulgaria,  in the Chair.  I know 
and  trust  that  you will  steer  us  skilfully  through  this  session  of  the General 
Assembly. 
A/47/PV.6 
65 
(Mr. Van Den  Broek. 
Netherlands) 
The  cold war  is over.  The world has heaved  a sigh of  relief.  The  United 
Nations now has  an unprecedented  opportunity  to carry out  the mandate 
contained  in the  Charter,  even though politically  the world  has grown  much 
more complex  and  complicated. 
A/47/PV.6 
66 
(Mr. Van Den  Broek.  Netherlands 
Of  course, no change has  occurred  in the underlying  problems  of a 
long-term  nature.  The  threat  to the very  survival  of  the human  race posed by 
the deterioration  of  the environment,  overpopulation  and poverty  was  there 
already,  even  though  awareness  of  the threat  has  increased  quite  dramatically 
in  recent years.  It  is a threat  that will be with us  for years  to  come, and 
it will  grow more  and more  acute  if  there  is a  lack of  appropriate  action. 
One  course of  action  is for  the United  Nations  to put  its house  in order in 
these  areas  through  a restructuring  of  its economic  and  social  sectors and 
through  a meaningful  follow-up  to the Rio  Summit.  The United  Nations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development  has put  sustainable  development high 
on our  agenda,  and  there  it  should  remain.  The  establishment  of  solid 
machinery,  including  a high-level  commission  on  sustainable  development, will, 
we hope, be one  of  the major  achievements  of  this  session of  the  General 
Assembly. 
But  in the political  field,  on which  I will  concentrate  today,  there has 
been  a qualitative  change.  We  are  still  thankful  for  the end  of  the cold war, 
with  its menace  of massive  nuclear  destruction,  but  in  its  stead  a plethora of 
conflicts  and potential  conflicts  has  sprung up with  a vehemence  which nobody 
had  foreseen.  Each of  these  conflicts  has  its own  characteristics,  and each 
has  to be dealt  with  in a particular  fashion.  The United  Nations  is, on the 
whole,  the  right  organization  to deal with  these  emergencies, whether directly 
or  indirectly.  In order  to  carry  out  that  task  it will  need  to possess all 
the means  necessary  for what  I would  call  a flexible  response,  ranging from 
preventive  diplomacy  to  repressive  action.  A number  of  these  requirements 
have been  set out  by  the  Secretary-General  in his  impressive  report  "An Agenda 
for Peace"  (A/47/277).  This Agenda will  form  the basis  for  our  discussions on 
the  subject. 
A/47/PV.6 
67 
(Mr. Van Den  Broek.  Netherlands) 
Where  and when  should  the United  Nations  intervene?  Clearly,  it  cannot 
be everything  to everyone.  In order  not  to overstretch,  it  inevitably has  to 
apply a certain degree  of  self-restraint.  Moreover,  the membership  of our 
Organization  consists  of  sovereign  States, and  respect  for  their  sovereignty 
is one of  its principles.  Nevertheless,  it would  be  too easy  to make 
non-intervention  and deference  to domestic  jurisdiction  the  leading 
guideline.  Moreover,  it would  not work.  Frontiers have become porous  and 
information world-wide.  Atrocities  and  aggression  committed  within  a country 
cannot pass unnoticed,  and  once  noticed will  not be tolerated  by world 
opinion.  For  the United  Nations  to stand  idly by would be detrimental  to  its 
new-found  status, which we  all have  an  interest  in protecting. 
With the end of  the  cold war,  regional  conflicts have proliferated,  but 
at the same time  the possibility  of doing  something  about  them has  increased. 
This is both because  the  Security  Council  is not paralyzed  by vetoes  any more 
and because  the  risk of  a conflict's  degenerating  into global war  has 
subsided.  This makes  it possible  to contemplate  international  action where  it 
would have been  impossible  or unfeasible  before.  With  the possiblity  of 
action comes  the notion  that  lack of  action  is a form of  action  as well, 
requiring a decision,  just  as a decision  is necessary  to act.  A decision  not 
to act in the  case of  flagrant  violations  of human  rights or  the  rights  of 
minorities, or  in the case  of  large-scale  human  suffering,  will  now  set  a 
precedent,  just  as planned  intervention  does.  It  is no  longer  possible  just 
to look the other  way. 
Perhaps  somewhat  belatedly,  this has been  recognized  in the case  of 
Somalia.  The  international  community  could  not  afford  to condone  the 
A/47/PV.6 
68 
(Mr. Van Pen Broek. Netherlands) 
intolerable  situation  in that  country  any  longer.  The  short-term  task 
consists  of  assuring  the  survival  of  the people.  In the  somewhat  longer term, 
the whole  country will have  to be  reconstructed.  The United  Nations has a 
major  role  to play  on both counts. 
The United Nations has  also become  involved  in former  Yugoslavia.  Here 
we  see massive  aggression, destruction,  impending  starvation  and even the 
establishment  of  concentration  camps, all with  a view  to making  large areas 
"ethnically  clean",  as the ugly  saying goes.  Nationalism  and  irredentism have 
run wild  and  are threatening  neighbouring  States  as well.  Everyone  knows who 
is mainly  responsible. 
Concerted  action can and  should be  taken.  Effective  delegation  and 
cooperation between  the United Nations  and  regional  organizations  is crucial. 
Joint United  Nations-European  Community  efforts  to help  solve  the Yugoslav 
crisis  are  a clear  example.  Interaction  between  the United  Nations  and the 
European  Community,  in their  co-chairmanship  of  the London  Conference, has 
underlined  the potential  for  coordination  between  the United  Nations and 
regional  organizations  in the  field of preventive  diplomacy,  peace-keeping and 
peacemaking.  It is not  only Chapter VIII  that  is being  put  into  practice 
here.  Even more  important  is the  linkage between  the quest  for  a diplomatic 
solution  on the one hand  and  the possibility  of  enforcement  action by the 
United  Nations  on the other hand,  in the event  of non-compliance  by the 
parties  concerned.  The  recognition  of  territorial  and ethnical  faits 
accomplis  would  be  an  insult  to the Charter.  To my mind,  the Yugoslav crisis 
is a compelling  case  for  action.  More  could  be done,  and  I hope  that more 
will be  done  soon. 
A/47/PV.6 
69 
(Mr. Van Pen  Broek.  Netherlands) 
The Netherlands  fully  supports  the Secretary-General's  view  that: 
"regional  arrangements  or  agencies  in many  cases possess  a potential  that 
should be utilized  in serving... preventive  diplomacy,  peace-keeping, 
peacemaking  and post-conflict  peace-building".  (A/47/277, para.  64) 
Indeed,  I am convinced  that  regional  organizations  increasingly  have  to  take 
up responsibilities  with  regard  to  regional peace  and  security.  The  role of 
the Conference  for  Security  and Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE) in the Yugoslav 
crisis  is a clear  example  of  this  trend.  So are others,  such as  the 
Organization of American  States  and  the Organization  of African  Unity. 
The process  of delegation  and  cooperation  between  the United  Nations  and 
the various  regional  organizations  does not have  to  stop at  this  level. 
Organizations  such as the North Atlantic Treaty  Organisation  and  the Western 
European Union have  specific  operational  contributions  to make  as well.  Both 
organizations  recently  announced  at  the CSCE  Summit  in Helsinki  their  decision 
to make  resources  available  to support  the CSCE or  the United  Nations  in 
carrying out peace-keeping  activities.  The CSCE  can also  call on others,  such 
as the Commonwealth  of  Independent  States, to contribute  to  peace-keeping 
activities.  This development  is a concrete  example  of  an evolving  network  of 
organizations which we  refer  to as  'interlocking  institutions'. 
The Security  Council  is  rightly  the  focus  of world  attention  nowadays. 
This new interest  has provided  the discussion  on the Council's membership  with 
a fresh impetus.  In the  last chapter  of  "An Agenda  for Peace",  the 
Secretary-General  observes  that  agreement  among  the permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council must  have  the deeper  support  of  the other members  of  the 
Council.  It should  also have  the wider  support  of  the membership  of  the 
A/47/PV.6 
70 
(Mr. Van Pen Broek. NetherlanH  | | | | | 
Assembly  if the Council's  decisions  are  to be  effective  and  are  to endure. 
This  raises  the question  of  the  relationship  between members  and  non-members 
of  the Council  and of  the Council's  composition. 
A/47/PV.6 
71 
(Mr. Van Pen  Broek.  Netherlands) 
The achievements  of  the Council  in terms of effective  leadership  and 
decision-making,  particularly  during  the  last  two years, need  not  be 
elaborated upon.  Supporters  of  the maintenance  of  its current  composition  can 
hence, with  some  justification,  argue  that  there  is no need  to change  a 
winning team, or,  to use  a colloquial  expression  of our host  country,  "If it 
ain't broke, don't  fix  it."  The  critics  of  the  status quo  argue  that  the 
Council's present  composition  is a reflection  of  the balance  of power  of  days 
gone by.  This  leaves us with  a dilemma  because both  sides have  a point. 
Important  changes  have  taken place  in international  relations.  The 
number of Member  States has  increased  enormously  since  the enlargement  of  the 
Council in 1963.  The  Charter  specifies  in Article  24 that  the Council  acts on 
behalf of all Members.  This  implies  that  the Council  should be, to  a certain 
degree, representative  of  the  international  community.  Were  the Council  to 
become an exclusive  club disconnected  from  the United  Nations membership  as a 
whole, this might  tend  to undermine  its authority  and diminish  its 
effectiveness.  So what  are we  to do when  faced with the question  of  the 
Council's effectiveness  on  the one hand  and  its representativeness  on  the 
other? 
A possible  solution  to this question might  be  found  in severing  the 
automatic link between permanent  membership  of  the Council  and  the  right  of 
veto.  A number  of  concrete  options  can be  considered  in this  respect.  One 
would be to consider  the adoption of  a double veto:  two negative  votes  by 
permanent members  being  required  to hold  up  a decision  instead  of one. 
Another suggestion put  forward  is the creation of  semi-permanent  membership  of 
the Security Council.  This membership  would  apply  to  a certain  category  of 
important  States  for  a period  of, say,  five  to  seven years, possibly  without 
the right of  veto. 
A/47/PV.6 
72 
(Mr. Van Pen  Broek.  Netherlands) 
To determine which  countries would be  eligible  for  this  type  of 
membership,  it seems  that  two criteria  are  relevant:  both  the  political 
weight  of  the country  concerned  and  the degree  to which  its membership  would 
contribute  to  a more  eguitable  geographical  distribution  of  the  Council's 
composition.  In view  of  the Council's  responsibility  for  the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security,  it would  appear  to me  that  those  two 
elements  should be  carefully balanced  against  each  other. 
Clearly,  the creation of  semi-permanent  membership  is only  one of a 
number  of options  that  can be considered.  A broad  international  discussion on 
this  issue has  already  begun.  The basis of  this discussion  should  be in the 
agreement  that  any  change  envisaged  should  first  and  foremost  seek  to ensure 
the continued  effectiveness  of  the Council  for  the United Nations  as a whole. 
In recent years we have  seen  some very encouraging  developments  all over 
the world  in the  field of human  rights.  Many  nations  have  taken  the difficult 
but promising  road  to democracy.  Their  success will  undoubtedly  contribute to 
a  further  spread  of  respect  for  fundamental  human  rights.  It was our hope 
that  the United  Nations World  Conference  on Human Rights, to be held  next year 
in Vienna, would  contribute  to this positive  trend.  The Netherlands welcomed 
the process  from  the  start.  We  are,  for  instance,  a major  donor  to the fund 
that  allows  delegations  from  the  least privileged  countries  to participate. 
However,  the preparatory  process  has  thus  far  failed  to produce  an agenda 
for  the Conference.  The  Chairperson  of  the preparatory  process  rightly 
concluded  that most  States will be disappointed  at the  lack  of  results.  The 
Netherlands  shares  this  feeling of disappointment.  Curiously  enough, the 
results  thus  far have  lagged  behind  the  constructive  and  relatively harmonious 
results  achieved  in other United Nations  forums  such  as the United  Nations 
A/47/PV.6 
73 
(Mr. Van Den Broek.  Netherlands) 
Commission  on Human Rights.  The perfect  example  of  this was  the  recent 
unanimity displayed  by this Commission  when  it met  for  its  first  emergency 
session, which was devoted  to the human  rights  situation  in  former 
Yugoslavia.  In view  of  this  sharp contrast,  one  cannot but wonder what  causes 
the World Conference  process  to be  so polarized  and,  subsequently,  what 
positive contribution  the Conference  can make  in these  circumstances  to the 
United Nations work  in the  field of human  rights. 
Meanwhile, human  rights  are  still, in practice, being violated  in 
numerous countries.  I have  already mentioned  former Yugoslavia, where  outrage 
at the massive violation  of human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law in 
Bosnia-Herzegovina,  confirmed  by  the  report  of  the United Nations  Special 
Rapporteur, Mr. Mazowiecki, has  increased  the calls  for measures  against  the 
perpetrators of  such acts.  Personal  accountability  under  international  law 
and the appropriate machinery  to deal with  the individuals  responsible  are 
still lacking, but  Security Council  resolution  771  (1992) paves  the way  for 
follow-up action by Member  States.  My  country  favours the establishment  of 
machinery for the  systematic  gathering  of data concerning  criminal  acts 
committed by  individuals with  regard  to the Geneva  conventions  and  the  human 
rights conventions.  I believe  that  such an  approach  can be expected  to have a 
deterrent effect. 
For the  longer  term. Member  States  could  consider  the establishment  of  an 
international  criminal  court,  taking  into  account work  already  undertaken  by, 
among others, the United  Nations  International  Law Commission.  Although  it is 
clear that  the establishment  of  such a court will  not  come  about  overnight,  it 
is certainly worthy  of  careful  consideration by  the 'Assembly.  The  Assembly 
might give the  International  Law Commission  the  task of  developing  this  idea 
further. 
A/47/PV.6 
74-75 
(Mr. Van Den  Broek. Netherlands) 
The United Nations  involvement  in conflict  settlement  has  led  to a wide 
array of peace-keeping  operations.  The  number  of  Blue-Beret  military has 
reached  an all-time  record.  The Netherlands  contributes  sizeably  to United 
Nations  operations worldwide  and will  continue  to do  so:  taking  into account 
other  obligations  and practical  limitations, all  units of  the  Netherlands 
armed  forces  can  in principle  be assigned  for peace-keeping.  We  support the 
concept  of making  available  contingents  to  the United  Nations  at  short notice 
and have  included  this  in our  standing  offer  to the  Organization. 
The Preamble  to the Charter  clearly  states  the United  Nations 
determination  to promote  social progress  and better  standards  of  living.  Many 
countries  are  confronted  with  a lack of  social  stability,  mass  migration, 
rapid  urbanization  and other problems which  affect  the  fabric  of  society.  The 
world  summit  for  social development,  in principle  to be held  in 1995, will 
allow us  to address  these  issues  at the highest  levels  of government.  This 
will help  the United Nations  to carry out  the  tasks  inherent  in  its  important 
social mandate. 
The  Security  Council has  rightly qualified  the proliferation  of all 
weapons  of mass  destruction  as a threat  to  international  peace  and  security. 
This  underlines  the  importance  of combating  their proliferation.  Arms control 
and  regional, political  and  security  arrangements  have  their  role to play.  So 
have  export  control  regimes. 
A/47/PV.6 
76 
(Mr. Van Den  Broek. 
Netherlands) 
The Netherlands  attaches  particular  value  to  the United Nations  Register 
of Conventional  Arms, and  it  is heartening  to  see before  the Assembly  the 
concrete elaboration  of  technical procedures  for  this Register,  agreed  to by 
consensus by  a representative  panel  of governmental  experts.  The  time  has 
come to render  the Register  fully operational  starting  next  spring,  in 1993, 
and we look  forward  to a universal  implementation  of  its provisions. 
A convention  on the prohibition  of  chemical weapons will be put  before 
this session of  the Assembly.  It is a magnificent  achievement  for  all  the 
members of the Geneva Conference  on Disarmament.  My  country hopes  that  many 
countries will be  amongst  the original  signatories  of  the chemical  weapons 
convention,  so that  it can be  strictly  implemented.  The Netherlands, as host 
country for  the Organization  for the Prohibition  of  Chemical Weapons  (OPCW), 
has a special  role to play,  and we  shall endeavour  to  live up to expectations. 
With the chemical weapons  convention  achieved,  it becomes  all  the more 
important  to reflect  upon ways  and means  to  strengthen  the biological  weapons 
Convention,  in particular  in matters  of verification.  Securing  compliance 
with the Convention  could  involve more  than  just voluntary measures,  important 
though these may be. 
As to the  third  category  of weapons  of mass  destruction,  we have  to bear 
in mind that the nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT) is up  for extension  in 
1995.  My country  strongly  advocates  such an extension  for  an  indefinite 
period. We welcome  the progress made  recently  to  strengthen  the 
non-proliferation  regime by both  further  accessions  to the NPT  and 
modifications  of  the Tlatelolco  Treaty,  opening  the way  for  the entry  into 
force of that Treaty  for  all  Latin American  and  Caribbean  States. 
A/47/PV.6 
77 
(Mr. Van Den  Broek. 
Netherlands) 
We  are  are placing  ever-increasing  demands  upon  the United  Nations. 
Cambodia,  Yugoslavia  and  Somalia  are only  a few examples  of  its  increasing 
involvement.  This  is not without  severe  financial  consequences  for  the 
Organization.  Quite  frankly,  I find  it hard  to believe  that,  at a time when 
ue expect  the United Nations  to play  its demanding  role,  an  important  number 
of Member  States  is not paying  its contributions  on  time  and  in full.  We 
believe  it  is essential  for  the proper  functioning  of  the United  Nations that 
all Member  States, not  just  5 per  cent, meet  the condition  of  full  and timely 
payment.  The United Nations will  not be  able  to  fulfil  its  task  unless 
everyone  picks  up his  share of  the bill.  Financial  discipline  on the part of 
Member  States  is as important  as it is on the part of  the  Organization. 
With  regard  to peace-keeping  especially,  if regional  responsibility for 
the maintenance  of peace  and  security  is to acquire  real meaning, we would 
strongly  favour Member  States  looking  at  the concept  of burden-sharing  on a 
regional  basis.  In any  case, the present  short-term  solutions  of  ad hoc 
financing  are neither  satisfactory  nor equitable.  If we want  a healthy United 
Nations  to deal with  tomorrow's problems,  this  issue  needs  to be  addressed 
today.  It would  be  an  illusion  to think  that  the  current  stopgaps,  creative 
as they may be, will  eventually  suffice. 
As  I have  already  stated,  the opportunities  for  the United  Nations to 
carry out  its mandate  are unprecedented.  This  is true  for  a number  of 
conflicts which  until  recently  seemed  intractable.  Cambodia  is the  clearest 
case where  a United  Nations peace plan  is being  implemented.  Angola  is 
another  example  of what  the United Nations  can do.  The  continuing  dialogue by 
A/47/PV.6 
78 
(Mr. Van Den  Broek. 
Netherlands) 
South African parties  provide  us with  a spark hope  for  the establishment  of a 
non-racial  democracy.  There  is an  initial  involvement  on the part  of  the 
United Nations.  Negotiations  within  the  framework  of  the Madrid  Conference 
have carried  the Middle  East  peace process  further  after  a long period  of 
standstill.  I hope  that  in this  area,  too, the United Nations  can at  some 
stage become  closely  involved. 
My  friend  and  colleague  Douglas  Hurd,  speaking  on behalf  of  the  European 
Community  and  its member  States,  rightly observed  that  the challenge  facing  us 
in this turbulent  time  is to  reinforce  the  system  of  collective  security  based 
on the United  Nations.  As  I said  earlierf,  the United  Nations  cannot  be 
everything to everybody.  Nevertheless  it is clear  that, because  of  the 
success our Organization has  achieved  over  the  last  few years,  enormous 
expectations have been  raised.  It is our  duty  to  see to  it that  the United 
Nations is equipped  in terms both of personnel  and  financing  to  face  the  tasks 
with which  it will  of  necessity be  confronted. 
That brings me,  logically  and  finally,  to the Secretary-General.  It is a 
source of the greatest  satisfaction  to me  to  see Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  in 
this august position.  His profound  international  experience,  his  keen 
intelligence  and  the determination which he has already  shown  in tackling  a 
number of issues make him very much  the  right man  in the  right  place. 
I wish to  assure Mr. Boutros-Ghali  of  the  co-operation  of  the Kingdom  of 
the Netherlands  in  the discharge  of his  arduous  task. 
The meeting  rose  at  1 p.m. 
