UNITED·
NATIONS
General Assembly
A
PROVISIONAL
A/471PV.47
6 November 1992
ENGLISH
Forty-seventh session
GENEFl~...L ASSEMBLY
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 47th MEETING
Held at Headquarters, New York,
on Tuesday" 27 Octobe~ 1992, at 10 a.m.
President:
later:
later:
Mr. GANEV
Mr. MONGBE
(Vice-President)
Mr. GANEV
(President)
(Bulgaria)
(Benin)
(Bulgaria)
Restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the
economi~, social and related fialds:
Secretary-General [47]
report of the
Beport of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization:
reports of the Secretary-General [10]
(continued)
This record contains the original te:t of speeches delivered in English
The final text will
and interpret:ations of speeches in the other. languages.
be printed hl the Official Records of the General Assembly.
Corrections should be submitted to original speechas only. They should
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, wit~~
one week,
Services,
the record.
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference
room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of
92-01604
2358V (Ej
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.47
2
The meeting was (H111ed to orcgr at 11.05 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 47
RESTRUCTURING AND REVITALIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS IN THE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL
AND RBLATED FIELDS:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (AJ47/534)
The PRESIDENT: With regard to our consideration of this item,
I
should like to inform members that,
in order to facilitate negotiations on a
draft resolution,
I am establishing an open-ended working group on the
restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social
and related fields.
In this connection I have requested the Permanent
Representative of Uruguay to chair the working group on my behalf.
Since the
subject-matter encompasses economic, social and administrative and budgetary
issues, due care will be given to close consultations with " Chairmen of the
Second, Third and Fifth Committees.
The Assembly will continue its consideration of agenda item 47 at a
future meeting,
to be announced in the Journal.
AGENDA ITEM 10 (continv.,gg)
REPonT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL ON THE WORK OF THE ORGANIZATION:
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (Al47/l, A/47/277)
REPORTS OF
Mr LUNA (Peru) (interpretation from Spanish): The delegation of
Peru agrees with the views expressed by the Permanent Representative of
Argentina on behalf of the Rio Group a few weeks ago and with what Indonesia
said on behalf of the non-aligned countries. However, we wish to make a few
additional points that in our opinion are of particular importance.
We are pleased that a substantive debate is taking place on th~ annual
report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization.
Such a
debate, prompted on this occasion by the almost simultaneous publication of
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV~.7
3-5
.' .
(Hr Lunar Peru)
the special report "An Agenda for Pf!~c~", should be encouraged and become the
pormanent practice. The two docmnents are complementary and l:thould be
considered together.
The special report of the Secretary-General, "An Agenda for Peace", is an
important analysis of the intornational situation and contains many
initiatives in the area of international peace and security.
It has a solid
internal logical structure, and includes many novel proposals. We support the
idea of establishing a working group of the General Assembly to study it in
detail.
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
6
(Mr. Lunar Peru)
For its part,
the Secretary-General's 1992 report on the work o~ the
Organization Gets out the activities carried out by the ~nited Nations in the
area of peace-keeping and with respect to its internal ins~itutional
organization, particularly with respect to simplifying the Secretariat and
strengthening the international civil service. But its greatest contribution
may be its concern with the question of development.
The documents before us paint a realistic picture. On the one hand,
there are vast possibilities that require the commitment of all the Members of
the Organization to make them a reality; on the other,
there is the need to
avoid certain risks in our collective efforts.
I shall address three areas of
special importance for the futuro of multilateral action.
The special report, "An Agenda for Peace",
recognizes the key importance
of respect for national sovereignty as a basis for the Organization's
activities, but it re"ffirms the need to redefine that concept. At present,
sovereignty in its traditional sense is under attack on two fronts:
'the trend
towards fragmentation of national so~ereignty by centripetal forces~ and the
need for multilateral action properly to administer the transnational dynamic
of the new world problems and protagonists.
Thus the reinterpretation of sovereignty is a vital task that should go
beyond mere exhortation to seek a way of reconciling sovereignty with
self-determination, partiCUlarly the self-determination of minorities. That
would free it from its first limiting factor.
But at the same time an evolving concept of sovereignty should
accommodate various national sovereignties on the basis of mutual concessions
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.47
7
(Mr. Lunar Peru)
in line with an internatio~al consensus - democratically reached by the entire
international community, and not imposed by one group of countries - on the
priority objectives of multilateral action and the machinery for attaining
them internationally within the United Nations system.
That would make it possible to view the whole question of sovereignty in
a broader perspective and thus to channel the interventionist trend in the
post-cold-war world into areas and modalities that would make it beneficial
for the entire international community. Failure to do this would reduce the
question of sovereignty to one of dealing with the problems that can be posed
to national Governments by emerging nationalistic and ethnic trends within
States.
In that connection,
I would note that while in developed countries,
particularly those of Europe,
the end of the cold war has led to the
proliferation of nationalistic, ethnic and minority conflicts,
the
winding-down of nationalistic conflicts in the South has come about in the
context of the emergence ot a new generation of problems.
In the case of
Latin America, narco-terro~ism is particularly significant.
In this scenario, cooperation with regional organizations is to be viewed
not in the sense of subord\nation to the world Organization, but in terms of
technical assistance.
In ~is connection,
the convening of a conference of
regional organizations to define their needs has been proposed unofficially••
• Mr. Honghe (Benin), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Mr. Lunar Pery)
The proposed establishment of regional risk-~eduction centres is an
extremely important initiative. But it is still not cIGar ~hat department of
the Headquarters Secretariat would be responsible for coordinating tho cent~es
to enable them to do their job properly.
The emphasis "An Agenda for Peace" places on cooperation wi.th regional
organizations seems, in a more general and broader sense, to be in line with
the desire to promote democratization in international relations through
greater and more direct participation by regional groupings, non-gov~rnmental
organizations and society at large. As far as possible,
the p05itions adopted
by regional groups in the United Nations on the fundamental
issues before the
Organization must reflect due coherence among the various entities.
For countries like Per~ it is necessary to stress a concept that is of
the greatest importance fOl
the future work of the United Nations:
economic
and social issues cannot ~d should not ap~ear to be subordinate to
conflict-settlement.
If i~ were,
the United Nations would seem to be
addreasing primarily quest10ns of international peace and security,
I
leaving
economic matters to institutions that supposedly have certain comparative
advantages in that respect, and social issues to the specialized agencies.
Such compartmentalization would limit development efforts and reduce the role
of the United Nations in th~t sphere to humanitarian and technical
assistance. This would not accord with the spirit or the letter of the San
I
Francisco Charter.
Moreov~r, it would involve many risks fo~ the developing
countries,
in that econom~c and social issues would be qiven a lower priority
than issues of peace and s3curit7.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library--------------~------- - - - - - - -
Al47/PV.47
9
(Mr, Lun~, Peru)
Moreover, such a division.of labour wou.ld leave 1the United l'lations unable
to tackle both spheres of action simultaneously; deali.nq '"11th international
economic and social issues could be indefinitely postponed within the United
Nations, with the exception of those directly related to the resolution of
specific crises or conflicts.
To eGtablish a genuine, development-oriented multilateral system of
cooperation and cuordination, it is vital to recognize ~be imp.ortance of
social, economic, humanitarian afid environmental issues for the future of the
international community,
fe.r these are at the heart of tb"
relationship
between the poo~ countries and the rich. Paradoxically,
these issues are not
yet being given eithQr pro~e~ attention or adequate resources. Apart from a
few notable efforts, United Nations action in this sphere continues to be
inadequate and limited.
In this regard" .the developing countries have proposed that a strateqy be
developed, on the basis of consistent, balanced and non-discriminatory
application of the principles of the Charter,
incorporating all aspects of the
world situation, both those related to international peace and security and
those related to development, and that a broad consensus be achievsd in order
to put it into practice.
I believe that that would determine tile viability of
multilateral diplomacy in today's world.
Awareness of the risks I have described and of the need for the United
Nations to make an appropriate institutional response has led over the past
year to a reorganization o~ the Secretariat. The second stage of this
reorganization, which shoutd be put into effect in the near futurl~, should
concentrate on enhancing the interdependent functions in the economic and
social sphere.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
la
(Mr. Lunar Peru)
In that connection, unifying the management of Secretariat activities in
the areas of development, cooperation and the environment would help make them
more effective and facilita~e coordination of the activities of the system's
specialized agencies. This. should not be an exercise in bureaucratic
appropriation, where Head~\:arters takes on functions that by their very nature
should be carried out by States and that might also overburden the
Organization. As has been indicated,
the United Nations should be making an
intellectual and political effort to define the way it will handle development
cooperation in the future and the guiding role of the United Nations in this
whole area.
It is almost trite to say that the United Nations is at a historic
turning point.
In order not to waste this so-called regained opportunity,
which we all welcome, we m~st think out and put into practice, preferably
under unified and effectivp. leadership, an agenda for development to
complement our Agenda for Peace,
in such a way that the priority given to the
problems of peace will fac~litate the handling of the problems of development,
and vice versa.
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.47
11
Mr, TRINli XUAN LNm (Viet Nam): The CU1'rent international situation
and the expectations of the world's peoples in the capacity of the United
Nations today require that the Organization undergo a fundamental renewal,
The Secretary-General states in his report on the work of the
Organization that ~he years between 1992 and the fiftieth anniversary,
in
1995, may well determine the course and contribution of the Organization for
the next generation or more.
In this connection, on behalf of the Vietnamese
delegation I should like to express our appreciation of the efforts made by
the Secretary-General in preparing his annual report on the work of the
Organization (A/47/1) ot 11 September 1992 and his earlier report of
17 June 1992, entitled "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277),
Those efforts
reflect his commitment to revitalizing the world body with a view to making it
more effective in maintaining international peace and security and
contributing to the solution of global issues,
Important and innovative,
the
documents contain many new ideas which require thorough examination and the
widest consultation among all Members of the Organization, My delegation
supports the proposal to establish an open-ended working group of the General
Assembly to make an in-depth study of the recommendations contained in "An
Agenda for Peace",
As there will be other opportunities for us to discuss specific proposals
made by the Secretary-General in his reports,
I shall confine myself now to
giving our views on some aspects of the reports which are of major concern to
us as a non-aligned, developing country and a member of the Group of 77.
The present international situation is characterized by,
inter alia,
the
gap between the rich and poor countries, between the North and the South.
In
today'S interdependent world, unless these phenomena are redressed lasting
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
12
(Mr. Trinh Xuan Lang, Viet Ram)
international peace and security cannot be onsured.
Two thirds of the world's
population in developing countries are living in difficult economic
conditions.
In his annual report on the work of the Organization,
the
Secretary-General stated:
"It is unacceptable that absolute poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy
and hopelessness should be th0 lot of one fifth of the world's
population." (A/47/1. para. 61)
and
"Political progress and economic development are inseparable".
(A/i'll, para. 64)
We are encouraged by the Secretary-General's view that the Organization's
responsibilities an~ ~ommitments in the political and security area should net
be carried out at the expense of its responsibilities in the development
field, and neither should be subordinated to the other and that it is
essential that they be pursued in an integrated, mutually supporting way. We
appreciate his commitment to enhance the renewal of global partnership for
development and to work out an agenda for development, as reflected in his
report, and we hOl?e that the agenda for development will be treatt!d wit.h equal
attention.
As one of the countries confronted with special economic problems, due to
the implementation of economic sanctions under Chapte~ VII of the Charter, we
urga the Secretary-General to take appropriate measures,
inclUding resort to
the financial instit~tions within the United Nations system,
to assist those
countries, as provided for by Article 50 of the Charter.
It is our s~r~ug
belief that the United Nations should have full responsibility for all its
actions,
inclUding redressing the difficulties faced by those countries as a
result of their implementation of United Nations resolutions.
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV,47
13
(Mr, Trinb xuan Lang, Viet Nam)
During the 47 years since the founding of the United Nations, while
mankind has been spared an annihilating world war, hundreds of large-scale and
small-scale wars and conflicts have taken place in various regions, with
devastating consequences, One of the most common factors leading to those
wars and conflicts, as was vividly demonstrated in the Viet Nam wars during
the three decades following the Second World War, was disregard for the
principle of respect for national independence and sovereignty and the
integrity of States,
Now that the United Nations is discussing ways and means to prevent and
resolve conflicts and preserve peace in the new situation following the end of
the cold war and the disintegration of the old international order, based on
the division of the world into two blocs,
the sacrosanct principles as stated
by the Secretary-General in his report "An Agenda for Peace" that
"The foundation-stone of this work is and must remain the State".
an~ that
"Respect for its fundamental sovereignty and integrity are crucial to any
common international prQgress," (A/471277, para 17)
have to be strictly and truly respected,
In his statement before the Assembly
in the general debate, our Foreign Minister emphasized that while isolationism
was outmoded, national sovereignty for ever remained a sacred value which all
countries,
large or small, rich or poor, are determined to defend.
We are of the view that any decision taken after our discussion of these
documents, both now and later, must ba based on strict adherence to the
principles of the United Nations Charter and the recognized norms of
inter-State conduct, partiCUlarly the principles of full respect for national
sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.47
14-15
(~r. Trinh Xuan LanS', Viet Uam)
aff&irs of States. The concept of national sovereignty can in no way be
eroded. At the same time, respect for the right to self-determination of all
peoples under colonial ~r foreign occupation must be ensured.
We believe that the United Nations, as the most universal internatio~al
Organization devoted to peace and development, should do its utmost to
strengthen its capaeity for the pacific settlement of disputes and avoid the
use of force. We advocate the peaceful settlement of all disputps through
dialogue and negotiations without resort to force or the threat of force.
While recognizing the forward-looking approach in some specific
recommendations relating to preventive diplomacy, such as fact-finding, we
believe that fact-finding should be conducted only on the basis of the
principle of a request from a Member State and the prior consent of all
concerned parties. This requirement has been laid down iu various General
Assembly resolutions ~n the subject.
'.
The effectiveness of the concerted efforts of the United Nations in the
field of preventing and resolving conflicts and preserving peace will depend
on the credibility of the O~ganization's consistency in the application of the
principles of the Charter.
I
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471TN.47
:i.6
(Mr. TriM Xuan Lang, Yiet Nam)
In this connection, we share the view, as expressed by the Secretary-General,
that the principles of the Charter must be applied consistently, not
selectively. The point my delegation would like to stress is that the
consistent and non-selective application of the Cha~ter can only be ensured by
the democratization of international life and inter-State relations and the
reform and restructuring of the United Nations. Here again,
I would like to
refer to the statement of our Foreign Minister before the Assembly, where he
said
"In the new context,
the composition of the Security Council and the
balance between the Council,
the General Assembly and the
Secretary-General of the United Nations must reflect the realities of a
world which has radically changed as compared with the time when the
United Nations was bor~, and even with only a few years ago.
"We endorse the idea of re-examining and enlarging the composition
of the Security Council, with due attention to developing countries, with
a view to fully implementing the principle of equality between all Member
States and ensuring that the voice of the majority is duly heard in the
process of making decisions on issues of critical importance to the
international comnl1,mi.ty." (A/471PV.23, pp. 44-45 and 46)
I
It is our strong belief that the new and efficient United Nations must
represent the majority and collective aspirations of its membership and that
all Member State~ have the right to participate actively and democratically in
the promotion of collectiva interests of the global community.
Finally, we wish to n;sure the Secretat'y-General of our support for his
efforts and his objective I.f strengthening and making more efficient within
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.47
17
(Mr. TriM Xuan Lang, Viet Nam)
the framework and provisions of the Charter,
the capacity of the United
Nations in the mainCenance of international peace and security, as well as in
otber areas.
Improveme:ai:. is a never-ending task. We hope that the
Secretary-Generalis objective will be achieved and that, with the efforts and
the participation of all Member States, a f~damental renewal of the United
Nations in other fields will be complete by the time it marks its fiftieth
anniversary.
Mr. PEER+~ (Mauritius):
I welcome the opportunity to participate
in the discussions on the report of the Secretary-General, "An Agenda for
Peace", which we have already commended in our statement in the general debate
at this session.
It is an important document that will have fundamental
implications for the future of our Organization. Therefore, it is quite
fitting that the General Assembly, under the presidency of Mr. Ganev, should
have begun an early debate on the Secretary-General's proposals under agenda
item 10. As many speakers have indicated before me, we are only at the
initial phase of discuasions. The debate will be pursued at different levels
inside the Organization.
I would hope, however,
that the Assembly will be able to record the huge
interest generated by the r~port and perhaps offer directions or guidelines
for the future in the light of progress achieved. For, as the
Secretary-General himself ."eminds us,
the coming years until 1995 may well
determine the course and contribution of the Organization for the next
generation or beyond.
The Secretary-General has embarked on an ambitious task of defining a new
role in the humanitarian field and maxing the Organization more effective in
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA./471PV.47
18
(Mr. Peerthum, ~itius)
maintaining and promoting peace. The United Nations can best contribute to
the strenqt.h&ninq of collective security in such areas of vital importance,
especially to smaller States.
In his annual report on the work of the Organization,
the
Secretary-General remarks that United Nations activities have greatly expanded
in recent years, particularly since the end of the cold wa~. The
responsibilities of the Organization have grown and so have cur expectations.
Unfortunately,
the United Nations may not be able to respond to these new
challenges if it is not provided with the necessary resources to face them.
In this regard, we welcome the suggestions of the non-aligned group and
otb~r delegations that an open working group be established by the General
i\ssembly to examine tile Secretary-General's report "An Agenda for Peace".
That a majority of States is taking part in this thought-provoking and crucial
debate is of great significance. We must therefore ensure that our
deliberations uphold rather than undermine the high aspirations and concrete
objectives contained in "An Agenda for Peace".
"An Agenda for Peace" identifies thosa challenges and objectives, and
offers clear and pragmatic solutions. The Secretary-General calls for sounder
and more reliable financing, better communications and tools for preventive
diplomacy and less cumbersome mechanisms and procedures for peace-keeping
operations than those enforceable under Chapter VII of the Charter,
particularly in an increasingly volatile international environment where
localized conflicts may recur. These proposals must be looked at in their
entirety.
Favouring one issue over another or widening the debate will only
dilute the thrust of the package.
-
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
19-20
(Mr. Peerthum, Mauritius)
In choosing to be pragmatic,
the Agenda is necessarily selective.
It may
not fully address, for example,
the serious concerns of non-military threats
to peace and a whole range of interdependent eco~omic issues that hav~
implications for global security and national security. The new app~oach
advocated by the Secretary-General also raises numerous questions about
sovereignty,
the principle of consent,
the interpretation of the Chart~lr, the
pre-eminence and credibility of the Council and its relations with the General
Assembly. But the Organization is at a crossroad and it cannot be impervious
to the process of evolution.
"An Agenda for Peace" offers us the opportunity
for change at a crucial period. Change may be advocated at a faster pace in
one direction rather than another. That does not mean that needed reforms in
other fields will necessarity stagnate. They may in fact benefit from a
snowballing effect, for tho major obstacles to change at the United Nations
reMain the lack of political will and the absence of financial resources.
"An Agenda for Peace" addresses them head on and deserves our full
support.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_.._--
Al471PV.47
21
Mr. NYAKII (United Republic of Tanzania): The delegation of
Indonesia has already spoken on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement on agenda
item 10. My delegation associates itself with that statement.
For this
reason,
I will limit my comments to a few areas of the Secretary-General's
report, "An Agenda for Peace" (A/471277), dated 17 June 1992, which my
delegation feels need stressing. First, let me also extend my delegation's
appreciation to the Secretary-General for a very comprehensive,
thought-provoking and challenging report.
As the Secretary-General stressed in his report, and as many delegations
have repeated both during the general debate and in the present debate,
the
international political situation has undergone a fundamental change. The old
order has collapsed and a new one, which offers hope in the search to
solutions to longstanding problema, is emerging. The demands on the United
Nations to respond positively to peoples' rising aspirations everywhere for
peace and security, for economic and social justice, and for democracy and the
enjoyment of human rights, are unprecedented.
It is important that the United
Nations capacity to respond to these demands be enhanced in these propitious
times.
I &hould like to touch briefly on the scope of the report. The Security
Council mandate of 31 January 1992 requested the Secretary General to prepare
"analysis and recommendations on ways of strengthening and making more
efficient within the framework and provisions of the Charter the capacity
of the United Nations for preventive diplomacy, for peacemaking and for
peace-keeping".
(8/23;00, p.3)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.47
22
(Mr. Nyakyi, United Republic
2f Tanzania)
At the time" many developing countries expressed concern that the report
ran the risk of being narrowly focused,
ignoring their legitimate concerns and
interests, which have a bearing on questions of international peace and
security. We are encouraged to see that the Secretary-General has been
sensitive to these concerns.
From the start, h~ recognized the sources of
conflict and war as being "pervasive and deep".
In his own words:
"To reach them will require our utmost effort to enhance respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms,
to promote sustainable economic
and social development for wider prosperity,
to alleviate distress and to
curtail the existence and use of massively destructive weapons."
(A/47/277, para. 5)
In his regular report to the forcy-seventh session of the General
Assembly (A/47/1),
the Secretary-General el~orates on the development
dimension of people's aspirations in a way that is reassuring to the
developing countries. He states:
"It is clear that the Organization's responsibilities and commitments in
the political and security area should not be carried out at the expense
of its responsibilities in the development field, and neither should be
subordinated to the other.
It is essential that they be pursued in an
integrated, mutually supporting way."
(A/47/!, para. 66)
We fully share the view of the Secretary-General.
Next I would like to focus briefly on some of the more topical concepts
covered in the report:
demucracy, human rights and the principles of the
sovereign equality of States and non-interference in the internal affairs of
States.
Tanzania welcomes the world-wide yearning for democracy within
nations. Within our own borders we have been doing our part to enrich and
- - - - ----~._-
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
23
(Mr. K~akyi, United Republic
of Tanzania)
deepen our democracy. Yet we recogni3e that our experience is uniquely
Tanzanian. Democracy can never be viewed as a preserve of anyone nation or
group of nations. Given the many different cultures and social and religious
beliefs embraced by peoples and nations around the world, it is not possible
to have universal structures,
forms and institutions of democracy. While all
responsible Governments and peoples throughout the world strive for more
democracy,
the tendency of some members of the international community to
prescribe their structures and values as models of democracy for other States
is unacceptable.
Just as democracy is a sound foundation for peace and progress within
nations, democracy between .~ations is a sound basis for the promotion of
international peace and security and for the advancement of social and
economic progress. Nations should therefore promote it between themselves
with the zeal with which they promote it at the national level. We agree with
the Secret~ry-General'sobservation that democracy within the family of
nations means the application of its principles within the Organization itself
and that this requires
"the fullest consultation, participation and engagement of all States,
large and small,
in th3 work of the Organization".
(~/47/277, para. 82)
It means helping to spread and promote the democratic ethic and culture within
the Organization and all international forums, especially those dealing with
issues of critical importance to the majority of humanity.
At the national level, democracy has become a watchword of everyday
usage. Hardly a day passes without our hearing it. At the global level,
the
call for it has become more than muted. Talking about it today, one has
almost to apologize for disturbing the peace. Yet the call for a new
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library)J471PV.47
M-25
(Mr. Nyakyi« United Republic
!Lf Tanzania)
international economic order is essentially a ~all for the application of the
principles of democracy in the management of the increasingly interdepandent
world economy. Democracy is incompatible with the inequities of the economic
order established in the wake of the Second World War. A commitment to
democracy at the national level that is not accompanied by a similar
commitment at the global level is less than adequate. As the
Secretary-General correctly pointed out, an agenda that is intended to advance
the cause of democracy in our world today but that iqnores the glaring
inequities of the present economic system will be an inadequate response to
the perverse and deep sources of conflict and war.
Equally, we welcome the attention being paid increasingly to the
promotion and protection of human rights. To say that a Government that does
not respect the basic human rights and fundamental freedoms of its people does
not deserve their loyalty and support is to state the obvious. However,
the
universal validity of these rights and freedoms does not give anyone country
or group of countries the right to impose on others a unilateral
interpretation of their enjoyment O~ otherwise in other countries.
It is also important to 20int out that the basic provisions of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights embody two mutually balancing aspects -
those which respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and
those which stipulate the obligations of the individual to society and the
State. Equally, basic human rights extend to economic, social and cultural
needs, not just to civil and political needs. The tendency to address human
rights selectively does a great disservice to the cause of their promotion and
protection.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al471PV.41
26
(Mr. Nyak:ri, Urdted Rep\!J2lk
2£ Tanzania)
Throughout the report the Secretary-General recognizes the necessity of
adhering strictly to the principles enshrined in Article 2, paragraphs 1, 3,
4. and 7 of the Charter calling for respect for the sovereign e~ality of
States and strict adherence to the principle of non-interference in the
internal affairs of States.
In our view,
these principles should not be
diluted or abridged in any way. Yet the assurances have not fJucceeded in
completely allaying the fears of many delegations,
including mine. There is a
need for a careful study of the proposals touching on these provisions.
My final comments of a general nature relate to the provisions of the
Charter, contained in Articles 10, 11, 13, 14 and 15, on the powers and
functions of the General As~embly in the promotion and maintenance of
i~ternational peace and security. These provisions make clear that the
General Assembly has an important role to play in the promotion and
maintenance of international peace and security; yet the General Assembly
seldom exercises these powers.
In the present climate favouring dialogue and
negotiations, every effort ~hould be made to encourage the Assembly to assume
its responsibilities in th~s vital area of the work of the United Nations.
To
this end, we warmly welcome the recommendations contained in paragraph 36 of
the report.
I should now like to ~urn very briefly to some of the specific proposals
'1
and recommendations in the-report -
those of particular interest to my
delegation and,
I believe,
to many small countries.
The first relates to :he concept of preventive deployment. We share the
view expressed by many del~qations that these proposals need further study and
elaboration. Preventive d9ployment is uncharted territory; it is a new
I
concept not foreseen in th! Charter. Firstly, it envisages use of force
E
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Mr. HYekYi, Upited Republic
of TanzaniA)
before the conditions set out in the Charter have been fulfilled.
It seems to
call for the application of Chapter VII in circumstances in which the Charter
requires the application oflChapter VI.
Secondly, its application runs the
risk of violating the prin~iple of sovereignty enshrined in Artiela 2,
paragraph 7.
It is true that in cases of conflicts where the parties agree to
preventive deployment thero is no such risk; difficulties could, however,
arise when the initiative comes from elsewhere. According to the proposal,
the question then becomes ')ne of consent. The nature of that consent cmd the
manner in which it is obtained could raise issues of critical importance.
A second area which relates to peacemaking and is of concern to my
delegation is the recommendation in paragraph 44 of the report regarding
I
peace-enforcement units. ~e report implies that if the forces anticipated in
Article 43 of the Charter were available there might not be a need for the
peace-enforcement units of the kind contemplated in paragraph 44.
We welcome the readin~ss of some Member States to provide forces under
the proposal, but are uncomfortable because this entails a reinterpretation of
the Charter. We do not understand the rell::.:tance to provide them under
Article 43. Moreover,
tha propoeal seems to my delegation to reverse the
order of action intended in the Charter.
I
In our view,
the proposal needs further study.
In addition to
i
•
reconciling the proposal with the Charter,
the study could also address the
reasons for the failure to implement Article 43. These concerns do not
diminish my d~legation's almiration for the Secretary-General's efforts to
find an urgent solution to the difficult problem which he has identified. We
will cooperate with all Me:war States in the search for a solution.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
28
(Mr. Nyakyi, United Republic
of Tanzania)
Our third area of concern is the proposal in paragraph 41 of the report
on the need for measures to alleviate the special economic problems faced by
countries as a result of complianco with mandatory Security Council
sanctions.
In our view the problem is essentially political; its soluti~n
must therefore be essentially political, not technical. We therefore fully
support the Secretary-Genera1's proposal, and hope that the Security Council
will bear this consideration in mind.
I do not wish to leave these areas of specific interest to my delegatio~
without making it clear thnt there are many proposals in the rGport which
enjoy my delegation's full support. Those focusing on preventive diplomacy,
including confidence-building measures and fact-finding missions, enjoy our
full support. The need for a well-coordinated network of early-warning
systems is also self-evident if the capacity of the Organization to foresee
and pre-empt conflicts is to be enhanced. The principle is agreed, although
the details will need to be worked out.
In the area of peacemaking, we are in accord with the general thrust of
the proposals regarding the role the International Court of Justice can play.
The same applies to internntional efforts to alleviate causes of conflict. We
I
are also in general agreenent with the recommendations relating to personnel
and logistics in the area )f peace-keeping, and to those relating to
post-conflict peace-building and safety of personnel.
We also share the view that regional organizations can play an important
role in the maintenance of international peace and security.
On the financing of the Organization, we fully agree with the conclusion
the Secretary-General reaches in paragraph 72 that:
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
29
(Mr. NJ'mi. United Republic
gf T§Dzanla)
"Whatever decisions are taken on financing the Organization,
there is one
inesc&pable necessity: Member States must pay their assessed
contributions in full and on time".
(A/47n77)
Before I concl~de, I ~hould like to go back to the important question of
the need to promote democrLcy more vigorously at the iaternational level. The
need for the reform of the United Nations has been generally recognized and
accepted. Reforms of the General Assembly,
the Er-onomic and Social Council
and its subsidiary organs have already been undertaken.
The only major organ of the United Nations that remains unaffected by the
demands for reform is the S9curity Council. Yet nowhere in the United Nations
is the need for democratic reforms felt more acutely than in the composition
and functioning of the Council. As we were so eloquently' reminded by one
speaker at the Security Council summit meeting in January,
the membership of
thp. Council at the time of the founding of the United Nations in
1945 represented 20 per cent of the membership. Today, with a membership of
15,
the Council represents only slightly more than 8 per cent of the
membership of the United Nations. The need for enlargement is as self-evident
as the need for the abolition of the power of veto.
The case for abolition of the veto was clear even before the collapse of
the bipolar world. With the end of the cold war and the emergence of an
environment favouring consensus, it is claimed that the veto is beginning to
look like an old, rusty weapon.
Therefore, we ask: What is the
justification for its rete~tion7
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/P'l•.47
30
(Mr. liFlbL United Rerublic
of Tanzania)
The Council's methods of lImrk also need reforming..
Its meetings are
shrouded in too much aecracy. There is a great need for transparency in the
i.
work of the Council.
In the way it conducts its business, ~e Council hardly
takes account of the views of other Members of the United Nations; yet it is
intended to ~~t on behalf of all Members and its decisions are bindihg on all.
The Council C&nmot expect to continue to enjoy the confidence and support
of the rest of the me3bership of the O~qanization if it continues to resist
their legitimate calllc for reform. mdle some of the proposals may need time
for study and elaboration, others, such as those calling for t.ransparency and
a sense of particip&.tion, need little more than a change of attitude .•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
31
(Mr, Nyatyl. Vpited Reablic
~)
Finally,
I w~t to associate my de~cg~tioa with the proposal tliut
has gained wide acceptance in thi~ debate for the way forwa~d -
the
establishment of an open-ended w~ ;ing group under your chairmanship, Sir,
to study the report more closely and to prupose appropriate action by the
Seneral Assembly. Ne do not favour a fragmented approach to its
consideration and we hope that those organs of the United Nations already
studying aspects Qf the re~ort will cooperate with the General Assembly in
its efforts to respond in a comprehensive mann~r to the proposals in the
Secretary General's repc~t.
At the beginning of my statement I
referred to the
Secretary-Generales recognition that the responsibilities and commitments
of the United Nations in the politAcal and security area, as well as those
in the development field, have to be pursued in an integrated, mutually
supportive way. This approach must surely apply to the procedure we
should use in considering ~e proposals in his report. A fragmented
approach at this stage will hardly contribute to an integrated approach at
the implementation stage.
Mr. MUSUM (Zambia) z My delegation commends the timely
preparation by the Secretary-General of his report "An 1u1l9nda for Peace",
in response to the final statement of the Summit Meeting of the Security
Council on 31 January this year.
JoTa also commend the important init~.ati"e
taken at that historic Summit Meeting.
Tha report of the Se,.'retar.y-General is thought-provokillq in its
analysis,
ideas and recomm~ndationE.
Its recommendations are also
constructive,
forward-looking and action-oriented.
For those reasons,
the
report provides an invalu~.,le basis for. detailed discussion, further
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl41l1f':;~47
32
(Mr. Musuka, Zambia)
consideration and tho~cu9h examination by a working group of the General
Assembly in which the ~ntire membership of the Orqanizatio~ will be able to
participate.
Zambia strongly supports the objective of strengthening and making more
efficient, within the framework and provisions of the Charter,
the capacity of
the United Nations for preve~tive diplomacy, for peacemaking and for
peace-kespinq.
My delegation sharos ~e common conviction amonq nations that the end of
the cold war affords our O~ganization a historic opportunity to fulfil its
original promise. The Uni~ed Nations is no longer crippled by the adversarial
relations that existed between the two super-Powers, and generally between
Eastern and Western Europe. On the contrary,
the Organization has an
unmatched opportunity to a~hiGve the noble objectives of the Charter, namely:
to maintain international peace and security; to secure justice, human rights
and fundamental freedoms; and to promote social progress and better standards
of life in larger freedom.
The United Nations may also rely on a virtually
veto-free Security Council~ on the demonstrated desire of its membership to
cooperate, and on the g~owing movement of democratic forces and more open
forms of government.
However, along with these opportunities and possibilities to fulfil its
original promise, our Org~ization also confronts complex challenges in the
post-cold-wa~ era.
It faces the spread of violent ethnic, tribal, religious,
social, cultural or linguis~ic strife, which challenges the unity and cohesion
of States; it faces ecological damage and a growing threat of the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; and it has to contend with
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.47
33-35
(Mr. Musuka. Zambia)
new and violent f01~s of racism. The United Nations is also obliged to face
long-deferred global problems, such as poverty,
the debt burde~,
protectionism, declining commodity prices, drought,
famine, drugs and the
ever-widening gap between rich and poor nations.
All these challenges, new and old, pose real threats to peace, stability
and security. Durable peare is not merely the absence of war.
"An Agenda for
Peace", in its comprehensive sense, must therefore encompass these
non-military threats.
In partiCUlar,
the United Nations should strengthen its
capacity to promote international economic relations based on equity and
democratic principles. The injustice that exists in international economic
relations puts the developi~g countries at the mercy of the developed world.
It makes their development difficult; it compounds the poverty of their
peoples, which destroys their human dignity and deprives them of their
potential. Poverty does not promote the process of democratization.
It is
economic and social progress which encourages and enhances democracy. The
conduct of international economic relations on the basis of democratic
principles is thus beneficial to the development and democratization of
developing countries; it is also an important means of promoting peace and
progress in the international community.
The Secretary-General rightly stresses the role of preventive diplomacy
in easing tensions before they develop into conflicts, or if conflicts break
out i~ containing them and resolving their underlying causes. We wish to
underscore the need to make the fullest and most effective use of preventive
diplomacy. All the peacef~11 means provided for under Chapter VI of the
Charter must be exhausted ~efore resorting to enforcement measures under
Chapter VII.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
36
(Mr. Musuka. Zambia)
For preventive diplomacy to be effective,
the Secretary-General shnuld be
provided with the necessary measures to create confidence, as well as the
means to evaluate situations before they break out into conflicts. The roles
of the General Assembly and of regional organizations should also be
emphasized. Greater use should be made of the International Court of Justice;
the Secretary-General should also be authorized to seek advisory opinions from
the World Court.
In the past, many delegations have examined the roles of the Security
Council,
the General Assembly and the Secretary-General in the maintenance of
peace and security. Experience has now demonstrated the need to strengthen
the Assembly's role in this important function,
in accordance with Article 14
of the Charter. My delegation would also lik~ to stress the importance of
maintaining the relationship between the General Assembly and the Security
Council as defined in the _-elevant provisions of the Charter.
We are gratified to note that the Security Council is now exercising more
effectively its yrimary responsibility in the maintenance of international
peace and security.
In that regard, it is important to caution that
membership on the Council entails special and solemn responsibilities. These
responsibilities must not be abused or exercised Qn the basis of narrow
national or group interests. The Council should not serve as an instrument
for imposing the will of the powerful upon the weak.
It must consistently
strive to serve the interests of all States without discrimination or
selectivity. There is also need for greater consultation and coordination
I
between the Security Council and the General Assembly in the ma.'.ntenance of
international peace and se:urity.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.47
37
(~usuka, Zambia)
My delegation shares '-he Secretary General' s view that
"the principles of the Charter must be applied consistently, not
selectively, for if the perception should be of the latter~ t~ust will
wane and with it the moral authority which is the greatest and most
unique quality of that instrument." (A/47/277, para, 82)
So that the United Nations may respond quickly to situations threatening
international peace and security, it is imperative that Member States agree to
place a permanent military force at the disposal of the Security Council.
This matter requires the serious consideration of this Assembly.
Such an
agreement would, without dnubt,
impose great financial burdens on Members;
however, peacemaking and peace-keeping operations necessarily entail onerous
financial commitments.
The arrangement would ensure that such forces are deployed only under the
command of the United Nations,
in order that the Organization not be used
merely to legitimate actions of individual Governments motivated purei~ by
their own national interests. We believe that the United Nations would strive
to act respon&ibly and without selectivity in invoking enforcement measures.
These conditions are important if we are to maintain the efficacy and
credibility of this world body.
I
To ensure that the interests of small and economically weak States are
protected and their views :aken into account on important decisions affecting
international relations,
the reforms we undertake must be based on respect for
the cardinal principles of sovereignty, sovereign equality, non-intervention
and the territorial integrity of States.
Peacemaking and peace-keeping are important functions of the United
Nations.
In this new era, peace-keeping operations are not limited to war
situations but also involve the monitoring of elections.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl411PV.47
38-40
(Mr. Musuka, Zambia)
The Secretary-General'sreport "An Agellda for Peace" provides a wealth of
information that should se~~e as a basis for further consideration of the
chanqes we seek it is important that the task be entrusted to an open-ended
working group, which should submit its report to the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session.
The world is today at the threshold of a new era characterized by
uncertainties, requiring serious reflection on the part of Member States.
Indeed, we are at a crossroads, and our resolve and commitment are needed more
than ever before. We need the commitment of all in order to take the bold
decisions necessary to make the United Nations more responsive to the
challenges of the twenty-first century.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW471PV.47
41
Mr.
lWRQMA (Sierra Leone): The Sierra Leone delegation is of the
view that efforts and proposals such as those contained in the
Secretary-General' 5 report "An Agenda for Peace" and his report on the work of
the Orqanization must be predicated on the Charter.
Indeed,
the purposes and
principles of the Charter -
the maintenance of international peace and
security,
the achievement of international cooperation in solvinq
international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian
character,
the sovereign equality of States,
the peaceful settlement of
disputes between States, and the ~on-use or threat of force against the
territorial integrity or political independence of any State or in any manner
inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations Charter -
remain as valid
today as when first enunciated some 47 years ago.
The Secretary-General is therefore to be commended for the realistic
position he has taken throughout his reports~ The proposals of preventive
diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping, post-conflict peace-building would, if
implemented, qo a lonq way towards creating a safer world for its peoples.
These proposals, when coupled with the other modes of settlelnent of disputes
set out in the Charter - negotiations, mediation, conciliation, ar~itration
and judicial settlement of disputes through the International Court of
Justice - should provide an appropriate framework for the solution and
elimination of the inter-State conflicts that presently afflict the world.
At a time when it was considered unrealistic because of the cold war to
call for implementation of the collective security provisions of the Charter
for the maintenance of international peace and security, at a time when
States' habit of resorting to force was becoming all too frequent.
The
Government of Sierra Leone had called on this Organization to implement
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
42
(Mr. KQroma. Sierra Leone)
the collective security provisions of the Charter for the maintenaco of
international peace and security.
It is therefore understandable that the
Sierra Leone delegation should wolcome the Secretary-General's call for armed
forces to be made available to the United Nations, both on an ad hoc and on a
permanent basis,
to be deployed as and whenever necessary for the maintenance
of international peace and security. However, such forces, or indeed any
enforcement measure, must not be seen to be undertaken selectively or to serve
narrow national or group interests.
In a similar vein,
the Sierra Leone delegation supports the
recommendation for the creation of peace enforcement units of t~ained
volunteer forces,
to be deployed as a provisional measure in clearly defined
circumstances. The recommendation of pea~3-buildin9' in the form of the
removal of land-mines, development of agricultu1~, improvement of
transportation and utilization of resources, finds favour with my delegation
as well. As in the past,
the Government of Sierra Leone stands ready to make
its contribution to the peace-keeping efforts of this Organization.
While regional arrangements have a role to play in the scheme of dispute
settlement or the provisioA of humanitarian assistance,
the Sierra Leone
delegation is of the view that in our efforts to promote international peace
and security we must guard against regionalizing the world. Although,
the
United Nations remains,
in our view,
the pre-eminent body for the maintenance
of international peace and security, not all regional organizations are
endowed with the material and other resources for peace-keeping. Hence, if
those organizations are to play a meaningful ~ole and help attain the
I
objective of maintaining regional peace and security,
the United Nations will
have to provide them with ~he necessary support and assistance.
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
43
(Mr. Koroma, Sierra Leone)
The Secretary-General also addressed that other prerequisite for the
maintenance of international peace and security:
elimination of abject
poverty among the majority of the world's population and promotion of economic
and social development through international cooperation.
As pointed out in
his rep~rt, new conflicts should not overshadow existing problems of unchecked
population growth; crushing debt problems; drug-trafficking, which threatens
the integrity of some small States; poverty,
famine and disease. Drought and
disease,
the Secretary-General reminded us, can decimate no less mercilessly
than weapons of war; hence the obligation of this Organization to address the
root causes ()f economic decline and under-development in most African
countries. The United Nations must intensify and further internationalize the
development process in Africa. My delegation therefore firmly supports the
recommendation for a reinvigorated Economic and Social Council.
My delegation also welcomes the Secretary-General's reaffirmation that
the foundation of the United Nations is and must remain the State. Respect
for the fundamental sovereignty and integrity o~ the State is crucial to any
common international progress. However, my delegation is of the view that the
principles of sovereignty and non-interference do not absolve national
governments or their agents of responsibility for tyrannizing their
populations or engaging in massive violation of their human rights. When a
population is being held hostage by unrepresentative agents and has to endure
enormous suffering as a result,
this Organization has the duty and the
obligation to come to its rescue and save it from continued suffering.
It should not be forgotten that,
just as the United Nations Charter
itself addresses peoples and not governments,
this Organization, representing
as it does the collective conscience of mankind, should not neglect the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
44-45
(Mr. xoroma, Sierra Leone)
interests of its fundamental constituents. However, such matters are better
determined by the General Assembly than by the Security Council alone.
In
this way,
the confidence and impartiality of such decis~ons cannot be
objectively assailed or impugned, even by those to whom they are directly
addressed.
In this connection, all organs of the United Nations, particularly
the General Assembly, should be seen to be playing their rightful role, not
only to democratize international relations, but also to provide the political
and moral authority necessary to make United Nations decisions acceptable even
by those to whom they are directly addressed.
The Secretary-General's proposals are remarkable and far-reaching; yet
they are based on realism. They also constitute a firm foundation for the
long-term peace of the world.
If implemented,
they would go a long way, not
only towards strengthening the United Nations itself but also towards helping
it to achieve its twin objectives~ the maintenance of international peace and
security and the promotion of cooperation for the socio-economic development
of the majority of its membership. We therefore commend the Secretary-General
on his report and encourage him to continue in this direction.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
46
~YAACQBI (Israel): At the outset,
I would like to congratulate
the President of the General Assembly. We know of his leadership both in his
home country and here at the United Nations, and we are confident that he will
be successful in guiding the current session of the General Assembly.
This is my first address here in the General Assembly.
I would like to
greet everyone -
the President,
the Vice-Presidents,
the Secretary-General,
and the representatives of all Member States - with the traditional Israeli
greeting of shalom, which means peace.
The principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations speak
eloquently of the determination
"to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war •••
to reaffirm
faith in fundamental human rights,
in the dignity and worth of the human
person,
in the equal rights of men and women and of nation3
to
practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good
neighbours, and to unite our strength to maintain international peace and
security ••• and to employ international machinery for the promotion of
the economic and social advan~ement of all peoples
"
Events in the world today present us with many challenges, and we must
address the following questions courageously: Are the words of the Charter
merely words, words, words?
Is it our duty to stop the killing in Bosnia? To
halt terrorism? To enhance democracies rather than totalitarian regimes? To
free the world from hunger? To put it simply, are we truly committed to
carrying out the Charter of the United Nations?
If the answer is no,
then we must confront the question posed by the
Greek orator Demosthenes:
"What greater crime can an orator be charged with
than that his opinions and his language are not the same?"
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
47
(Mr. YaacObi, Israel)
The Secretary-Genlnal's report, "An Agenda for Peace", is a courageous
proposal truly to 9rapple with our commitment to peace and freedom, as it was
set out in the Charter. On behalf of the Government of Israel,
I would like
to express our profound appreciation for the Secretary-General's enlightening
report.
It provides an intriguing and comprehensive basis for significant
discussion about the future direction of the United Nations.
Israel is ready and willing to take an active part in creating a new
political environment. As Foreign Minister Shimon Peres stated before this
Assembly on 1 October 1992,
"The United Nations was established in an era that no longer
. exists. Yet its ideals and structures can meet the challenges and
dangers of this new age. We support the 'Agenda for Peace' offered by
the Secretary-General".
(A/47/PV. 20, pt 46)
A new reality has emerged in the global arena, and we must address it.
No longer is this Organization shackled by the chains of super-Power rivalry.
With the end of the cold war, a new kind of United N~tions is being formed and
moulded. The United Nations must now be a leading force, based on agreement
among Member States that the only escape from hunger,
from misery and from
bloodshed is peaceful, cultured relations among peoples and nations. That was
the vision of the biblical prophets, and that is what is needed for the third
millennium, which is at our doorstep.
As we seek to construct a brighter future, it is imperative that we be
guided by the light of peace and democracy. Many States are putting their
resources,
their human energies and their creativity to waste by continuing to
pursue military and other types of conflict.
If all those resources were
instead devoted to investment in human capital and economic development, we
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.47
48
(Mr. Yaacobi, Israel)
could be improvinq lives rather than ending them.
If we invest in health,
education and science instead of military hardware v
then within one qeneration
mankind could be free from hunger and illiteracy. The choice before us is
between a barren future and a better future.
The other key to mankind's progress is democracy:
the participation of
people in defining their own lives and their own future. Without democracy
there cannot be an environment ·of human rights.
It is a fallacy to think that
human rights can be safeguarded by totali~ariari regimes and military
dictatorships.
Domocracy is an essential component of maintaining peaceful relations
among States. The existence of democratic Government is the central guarantee
for preventing a policy of violence and aggression. Never has one democracy
declared war upon another democracy. That is not the result of chance;
rather, it is the result of the nature of democracies. Therefore,
democratization is not just a political and moral issue; rather it is directly
tied to the existence of peace and stability.
Peace and democracy are the keys to a better world. This must be stated
firmly and clearly.
It is the basic and solid truth, and all of us must
acknowledge it.
The Middle East might be called the land of lost opportunities. Lost
opportunities have carried a very heavy and painful price for the peoples of
the Middle East. Now we have a historic opportunity to change the situation;
to create a new and better future for all of us;
to replace tension with
economic development, war with peace, and rearmament with investment in human
resources.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
49-50
(Mr. YaacObi, Israel)
Egypt and Israel have so far been the only countries in the Middle East
that have courageously not missed an opportunity for peace. Now,. a new window
of opportunity has bea~ opened. Bilateral negotiations are currently being
held between Israel and the neighbouring Arab States and the Palestinians. We
hope that these negotiations will lead to peace treaties, and we hope that
Syria, Jordan, Lebanon and the Palestinians, and Israel, will not miss this
historic moment.
In the light of recent events,
I call for an end to provocative acts of
violence by extremists. We cannot afford to allow them to murder the
prospects for peace.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
51
(Mr. Yaacobi. Israel)
May I assure the Assembly that no provocation will divert Israel from the
peace track. But Israel stands by its right to defend its citizens with its
full force and authority.
The bilateral tulks, as well as the multilateral negotiations, have
created a new dynamic with good prospects.
If there is a breakthrough towards
peace between Israel and Syria, this will be the engine which will lead to a
change in the face of the entire Middle East. Even if this does not occur,
the train will have to go on. We shall not allow the steam to go with the
wind.
An important and encouraging development, even revolutionary in the
history of nations in the Middle East, is the growing awareness of the
interdependence among peace, economic development and well-being.
Peace is therefore likely to be a great lever for regional economic
development. The United Nations,
the United States, Russia,
the Europeans,
Canada, Japan and others can mobilize their expertise and resources in
numerous fields,
including the establishment of a Middle East development
bank. A peaceful environment could free up $30 billion annually from the cost
of defence for progr~s~ and development. Moreover, it will also gradually
allow movement in six major new directions:
the establishment of a Middle
Eastern common market;
the creation of joint ventures, based upon integrated
knowledge, capital and mineral resources from both inside and outside the
region;
the establishment of an integrated network of infrastructure for
ports, airports, railways and energy plants;
the opening of borders for
tourism;
the promotion of cooperation in the fields of health, professional
training, knowledge,
technology and agriculture;
and the removal of all sorts
of boycotts.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.41
52
(~aacobi, Isr.ael)
Only when the guns fall silent and the pe~ples of the ~egion are able to
devote thems&lves to i..mp~OViIi9 d1eir quality of life rather than to military
confrontation and futile hatred will the Middle East once again become a
cradle of civilization. At stu.e are the very li'iTes and well-beinq of
h'Uldreds of millions of people. At sta."t6 is the future of all of us.
Peace and democracy are the key elements to mankind's future progress.
That being the case,
I should like to raise the idea of initiating two task
forces under the authority of the Secretary-General. One task force would be
devoted to enc~araqinq democratization through education about democracy and
free elections. The goal of this United ~ations task force on democracy would
be to create a new st~te of mind regarding the imPortance of democracy for
ensuring human rights. and for improving' the quality of life of people.
The
second propo~ed task force would seet ~o initiate regional cooper~tion in
different parts of the world.
It might be based upon the experience of the
European Community and other reg~cnal frameworks for cooperation. Regional
cooperation is necessary to enhance the ability of developing countries to
cope with the more developed ana wealthier countries of the world.
All qreat achievements in human history were dreams before they became
realities. Our taok as statesmen is to translate the dreams into reality.
David Ben-Gurion,
the founder and first leader of my country, said, "Israel's
future will be determined by its righteousness and strength". With regard to
this Assembly,
I should like to state that our ability to fulfil our duty will
be determined by our righteousness, strength and dedication to the vision and
cause of peace.
Mr. YOa (Republic ot Korea): The United Nations has reached a
crucial stage in its evolution. Today innovative and comprehensive measures
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
S3
(Mr. Yoo. Republic o£ Korea)
are required in order for the Organization to adapt to its complex
responsibilities of the post-cold-var era. As previous speakers have
Gloquently noted,
the Secretary-General, by submitting the report entitled "An
Agenda for Peace" has effectively iuitiated discussions regarding the ability
of the United Nations to ensure global peace and security. Our discussion
today represen~5 one essential step in advancing the dialogue necessary for
future decisions, and thus my delegation would like to take this opportunity
~o touch on some of the proposals contained in the report.
With regard to preventiVe diplomacy there is widespread agreement among
Members that the timely collection of information through formal or informal
fact-finding missions can greatly contribute to the ability of t~e United
Nations to ease tensions before they result in conflict.
In the light of the
overwhelming costs associated with efforts to resolve conflicts after they
have begun,
the concept of preventive diplomacy merits the full support of
Member States.
In this regard my delegation commends the endeavours of the
Secretary-General over the past year and hopes to see his fact-finding role
strengthened. At the same time, we believe that certain aspects of the United
Nations role in preventive diplomacy need further clarification and
elaboration.
For example,
the question of securing the consent of the parties
involved prior to the dispatch of United Nations-authorized fact-finding
missions should be thoroughly examined and decisions should be made only after
all possible implications have been considered.
Regarding the issues related to preventive diplomacy, my delegation
~~coqnizes the usefulness of preventive deployment. A United Nations presence
Q~ployed in a timely fashioA with a clearly defined mandate from the Security
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/47/PV.47
54-55
(Mr. Yoo, Republic of Korea)
Council could help deter the escalation of conflict. My delegation, however,
feels that the question of preventive deployment without the consent of all
parties involved in a potential inter-State dispute needs further study.
Problems arising from the possible erosion of the neutrality of the United
Nations could offset the gains to be expected from such preventive deployment.
My delegation is also concerned with the logistical implications of this
proposal, as the introduction of preventive deployment will inevitably
increase the damand for the already over-extended financial and human
resources of the United Nations. We look forward to discussing this point
along with the merits and the feasibility of preventive deployment.
The report's focus on peacemaking represents a new and important
direction for the Organization. My delegation believes that the provisions of
the Charter on the peaceful settlement of disputes should act as the principal
quidelines for our collective efforts in resolving conflicts. We also find
the proposals for a reinforced role for the International Court of Justice to
be noteworthy.
Indeed,
the recent conclusion of the long-standing boundary
dispute between Honduras and El Salvador should set a good precedent for the
role of the World Court in resolving international disputes.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Al47/PV.47
56
(Mr. Yoo, Republic of Korea)
The report also touches upon the right of States to consult the Security
Council on special economic problems resulting from compliance with United
Nations authorized sanctions, as provided for in Article 50 of the Charter.
In practice, however,
the economic consequences arising from the imposition of
sanctions under Article 41 of the Charter have not been adequately addressed.
My delegation joins the previous speakers who stressed the need for measures
to alleviate such economic difficulties.
Before leaving the topic of peacemaking,
I should like to address the
proposals regarding peace-Gnfo~carnGntunits. Recent events in the former
Yugoslavia and Cambodia have demonstrated the need to ensure full compliance
with cease-fire agreements. Clearly, an enhanced ability on the part of the
United Nations to provide for or realize such compliance would contribute
positively to its credibility. However, various questions must be answered
before the Organization proceeds with any plans to establish peace-enforcement
units.
For example,
to what. extent will United Nations forces be expected to
engage in military enforcement activities? Are Member States ready to make
available a sufficient level of troop strength? How could we determine in
advance which type of force - peace-enforcement or peace-keeping - would be
needed in a particular situation? My delegation believes that these and other
questions merit careful considerati,on by the United Nations membership.
In the area of peace-~eeping, the expansion in both scale and scope of
United Nations peace-keepi4g operations calls for increasing participation by
Member States.
For our part,
the Republic of Korea has recently completed the
I
questionnaire on peace-keeping, and has indicated the areas in which it is
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.47
57
(Mr. Yoo, Republic of Korea)
prepared to contribute to peace-keeping ope~ations. As a new participant, my
country can appreciate the need for a training programme for
peace-keeping-operations personnel, and thus supports the Secretary-General's
recommendations on this subject. We look forward to seeing an extensive
training programme established under the aegis of the United Nations.
The financial difficuLties faced by the United Nations may prevent it
from effectively carrying out its many duties in the future.
Indeed,
the need
for an urgent solution is widely recognized, and to this end,
the Member
States should make it a to~ priority to pay their assessed contributions as
soon as possible.
In the area of peace-keeping, given the increasing scope of operations,
the United Nations cannot be expected to achieve its goals unless it is
provided with adequate financing. The Organization must be able not only to
cover operational costs but also to allocate funds and logistical equipment
quickly so that operations ~an be carried out in a timely manner. When days
can make the precious difference between life and death, clearly the United
Nations can no longer affo'~d the luxury of protracted procedures.
A number of interesting proposals have been put forward to address the
financing of peace-keeping operations, which we believe deserve careful study
by Member States. To facilitate the Organization's peace-keeping function,
especially at the crucial start-up phase, my delegation supports the
establishment of a revolving fund for peace-keeping operations.
In this
regard,
the recent proposal made by Japan to establish a new component in the
working capital fund for p~ace-keeping operations has provided a good basis
for constructive discussioll.
. ••. -6.
. . . . . .
._. ~ •
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
58
(Mr. Yoo, Republic of Korea)
Regarding the proposal for changes in the current special scale of
assessment for peace-keeping operations# my delegation is of the view that
until and unless there emerges a consensus for a new format, it would be
desirable to maintain the present scale.
The Security Council has been the focus of much discussion in recent
years, primarily due to the expanded scope of activities made possible by the
end of the cold war. The Republic of Korea fully supports the heightened role
of the Council in maintaining global peace and security. Given the
implications that Security Council resolutions have for the entire membership,
it may better serve the international community to make consultations more
transparent.
Instituting a mechanism for the Council to hear opinions of the
broadest possible range of Member States will help secure great support for
its decisions. We hope th~t the Council will continue to discharge its
important responsibilities effectively, harmonizing the need for efficiency
and democratization.
The impetus provided by the Security Council meeting of Heads of State or
Government on 31 January continues to have reverberations to this very day.
We must not lose the momentum provided by that meeting, but more importantly,
we must now generate new momentum with the participation of the whole
membership of the United Nations to actually implement the reforms that are
being elaborated by Member States. We hope that this pivotal moment in the
history of the United Natic.ns will someday be remembered as the rebirth of the
Organization and the begillling of a new era based on multilateral cooperation.
Mr. PIBULSONGGRNi (Thailand): History is continually being shaped
by dramatic and rapid developments in international relations. The
ideological barrier that had threatened international peace and security has
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.4?
59-60
(Mr. Pibulsonggraroc Thailand)
collapsed, while the trend towards dialogue and cooperation at both regional
and international levels has been enhanced. A new world order of consensus
and global partnership has seemingly dawned.
This new world order requires not simply economic, political or cultural
cooperation. Rather it in fact demands international cooperative exchange at
all levels and in all fields. Let us refer to this new order as a new United
Nations order in which all nations must come together as one to form a genuine
international community.
While this new world ~rder has initiated renewed hope and con~dence in
the Organization's ability to function as an arbiter for international peace
and security, it is all too, apparent that the task faced by the United Nations
has become increasingly complex as more and greater demands are placed on the
Organization.
Peace is no longer satisfactory if it merely means an absence
of war.
Peace will prevail only when nation-States have achieved their
political stability, economic prosperity and social harmony.
The United Nations mU$.t be revitalized if it is to be able to meet more
I
effectively the demands of today and the expectations of tomorrow.
My delegation therefore welcomes the timely initiative taken by the
Security Council summit meeting last January and wishes to commend the
Secretary-General's efforts in preparing his excellent and comprehensive
report. entitled "An Agenda for Peace". We fully agree that the role of the
United Nations in preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping, as well
as post-conflict peace-bui~ding, should be comprehensively strengthened within
the framework and the provisions of the Charter.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.47
61
(Mr. Pibulsonggram, ~hailand)
I should now like to comment on some very important issues raised by the
Secretary-General, which I believe must be considered thoroughly. First, my
delegation concurs with the Secretary-General's observation that:
"The foundation-stone of [the work of the United Nations] is and
must remain the State."
(A/47/277, para. 17)
Respect for the sovereignty and integrity of States is therefore vital in any
common international undertaking. However,
the complex tasks now faced by the
Organization require as a consequence full cooperation from its Member
States. Member States should therefore seek measures that will help
facilitate the work of the Organization.
On the question of preventive diplomacy, my delegation recognizes that
the ability of the United Nations to perform its tasks effectively depends on
the timely availability of accurate information. The Secretary-General's use
of fact-finding missions is therefore essential. My delegation would like to
see careful consideration given to the Secretary-General's recommendation that
United Nations observers be sent to areas of potential conflict at the request
of Member States to prevent any outbreak of hostilities. We feel that '~ere
is a need for greater clarity regarding the scope of this innovative proposal
and the circumstances under which it would be implemented, because this idea
goes beyond the traditional principle of United Nations peace-keeping
operations and, as several delegations have already mentioned, may well
jeopardize the neutrality of the United Nations.
The United Nations role as peacemaker has been embodied in the spirit of
the Organization from the very beginning, as envisioned in Chapter VI of the
Charter. My delegation therefore supports the Secretary-General's efforts to
strengthen the United Nations role in this field. To achieve this objective,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/47/PV.47
62
(Mr. Pibulsonggram, Thailand)
we believe,
there is a need for greater communication and closer cooperation
between the Security Council, ~e General AssarUbly and ths Secretary-General.
Transparency in the Security Council's decision-making process and effective
consultation with regional organizations and Member States would greatly help
towards this end.
My delegation is fully aware of the economic difficulties often caused
for third countries by the imposition of sanctions under Chapter VII. We
share the Secretary-General's view that those States should have the right to
consult the Security Council. The Council should also devise a set of
measures,
involving the financial institutions of the United Nations system,
to help insulate States from such difficulties.
Let me now turn to the question of peace-keeping operations. With new
and troubling conflicts this year, we have seen a major increase in United
Nations peace-keeping and peacemaking activities, such as the United Nations
Protection Force in the former Yugoslavia and the United Nations Operation in
Somalia,
to name but two. As we speak,
there are reports of renewed conflict
in southern Lebanon. This increase in the number of operations has been
accompanied by an increase in complexity both in components and in goals.
United Nations peace-keepers now include soldiers, police, civilian
administrators, diplomats, engineers and poll watchers. Although
peace-keeping operations continue to monitor ceasefires, much more is now
expected.
The Secretary-General's proposal to establish a United Nations stand-by
force thus deserves serious consideration. Situations are not only
foreseeable, but have actually occurred, wherein forces and other personnel
resources are needed at very short notice.
To meet such a need, Member States
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/471PV.47
63
(Mr, PibulsoXlggram, Thailand)
might be asked to earmark certain military forces that could be deployed for
peace-keepinq gpe~ations.
We can see that much of the success of all peace-keeping activities
depends on the prior training of personnel, The need for a uniform standard
of logistic procedures is self-evident. The Secretariat might designate a
focal point for training activities. Regional and national training centres
might be established, with the possibility of an annual peace-keeping
fellowship programme in order to provide an additional opportunity for States
to train their personnel.
Thailand always stands ready to be of service to the United Nations in
its important peace-keeping role.
In the past we have participated in several
United Nations peace-keeping operations, such as the United Nations Transition
Assistance Group in Namibia ,and the United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observation
Mission. We also sent 50 military personnel to join the United Nations guard
contingent in Iraq. Closer to home, Thailand has rendered its full support to
the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC).
At the request of the Secretary-General, this year my Government
dispatched an engineer battalion to serve under UNTAC in Cambodia.
In light
of the election scheduled to be held under UNTAC supervision in May next year,
the task of the Thai battalion is not only important and urgent, but dangerous
.
as well.
It is mandated to clear mines and to help prepare the Cambodian
infrastructure. These actilities will help prepare the groundwork for the
operations of UNTAC and the repatriation of more than 370,000 displaced
persons who had sought refuge in Thailand.
In addition, Thailand dispatched
15 military and military police personnel to serve at UNTAC Headquarters in
Phnom Penh. Thai territory has also been used as a staging area for the
operations of UNTAC.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
I
A/47/FV.4i
64-65
(Mr. Pibulsonggrarn. Thailand)
It is our firm belief that the United Nations peace-keeping operations
are too vital to the maintenance of world peace to remain hostage to financial
and budgetary restrictions. While monthly expenditures for all peace-keeping
operations amount to approximately $220 million, unpaid contributions to these
operations remain high - well over $600 million. The key to solving this
intractable problem still lies in Member States' paying their asse~sed
contributions in full and on time.
Since this is not possible, for a variety
of reasons, ranging from inability to pay through delays caused by different
national bUdgetary systems to unwillingness to pay, we welcome the
Secretary-Generalis bold and innovative proposal to establish a temporary
peace-keeping reserve fund of $50 million as a means to alleviate the
financial problems,
in particular the start-up cost of peace-keeping
operations.
My delegation also welcomes the Secretary-General's other proposals,
v~ich aim at creating a ~ound and stable financial basis for future
operations, such as the peace endowment fund. We agree that such a fund can
be created by a combination of assessed and voluntary contributions, with the
latter being sought not only from Governments, but from the private sector and
individu&ls as well. Other contributions in kind from the private sector,
such as vehicles or equipment, should also be considered.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
Af47;PV.47
66
(Mr. Pibulsonggram, Thailand)
My delegation wishes co emphasize our belief that the financing of
peace-keeping operations is a matter of the collective responsibility of all
Member States. What better way to show our commitment to the Organization
than by paying our contributions in full and on time?
At a time when the eyes of the world are on the United Nations as the
best hope for the maintenance of international peace and security,
the
Secretary-Gene~al's report is timely. My delegation is prepared to take part
in the examination and consideration of the ideas and proposals contained in
his report. We therefore think that the establishment of an open-ended
working group, as proposed by several delegations, would be most useful.
It
would provide a forum for all Member States and the relevant organs of the
United Nations to consider this document, which is of fundamental
importance
to the Organization, and to make their respective contributions to any new
direction the United Nations may take.
As I said at the beqinning of my statement,
international events have
shown the United Nations to be a vital instrument for the maintenance and
enhancement of international peace and security. We have been following
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's first year in office with keen
interest and admiration. He has our full support in his attempts to reform
and to revitalize this Organization so that it may better serve mankind as a
new millennium approaches.
I can find no words that can better prescribe what we must do together
than those so eloquently said by the Secretary-General himself:
"Yesterday's conflicts are no longer today's conflict. Let us join hands
to prevent today's conflicts from becoming tomorrow's conflicts."
These are words that we should all heed.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
- - - - - - - - - - - -
Al471PV.47
67
Mr. DIAW (Mali) (interpretation from French): My c1ele9a~ion
welcomes this opportunity to speak on agenda item 10, the importance of which
is so clear.*
May I first repeat our heartfelt congratulations to you, Mr. President,
on your election to the presidency of the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly, and convey to the Secretary-General, His Excellency
Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
the high esteem my delegation has for the
comprehensive,
in-depth reports he has produced on the work of the
Organization (A/4711) and on "An Agenda for Peace" (Al47/277).
The documents now before the Assembly are certainly a valid working
instrument that we should use as rationally as possible in order to enable the
international community finally to start moving towards the noble purposes of
the Charter, which are:
"to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war ••• to reaffirm
faith in fundamental human rights ••• to establish conditions under which
justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other
sources of international law can be maintained ••• to promote social
progress cmd better standards of life in larger freedom".
Documents A/47/l and A/47/277, despite thei~ undeniable qualities,
nevertheless call for a few comments that we shall present, succinctly, since
most of them have already been touched on by previous speakers,
in particular
the Ambassador of Indonesia speaking on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement,
whose analysis I share.
*
The President returned to the Chair.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryI
A/47/PV.47
68
(MI..z...-Diaw« Mali)
Turning to the work of the Organization, we believe that the time has
come to make full use of what is termed the peace dividend.
In order to do
this,
the United Nations must abandon the attitude which was able to conceive
of the world only in terms of antagonistic blocs. The end of the cold war now
means that we can renounce that kind of thinking and adopt a different type of
behaviour. As the Secretary-General says, we are living in a period of hope
that must be transformed into a period of achievement through a new spirit of
solidarity, strengthened determination and bold action.
The winds of democracy that have been blowing since 1989 have left no
continent untouched. This has been reflected in the liberation of peoples in
several States that have become Members of our Organization,
thus increasing
the workload and the responsibilities of the Secretary-General. Consequently,
the needs that the Organization must meet are increasing in number and variety.
But, of course, nothing in all of this should affect the efforts to be
made by the team that holds the reins of our Organization. The work of the
Organization must go on and be stepped up, parti
.
.r.ly in the area of
peace-keeping operations, good offices, preventive diplomacy, humanitarian
missions, emergency relief and technical cooperation and cultural activities
in the developing countries.
My delegation shares the view of the Secretary-General regarding the
rationalization of the Secretariat, which necessarily implies the clos~st
possible cooperation between Member States,
the Secretary-General and the
staff. This is the only way that a viable restructuring can be carried out,
in the best interests of the Member States and the staff. We also support any
restructuring process in the economic and social field whose end purpose is to
enable the Secretariat to respond,
in a timely and coordinated manner,
to
complex emergency situations and to development priorities.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.47
69-70
(Mr, Ciaw, Mali)
We welcome the Secretary-General's initiative aimed at boosting
capability in respect of good offices, preventive diplomacy, peacemaking,
early warning research and analysis, and at strengthening the Secretariat's
capacity for planning and management in the area of peace-keeping. Our
Organization must from now on be able to rise to the new challenges and
respond to new objectives, specifically those which were recently defined at
the Rio de Janeiro Conference in respect of sustainable development and the
environment.
£
w, Malil
has
to do
onceive
war now
type of
f hope
irit of
t no
pies in
easing
quently,
variety.
to be
f
the
.rian
vities
the
.est
the
,d out,
,port any
,se is to
to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
71
(Mr. Diaw. Mali)
In order to achieve this goal ~a urge the Secretary-General to pursue
his approach to ~e concept of the international civil survice and the
improvement of conditions of employment,
including salaries,
long-term
recruitment policies,
the remuneration structure and career development. We
believe that in order to attain these noble goals the Organization neeols
increased financial resources. But as a representative from one of the least-
developed countries, would I be acting responsibly in going along with a
policy which would demand payment of interest on any portion of assessments
not paid in time by a Member State? Of course not.
To ensure the financial
stability of our Organization, we must consider other means of paying assessed
contributions commensurate with each country's real economic capacity.
But my delegation does support the idea of establishing a $50 million
reserve fund for peace-keeping operations, which would finance the start-up of
peace-keeping operations pending the payment of assessed contributions.
In his report the Secretary-General advocates a world partnership for
development that he deems to be feasible if an integrated approach to
development is adopted. My delegation agrees with this way of tackling the
problem because we are convinced that political progress and economic
development are linked and must be given the same attention by the developing
countries and by the industrialized countries -
the former, constantly
concerned about how to mitigate their poverty;
the latter, anxious to avoid
economic stagnation at all costs.
Economic solidarity seems to us to be the
only choice for building a viable future for all.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.47
72
(Mr. Diaw, Mali)
Turning to human rights, we b!lieve that "An Agenda for Peace" is
deserving of the attention that the international community has been giving it
since the beginning of our work on agenda item 10.
~he Organization has exerted considerable efforts to ensure the
maintenance of peace throughout the world. These efforts deserve increased
support, given the fact that there are more, rather than fewer, hotbeds of
tension. The policy of dispatching United Nations forces would gradually give
way to preventive diplomac~!, which has the advantage of avoiding armed
conflicts, or at least containing them, and thus saving many lives.
In conclusion, may I once again express my delegation's total support
for the reports that the Secretary-General has placed before u~ at this
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, and express the hope that this
wealth of material will be the effective instrument the international
community was waiting for :.n order finally to meet the many challenges on the
road to renewal.
The PRESIDENT:
We have heard the last speaker on this item.
The 167 statements made during the Assembly's general debate and the 65
statements heard so far un·jer agenda item 10, "Report of the Secretary-General
on the work of the Organization",
inclUding the report "An Agenda for Peace",
affirm the view that the membership of the United Nations as a whole has
welcomed the report of the Secretary-General as a very important contribution
at this turning point in the Organization's history.
;
It is fair to say that
the end of the cold war no~ only affords an opportunity but makes it necessary
I
to undertake with a sense of urgency a comprehensive set of actions Gr.d
reforms in the direction t.'le Secretary-General has pointed out.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.. 4.7
73
(~e President)
I should like to recall that the Secretary-General has made it clear
that. he has not put his recommendations forward as a package and that it is up
to the Member States to decide which recommendation to act on and in what form.
During the Assembly' s general debate a number of important and
interesting proposals were made, and many far-reaching ideas have been put
forward during the debate on this item. They form a solid basis for our work
in the future.
I should like to thank the representatives of all the
delegations that contributed to the fruitful consideration of this item.
Debate is an importB.nt part of the road that we have yet to cover in
order to reach practical results.
It is now time for the Main Committees,
within their respective spheres of competence,
to do their part and contribute
to the attainment of our objective of revitalizing the United Nations.
I attach great importance to the informal consultations on this item
with representatives of Member States.
I
intend to establish immediately,
with the participation of the Chairmen of the Main Committees, a working
mechanism through which we will coordinate our further activities. This
mechanism will be finally constituted after the conclusion of the informal
consultations and discussions which I am now conducting as President of the
General Assembly.
It is customary for the Assembly to take note of the annual report of
the Secretary-General.
If I hear no objection, may I consider that the
Assembly wishes to take note of the report of the Secretary-General?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: We have concluded this stage of our consideration
of agenda item 10.
The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library