UNITED'
NATIONS
General Assembly
A
PROVISIONAL
Al471PV.46
6 November 1992
ENGLISH
Forty-seventh session
PROVISIONAL VERBA7IM RECORD OF THE 46th MEETING
Held at Headquarters, New York,
on Monday, 26 October 1992, at 3 p.m.
President:
later~
Mr. GAHEV
Mr. MOUMIN
.(Vice-President)
(Bulqaria)
(Comoros)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization:
reports of the Secretary-General [10] (continu~)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English
and interp=etations of speech6s in the other languages. The final text will
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembl~.
Cor~ections should be submitted to original speeches only. They should
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation c~lncerned, within
one week,
Services,
the record.
to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference
room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of
92-61586
2339V (E)
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- -_ ._ - - - - - - -
Al471PV.46
2-5
The meetipg was called to or~er at 3,25 p,m.
AGENDA ITEM 10 (cQntinued)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL ON THE WORK OF THE ORGANIZATION:
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/47/l, Al47/277)
REPORTS OF
Mr. ABU ODER (Jordan) (interpretatiQn frQm Arabic): At the outset,
I shQuld like to thank YQU~ Mr. President, for arranging to have this meeting
devQted tQ discussing the Secretary-General's report, "An Agenda for Peace",
in response to the wishes of several groups and in appreciation Qf the
importance of tb~ matter.
The Secretary-General's repQrt, as pQinted out therein, drew upQn ideas
and propQsals transmitted to the Secretary-General by GQvernments, regiQnal
agencies, nQD-governmental OrganizatiQns and institutiQns as well as by
individuals from many cQuntries. This leads tQ the cQnclusion that the
cQntents ot the repQrt represent a world trend that has the potential Qf
crystallizing and becQming,
in time, a general international apprQach,
My delegatiQn agrees with the Secretary-General that, with the end Qf the
CQld war,
the wQrld has reg~ined a valuable QppQrtunity tQ achieve the great
Qbjectives of the United Nations Charter and that such an Qpportunity shQuld
never be squandered like Qther previQus oppQrtunities that were lost because
the CQld war had paralysed the United Nations and weakened it.
PrQceeding
frQm this, my delegatiQn takes pleasure in participating in this discussion.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
6
(Mr. AbU Od~), Jordan)
Although the =oncept of prevent~ve diplomacy is ~ot new to the United
Nations, it has been creatively developed in the report at the levels of
theory and practice. While preventive diplomacy meant, ~hen it first emerged
at the end of the first decade after the establishment of the Organization,
intervention by the Organization in areas of conflict to fill the vacuum and
prevent intervention by any of t~e Powers of the then rival camps, it now
means, as defined in the Secretary-Generalis report the easing of tensions
before they turn into conflicts,
the prevention of aisputes amongst countries
and the prevention of the escalation of disputes into art.led conflicts once
they arise. Thus, preventive diplomacy is more effective and less ~ostly than
the other means available to the Organization to intervene in conflicts,
inclUding peace-keeping operations.
My delegation agrees with the Secretary-General that it is important to
take all possible measures with the aim of confidence building between the
parties to the conflict,
including the exchange of information on armaments in
orde= to stem arms proliferation, particularly weapons of mass destruction,
in
areas of potential conflict.
Furthermore, Jordan supports the need to enhance the Secretary-Generalis
role in taking the initiative, when sensing any disputes that may threaten
international peace and security, by alerting the Security Council,
in order
to send in fact-finding missions in line with Article 99 of the Charter as
time is of the essence in enabling the United Nations to take the necessary
measures to reduce tension and to de-escalate and defuse conflicts.
My delegation also supports making available to the Secretary-General the
necessary technical financidl resources for the fact-finding missions using
all the facilities made available by the parties to the conflict.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA147/PV.46
7
(Mr. Abu Odeh, Jordan)
Jordan believes that early warning is very important in monitoring
disputes that could escalate into armed conflict and is a very necessary
co~structive idea if we want the United Nations to prevent the eruption of
armed conflicts.
The responsibility of Member States as we see it is not confined to
"
making available the resources necessary for United Nations intervention but
also includes the responsibility stipulated in Article 35 of the Charter which
makes it incumbent on Member States to bring to the attention of the Security
Council any dispute in any region that may degenerate into a conflict and
thereby threaten international peace and security.
There is no doubt that reluctance on the part of Member States to do that
limits the efficacy of the United Nations role. The responsibility of early
warning is the collective responsibility of the Secretary-General,
the
Secu~ity Council and the Member States.
The peacemaking process mentioned in the report means the prevention and
removal of future disputesthrouqh reconciliation between the parties by
peaceful means. This could be attained through SQch means as are suggested in
Chapter VI of the Charter.
We believe that this is a sound approach and support it, assuming that it
must also apply to existing and chronic regional and international conflicts
since failure to resolve su~h conflicts will threaten international peace and
security as well as the very credibility of the United Nations.
We should like to stress in this respect that recourse to the provisions
of Chapter VI of the Charter and the machinery stipulated therein for the
s~ttlement of disputes is nJt optional to the parties to a dispute, but a
duty. Member States should adhere to those provisions and thereby uphold the
Charter and enhance the credibility of the Organization.
By so doing, Member
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.46
8
(Mr. Abu OdM, Jordan)
States would be active in maintaining international peace and security by
civilized humanitarian means in a spirit of fairness and equality.
Recourse to the measures outlined in Chapter VII of the Charter should be
a last resort, after all other peaceful means have been eZbausted.
Like the framers of the Charter, we recoqnize the seriousness,
sensitivity and cost of having recourse to the provisions of Chapter VII to
achieve peace. Therefore, my delegation would emphasize strongly the need not
to side-step Articles 33, 36, 37 and 38 of Chapter VI of the Charter which
constitute the proper approach for the peaceful settlement of disputes. The
application of the provisions ef those articles meticulously and in good faith
should be a iegal and humanitarian precondition of applying the provisions of
Chapter VII of the Charter.
The decision to use force ~s provided for in Article 42 of Chapter VII
must be made by the Security Council which should determine, with the
.
assistance of the Military Staff Committee,
the strength of the participating
~
contingents and the plans for military action in accordance with Articles 4S
and 46 of th6 Charter.
The peacemaking process should not be the preserve of the Security
Council alone, nor of any principal organ of the United Nations
independentally. Any peace process must be conducted jointly by the Security
Council and the General Ass~mbly through which the democratic character of the
United Nations is assure4.
The enchancement of tha United Nations role in the area of international
peace and security requires the strengthening of all United Nations organs,
especially the General Assembly with its universal character and important
role in the peacemaking process referred to in many of the articles of the
Charter.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryW471PV.46
9
(Mr. Abu OdP. Jordan)
Recourse to the International Court of Justice should be encouraged also
in cases involving issues and disputes on which the Court can give an opinion
as explained in Article 36 of the Statute of the Court, especially since
Article 94 of the Charter provides that each Member of the United Nations
undertakes to comply with the decision of the International Court of Justice
in any case to which it is a party.
My delegation supports the proposals made by the Secretary-General in "An
Agenda for Peace" to activa:e the International Court of Justice.
c
Imposing sanctions on a State as provided for in Article 41 is done with
the aim of 8chi@ving peace.
Implementing such sanctions is entrusted to all
Member States. This creates economic difficulties for some States, especially
those which havo close economic and trade ties with the country against which
sanctions are applied.
Therefore, compliance ~y such States with resolutions impo~ing embargoes
is tantamount to penalizing them unle~s those problems are resolved in
accordance with Article 50 of the Charter.
In order ~o achieve that goal,
suitable machinery must be found to implement that Article with the speed and
efficiency required to avoid causing damage to the affected countries.
The idea of establishi~g peace enforcement units in the context of the
Agenda seems to be in harmony with the role required of the United Nations in
certain situations where the nature of the event is beyond the capabilities of
the peace-keeping forces.
~y delegation wishes to emphasize in this regard
the necessity for such forcas to act under the terms of Article 41 of the
Charter.
Since its inception, ~~e United Nations bas played an important role in
bringing hostilities to an lod and in the easing of tension in a number of
hotbeds of conflict in the world through the use of its peace-keeping forces.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
10
(Mr. Abu Odeh, Jordan)
Although the deployment of such forces does not constitute a solution to the
problem, their presence makes a positive contribution to defusing the
situation and creating a quieter atmosphere conducive to movement towards
peace.
A salient proof of the success of peace-keeping operations and the
confidence placed in them by the world is the fact that there has been an
increased demand for them all over the world, especially in recent years as
shown in the Secretary-General's report.
This expanded use of ~e peace-keeping forces of the United Nations
indicates that their role will remain important for a long time to come.
Hence,
the need to develop this unique innovation of the United Nations so
that it k~ay move from the stage of being used in isolated cases into the stage
of becoming a part of the military dogma of the armed forces of the various
Member States.
In order for us to reach such a stage, my delegation deems it necessary
to start creating the appropriate nucleus.
In order to do so, we propose the
following: First,
that symposia be organized to bring ~ogether the Chiefs of
Staff of the armed forces taking part in all United Nations operations with a
view to learning the lessons of these operations and assessing their successes
and the difficulties they face and thereby arriving at firm bases for
improving the performance of such forces and developing patterns of training
and preparation for participation in approved operations. The participating
States should have the requIred preparedness and equipment to participate
promptly and effectively in such operations if and when the need arises.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
11
(Mr, Abu Odehe Jordan)
Secondly, that consideration be given to the possibility of
participation by forces of contributing countries in periodical joint
exercises. This would facilitate cooperation among them in the future and
infuse them with the esprit de corps when called upon.
Thirdly, that Member States which have the required technical
capability,
including means of transportation, should contribute part
thereof and keep it in a state of readiness at all times so that the
United Nations may readily and promptly avail itself of such contribution
and thereby save the time that is wasted usually in searching for the
required logistical support.
Making peace-keeping operations part of the military dogma of the
armies of States Members of the United Nations is undoubtedly extremely
important, not only at the military level but also at the level of
creating and developing sentiments of peace and confidence amongst those
States and their peoples.
My country, which is proud of contributing a substantial number of
its military personnel and civilian police to a number of peace-keeping
operations, is very happy to announce its readiness always to respond
positively, within its means,
to any further requests by the United
Nations in this regard.
The Charter devoted Chapter VIII to regional arrangements or
agencies. The nature and mandates of such agencies vaxy from one region
to the other. Excluding the alliances of a purely military nature,
regional groupings are usually based on cooperation in the economic and
social fields and on collective security. These are the agencies that
could play a role in discharging the tasks enumerated in "An Agenca for
Peace".
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
12
(Mr. Abu Odeh, Jordan)
Although there are cases where such organizations have been successful,
e~pecially in recent times, as indicated in the report of the
Secretary-General,
they were often, and for so many years, unable to make a
serious contribution to the maintenance of peace and security in the regions
or to the resolution of outstanding disputes.
I need not enumerate here the situations that arise in our region, where
the relevant organizations failed to discharge their responsibilities, whether
in preventive diplomacy or in the settlement of disputes by peaceful means, or
even in peace-keeping and peace-building operations. This,
in fact, applies
to the UnitEJd Nations also.
If we look for the reasons behind this, we find
that most important among them is the lack of ag~eement by parties to a
dispute or members of an organization to have recourse to their organization
or to accept it as a body that can contribute to finding & solution to the
problem. This is one aspect of the question.
The other aspect lies in our understanding of the nature of the
relationship between such organizations and the United Nations, particularly
the Security Couucil.
It is true that the Security Council has primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security world
wide. However,
this does not preclude regional organizations front playing an
effective and pioneering role in this respect.
Indeed we see a necessity for
encouraging such organizations to take the initiative to solve disputes in
coordination with the Security Council and in conformity with Chapters VI
and VIII of the Charter.
My country feels that the League of Arab States, as a regional
organization, can play a constructive role in supporting the objectives and
principles of the United Nations. This requires,
in our opinion,
intensive
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
13
(Mr. Abu Odeh. Jordan)
and extensive consultations between representatives of the secretariats of the
two organizations.
The third aspect concerns the role within the Security Council of
interregional organizations and movements, such as the Movement of Non-Aliqned
Countries. First of all, we have to admit that member States of the Security
Council, permanent and non-permanent alike, must reflect the collective
position of the States Members of the United Nations and distance themselves
as far as possible from pursuing their own interests or imposing their own
views.
Jordan believes that the member States of the Non-Aliqned Movement are
well-equipped to play a positive role within the Security Council and within
the Un!' ;d Nations system as a whole. Other States ano groups of States,
particularly the permanent members of the Security Council, must view this
role with a qreater degree of understanding.
Jordan also believes that the
composition of the Security Council needs to be reviewed so that it may become
more representative ano thereby reflect existing international realities,
promote confidence in the United Nations and in its democratic nature, and
thus discharge the major tasks enumerated in the report.
Money is the prerequisite of the success of the plan embodied in the
"Agenda for Peace". The Secretary-General's report reminCis us of the
financial situation of the United Nations. Arrears of States from their
assessad contributions reached $908.5 million in September 1992. Arrears due
for peace-keeping operations durin~ the same period were $814.4 million. This
is a most serious matter, especially with regard to its negative impact on the
ability to achieve the desired goals and to implement the relevant
programmes.
It also makes it difficult to plan for the long term, or even to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.46
14
(Mr. Abu 90eh. JQrdan)
meet
immediate needs Qr tQ undertake urqently needed activities, such as
peace-keeping QperatiQns.
It is therefQre imperative tQ address the financial crisis, which is due
in large part to nQn-payment by SQme States, especially the larger
contributors, Qf their full assessment on time.
JQrdan, which has always paid its cQntributiQns Qn time and in full,
cQncu~s with the prQpQsals Qf the Secretary-General in the area Qf finance,
in
particular those calling for renewable and predictable ~esources.
The Secretary-General was right when he stressed in "An Agenda fQr Peace"
the necessity for dealinq in a wider sense with the rQQt causes of cQnflict,
which he summarized as eCQnQmic frustratiQn, sQcial injustice and pQlitical
Qppression. The aqenda, hQwever,
though it analyses in detail the ways and
means Qf consolidating peace, which analysis cQnstituted,
tQgether with the
recQmmendatiQns and prQpQsals of the Secretary-General,
the bulk Qf the
report, made a passing reference only to the three deep causes Qf cQnflict
whose interdependence (which may ba summed up in the one word:
development)
is quite clear to all.
TherefQre, my cQuntry deems it necessary tQ start drawing up a plan fQr
develQpment that would cQmplement "An Agenda fQr Peace" and make it an
integrated global effort.
Talking of "An Agenda for Peace" will naturally lead us to pay attention
to the future. My country's delegation wishes in this regard to warn that
paying attention to the future does not mean ignoring the problems that we
have lived with throughout the past era, and with which we continue to live,
namely,
the problems of debt, poverty and disease which,
like chrQnic
cQnflict~, liks the questiQ1 of Palestine and like the Middle E&st cQnflict,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
15
(Mr. Abu Odeh, JprdM)
still weigh hea~ily on our shoulders es we prepare to enter upon the nev era.
Giving serious attention to solving these problems is a matter of great
importance..
'00 that they may not sap our strength, as they did in the past,
and diminish our enthusiasm and readiness to contribute to building the world
envisaged in the Charter of the United Nations.
Finally,
the world, with all its countries and peoples, is passing
through a stage of ~ransition. The United Nations itself is no exception.
Therefore, we all live in a state of dialogue, both internationally and
nationally. The "Agenda for Peace" which we are considering is an outt.'tanding
contribution that nourishes and enriches this dialogue. Therefore, my
country's delegation supports the call for the creation of an open-ended
working group of the General Assembly to study the results of the ongoing
discussion and to follow up in ordor to reach a consensus that would make "An
Agenda for Peace" a solid and clear framework for international action and
ensure a safe entry upon the new era, at the threshold of which the world now
stands. A major guarantee for achieving this goal is the enhancemont of the
General Assembly's role and the promotion of the democratic proceos therein.
This will ensure the credibility of the United Nations and enable it to
shoulder its heavy responsibilities.
It is the Organization to which
countries attach their hopes and which they trust will enable th~m to live in
an interdependent world of peace, security and prosperity.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.46
16
Hr. GAMBABI
(NAgt::ria):
The Nigerian delegation is pleased to
address the Assembly on the subject of the report of the Secretary-General
entitled "An Agenda for Peace" (A/471277). The report undoubtedly repreSl!nts
a significant contribution to international efforts to achieve durable peace
in the post-cold-war era.
Indeed, it goes a long way in the quest to
strengthen the United Nations so that it c:an effectively grapple with the new
challenges and opportunities which have become manifest since the end of the
cold war.
The Secretary-General's report focuses on preventive diplomacy,
peacemaking and ~aace-keeping. Other aspects dwell on post-conflict
peace-b\'ildinq and cooperation with regional arrangements and organizations,
as well as on the financing of the United Nations. His analysis and
recommendations on these issues chart new perspectives in the ongoing efforts
to revitalize the United Nations.
It is therefore fitting and proper to
express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for the thoughts that went
into the preparation of the report.
The idea and practice of preventive diplomacy emerged in the era of the
cold war.
Essentially, it ~as meant to isolate super-Powers from involvement
in regional conflict situations so as to avoid the exacerbation of such
situations. With the end qf super-Power rivalry,
the post-cold-war
environment is most approp~iate for the full development of preventive
diplomacy and related methods for the maintenance of international peace and
security. We recognize that the currents of democratization sweeping through
various parts of the world and the commitment of many States to uphold the
human rights of their citizens contribute to this favourable environment.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
17
(Mr. Gamblri, Nigeria)
Although the Security Council has a primary res~onsibiiity for the
mai~tenance of international peace and security as provided for in Chapter VI
of the Charter, particularLy in Articles 33, 34 and 36,
the same Charter, in
Articles 10 to 15, also assigns to t~e General Assembly a complementary role.
Given its broad representation and on the basis of our exper~ence as Chairman
of the Special Committee o~ Peace-keeping Operations, my delegation believes
that the General Assembly should be an effective partner in the maintenance of
international peace and security. The active involvement or participation of
these two organs of the United Nations in ~ha conceptualization and
implementation of proposals for preventive diplomacy, eeace-keeping and
post-conflict peace-bui.lding would strengthen the capacity of our Organization
to deal effectively wif:h acts of aggression involving big and small Powers
alike.
My delegation welcomes the Secretary-General"s initiatives on preventive
diplomacy throu~h the use of an early warning system, preventive deployment,
and the establishment of demilitarized zones as peace buffers between warring
factions. Concepts such as preventive deplgyment, early warning systems, and
the creation of military zones are none the les6 primarily ~nilitary holding
actions prior to the resolving of conflicts. Therefore, a complete peace
process should embrace other non-military means of achieving peace,
including
in particular the use of political and diplomatic means.
Such measures, if
carefully applied, would h~ve the advantage of cost-effectiveness in addition
to being more effi~ient in ~ro-emptin9 conflict situations. We must also
stress that fact-finding missions should take due cognizance of the
sovereignty of the States in question. My delegation is of the view that
parties to conflicts and other relevant interests should always offer maximum
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Librarya
I
l!'gO,I.1 J
e
pter VI
er,
in
y role.
bairman
Heves
nance of
t::ion of
i
lization
ters
'entive
llIent,
>arring
s, and
ding
ce
lUdinq
• if
lition
10
,t
ximum
A/47/PV.46
18
(Mr. Gambari, Nigeria)
cooperation for the success of such diplomatic and peace-seeking efforts
undertaken by the United Nations.
The Nigerian delegation has given serious consideration to the issue of
the preventive deployment of troops to conflict areas. We are of the view
that it is important to ensure that such deployments take full account of
domestic political circumstances and sensitivities.
The United Nations should
avoid taking any action that could escalate conflicts and undermine the
administration of humanitarian assistance to victims.
We welcome the Secretary-General's assurance that such deployments:
"would not be an infringement of that State's sovereignty or be contrary
to Article 2, paragraph 7, of the Charter, which refers to matters
essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State".
(A/47/277,
para. 30)
We believe that there is need to ensure that adequate care is taken not
to
compromise the neutrality of the United Nations.
Regional arrangements were given a role in the maintenance of
international peace and security in the Charter. Articles 52, 53 and 54 spell
out clearly what is expected of regional organizations.
In 1982,
the
Organization of African Unity undertook a peace-keeping mission in Chad.
In
West Africa,
the Economic Community of West African States has, since 1990,
been engaged in sustained efforts to achieve peace in Liberia. At present,
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe is seized of peace
efforts in Yugoslavia. All these actions are in line with the regional
arrangements as envisioned in the Charter and emphasized in the "Agenda for
Peace". We welcome them.
We cannot but observe that some regional organizations are prevented by
inadequate resources from effectively fulfilling the role assigned to them
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
19
(Mr. Gambari. NigeriEl)
under Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. Accordingly,
the United
Nations should assist such regional organizations,
through the provision of
resources and logistical support, so as to enabl~ them to be an effective
partner. of the United Nations in the maintenance of !nternational peace and
security. A credible role for regional organizations ;\n the maintenance of
international peace and security would alleviate the inoreasing demands on the
United Nations and would also eubance the rapid deployment of troops to areas
of conflict.
New developments in the world have expanded the scope of peace-keeping.
From interposing United Nations troops in conflict situations with the consent
of the parties in dispute, peace-keeping has come to embody such other
activities as election monitoring, humanitarian assistance, and the building
of political institutions. The United Nations has therefore assumed much
greater responsibility today than ever before in the history of the
Organization. The signs are that it will continue to do so in the emerging
new world order.
The cost and bltrden of peace-keeping have been correspondingly enormous
and will continue to grow. Projected estimates for ongoing peace-keeping
operations for the next year is put at $3 billion. Since the United Nations
was established, its peace-keeping operations have been dogged by financial
difficulties, due in part ~o ideological conflicts and the disputed mandates
of some peace-keeping operations.
In this post-cold-war era, we expect Member
States seriously to seek a solution to this perennial financial problem. This
will distribute evenly the burden of peace-keeping operations, as some
countries, apart from making contributions, also have troops in the field.
Not only is Nigeria a troop-contributing country, but our country has also
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
20
(Mr. Gambari. Nigeria)
endeavoured to m~et its financial obligations to all United Nations
peace-keeping operations. We therefore wholeheartedly support the
Secretary-General's recommendation for the establishment of a revolving
peace-keeping reserve fund. We also appeal to all Member States to fulfil
their financial obligation~ to ensure the success of ongoing and future
peace-keeping operations to be undertaken by the United Nations.
The Nigerian delegation is concerned at the increased attacks on United
Nations peace-keeping personnel. Efforts should therefore be made to protect
such personnel. Any unprovoked attack on peace-keeping personn~l should
attract appropriate international sanctions.
The absence of war is not the equivalent of peace. Accordingly, while
attention has rightly been devoted to curbing aggression and conflicts, other
threats to international peace and security merit serious attention if we are
to build the structures of true and lasting peace. Therefore,
the
international community as a whole must urgently address the problems of
poverty,
the problems of economic and social development, and the problems of
I
environmental degradation - problems which threaten many countries,
particularly countries in the South.
In conclusion, my delegation strongly endorses the view that the root
causes of war and the deepest sources of international tension are economic
despair, social injustice, and political oppression. A true agenda for peace
must therefore reflect as ~uch concern for non-military threats to
international peace and security as it does for military ones. Ultimately, a
peace which is not based on the dignity Qf mankind; which is not based on
respect for human rights; and which is not based on international law and
equity in inter-State relations, cannot endure.
,
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library-------------------
Mr. PASHOVSKI (Bulgaria):
I would like to begin by expressing
satisfaction about the fact that the new role of the United Notions in the
post-cold-war period has become a subject of thorough and extremely useful
discussion from the very start of thi~ General Assewbly session.
Indeed, we
are entering a new exa, and in order to be able to respond successfully to the
new situation, it is imperative that the Organization adapt its activities to
the changing international environment.
It is also very important to widen
and strengthen cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and
other international organizations and regional arrangemsats. The security
problems of our interdependent world could be resolved most effectively by
combining the potential of these structures to form an interlocking and
mutually reinforcing system. The United Nations, as the universal body with
the widest responsibilities, is called upon to play the leading role in this
network of global and regional organizations.
In my statement in the general debate,
I had the opportunity to voice our
support for the thrust and the basic proposals contained in the
Secretary-General's report,
"An Agenda for Peace".
It is a comprehensive set
of ideas and specific recommendations for strengthening the Organization.
It
answers the urgent need for greater focus on preventive diplomacy,
peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building in the light of the pressing
problems we are facing today. The Bulgarian delegation will continue to be
actively involved in the discussion on these issues.
In my present statement
I will therefore not attemp; to cover all issues of interest to this
delegation, but rather conc3ntrate on several topics.
I have already stressed the importance of preventive deployment of
long-term missions in areas adjacent to regions of conflict or tension as an
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.46
22
(Mr. Pasboyski, Bulgaria)
effective means to enhance confidence and stability.
I did this against the
background of the positive ezperience of implementing suCh a measure in my
country. This example is clear proof of the validity of the ideas underlying
the proposals on preventive deployment contained in "An Agenda for Peace".
It
is our opinion that such deployment should not be viewed as limited only to
military presence or any pre-established format of the operation. There are
different circum~tances involved in each individual situation that may warrant
varying forms of preventive deployment. The form, size, composition~ duration
and other modalities should be chosen to correspond to the nature of the
specific case on the basis of consultations. The missions may consist of
civilian, police or military personnel, or a combination of these.
Aa regards cooperation between th! United Nations and rsqional
arrangements, a significant potential is offered by the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). The Helsinki Summit in July this year took
very important decisions, creating the capability of a meaningful and
effective involvement of the CSCE in conflict prevention and crisis
management. The readiness of the partcipating States to attribute to the
Conference a greater role in pursuing the objectives of the Charter of the
United Nations was manifest!d by the recognition of the CSCE as a regional
arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII.
Some of these new capabilities have
already been tested in practice. We call for the continuation of this
process. The meeting of the Council of Ministers in Stockholm in December
this year, as the central decision-making and governing body of the CSCE,
presents a valuable opportunity for follow-up of our present discussion at the
regional level.
I
I
...J
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
23
(Mr. Pashoyski. Bulgari~)
An essential factor for the effectiveness of the mandatory actions under
Article 41 of the Charter is their strict observance. Recent United Nations
experience has clearly shown that in order to achi~ve the desired effect the
imposition of sanctions should be regarded as a comprehensive operation. All
aspects should be carefully studied and assessed in advanc8 6 possibly within
an integrated operating budget providing for the covering of all necessary
expenditures~ Such a budget may incorporate the deployment, upon invitation
by Governments, of sanctions assistance missions. A set of measures should
also be devimed,
involving the financial institutions and other components of
the United Nations system,
to help Member States to alleviate the economic
burdens reSUlting from the observance of sanctions.
We share the concerns about the existing financial difficulties of the
Organization, especially with regard to its peace-keeping capacity. We
therefore commend the proposal of the Secretary-General to establish a
revolving peace-keeping reS3rve fund to meet the initial expenses of United
Nations operations pending receipt of assessed contributions.
An arrangement
for alloc~tinq a fixed percentage of Member States' defence budgets for
financing United Nations peace-keeping activities would present an appropriate
and sound solution.
~here is ~ strong rationale behind such an arrangement,
for it is unquestionable that United Nations peace-keeping constitutes a
significant contribution to national efforts to achieve security and
stability.
The lint between international peace, security and stabi:lity, on the one
hand, and the respect and p:omotion of human rights, OD the other, ls gaining
growing significance. As a representative of a country that has just emerged
from a totalitarian past,
I am aware that our quest for a better world
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ47/PV.46
24-25
(Mr. Pashoyskic Bulgari~)
requires that it be built on the foundation of common values in this area.
Mankind will not be successful in living together in harmony if it fails to
secure compliance with basic international standards in the field of human
rights and fundamental freedoms. This should serve as a test, as a criterion
for each country. States should assume clear legal responsibility for their
complian~e with the generalLy accepted standards in the field of humanitarian
law and human rights. The instruments and mechanisms at the disposal of the
international community should be enhanced to ensure implementation of
existing commitment3.
Gross violations of international humanitarian law may threaten
international stability. Therefore,
the international corronunity is in urgent
need of.creating a judicial mechanism for prosecuting the perpetrators of such
acts. The creation of an international criminal court should be given serious
and urge~t consideration. We also welcome Security Council resolution
780 (1992), ~hich requests ~e establishment of a Commission of Experts to
examine and analyse information on violations of international humanitarian
law in the territory of the former Yugoslavia as another important step in
this direction.
But crimes against humanity and violations of international obligations
in the field of human rights should not only be punished; we should also focus
our concerted effort on the prevention of such acts. Hence,
there is a
growing need for enhancing ~he capacity of the United Nations for early
warning and preventive action, as well as post-crisis amelioration of once
explosive situations.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
26
(Mr. Pa~hoysti, Bulgaria)
The report of the Secretary-General put8 forward a whole array of
possibilities for preventive action and peacemakinq.
In that regard, we would
like to lay upa::i31 ::trc&s on the need to make full use of the I!ee%1S and
methods provided for in the Char~er for the peaceful settlement of
international disputes.
It is our conviction that Member States and the
principal United Nations bodies should resort I'IlOre fre~ently to the
International Coert of Justice. We urge all Member States to accept the
general jurisdiction of the Court under Article 36 of its Statute. BUlgaria
reiterates its support for the Secretary-Generalis recommendation that he be
authorized, pursuant to Article 96, paragraph 2, of the Charter,
to seek
advisol~ opinioDs of the Court.
We should be aware of the need to work out, not just a list of possible
instruments, but a comprehensive system of tools for preventive diplomacy.
That system should address the various characteristics of potential conflicts
and provide mechanisms for effective internatio~l efforts.
It should
comprise early varninq capabilitles, confidence- and security-building
measures, enhanced incentives for resort to the peaceful settlement of
disputes~ and the capacity for concerted action to contain and manage
conflicts that have not been prevented and for po~t-crieis peace-building.
M!:L...HAIR (Jamaica): On behalf of the member States of the
Caribbea~ Community - Antiqua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, and Jamaica -
I wish to express our
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his reports before the General
Assembly today, namely the report of the Secretary General on the work of the
Organization (Al471l); and "An Agenda for Peace:
preventive diplomacy,
peacemaking and peace-keeping" (Al47/277).
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
27
(Mrs. Mair, Jam.5!ill)
These very comprehensive and thought-provoking reports are presented at a
time when profound changes in the international political climate offer new
and cornple: challenges. They also present new opportunities for effective
global cooperation,
in which the role of the United Nations is central.
In his report on the work of the Organization,
the Secretary-General
expresses the wish that
"a fundamental renewal of the United Nations will be complete by the time
it marks its first half-century of existence".
(A/47/1, para. 7)
The Agenda for Peace, on which we shall focus our greatest at~ention,
contains many fundamental elements for such a renewal.
It is in essence a
comprehensive response to the urgent,
increasing demands from every region for
peace, security and development. That response is informed by an expanded
definition of security, a definition which underlines the complex sources of
conflict and war. As the report states, such sources are pervasive and deep.
The member States of the Caribbean Community are pleased to note this
acceptance by the Secretary-General in his report of a wider definition of
international security which recognizes not only political and military, but
also social and economic,
issues which are often the sources of political
conflict. The Secretary-General acknowledges that preventive diplomacy must
include information on econ~mic and social trends as well as political
developments, which lead to dangerous tensions. We therefore strongly endorse
his statement that the Organization's responsibilities and commitments in the
political and security area should not be carried out at the expense of its
responsibilities in the dev~lopment field, and that neither should be
subordinated to the other.
It is essential that they be pursued in an
integratea, mutually supporting way, utilizing the resources of both the
Security Council and the Genera! Assembly.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47.1P'1.46
28
(Mrs. Mair, Jamaica)
The Secretary-General's report, "An Agenda for Peace", also reinforces
the impo~t~ce of United Nations ~ooperation with regional organizations which
have the very special competence to play a strategic role in processes of
preventive diplomacy as well as in peacemaking and peace-building.
In my region, Haiti presents a classic case for the United Nations to
invoke the principles and guidelines contained in the Secretary-General's
report, namely applying political, social and economic indicators in
determining the root causes of that truly tragic situation.
It also requires
strengthening,
through appropriate measures,
the capability of the regional
organization, in this instance the Organization of American States, which is
seized of the problem. The active participation of the United Nations in
finding a solution to this escalating human tragedy which threatens the
security of the region can contribute significantly to the urgently needed
process of national reconciliation and national reconstruction.
The member States of the Caribbean Community strongly support the thesis
that the observance of international law has to be the solid foundation of all
activities undertaken by the United Nations in the pursuance of peace and
security.
In this context, and particularly during this Decade of
International Law, we believe that serious consideration should be given to
the Secretary-General's rec)mmendations on the role of the International Court
of Justice and on acceptance by Member States of the Court's compulsory
jurisdiction. We also support in principle the proposal that the
Secretary-General should be authorized to seek the advisory opinion of the
World Court in respect of issues of which he is seized. The discretionary
competence which is implied here is consistent with and clearly supplements
the responsibility entrusted to the Secretary-General in Article 99 of the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
29-30
(Mrs. Mair, Jamaica)
Charter, which requires him to bring to the attention of the Security Council
any matter which in his opinion may threaten tDs maintenance of international
peace and securit~.
The report raises major budgetary implications for the effective
implementation of the Agendn for Peace. The issue of United Nationf
l'esources
needed for the qrowing demands of peace-keeping and peace-building is a major
problem. The resolution of that problem will require the most serious
conside~ation by the United Nations. The Secretary-General suggests that
Member States sho~ld look to their national defence budgets to finance such
programmes. This,
in our view,
indicates the need for the United Nations
simultaneously to activate most vigorously its mandate for disarmament.
The world has put the cold war behind it, but the peace dividend has yet
to be realized, and could well provide the sources for funding a peaceful and
equitable new world order such as the Secretary-General has envisaged with
great insight.
Such an order demands, as an absolute imperative, a just
global economic environment as the foundation for international peace and
security. We therefore share the view expressed by the Minis~er of State for
External Affclirs of India during the recently concluded general debate that an
agenda for development, so designated by the Secretary-General, is as
important as an agenda for peace. We are also of the view that they should
complement each other.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
31
(Mrs. Mair. Jamaica)
The el~~ration of such a world order clearly requires the participation
of all the States Membera ~f the United Nations. And iu this context the role
of the GSliGral Assembly is absolutely paramount.
It is based on the
fundamental princi~~os of the Charter which affirm the sovereign equality of
all Member States that function through processes that are democratic and
transparent.
Its authority in relation to all issues of the agenda of the
United Nations is unquostioned, and we therefore welcome the
Secretary-General's recurring emphasis in his reports on the essential
responsibilities of the General Assembly.
So i~ this context our region supports the proposal which has been made
by other Member States that this very important report "An Agenda for Peace"
which is before us at this session should be the subject of analysis and
further elaboration by an opon-ended working group of the General Assembly.
Mr. KHERBI (Algeria) (interpretation from French):
I should like to
tell you once again, Sir, hJW pleased we are that you are presiding over the
General Assembly at this session.
I should also like to congratulate the
Secretary-General of our Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on the
quality and comprehensiveness of his report on the work of the Organization
and on his "Agenda for Peace". Most assuredly,
these a.'l:e important
contributions, which,
in their scope and in their thrust, give food for
thought,
for discussion, for dialogue and for br~ad-based joint action with a
view to strengthening our Organization and making it a more effecltiva
instrument. for serving the purposes and principles of the Cha~ter. Coming in
a context of far-reaching c:anges in international relations and marking the
will to adapt the United Nations to the new requirements and the challenges of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
32
(Mr. Kherbi.. Algeria)
our time, this innovat:Lve and imaginative undertaking is of genuine interest
to the international cO~~U:I1.-;'ty in its quest for a more just and more equitable
new order.
The quidelines and the points of reference on which the non-aligned
countries will base themselves have been set out by the representative of
Indonesia, which currently holds the Chair of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries. We agree with ~1e analysis he made and fully associate ourselves
with the proposals he made, which are the result of the process of reflection
on the "Agenda for Peace" in which the non-aligned countries have been engaged
since its publication.
In tho statement he made in the general debate on 28 Septemb&r 1992,
the
Minister fnr External Affai&s of Algeria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, emphasized that
"this sossion of the General Assembly will be a new starting-point for
the United Nations that will place it resolutely on the path of greater
democratization and enhance its effective~ess in promoting peace&
cooperation and development".
(A/47/PV.l4, p. 7)
The Assembly's consideration of "An Agenda for Peace" affords us a new
opportunity jointly to think about the steps to be taken and the means to be
used for the achievement of these objectives which will determine the future
of international relations ~nd which, naturally, should in all circumstanc.es
guide our collective action. This means that the democratizaticn of
intornationa1 relations must take place first of all within our Organization
and must constitute a guiding priority for any broad-based global action aimed
at reaffirming the purposes and principles of the Charter and strengthening
the capabilities of the Uni~ed Nations in all spheres.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA!.@.,;/PV.46
33-35
(Mr. Kberbi, Algeria)
In this regard, strict respect for the prerogatives of the major bodies-
of the United Nations should be reflected in a fair balance that highlights
the importance of the role of the General Assembly. Thus, we have noted with
satisfaction that in his annual report the Secretary-General ha~ stated that
the cornerstone of all action is the full application of the principles of
democracy within nations and within the world Organization itself.
This commitment is obviously in line with our concerns as non-aligned
developing countries with regard to respect for the cardinal principles which
should underlie international relations and the activity of the United
Nations - namely,
the sovereign equality of States, non-interference in
internal afairs, non-use of force,
the peaceful settlement of disputes,
the
territorial integrity of States,
the right of peoples to self-determination,
the right to development, and the promotion of international cooperation.
In the same vein, we believe that the recommendations contained in "An
Agenda for Peace" are deserving of serious consideration in depth by the
General Assembly and its subsidiary bodies, as well as by all the other bodies
and institutions of the United Nations. The proposal that the General
Assembly set up an open-ended working group deserves the support of all
inasmuch as it reflects the role of the General Assembly as the pre-eminent
democratic and representative body for the maintenance of international peace
and security.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.46
36
(Mr. Kherbi. Algeria)
Algeria vill contribute to the group's work, cooperating fUlly in an
attempt to achieve positive results to the benefit of peace, cooperation and
shared devalopmeut and prosperity for all.
We should like to emphasize first at this stage that security and
development are indivisible. which implies that the right to development is a
basic element of any consistent approach to preventive diplomacy.
He~ce we
should remember that peace and security depend as much on socio-economic
conditions as on military factors.
It is also important fully to integrate into preventive diplomacy actions
in the sphere of disarmament, especially nuclear disarmament, since it is
clear that situations of qualitative and quantitative imbalance constitute
threats to international peace and security.
Finally, it should be pointed out that it may be difficult in practice to
draw a clear distinction between preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping,
peacemaking and peace-building, since the applicable measures and instruments
in each situation overlap a great deal.
In all of these cases we must in the
final analysis set in motion the variety of mechanisms provided for under
Chapter VI of the Charter, whether to prevent a conflict, resolve it by
peaceful means or avoid its recurrence.
It follows logically that the use of enforcement measures, or the use of
force, would be contemplated only after the exhaustion of all means available
to the United Nations,
regionu1 organizations and Member States for the
peaceful settlement of disp'ltes,
including implementation of the relevant
provisions of Chapter VI of the Charter.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
37
(Mr.
'herb!. Algeria)
In this context, regional organizations and agreements have an important
role to play in the implementation of the recommendations in the report of the
SGc~etary-General (A/47/277). They ~hould have the constant support of the
United Nations in planning and carrying out preventive diplomacy or
peace--keeping, peacemaking or peace-building operations. This support, which
would form part of the demo'~ratization of international relations, should be
expressed not only in political and diplomatic terms, but also in material
terms, because lack of resources often affects their ability to settle
regional conflicts.
With regard to peace-ktiepinq operations and proposals to extend their
scope, we believe that we must define general principles and ways and means of
implementing them so as to avoid the risk of relying on such opera~ions
indefinitely in the field as a substitute for a political settlement. This of
course does not mean that we should ~et up a rigid or fixed framework that
would harm the flexibility ~r special nature of each operation; on the
contrary, we should help re31ize the objectives for which it is set up, and
the smooth carrying out of its mandate. We should also help all the bodies
and parties involved -
the General Assembly,
the Security Council, ~be
Secretary-General and the plrties directly concerned - play their role.
The financing of peace-keeping operations should continue to be the
collective responsibility of States Members. Nevertheless,
the spucial
responsibilities of the permanent members of the Security Co'xncil mu~t
Jpso facto confer upon them similar financial obligations and the current
method of sharing the cost of peace-keeping operations should be revised to
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.46
38-40
(Mr. ~rbi, Algeria)
take into account the limited capacity to pay of many developing countries,
especially at a time when the-number of such operations is increasing.
The current debate testifies to the clear determination of Member States
to begin a dynamic process of strengthening the United Nations.
If it is
carried o~t in a methodical, rigorous, consistent and gradual manner, with a
constant view to maintaining the balance of the United Nations, an institution
built on sovereign equality and universality,
the process may give rise to a
genuine renewal and resurgence of our Organization.
...
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
41
Mr. ACHARIA (Nepal): The report of the Secretary-General, "An
Agenda for Peace"r is a major contribution to discussion of the role of the
United Nations in meeting the challenges of the post-cold-war world. My
delegation has followed with teen in~erest the thoughtful comments provoted by
this important document both in the qeneral debate and during this debate on
item 10 of our agenda. While welcoming this serious discussion, my delegation
feels that the General Assembly does well to keep in sharp focus the
Secretary-General's wise caution that the search for improved mechanisms and
techniques viII me~ little unless the new spirit of commonality among its
membership is backed by the viII to take the hard decisions demanded by this
time of opportunity.
My delegation strongly supports the view that acute poverty, with its
ever-present threat of social upheavals, constitutes the fundamental
non-military challenge to security and stability. We believe that
international cooperation in economic and social fields deserves the same
sense of responsibility and urgency as the commitments to political and
military issues. Failure on this front will keep the Organization forever
tied to the crisis-by-crisis response.
My delegation views the discussion on "An Agenda for Peace" as the
beginning of a process. The wide range of crucial issues of principle and
policy raised by the report need to be examined in the competent organs of the
United Nations. With this in mind, we support the proposal to establish an
open-ended working group of the General Assembly.
1 will,
therefore,
limit
myself to a few issues.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl411PV.46
42
(Mr. Acharyac Nepal)
A consenSUR is already discernible on the Secretary-General's proposals
on preventive diplomacy and peacemaking at an early stage.
In the final
analysis,
the effectiveness of these recomnlondations rests on a greater
willingness of Member States to have recourse to mechanisms under Chapter VI
of the Charter. Allowing the Secretary-General the full freedom of action in
accordance with the Charter,
inclUding the provision of Article 99, will
strengthen the capacity of the United Nations in preventive diplomacy.
An
enhanced capacity for continuous gathering and analysis of reliable
information will be indispensible if the Secretary-General is to carry out
these functions. Apart from information from Member States,
the
Secretary-General should be able to make full use of the United Nations system
around the world. My de_~q~tion believes that giving the Secretary-General
authorization to request advisory opinions of the International Court of
Justice under Article 96 would greatly enhance his capacity for quiet
preventive diplomacy. An important component of the Secretary-General's
recommendations is preventive deployment. My delegation feels that this
mechanism could be immensely valuable in avoiding confrontation. We also
agree with the proposal on the creation of demilitarized zones.
The massive human tragedy in various parts of the world, where thousands
of innocent civilians are being slaughtered and subjected to unspeakable
barbarity, does call for stcong and urgent international measures to uphold
the sanctity of life and norm~ of international law. The Secretary-General's
recommendations on enforcement actions provide, within the framework of the
Charter, coherent starting-points for a permanent mechanism,
transcending the
crisis-by-crisis approach.
It is indeed a sad commentary on human civiliza~ion
4
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
43
(Mr. Aehaxya. Nepal)
that th~ use of force shoald remain the ultimate tool at the disposal of the
United Nations. The significant political and other implications of the
Secretary-General's recommendations under Article 43 deserve very careful
scrutiny. While this study continues in the competent organs of the United
Nations, my delegation strongly urges that we do not allow the focus on
enforcenlent to relegate to the background the primary purpose of the United
Nations, which is the promotion of peaceful settlement of disputes. My
delegation fully endorses the view that, even if a consensus is reached on an
enforcement mechanism,
that mechanism should remain a last resort, after all
other means of diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and humanitarian
operations have been exhausted.
Nepal wholeheartedly supports the Secretary-General's thinking and his
proposals on peace-keeping. Our soldiers and civilians have been serving the
tJnited Nations peace-keeping missions without a break for over 25 years, and
we remain ready to respond ;0 any call. Many of our men have defended the
United Natio~s mandate with their lives.
I express our deep appreciation to
the Secretary-General for his determination to ensure the safety of United
Nations personnel. As a troop-contributing country of long standing, we share
the Secretary-General's mounting concern over peace-keeping finances and
unreservedly support his proposals. We hold it as a matter of principle that,
while financing of a duly con5tituted peace-keeping operation is a collective
obligation,
the permanent members of the Security Council bear a special
responsibility. We th'·~~fore believe that institutionalization of the present
system of assessment would ~rovide the needed stability and predictibility for
the financing of peace-keeping operations. We have noted the intention of the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl411PV.46
44-45
(Mr. Acharya, Nepal)
delegation of Japan to put bofore the current session a draft resolution
dealing with the financial ;:equirements for major peace-keeping operations at
the start-up ataga lUll! ~ stand ready to cooperate with them. My delegation
also supports the proposal of Japan for the establishment of a mechanism for
consultations among the permanent members of tho Security Council,
the major
sources of financial resources, countries providing large contingents and the
countries of the rGgions concerned.
The ongoing serious discussions on enhancing the role of the United
Nations cannot be delinked from the discussions on the functions of the
Organization's organs,
including the composition of the Security Council. The
Secretary-General has put his finger on the crux of the matter, with his
observations on democracy a~ the national levels and democracy,
trust and
impartiality within the family of nations. His observations could be the
frame of raference ~n our effort to ensure democracy at all levels.
Mr. PIRIZ-BALLQN (Uruguay) (interpretation from Spanish): First of
all, we too would like to associate oursolves with the tributes paid to the
Secretary-General for his report "An Agenda for Peace". The face of the world
has changed substantially. With the end of the cold war, prospects are
dawning for turning into reality the ideals that inspired the founding of the
United Nations.
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.46
46
(Mr. Piriz-Ballon, Urugugy)
The Secretary-General has seized this historic opportunity and has
proposed a programme of action for the attainment of these goals.
In many
casos nis proposals mean interpretinq the scope of certain fundamental
provisions of the Charter and assessing the suitability of the mechanisms
available to us for ensuring their implementation. This task has become
indispensable ever since the cold war made the implementation of these
principles and purposes unthinkable.
Hence we believe that the Secretary-General is using a very valid
metaphor when he warns us that we are navigating in uncharted waters. We must
help him to chart the course, keeping as our North Star the ideals of the
United Nations, with due emphasis on those principles that should quide us on
our way and identifying the shoals that threaten our voyage.
Our position with respect to the course to be taken in this quest has
been faithfully set forth in the statement by the delegation of Argentina from
this rostrum on behalf of the members of the Rio Group. None the less I
should like to express a few thoughts that are of particular importance tr
Uruguay, a country which,
like many other Members of the Organization, nas
resolved to reconcile the appeal for action with the preservation and
strengthening of certain basic principles of our international life. We would
like to mention, among others, respect for the principle of sovereignty and
the juridical equality of States, its corollary the principle of
non-intervention,
the right to self-determination, and respect for and
promotion of human rights.
This reference to human rights as a whole,
inevitably including economic
and social rights, prompts us to mention one of our most important areas of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
47
(Mr. Piriz-Ballon. Urugu~')
co~ceptual agreement with the proposals made by the Secretary-General.
I am
referring of course to the concept, based on an objective and honest analysis
of ~eality, that economic and social development and international security
are two sides of the same coin. As the representative of Argentina said,
this
integrated approach to development and security represents a view long held by
the Latin American countries.
We believe in fact that the objective of reducing economic and social
imbalances must not be interpreted solely as a premise, an unavoidable means
of contributing to security
there is no such syllogism of subordination.
It
is our understanding that d!velopment is an end in itself. Without
development, security would be precarious and fragile,
just as without
security it is illusory to think about development. That is how we interpret
the concept of an integrated approach to which the Secretary-Generalis report
"An Agenda for Peace" refers.
It is very important to point out that if
development were not sustainable from the environmental standpoint and from
the standpoint of the management of natural resources,
then both objectives
would be jeopardized.
We should also recall that for the quest for development with security
and security in development to be viable these must be based on the promotion
of democracy and the full e1joyment of human rights in their other
dimensions: political, civil and cultural. These are also concepts included
in the report of the Secretary-General.
It is never superfluous to recall
their importance.
The problems which fron a practical standpoint affect peace and security
today are complex and variej. We often see at their root the impact of
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
48
(Mr. Piriz-Ballon, Uruguay)
economic and social problems. But there are also other factors of an ethnic
and religious nature, nationalist strife and resentments of all types,
sometimes exploited by partisan personalities inBpired by spurious ambition.
Hence we completely agree with the Secretary-General in his proposal for
a realistic approach to confronting these conflicts. He rightly affirms in
paragraph 113 of his report (A/47/l) that "no two conflicts are the same" and
that the solutio.ll "must be approached with flexibility and creativity adapted
to each particular situation".
The picture that emerges from this type of conflict, which by its
localized nature is no less serious and tragic from a human standpoint, is a
very disturbing one.
It is clear that because of the limits imposed by the
unassailably valid principle of non-intervention, nothing can take the place
of the will of the parties regarding their behaviour vis-a-vis other
principles that are certainly equally valid, such as the law of peoples,
jus cogens and humanitarian law.
We the peoples of the world, custodians through the United Nations of
these all-important principles must, under the provisions of the Charter,
bring to bear all authorized means of pressure in order to overcome these
situations.
It is infinitely preferable,
from every standpoint,
to prevent
conflicts before they break out than to have to remedy them by using
peace-keeping operations.
That is why we support the use of preventive diplomacy, which can also be
defined as the establishment of peace at an early stage and which as such can
be seen in the context of Chapter VI of the Charter.
The efforts made in tha recent turbulent months regarding missions of
fact-finding and of good offices show that events are supporting the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/471PV.46
49
(Mr. Piriz-Ballon. Uruguay)
recommendations made in the report and we are gratified that this is the
case. But it is necessary to strengthen further the preventive capacity of
the Unitad Nations, basically by giving the Secretary-General all the
information that he needs in a timely manner about potential situations of
conflict, and by ~roviding the Secretariat with greater resources to increase
its capacity for gathering, analysing and processing this information.
The preventive deployment of troops mentioned in the report of the
Secretary-General, either upon the request of the two parties or of one of
them, seems to us to be a very interesting concept. Likewise, preventive
deployment in situations of national crisis, upon the request of the parties
concerned, does not in principle pose conceptual problems for us, above all
when much higher interests are at stake, such as the life and physical and
moral integrity of the civilian population.
In this respect we wish to express our support for the emphasis which the
Secretary-General places on the peacemaking role of the Organization through
dispute-settlement techniqu3s and procedures provided for in Chapter VI, which
of course includes preventive diplomacy.
Although it is obvious, it is worth reaffirming that Chapter VII is
applicable only after the means provided in Chapter VI have been completely
and absolutely exhausted.
I should like to refer very briefly to the reco~nendation contained in
paragraph 39 (a) of "An Agenda for Peace", on acceptance of Article 36 of the
Statute of the International Court of Justice. My Government cannot fail to
share this idea since Uruguly was one of the first countries to accept the
compulsory jurisdiction of ~he Court.
.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library1J47/'eV.46
50
(Mr. Piri3-Bal10n, Uruguay)
Another aspect. to be pointed out is the emphasis placed on the need to
establish effeqtive mechani:;ms for the implementation of the provisions of
Article 50 of the Charter.
In this respect my count~ enthusiastically
sup~"Orts this .initiative, which is being' qivenpriority at~ention by the
Special Committee on the Charter ••
* Mr. Moumin (Comoros), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl411PV.46
51
(Mr. Piriz-Bal1on. Urugu~)
We should also like to emphasize the importance Uruguay attaches to
measures aimed at protectinq the human riqhts of the civilian population in
times of conflict, and the role the United Nationa can play in this regard.
For this reason we c.onsid~r particularly important \the Security Council's
decision in which violations of international humanitarian law in Bosnia and
Herzegovina are condemned and a Commission of Experts is established to gather
evidence of such violations. We have always advocated the establishment of
this kind of mechanism, a position 'that was clearly established by our
Minister in the Commission on Human Rights.
Uruguay has participated in peace-keeping operations for almost 40 years
now by providing observers and military contingents, police and civilian
observers in the electoral and human-~ights spheres.
My country's commitment to this mechanism arises from its conviction,
which is profound indeed, that peace-keeping operations are an effective
instrument for collective security.
As we all know,
the expansion of peacekeeping operations has reached
extraordinary dimensions both quantitatively and qualitatively. This
expansion ha3 been based on observance of the cardinal principles enshrined in
practice, such as the consent of the parties involved,
the non-combatant role
of the United Nations forces, and the impartiality and neutrality of the
United Nations in the conflict. Tnese principles are vital in view of the
nature of this kind of activity.
One of the critical factors affecting the success of these and other
peace operatj,!,:~) is undoubt~(Uy the financial aspect. The financial crisis is
a fact, and ways and means of resolving it must be found.
In this connection
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A/471PV.46
52
(Mr. Piriz-Ballon. Urugua~)
the Secretary-General suggests ~ome forms of action that we believe should be
studied seriously by the Fi~th Cornmittee~
None the less we wish here and now to reaffirm my delegation's agreement
with what was stated by the Rio Group in connection with the
institutionalization of a special scale that faithfully reflects the
collective responsibility of Member States.
In our view,
there is no new
element that warrants its reform.
In any event, new mechanisms must be
additional to the special scale and must never replace it.
Chapter VIII of the report deals with questions relating to the safety of
personnel involved in United Nations peace operations. This is clearly an
important subject - and not only for troop-con~ributingcountries such as my
own.
The Secreary-General proposes some interesting initiatives. We believe
they must be studied in depth.
We welcome the fact that recent Security Council resolutions reflect this
concern. We are convinced that the General Assembly also should be able to
take a specific stand in this regard.
The importance of ensuring the broadest possible protection of personnel
is self-evident. Hundreds of persons, both military and civilian, have
already given their lives for the cause of peace. A few days ago,
in this
very forum,
the Permanent RJpresentative of the United Kingdom proposed that a
memorial be established for those who have died in the service of the
United Nations. We completely agree with that suggestion. We believe it is
only just to pay a tribute of this type.
Finally, we should like to comment on the proposal of the Rio Group that
a working group of the General Assembly be established to study the "Agenda
for Peace".
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
53
(Mr. Piriz-Ballon. Uruguay)
The Secretary-GeneralIs re~ort is addressed to all the Members of the
United Nations. That is completely normel in view of the raftge of issues to
which the agenda refers.
It is therefore completely legitimate to have the
report considered by the General Assembly, in which all Member States are
represented.
The report is now being studied by the Security Council within its sphere
of competence.
It is also being studied by six subsidiary organs of the
General Assembly within their respective mandates. We believe that this
specialized and compartmentalized consideration is of course necessary and
desirable, but at the same time it is, we feel, equally necessary to establish
within the General Assembly a mechanism that allows us to have an overview,
thus ensuring coordination among the subsidiary bodies and making possible a
constructive dialogue with the Security Council.
Mr. SQ~iAVIA (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish): This statement
is made in the framework of the comments of tho deleqation of Argentina [nada
on behalf of the countries members of the Rio Group.
The Secretary-General has given us an imaginative doctunent.
It is
intellectually attractive and politically innovative.
It merits our careful
attention. We congratulate him and the team that prepared it. Let us give
some thought to his ideas.
He offers us "An Agenda for Peace". This impels us to recognize that in
our time peace is not merelI the absence of conflicts and armed
confrontation. The essence of peace is justice, not force.
Justice, as a
source of stability, is permanent.
Force, as a source of stability,
is
temporary. A powerful nati,)n is not necessarily just. A just nation is not
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAI~?!PV.4S
54-55
(Mr. Somavia. Chile)
necessarily powerful. When we in the United Nations speak of peace, we are
speaking of placing force in the service of justice, and justice in the
service of peace.
That is why preventive action is so important. We all know that long
before open conflicts break out their ethnic, religious, cultural, social and
economic roots are silently striking deeper. We are well aware that wars
begin in the minds and hearts of human beings.
Identifying these situ~tions in time is a primary responsibility of the
Organization. We support all the proposals designed to strengthen the
Secretary-Generales capacity to take action in an impartial,
independent
manner, and in accordance with the Charter,
to deal with latent conflicts in
good time.
Peace must be attained above all by the instruments of peace -
that is to
say,
through dialogue, persuasion, good offices and the whole range of means
of preventive diplomacy.
It would be dangerous for the United Nations to
develop only a military concept of peace, as it would be if at the end of the
day it lacked the military capacity to enforce its decisions.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
56
(Mu Somayia, Chile)
We must never forget that the United Nations vas born to safeguard
peace. This is the house of peace in the world. The main taak is to know how
to safeguard peace in each specific situation. We need to devise all the
instruments of political power and negotiation that will prevent hostilities
between two or more parties. We want the United Nations to be respected for
the strength of its presence and its ideas, rather than for its concerted
military-deterrence capacity.
In people's minds the United Nations must be
the symbol of a great, historic undertaking of non-violence.
All of this prompts the question "What does security in the modern age
involve?" The cold war has already taught us that security is not a matter of
accumulating more and more destructive weapons.
In modern history the 45
years of t~e arms race have produced the most colossal waste.
Have we learned the lesson?
It is not at all certain that we have. We
may be living through the transition from a period in which the ideological
frontiers of the cold war were used to justify the most horrible crimes to a
period characterized by the re-emergence of religious and ethnic frontiers.
As if by a miracle,
those who seek armed confrontation never lack the weapons
for their purpose.
The great challenge facing the United Nations is to contribute to the
development, promotion and strengthening of a culture of peace. This is the
Organization's basic preventive task.
It is undoubtedly necessary that,
in
specific circumstances,
the United Nations be given its own capacity for
military intervention. This has been demonstrated by the Gulf war, by the
situation in Cambodia and by the traqic situation in the republics of the
former Yugoslavia. But let us not deceive ourselves. Military intervention
by the United Nations is not the way to resolve the main contemporary problems
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl4.7/PV~46
57
(Mr. SQmavia, Chile)
Qf security. Repeated use of that means WQuld Ultimately diminish its
effectiveness, as mQst cQntempQrary SQurces Qf insecurity cannQt be remQved by
the use Qf arms.
We cannQt use fQrce Qf arms tQ sQlve the prQblems Qf pQverty,
unemplQyment, drug addictiQn, racism, ethnic and religious hatred,
the
degradatiQn Qf the envirQnment, sQcial instability,
the tragedy Qf the
disabled,
the marginalizatiQn of WQmen, and YQung peQple's lack Qf
expectatiQns. NQne Qf the fundamental prQblems Qf Qur sQcieties can be sQlved
thrQugh the use Qf arms.
This is why we need tQ recQgnize that Qnly by strengthening the security
Qf individuals, Qf families and Qf CQmmunities shall we be able tQ strengthen
peace in a stable manner. AnatiQn Qf secure individuals leads tQ a secure
State; a natiQn Qf insecure individu~ls leads tQ an insecure State. The
security Qf individuals ls the bQsis Qf the security Qf the State. That
security will nQt eliminate cQnflicts between States - histQry teaches us that
such cQnflicts appear tQ be cQe~tensive with the e~istence Qf mankind - but it
will enQrmQusly diminish the SQurces Qf internatiQnal tensiQn.
Strengthening the security of individuals is, abQve all, a natiQnal
respQnsibility, which must be discharged within the histQrical, pQlitical and
sQcial framewQrk Qf each sQciety. These ideas are coming strQngly tQ the fore
in variQus regiQns Qf the wQrld.
In the middle Qf the last decade,
fQr
example, a grQup Qf Latin Americans representing pQlitical circles, sQcial
movements,
the arts and the churches fQrmed the SQuth American Peace
CommissiQn, which,
in its declaratiQn Qf principles, states:
"Democracy is
the fQundatiQn Qf peace".
The declaration prQpos~d a modern cQncept Qf democratic security for Qur
regiQn, as well as the prQgressive establishment Qf a zone of peace amQng the
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
58
(Mr. Somavia. Chile)
South American countries, based on the princi~le that the security of
individuals is as important as the security of the State - if not more so.
These concepts, like those of so many other non-governmental organizations,
give us an indication of the public's desire to take part in the consideration
of these sometimes contentious issues.
These ideas have made their way into governmental thinking, as was shown
by the most recent declaration by the Presidents of the Rio Group at their
fifth summit meeting in Cartagena de Indias in 1991, when they decided to
initiate the relevant consultations with a view to moving towards an
understanding within the Group on the "proclamation of Latin America and the
Caribbean as a zone of peace".
Discussion and fruedom of opinion make it possible to tackle legitimate
disputes in any society, whereas the absence of discussion and freedom of
opinion can only lead to the building up of underground tensions, which, once
they surface, are difficult to control.
The existence of social spaces in which to conduct discussions for the
purpose of achieving consensus and agreement is essential to the preservation
of peace.
To this end, it is necessary that we have a culture of tolerance.
This will enable us not only to be aware of our differences but also, despite
those differences,
to seek out the possibilities for common endeavour.
We welcome the prominence that the Secretary-Generales report gives to
recognition of the fact that some sources of instability have their origin in
economic and social conditions. The United Nations must take timely action to
deal with economic and social problems and thus prevent their developing into
sources of conflict that wil\ ultimately constitute a threat to international
peace and security.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/!.lV.46
59-60
(Mr. Somayia, Chile)
Chile agrees that economic and social development is necessary as the
foundation of st~engthened international peace and security. Proof of the
fact that that is Chile's attitude is to be found in the country's decisive
commitment to the promotion of the World Summit for Social Development.
Likewise, we are firmly convinced that democratic practices and respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms are intimately linked with the
attainment of international peace and security. Accordingly - as the
Secretary-Generales report indicates -
the United Nations must be prepared,
when so requested by a State,
to cooperate in the transformation and
improvement of democratic institutions.
The task of the United Nations is to promote a global atmosphere and a
system of international relations that are just and equitable for all. We
invite the Secretary-General, as others have done,
to complement his "Aga'~da
for Peace" with an agenda for development.
We all know that at the United Nations we have now been presented with a
unique opportunity. We have a duty to design a stable international order in
which no one feels marginalized or exploited. This is undoubtedly a long-term
task, and we must not harbour any illusions about our being able to achieve a
stable international order overnight.
We have an obligation to create together a vision of the world as we want
it to be tomorrow. We start with a burdensome heritage. Together,
the
ideologies of the cold war and the increasing dehumanization of economic
processes have led to trivialization of the values that are fundamental to any
society.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
61
(Mr. Somavia. Chile)
I say this because I am convinced that, above all, an "Agenda for Peace"
must be an agenda of shared values. We must have the courage to promote
values here in the United Nations. We must have the courage to speak of
tolerance, solidarity, brotherhood,
the dignity of the human person, and even,
in this world of realpolitik,
love and mutual understanding. This is what
ordinary people ezpect of us. We do not have the right to think only of the
short term.
For example, as far as values are concerned, we need to ask ourselves,
why it seems to be more urgent for the United Nations to act when someone is
killed by a bullet than when semeone dies from malnutrition. The General
Assembly itself approves - generally without problems, and rightly so -
the
substantial financing required for the peace-keeping operations decided on by
the Security Council. And that should be the case. But at the same time we
are all aware that any major initiative in the economic and social field comes
up against the financial barrier that exists here today whereby it must be
conducted "within existing resources". Can anyone imagine what would happen
if peace-keeping operations were to be carried out "within existing resourc£lS"?
What are tha values which lead to death in an armed conflict -
tragic and
terrible though it is - being regarded as more important than the 40,000
children who die every day from malnutrition and inadequate sanitary
facilities or,
in institutional terms, why is it always so much easier to find
funding for the urgent initiatives of the Security Council than for those of
the Economic and Social Council and the General Assembly?
As I have already stat:d,
in order to solve these problems we must
combine "An Agenda for Peace" with an agenda for development. The two are
complementary and indispensable if we are to construct the United Nations of
the future.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
62
(Mr. Somavia, Chile)
We do not believe that the attention that ne&d3 to be paid to economic
and social problems as a source of potential conflicts that affect peace and
security .means transferring the functions of the Economic and Soclal Council
to the Security Council. Rather, as the Heads of St.ate or Government affirmed
in the Security Council on 31 January this year=
"The United Nations membership as a whole, wo.rking throuqh the
appropriate bodies" -
the Security Council,
the Economic and Social
Council and the General Assembly - "needs to give the highest priority to
the solution of these matters." (S/PV.3046, p. 143)
That statement refers to the non-military sources of instability in the
economic, social, humanitarian and ecological fields which have become threats
to peace and security.
That is evidently not a task for the Security Souncil.
It is the
responsibility of the United Nations system as a whole and,
in the; first
place, of the Secretary-General, who mus~ serve as the symbol of collective
aspirations. He must be a catalyst for what is obtainable, give encouragement
to what is difficult and, sometimes, propose what today appears impossible but
will tomorrow be recognized as sensible and reasonable.
We congratulate the Secretary-General, who is performing this task with
vision, personality and a s~nse of leadership.
We in turn, as Governmants, have a duty to provide him with both our
backing and our guidance.
We need to be imaginative in thinking about the future and realistic in
seeking to achieve what is possible. We need to be creative in inventing new
solutions to old problems and practical in obtaining concrete results. We
need to represent our countries but also to think of the common interests of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library(Mr. Somayia, Chile)
~ind. We need to listen to one another, respect one another and become
accustomed to learning from one another. We need to develop effective
fOIrnlulas for dialogue and negotiation.
In short, we need to build together
the minimal foundations for mutual trust,"
In this context, it is essential to promote education for peace,
conceived of as a means of spiritUal and conceptual preparation for comparing
ideas and seeking agreements. The more people there are who are trained in
this philosophy of coexistence,
the more timely will be the early warnings in
situations when peace is at risk.
Hence the importance of "An Agenda for Peace" and the innovative paths it
explores in relation to the traditional issues of international peace and
security,
We well know that there is nothing more pragmatic than a good idea,
nothing more realistic than a sound concspt.
"An Agenda for Peace" is full of
ideas and concepts. Let us listen to one another in order to know which ones
we share, and let us do the impossible to make them possible.
Mr, AFONSO (Mozambique): My delegation is pleased to join previous
speakers in congratUlating the Secretary-General for his excellent and timely
reports on the work of the Organization and "An Agenda for Peace".
The current session of the General Assembly is taking place against a
background of continued and ever-groving changes in international relations.
The cold war is over, and so is the ideological rivalry,
the arms race" the
competition for zones of influence and the military power blocs. Positive
changes have occurred and we now witness a common and global trend towards the
enchancement of democracy,
the rule of law and respect for human rights and
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
64-65
(Mr. Afonso. Mozambique)
fundamental freedoms. This new situation ~as given hope and,
indeed, produced
some first results in the search.for confli~t resolution.
Notwithstanding these promising opportunities,
the Jlnternational
community is still confronted by difficult problems and se~ious challenges
which pose potential threats to international peace and se~urity. Such
problems and challenges include the emergence of extreme nationalism in
certain areas of the globe,
the plight of millions of refugees and displaced
persons victimized by war and armed c~nflicts, the ongoing world-wide economic
recession ~hich has a severe impact on poverty levels especially in developing
countries, mounting social tensions which are manifested in racial and
religious intolerance, and ethnic hostilities. All these fectors, coupled
with the unchecked environmental degradation, constitute serious threats to
national and international 3tability.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryItJ4UPV.46
66
(Mr. Afonso. Mozambique)
In this critic~l historic context Member States are;d~ty bound to seize
this opportunity for a re~aissance of our Organization, both in strategies and
actions. The Secretary-General's reports are rich in concepts of a new United
Nations for the new era. The Secretary-General's ideas open a new window of
opportunity for a deliberate and determined exercise of political will and
corresponding commitment by all Member States in search of a better United
Nations, an Organization better equipped to respond to the trust and
expectations of the peoples of the world. The end of the cold-war rivalry and
bipolarity should afford the United Nations a privileged position in the
efforts to maintain international peace and security, secure justice and human
rights and promote "social progress and better standards of life in larger
freedom", as prescribed in the Charter.
My delegation welcomes the current political exercise aimed at
strengthening the role of the United Nations in the promotion of international
peace and security. Cur efforts must continue to be guided by the purposes
and principles of the Charter. The international community must ensure
respect for the sovereign equality of all States,
the peaceful settlement of
disputes and strict adherence to the principle of non-interference in the
internal affairs of other States.
While undertaking these initiatives, we must also ensure the continued
role of the States as "the foundation-stone" of the United Nations work, as
the Secretary-General put it.
Such an approach would be in line with the
principles of national sovereignty and territorial integrity, as enshrined in
the Charter.
It would also guarantee the centrality of States in the conduct
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAlf.?/PV.45
67
(Mr. Afonso, Mozambique)
of international relations. Respect for sovereign equality ,between States is
vital for the promotion of cooperation and understanding between nations. The
principle of sovereign equality is of paramount importance in order to foster
the credibility and legitimacy of United Nations actions around the globe.
My delegation concurs with the basic thrust of the proposals and goals
contained in "An Agenda for Peace".
In this regard,
I should like to
highlight the critical importance of resorting to preventive diplomacy,
through the early identification of potential conflicts; the engagement in
peacemaking efforts where conflic~s ~ake place;
the preservation of post-
conflict peace through peace-keeping; and effective and commensurate
assistance in the implementation of agreements achieved. Last but not least,
the question of post-conflict pvace-building,
involving actions aimed at
supporting structures which can strengthen and solidify peace in order to
avoid the resurgence of violence and conflict, plays an important role in
these endeavoura.
We believe in the import8Jl~.·
the several practical measures suggested
in the repo~t to strengthen the capacity of the Secretariat and the
Organization at large in putting into place "An Agenda for Peace".
I wish to
refer in particular to the xndertaking by the Secretary-General of periodic
consultations on confidence-building measures, fact-finding missions,
the
strengthening of early warn~ng arrangements of the Unitsd Nations, mediation
and negotiations on behalf of the United Nations,
the revitalization and
reinforcement of the role of the International Court of Justice,
international
assistance - especially humanitarian assistance to ameliorate conflict
situations - and countermeasures to mitigate the impact of internationally
..
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
68
(Mr. Afo~ Mozambigye)
agreed sanctions.
In this reqard, my delegation attaches the utmost
importance to cooperation and complementarity in efforts of the United Nations
and regional orq~~izations. He view the recently createdOrqanization of
African Unity Mechanism for Preventinq, Managing and Resolving Conflicts in
Africa as being along the lines mentioned in "An Agenda for Peace."
On the issue of financing peace-keeping operations, my delegation
believes that every effort should be made to find an effective solution which
takes into account the interests and circumstances of all Member States. as
well as th~ n~~d to ensure that our Organization performs its fundamental
objective.
the maintenance of internation~l peace and security.
My country has a ve~ted interest in seeing a sound and secure
functioning of the United Nations peace-keeping operations. Having lived in a
war-torn country for more than 30 years. our people have now turned to the
United Nations to assist them in their endaavours for peace. national
reconciliation and t~e reconstruction of the country.
As representatives are aware, following the signing in Rome of the
General Peace Agreement between the Government of MOZambique and RENAMO.
the
Security Council adopted resolution 782 (1992) on 13 October. The resolution,
inter alia. approved the appointment by the Secretary-General of an interim
Special Representative and the dispatch to MOZambique of a team of up to
25 military observers. Both the interim Special Representative and the
military observers are now in MOZambique playing an important role in seeing
that the cease-fire holds. As a matter of fact. a meeting took place today.
the first of its kind. between the Government of MoZambique. RENAMO and the
Special Representative of the Secretary-General.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47.1PV.46
69-70
(Mr. MODIO, Mczambiqye)
On behalf at the Mozambic~ Government,
I wish once again to thank the
Secretary-General for his personal dedic0tion to peace in:~ country since his
tenure of offic0 heqan 10 months~. Dult'ill1q tliis l\)ng paacGii'laking process we
have benefited from his advice, good jUdgement and political and diplomatic
experience. We wish in particular to commend him for t14e expeditious manner
in which he complied with the provisions of the Security Council resolution by
putting together an initial group of peace-keepers in MoZambique•
..
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/4'UPV.46
71
(Mr. Afonso, Mozamb.i.mm)
From this-rostrum, we wish to appeal strongly to each and every State
Member of the nnited Nations to assist the Secretary-General,
the Security
Council and the Government of Mozambique in providin~ the necessary resources,
be they financial or in personnel, equipment,
logistics or training, in order
to put in place a full-fledged United Nations operation in Mozambique.
As we emphasized a few days ago before the Security Council,
the whole
viability of the general peace agreement hinges on the central role to be
played by the United Nations.
Withou~ a massive and effective United Nations
presence in the field,
the fragile peace prospects in our country may well be
jeopardized. We firmly believe that the international community will heed our
appeal.
Many,
innovative proposals have been put forward by the Secretary-General
in his "Agenda for Peace". My delegation wishes to express its full support
for the Secretary-General and his approach to and vision of the challenges
facing the Organization. The expectations and challenges faci~g the United
Nations are clearly the very same that face our peoples and nations today. We
should especially like to single out our support for the idea of setting up a
reserve fund to guarantee the rapid mObilization and deployment of United
Nations peace-keeping operations whenever and wherever they are needed. The
establishment of such a fund wo~ld be another concrete contribution to the
maintenance of international peace and security.
Mr. KALPAQE (Sri Lanka): The Sri Lanka delegation would like to
thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive r~port on the work of the
Organization. We agree with his perception that
"It is in our power to bring about a renaissance -
to create a new United
Nations for a new inte.:-national era." (A/47/1. para. 5)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ' - - - - - - - - - - - - - - '
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
72
(Mr.
l'talpagS, Sri Lanka)
The report an "An Agenda for Peace" is both innovative and challenginq.
The proposals in it must be considered with the care and seriousness they
deserve.
~nese proposals address the opportunities as well as the dangers
that lie ahead. We have found this discussion on "An Agenda for Peace" to be
extremely useful. The depth of analysis and the range of comments made are
indicative of the complexities involved. The ideas expressed here with
candour and conviction can provide a basis for further deliberation and
follow-up action.
Our collective efforts to fulfil the "Agenda for Peace" should be pursued
in tandem with the formulation and realization of an agenda for development.
The peace agenda of the Orqanization must necessarily be underpinned by a
development agenda to make the overall effort viable and sustainable. We
share the view that lastinq peace is an inteqrated and dynamic concept
encompassinq securitYI development and social justice. The multilateral
agenda of our Orqanization for the period ahead should therefore lay emphasis
on the strateqic triad of shared securitYI development and human welfare. The
hiqh visibility and urgency of certain security questions should not be
allowed to mask the imperative of addressinq the underlyinq socio-economic
factors that militate again~t the achievement of lastinq peace.
Peace I
security and development -
these are indivisible. My delegation is qrateful
to the Secretary-General for brinqing out this interrelationship in his two
reports.
We share the Secretary-General's view tha~
"The foundation-stone of this work is and must remain the State".
(A/47/277, para. 17)
The fundamental sovereignty and integrity of the State are crucial to any
common progress we seek to achieve. Preventive diplomacy I peacemakinql
__ c
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
73-75
(Hr. Ja1pagS, Sri Lanka)
peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building must be pursued in a manner
that meets the legitimate aspirations of all Member States.
We believe that the General Assembly should cont.inue to be the principal
policy-making body of the United Nations.
It is here in the General Assembly
that overall policy with regard to the proposals in the uAqenda for Peace"
should be formulated.
Such a policy should be in keeping with the provisions
of the Charter.
It should be principled and pragmatic.
It should contribute
to the stability and long-term viability of the international system. The
principle of sovereign equality requires the participation of all Member
States in the formulation of such policy.
The powers of the Assembly, as stated in Article 10 of the Charter,
include the power to discuss and make recommendations on qusstions relating to
the settlement of disputes. The Charter authorizes the Assembly not only to
address directly the States parti~~ iuvolved in a dispute or situation, but
also to play an important role in ~e coordination of the activities of the
principal organs of the United Nations in the field of the prevention and
peaceful settlement of disputes and situations within the provisions of the
Charter.
We must remain faithful, and unflinchinqly so,
to common basic
principles:
first,
the concept of national sovereignty; secondly,
non-·intervention in the internal affairs of States; and,
thirdly, economic
cooperation. The Secretary-General has reminded us that the unlimited
fragmentation of sovereign 3ntities would make it more difficult to achieve
peace, security and economi: well-being for all. External intervention in any
guise cannot be justified, except in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter, particularly in cases where domestic solutions have not been entirely
exhausted.
~---~--- - - - - - - - -
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
76
(Mr. Kalpage. Sri Lanka)
Sri Lanka supports confidence-buildin~measures at all levels. These
measures should be aimed at r~ducing threats to security by promoting
openness. We welcome the Secretary-General's undertaking periodic
consultations on confidence-building measures. We believe that periodic
consultations between the Governments of a region, at the highest political
level, would also contribute to the process of regional confidence-building.
This would provide opportunities to strengthen the existing relations between
States and to improve mutual understanding and trust.
Fact-finding should be objective and carried out in an impartial manner.
It should contribute to building confidence and to defusing a conflict
situation. Extreme care should be exercised to ensure that the presence of
fact-finding missions does not aggravate a given situation.
We are grateful to the Secretary-General for his recommendation that the
Security Council devise a set of measures to assist States confronted with
special economic problems resulting from the imposition of sanctions under
Article 41 of the Charter.
In this context, it would be pertinent to point
out that action by the Security Council to use force under Chapter VII of the
Charter could cause not only economic problems but human problems as well. We
have seen, for ex~~ple, the enormous difficulties faced by the large number of
returnee migrant workers, particularly from developing countries, during the
Gulf crisis.
Therefore, we hope that the Security Council will adopt suitable measures
to assist States affected by Security Council decisions under Chapter VII of
the Char.ter. We should like to emphasize the need for procedures that would
make possible the rapid implementation of any measures adopted. Failure to do
so will not bring the desired results, however good the intentions may be.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
77
(Mr. Kalpage. Sri Lank~)
Our warm appreciation goes to those who are already bearing the brunt of
peace-keeping operations. A vast expenditure is being incurred. This
expenditure is bound to increase steeply in the immediate future. This will
be an important factor in determining the involvement of the United Nations in
action on "An Agenda for Peace".
It is important that the issues related to "An Agenda for Peace" be
considered as a whole,
in an integrated manner. We therefore support the
proposal that an open-ended working group of the General Assembly be entrusted
with this task.
Mr. ERDENECHJJLUUN (Mongolia): The Chairman of the Non-Aligned
Movement,
the representative of Indonesia, Ambassador Wisnumurti, has already
spoken on the item under consideration. On behalf of the Movement, my
delegation wishes to amplify some of the points that are reflected in that
statement.
There was practically no statement in the general debate at this session
of the General Assembly that did not in one way or another touch upon the
report of the Secretary-General entitled "An Agenda for Peace", prepared
pursuant to the decision taken by the first Security Council Summit Meeting,
in January this year. This fact alone testifies to the importance that Member
States attach to the timely issue of the restructuring, revitalization and
democratization of the United Nations.
Indeed, it is inconceivable to imagine
the world Organization being unresponsive to the dramatic changes taking place
throughout the world. We believe that this report is the result of a logical
evolution of the new perceptions that ought to guide the United Nations in
addressing major challenges that are before us.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA147/PV.46
78
(Mr. Erdenechuluun, Mongolia)
We welcome the thought-provoking report of the Secretary-General, which
contains innovative ideas and concepts designed to enhance the role of the
Organization in safeguarding !nte~ational poace and security. As the
Secretary-General has drawn upon the experience of peace-keeping operations in
recent years, which are characterized by their growing scope and dimensions,
the report represents an integral concept, covering all the political and
military components -
that is, preventive diplomacy, peacemaking,
peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building.
My delegation wishes to emphasize that among these four major components
the United Nations and its Member States must give priority attention to
preventive diplo~acy and exert every effort to utilize it to the full. The
ideal situation would undoubtedly be the solution to a problem within the
framework of preventive diplomacy.
In other words, we have to make sure that
every means of preventive diplomacy is exhausted before we emarbark on the
next stage.
As far as the peacemaking component is concerned, we wish to single out
paragraph 41 of the report, which deals with special economic problems of the
third parties that might be affected by the imposition of sanctions. We
support the Secretary-General's idea of putting in place a set of measures to
insulate States from economic difficulties. Mongolia is among the many
countries that are being affected by the ongoing sanctions.
In tb;,s respect,
my delegation commends the important and timely efforts of the Special
Committee on the Charter of the United Nations to study ways and means to
ensure prompt and adequate response to requests f~r assistance under
Article 50 of the Charter. We believe that such specific proposals as the
establishment of a compensatory fund administered by the Security Council and
the freezing of assets of the offender-State should command the attention of
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.46
79-80
(Mr. Erdenechuluun. Mongolia)
the Special Committee at its future sessions. Here,
I wish to note the
adoption of Security Council resolution 778 (1992) as an impor~ant
preced~nt-settinqdecision of the Council to hold the Qffender-Stat~
responsible for some specific obligations and payments.
The activities of the Special Committee on the Charter of the United
Nations and the Strengthening of the Rols of the O~qanization are instrumental
in the ongoing efforts to revitalize the United Nations. We hope that the
~
Secretary-General's report will qivo the Special Committee a new impetus to
finalize the consideration of items on its agenda and. proceed to take up new
important questions for dis~us5ion.
We applaud a new concept in the Secretary-General's report regarding
post-conflict peace-building, which represents a logical completion of
peacemaking and peace-keeping operations. Having said that,
I wish to note
here that we are not suggesting any strict compartmentalization or separation
of these interlinked compon!nts. Rather, depending on a given situation, some
of the components could and should be utilized in parallel.
It should be
emphasized that any innovative idea or new approach must be conceived within
the limits of the underlying principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
The Security Council, ~hich bears primary responsibility for maintaining
international peace and security, after having been freed from the handicaps
of the cold-war era has undoubtedly become a much more effective instrument in
carrying out its mandate.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl471PV.46
131
(Mr. Erdenechuluun, Mongolia)
At the same time, we believe that changes have to be made in both the
composition and the workings of the Council so as to reflect the new reality
appropriately. Democratization of United Nations bodies requires transparency
and accountability in the work of the Security Council as well. This also
implies the need for a balanced relationship among the Security Council,
the
General Assembly and the Secretary-General, in accordance with the provisions
of the Charter.
It has been widely recognized that security concepts have come to
encompass not only military and political but also economic, social,
humanitarian and environmental aspects. We fully aqree with the vie~ ~tated
by the Secretary-General in his report on the work of the Organization that
"Political proqress and economic development are inseparable:
both
are e'qually important and m.ust be pursued simultaneously." (1./47/1,
It is in that context that my delegation supports the call addressed to the
Secretary-General for an agenda for development.
My delegation notes with interest the various ideas put forward with
regard to rectifying the extremely difficult financial situation of the
Organization.
It goes without saying that the sound financial basis of the
Organization is the collective responsibility of all Member States. We
support the idea of establishing a revolving peace-keepinq reserve fund of
$50 million that would help secure the financing of the initial stages of new
peace-keeping operations.
Alongside the various proposals and recommendations contained in the
Secretary-General's report,
the current deliberations have produced a host of
new ideas that we believe require thorough study and extensive discussion by
•
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
82
(Mr. Irdenechulyun, Mongolia)
all Member States.
In this respect, my delegation is in favour of setting up
an open-ended working group to examine the report and the proposals of Member
States and to come up with specific recommendations. We hope a decision to
that effect can be adopted as soon as possible in order to enable the working
group to begin its work in the course of the present session.
The report of the Seoretary-General on the work of the Organization
contains a synthesis of the ongoing restructuring process and of
forward-looking strategies to deal with global challenges. Both reports of
the Secretary-General are mutually supportive, and we regard them as an
important contribution towards attaininq the objective set by the
Secretary-General to complete the present phase in the renewal of the
Organization by 1995, its fiftieth anniversary.
The PRESIPENt (interpretation from French):
In accordance with
General Assembly resolutions 3237 (XXIX) of 22 November 1974 and 43/177 of
15 December 1988,
I now call on the representative of the Observer delegation
of Palestine.
Mr, AL-KIpWA (Palestine) (interpretation from Arabic):
I wish to
convey to Ambas&ador Ganev my congratulations upon his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly for this session and to express my
appreciation to him and to his friendly country, Bulgaria. The chairman of
the delegation of Palestine for the forty-seventh session,
Mr, Farouk Eaddoumi, will c~ngratulate him on behalf of our delegation when he
speaks before the A8~embly at a later date.
Allow me also to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General,
His Excellency Mr. Boutros 30utros-Ghali, for his constructive efforts aimed
at building a more effectiv3 United Nations that can help build a better world
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAl47/PV.46
83
(Mr. Al-Kidwa, Palestine)
of peace, justice and prosperity. Allow me furthermore to thank him for his
important report, "An Ag'enda for peace", prepared at the invitation of the
historic Security Council summit which represented a new mechanism for dealing
with the highly important world issues. We hope that meeting will be repeated
in the future so that concrete results may be achieved. When we speak of
this, we must not forget that the idea of holding such a meeting was
introduced for the first time by the President of France when he suggested the
convening of a Security Council summit meeting to deal with the situation in
the Middle East.
It is important for us to be able ~o participate in this si~Aificant
debate on the most effective means of achieving lasting peace in the world
through preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and post--conflict
peace-building as well as on the means of enabling the United Nations and its
various organs, especially the Security Council,
to carry out that entire
programme in the most efficient manner possible.
The debate acquires more significance because it takes place now, at a
time when we have a historic opportunity to build a better world. The old
world order has crumbled and with it its main feature,
the cold war and the
attendant danger of nuclear confrontation. This has given rise to high hopes
regarding the establishment of a new world order that would be free from the
danger of confrontation and safe from the deva.stet.ion of war, as it would be
free from rivalry for dominion and influence:
a world that would be built OD
justice and the rule of law, a world which would attach high importance to
development,
to the struggle against poverty and want,
to the upholding of
human rights and to the preservation of the environment.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryAJ'47/PV.46
84
(Mr. Al-Kidwa. Palestine)
There is no doubt that during the short period since the change started
and up to the present, several achievements have been made,
including:
a
greater awareness of the real problems that beset the world; an acceptance of
the importance of in-depth debate amongst all parties on those problems and on
the means of solving them; an increased readiness on the part of all to put
aside positions that had been held for lonq periods of tim81 in addition, of
course,
to the numerous democratic transformations that have led to the
consolidation of freedom in many partq of the world. Those achievements also
included the settl~ment of numerous longstanding regional conflicts and
disputes.
This, of course, has a major significance that cannot be denied.
However, it is also undeniable that we are still a long way off from the
bright picture we have visualized of a new situation in the world. There are
still major disagreements on the scale of priorities and even on the
formulation of concrete meanings and definitions of the goals we declare that
we have set for ourselves and of the means of achieving such goals.
In addition,
the economic suffering of the South continues, and the gap
that separates it from the North is widening. Several regional conflicts,
with their attendant threats to international peace and security, continue
unabated and without solution. Moreover, new conflicts break out, in an
outrageous manner, without even the prospect of this being brought under
control. Meanwhile, we must admit that confidence in the moral and legal
foundation of certain positions is receding~ while fears of selectivity,
double standards and the appetite of some for dominance and hegemony on the
ascendant. All this may be the source of the importance we attach to our
discussion here,
today, and to the many other debates on the international
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA1471PV.46
85
(Mr. Al-Kidwa, Palestine)
situation.
It may b~ that through such debates# Go<l willing; we shall be able
to build together the new wc~~ld order and imbue ,it. with its main attribute,
namely theattaimnent and maintenance of peace in. the world.
We have listened carefully to the debat~ thus far on the
Secretary-General's report. We can say that we ~ind ourselves in agreement
with the spirit of the report and with a great m~y of the ideas and proposals
set forth therein. We hope those proposals will l»~ the subject of the
discussion that may lead to consensus over them and,
thereby,
to
implementation.
In this respect, allow me to make some comments which we deem
to be important:
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryE'alestine}
11 be able
ribute.
reement
proposals
ne
ch we deem
A/47/PV.46
86
We believe that what the report says w1'th regard to self-determination
for peoples reflects the desire to check the aggravation of the phenomenon of
fragmentation of States and we believe that this must be read without
(Mr. AI-Kidwa. Palestine)
contradiction to the principle relating to the
b
a so u e rlg t of peoples under
'h
1 t
colonialism and foreign occupation to exercise self-determination as that is a
right which has been enshrined as one of the purposes of the United Nations.
in the Organization's Charter.
We believe that
the importance of the United Nations and the significance
of its enhanced role in the field of peacemaking and peace-keeping will always
depend on the shouldering by the United Nations of its role and normal
responsibilities vis-a-vis all disputes and regional conflicts alike without
exceptions or selectivity under any pretext. We further believe that it is
illogical for the Security Council
to leap towards the assumption of tasks in
new areas regardless of the importance of such areas. without the discharge.
or at least the effective handling. by the Council of its principal
tasks
under its present mandate.
Furthermore. we believe that success in achieving
all that is envisaged in the report regarding the increased efficacy of the
United Nations and the Security Council's activities in the fields of
preventive diplomacy. peacemaking. peace-keeping and post-conflict
peace-building shall not depend solely on the ability of the Security Council
to impose the implementation of some coercive measures in order to enforce
some of its resolutions under Chapter 7 of the Charter. More importantly.
success shall depend on the Security Council's ability to impose the
implementation and follOW-Up of. as well as full adherence to. all its other
resolutions.
together with full adherence to Article 25 of the United Nations
Charter. once again, without exceptions or selectivity.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Al47/PV.46
87
(Mr. AI-Kidwa, Palestine)
While speaking of the work of the Security Council, we must state that
although there have been some positive signs, such as the fact that the right
of veto has not been used over the past two years, we have to voice our
concern over some other disturbing features of the Council's activities,
especially the lack of transparency and the increased tendency to selectivity,
whether in the manner of dealing with crises or in the area of adhering to
rules or implementing resolutions.
In general, we believe that the C~uncil must undergo certain structural
and functional reforms that would reflect better the new international
situation and lead to better results. We also believe that the absolute
importance of the principal responsibilities entrusted to the Security
Council, namely the maintenance of international peace and security, requires
that priority should be given to that task and also require effective
participation by all.
Such participation could be achieved only in the
General Assembly. We remain convinced of the need for the General Assembly to
complete and follow up its discussion of the Secretary-General's report in a
more comprehensive manner. This could be done properly through the work of an
open-ended working group.
We cannot deny or even forget for one moment that we belong to Palestine
and the Middle East; we ~.ive its crises daily. Therefore, when we examine or
speak of ideas and the means of achieving peace and when we hear others
speaking of that, we cannot but make comparisons between what is being said,
on the one hand, and what is actually taking place in the Middle East on the
other. When the issue unde~ discussion is a bigger and more effective role
for the United Nations, we cannot but remember that the United Nations has
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld LibraryA/47/PV.46
88
(Mr. AI-Xidwa, Palestine)
been barred from supervisinq or even participating in the Midd~e East peace
process currently under way. When the issue under discussion is compliance
with Security Council resolutions, which represent the internatio~al will, we
cannot but remember that, since 1967, Israel has not complied with any of the
Security Council's resolutions relating to the situation in the occupied
Palestinian territory,
including AI-Quds, and that it has even publicly
rejected some of those resolutions and has refused to receive commissions sent
by the Council. When the issue under discussion is the non-proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction,
including chemical weapons, we cannot but
remember that Israel is being enabled daily to acquire and stockpile nuclear
weapons.
I am not going to go on. However,
the question remains:
how can we
reconcile the veracity of such noble ideas, on the one hand, with what goes on
daily in our country and our region, on the other?
Unfortunately~ that is not
possible. However,
this will not make us lose faith or weaken our belief in
those ideas and will not prevent us from being open to the new world. Rather,
it makes us more determined to change the situation in our region and to bring
it in line with those ideas. We are ready, and the right beginning for the
others is to end the contradiction between what they say an~ what they do.
This would enable us to move in the right direction,
towards a just and
\sting peace in the Middle East,
that could be built by all of us, as an
integral part of the peace and security of the whole world.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library