UNITED 
NATIONS 
General Assembly 
UN  LIBRARY 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.9 
2 October 1992 
UN/SA  CDU£CTlONfENGLISH 
Forty-seventh session 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 9th MEETING 
Held at Headquarters, New York, 
on Wednesday, 23 September 1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
Mr. GANEV 
Mr. ASKIN 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Turkey) 
Address by Mr. Jaime Paz Zamora, President of the Republic of Bolivia 
Address by Mr. Valentine E. M. Strasser, Chairman of the National 
Provisional Ruling Council of the Republic of Sierra Leone 
General debate [9] (continued) 
Statement made bv 
Mr. Solana Morales (Mexico) 
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English 
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages.  The final text will 
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembly. 
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only.  They should 
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within 
one week, to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61215  1305V (E) 
A/47/PV.9 
l(a-z) 
Address by His Excellency Mr. Hans Brunhart, Head of Government 
of the Principality of Liechtenstein 
Statements made by 
Mr. Bounkoulou (Congo) 
Mr. Abdullah (Malaysia) 
Mr. Ellemann-Jensen (Denmark) 
Prince Mohamed Bolkiahh (Brunei Darussalam) 
Mr. Nastase (Romania) 
A/47/PV.9 
2 
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m. 
ADDRESS BY MR. JAIME PAZ ZAMORA, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will now hear an address by the 
President of the Republic of Bolivia. 
Mr. Jaime Paz Zamora. President of the Republic of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour 
to welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic of Bolivia, His 
Excellency Mr. Jaime Paz Zamora, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President PAZ ZAMORA:  I first had the honour of addressing the 
General Assembly in September 1989, shortly after assuming the presidency of 
Bolivia.  I anticipated then that the vertiginous changes taking place in and 
around us would bear the hallmark of what I termed the revolution of 
democracy. 
Today, after all we have experienced in this brief but intense period, we 
can see more clearly that the growth of universal awareness among men and 
women has not only given democracy, as a system, a global dimension for the 
first time in the history of mankind, but has also meant that its power for 
change and its potential for transformation are clearly challenging old ideas, 
old structures and old habits. 
I will say without fear of contradiction if I may be permitted to 
paraphrase what someone has said  that democracy is racing round the globe, 
no longer a phantasmal newcomer but rather a wind of renewal and hope. 
Accordingly, what we must now surely call global democracy is shedding 
new light on old truths, leading us to understand better, for example, that 
power is, by definition, something to be shared; that we need a new and better 
A/47/PV.9 
3  -
(President  Paz  Zamora) 
understanding  of  the dynamics  of  consensus  and  dissent;  and  that  the various 
forms  of  intermediation  necessary  for  social  life  are  now  in crisis. 
Indeed,  the more  complex  the organizational  processes  of  a particular 
government,  as  is the case  in democracy,  the greater  the need  for  that power 
to be  shared  if we wish  to  see  it adequately maintained  and  developed.  By the 
same token,  the more  rudimentary  and  simple  power  is, as  is the case  in 
authoritarianism  and dictatorship,  the  less evident  is the necessity  of 
sharing  power. 
Similarly,  we  can now  see that  the useful  consensus  on the basis of which 
the old democracies  of  the  industrialized  countries were  built,  with 
government  and opposition  thinking  and acting virtually  in the  same way, seems 
to  citizens  a worn-out mechanism  that hampers  change.  Paradoxically,  at the 
opposite  pole,  in the young democracies  of developing  countries,  the citizenry 
zealously  calls  for  consensus  as an essential means  of  uniting  the  nation's 
forces  in pursuit  of  indispensable  changes. 
It would  seem,  then,  that where  the  art of  consensus  was perfected, the 
need  is arising  to  learn how to manage  dissent  in an appropriate way; and 
where dissent  had become  a way  of  life  and  a cause  of  stagnation,  there is a 
need  in turn  to  learn how to build  consensus.  This  could  well be described as 
the dynamics  of  consensus  and dissent  under  democracy. 
As  to the  forms of  intermediation  to be  found  in  social  life, we also see 
that  the  citizens  of universal  democracy  are  striving  to  reduce  intermediacy, 
striving  to  take the  initiative  in everyday  life  in a more  direct way.  It is 
then  that  the  citizen  comes  to  regard  intermediation  as  something  of his own 
that  is inescapable,  genuine,  close, efficient,  transparent  and 
representative.  Therefore, we  should  not be  surprised  today  to  find  a state 
A/47/PV.9 
4 
(President  Paz  Zamora) 
of crisis  in the political,  religious, trade-union  and  cultural  forms  of 
intermediation,  and  even  in that great  intermediator,  the  State  itself. 
This  last point  is especially  useful  and  relevant  as we  turn to  an 
examination of  the present  state  of our Organization,  for,  in our view,  what 
has come  to be  called  the  crisis  of  the United  Nations  seems  to be  in  essence 
nothing other  than a crisis  of  intermediation.  I say this because  in fact we 
have always  thought  that  the United  Nations  represents  the most  advanced 
mechanism  of  intermediation  on Earth but  that,  in order  to continue  to be 
such, it must  adapt  itself  to  the newly emerging  global  scenarios  of  the 
revolution  of  democracy. 
For nearly half  a century  after  its  inception,  the United  Nations  played 
the privileged  role of  intermediary  during  the era of hegemonic  blocs  and  the 
cold war.  That  indicated  the quantity  and quality  of  intermediation  possible 
within that context,  at  the  same  time creating  a way  of  sharing  international 
power and a method  of managing  the dynamics  of  consensus  and dissent,  within 
the prevailing balance, managing  in that  context  to determine  even  its own 
structure, organization  and  functioning.  Under  that old order, the United 
Nations achieved  great  credibility.  And although  in many places peace was  not 
always preserved,  the Organization  achieved  something  that  appeared 
impossible:  prevention  of  a nuclear  conflagration between  opposing  and 
seemingly  irreconcilable blocs. 
But  things have  changed  dramatically  and, with  them,  so must  our 
Organization.  In  saying  this  I believe  I am voicing what  all of  us  in the 
Assembly  are  thinking.  It  is clear  that  the new world  order needs  new 
credibility, which  the United  Nations must  earn.  The  citizens  and  nations  of 
global democracy  are placing  unavoidable  challenges before  our  Organization, 
A/47/PV.9 
5 
(President Paz Zamora', 
challenges that reguire us to adapt its structures, modernize its machinery 
and identify new priorities and thus the new intermediation that is possible 
in terms of quantity and quality.  And, with no other aim in mind than that of 
seeking answers, allow me to illustrate these ideas by describing a few 
selected developments which, in addition to being new, have the common feature 
of having gained global proportions, which makes them particularly deserving 
of the Organization's keenest attention. 
The first of these is what I would describe as the dialectic of the 
universal and the particular, or, alternatively, the dialectic of 
universalisms and particularisms.  I am referring to the obvious fact that 
peoples today are expressing two attitudes that are seemingly contradictory 
but are none the less part of the same dynamic. 
A/47/PV.9 
6 
(President  Paz  Zamora) 
On the one hand  they  are  striving  for  complementarity  through  processes 
of integration  that  are  laying out ever broader  geographical, political, 
economic and  commercial  areas  that  already  constitute  a new world  geography. 
On the other hand,  simultaneously  and paradoxically,  those  same peoples  and 
citizens are  reaffirming  their  identity  and  their  essence,  sometimes 
intransigently  demanding  their  own cultural, historic,  religious,  and 
immediate political  frameworks.  In an apparent  contradiction,  they  seem  to be 
trying to experience,  simultaneously  and  complementarily,  the great  and  the 
small, the  longer-term  and  the  immediate,  the universal  and  the  particular. 
The second  of  these  developments  arises  from  the  fact that  the market 
economy has gained  ascendancy  in the  same manner  as democracy  and,  together 
with them,  the  awareness  of  a better  life and  the need  for well-being  and 
human and social development  have  also become global.  Consequently,  we  face 
as never before  the urgent  need  for  a form of  solidarity  that will enable  us 
to hit upon an appropriate  relationship  between  the market  economy,  democracy, 
and human development.  That  solidarity,  by emphasizing  social  development 
and, for many of  our  countries,  in a frontal  assault  upon poverty, will  enable 
us also to redefine  the  foundations  of new  social  legitimacy  for  States, 
internally  and  internationally. 
The third development  has  to do with  something  that we  agreed  upon at the 
recent Conference  in Rio de Janeiro.  We  live  in a single global  ecosystem  and 
we are all  jointly  responsible  for  its conservation  and  clean-up.  We  also 
agreed that  little purpose would  be  served by preserving  a world  to be 
inhabited by  an  impoverished  human  race, which  clearly  implies  that  the 
ecological  stewardship  of  the planet  does not  rur  counter  to our peoples' 
needs for development.  Consequently,  it  remains  for us promptly  to endow  the 
A/47/PV.9 
7 
(President Paz Zamora) 
Commission on Sustainable Development with the resources, powers and machinery 
it will need to fulfil the objectives we have set for ourselves.  That means 
implementing Agenda 21, a true plan of action for the next century, as a point 
of departure for offsetting the historical environmental debt we have spoken 
of in other forums. 
The fourth development pertains to technology.  In the joint 
deliberations the Presidents of the Ibero-American countries engaged in to 
mark the Quincentennial of 1492, we concluded that the final explanation for 
all colonial processes is to be found in a confrontation in which the winner 
achieves ascendancy by virtue of his technological superiority, and that this 
first technological defeat lies at the root of dependency and 
marginalization.  We then agreed that in order to redress that situation it 
was necessary to share technological power more democratically, and that one 
appropriate way to do so might well be to declare as the common heritage of 
mankind those basic technologies that are indispensable to satisfy adequately 
the equally basic rights of mankind:  health, nutrition, education and 
housing.  I venture to reiterate that initiative before the Assembly with an 
explicit proposal by Bolivia to the international community that we should 
seek participatory, creative and markedly personal machinery that would become 
the main thrust of the work of the social summit we should now convene. 
The fifth, and last, development I wish to bring to the attention of the 
Assembly relates to a right which is already recognized under Article 19 of 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of our Organization, which states 
that everyone has the right to 
"seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and 
regardless of frontiers." (resolution 217 (III). Article 19) 
A/47/PV.9 
8 
(President Paz  Zamora) 
Representatives  will  surely  agree  that  in recent decades  technology  has 
turned information, too, into a phenomenon of equally global proportions.  At 
the same time, the universal  revolution of democracy has  instilled  an 
unprecedented  awareness  among citizens of their  right to inform  and be 
informed.  That growing  awareness  is in turn linked  to the observable  fact 
that the gap now separating  the well-informed  citizen  from the poorly  informed 
citizen seems quantitatively  and qualitatively greater, or  at least equal to, 
that other gap  separating extremes of wealth  and poverty. 
All of this  leads us, in modern  terms, to the perception  that  information 
has become the Gordian knot or, if you wish, the crossroads  of human rights. 
Indeed, although  it may  appear  an arbitrary  simplification,  the 
better-informed  citizen eats more  and better  than the citizen who  is not 
well-informed and has greater  opportunities, among other  things, to  obtain 
access to better health  and education.  The problem  becomes  all the more  acute 
when, as mentioned  earlier, information today has become  a phenomenon  that  is 
increasingly dependent on advanced  technology  and, conseguently,  the  exercise 
of the right conferred by  the aforementioned  Article  19 of the  Declaration 
really depends on each citizen's greater or  lesser  opportunity  to have  access 
to technology on an egual  footing. 
I believe  that a matter  of  such great  importance  requires  special 
treatment and attention on the part of our Organization.  With  that  in mind, 
it seems most  appropriate  to suggest  that  serious  and urgent  consideration  be 
given to the  inclusion  as a central  focus of the World  Conference  on Human 
Rights in 1993  the  topic of citizens' information.  I say "citizens'" 
information because  I am not  referring  to that other matter, relating more  to 
information among nations, which  came  to be known  as the  "new  international 
A/47/PV.9 
9-10 
(President Paz Zamora) 
information order".  Rather, I am referring to the citizens' right to 
information and to the urgent need to guarantee, in principle and in reality, 
equality for mankind with regard to information. 
I wish to share with the Assembly my impression that, if we keep up with 
history in moving along this road, we will be arming mankind against what 
might be the most serious threat to democracy:  the new authoritarianism, or, 
if you prefer, the great dictatorship of the twenty-first century - the 
perverse, systematic, sophisticated, invisible and elusive subjugation of the 
citizens to the distorted and monopolistic control of information technology. 
Allow me now to devote a few moments of my statement to recent 
developments in my country.  The curtain has just fallen on a period which is 
now gone, perhaps never to return.  In my country, the signs of new times are 
much more visible than in other regions.  Members here have themselves often 
expressed that judgment and often urged and encouraged the efforts of my 
people, who may now take pride in achievements that have impressed sceptics 
and enlightened those whose minds were weighed down by the weary logic of the 
past. 
Bolivia is a nation at peace, and, collectively and individually, it is 
perhaps one of the safest on the continent.  It has consolidated its 
democratic system and is making concordance the basic instrument of its 
political endeavours. 
A/47/PV.9 
11 
(President Paz  Zamora) 
On 9 July, all my  country's political parties 
Government  and 
opposition, right and  left 
made  a solemn commitment  to carry  forward  in the 
coming months  the basic  tasks of modernizing  the State  and  society  through 
judicial, electoral  and educational  reforms, reforms  in the  administrative  and 
political machinery  and, finally,  reforms  in the Constitution  itself. 
How encouraging  it is to have  left behind  the Bolivia of  factionalism, 
one of the nightmares  of  the  twentieth  century, and to be entering  the 
twenty-first century  free of  those shackles. 
We have built, first, financial  stability  and, then, growth.  To do  this, 
it was necessary  to  face  squarely  the need  to carry out the  in-depth  reform 
and modernization of  the economic  system.  That  reform  stands on  four 
foundations:  stimulating  competitiveness  in the economy  and  freeing  it  from 
tariff barriers, subsidies  and State protection; expanding  the  scope  for 
private initiative  in order  to achieve  the broadest  citizen participation  in 
economic growth; stimulating  investment, generating employment  and  extending 
the benefits of development  to the majority  of Bolivians; and transforming  the 
State into an efficient manager  respectful  of  solidarity, and  into  the main 
party responsible  for  infrastructure  and human development. 
In this way, and based  on the wisdom  and  capabilities  of  its people, 
Bolivia has achieved  the  lowest  rates of  inflation  in South America  in the 
last three years.  At the  same time, its growth  rate was one of the highest  in 
the region, and per  capita  income has grown  systematically  during my 
Administration. 
All of  this has brought  us to a time of happiness  and harmony.  For  the 
first time  in my  country's  contemporary  history,  there  are more  Bolivians 
coming back  than  leaving, and more money  flowing  in than  flowing  out of 
A/47/PV.9 
12 
(President  Paz  Zamora) 
Bolivia.  Never  before  has  so much been  invested  in health,  education  and 
basic  sanitation,  simply  because we have  never had  as much  access  as we have 
today  to  concessional  resources, which  are coming  to Bolivia  thanks  to the 
international  community's  confidence  in the  responsible way  in which my 
country  is being governed.  We  are building  an optimistic  Bolivia,  a Bolivia 
with  a future  and with  international  stature. 
While  Bolivia  is a country which  reaches  the Atlantic  through  the major 
watercourses  of  the Amazon  and  the Rio de  la Plata,  it  is by  history, 
geography  and  culture  a country  of  the Pacific  Ocean.  There  is no better 
place  than  this  forum  of peace  for me  to  reiterate  that  an unjust war deprived 
us of  the  status of  a maritime  nation,  in which our  life  as a  republic began, 
and  thereby  turned  Bolivia  into  a country without  a seacoast.  The  Bolivian 
people will  never  give  up  its aspiration  to the  sea  and  to a sovereign and 
useful  presence  on the Pacific  coast.  It matters  not how much effort  and 
sacrifice  may be  required  in pursuit  of that  objective. 
To  this end, we have  laid out  a strategy  of peace  and  integration, a 
gradual  and pragmatic  strategy by which an appropriate  solution  to Bolivia's 
landlocked  situation  can be  found  that  could be generally  and  mutually 
beneficial  to  the countries  of  the  region.  Proof  of  the  soundness  and impact 
of  that  strategy  is the outcome of  the Mariscal  de  Santa  Cruz  agreements 
signed with  Peru  on  24 January  in the  southern  city of  Ilo.  Although not 
encompassing  the  sovereignty  to which we  aspired,  and  although  not  in the 
location which historically  is rightfully  ours, agreement  has been  reached on 
a commercial  and  industrial  duty-free  zone  and  on administration  of  the port 
by Bolivian  and  Peruvian  entrepreneurs.  Moreover,  a tourism  area of 
5  kilometres  of beach has been granted,  and  it has  already  been  named 
"Boliviamar". 
A/47/PV.9 
13 
(President  Paz  Zamora) 
Three years  ago  I described  to the Assembly  Bolivia's  national  strategy 
to fight the production  of,  trafficking  in and  illicit  consumption  of 
narcotics, a strategy which my  Government  was  then beginning  to  implement, 
asking the  international  community  for  its understanding  and  support.  In 1989 
there were  reasons  to  fear  that drug  trafficking might  irremediably  corrode 
the political  and  institutional  system  of Bolivia,  that  it might  come to 
dominate the economy  as  a whole  and might  lead,  sooner or  later,  to  escalating 
violence.  Although  at  that  time there were  doubts  as to Bolivia's  ability  to 
carry out the plan,  today  I can  say categorically  that  cocaine  traffic  has 
ceased to be a strategic  risk  for  Bolivia. 
Bolivia  is proof  that  the  struggle  against  drug  trafficking  not only is 
possible but can also be  successful.  Against  the temptation  to yield  to 
discouragement  and pessimism,  Bolivia  stands out  as a symbol,  as a banner  of 
hope and optimism.  We have  systematically  reduced  the  areas devoted  to  coca 
growing; we have  reduced  the production  of paste  and cocaine hydrochloride; we 
have taken firm  action  in the  selection of  specialized  personnel,  following 
criteria of efficiency  and honesty;  and we have broken up the main networks  of 
drug trafficking  in Bolivia by means of  a decree-law  known  as the  "Repentance 
Decree", as a result  of which  the  leaders of  these organizations  are now  in my 
country's jails. 
All this was possible  because we managed  to avoid  the  imposition  from 
outside of concepts  and plans  ill-suited  to our  national  reality.  On  the 
contrary, we  forged  ahead  with  a peaceful  struggle,  ruling out  the 
militarization  of  the  struggle  and  spared  the country  from  the  confrontation 
and violence which had occurred  elsewhere.  In the  light  of  this  unquestionably 
A/47/PV.9 
14-15 
(President Paz Zamora) 
positive picture, Bolivia asks the international community to redouble its 
efforts to reduce consumption, to control chemical precursors and to increase 
quantitatively and qualitatively the resources allocated to improved 
functioning of alternative development mechanisms, Bolivia's substantive 
contribution to the body of knowledge on this topic. 
Above all, we ask most earnestly that the coca leaf not be confused with 
cocaine:  the coca leaf is a good thing and is an expression of an age-old 
cultural tradition originating in the Andes; cocaine, by contrast, is foreign, 
alien, and came from outside. 
From this rostrum, I pay a tribute to all the Bolivians who made possible 
the enormous advances we have achieved in this fight against one of the 
cruelest and most pernicious forms of corruption in contemporary society.  I 
wish to express my special thanks to the self-sacrificing workers and farmers 
of my country. 
Tomorrow, at the offices of the Interamerican Development Bank in 
Washington, intergovernmental meetings will begin with a view to defining the 
composition of the governing board of the Development Fund for Indigenous 
Peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean, created on the initiative of the 
Ibero-American countries meeting at the Guadalajara and Madrid summits. 
A/47/PV.9 
16 
(President  Paz  Zamora) 
Bolivia, a country  of original  indigenous  stock,  like  so many others  of 
our continent,  asks  the  international  community  to support  this  programme, 
which is vital  for  the  lives of many men  and women,  especially  as we  prepare 
to celebrate  1993  as the  International  Year  for the World's  Indigenous  People 
with the theme of  "Indigenous people 
a new partnership". 
This  is the  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly.  But  for the 
peoples of the Americas,  and  in particular  the  Ibero-American  peoples,  this 
session marks  the quincentennial  of  1492.  It is therefore  a psychological 
reality for us that  one  chapter  of history  is drawing  to a close  and  another 
is opening, one  in which mankind will  continue  its tireless  search, 
discovering and building  new worlds. 
That  is why Bolivia,  a peaceful  country of  the South, which  is 
experiencing  the profound  challenges  of development,  is also  concerned  about 
the fate of  the  industrialized  North, where,  following  the natural  euphoria 
after the end of  the cold war  and the victory  of democracy,  there have  been 
worrying  signs of uncertainty,  lack of  confidence  and pessimism.  I say I am 
concerned  about  the North because,  in contrast with  the past, we  are now all 
living in one global political  ecosystem,  where  threats,  risks, victories  and 
failures have  repercussions  for us all. 
For  its part,  Bolivia  is prepared,  together  with other  countries,  to  run 
the shared  risk of building  a new and better world.  In that endeavour,  there 
is only one  requirement:  that  no one  ignore  anyone  else. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly  I wish  to  thank 
the President  of  the Republic  of  Bolivia  for  the  statement  he has  just made. 
Mr. Jaime Paz  Zamora. President  of  the Republic  of  Bolivia, was  escorted 
from the General  Assembly  Hall. 
A/47/PV.9 
17 
ADDRESS  BY CAPTAIN VALENTINE  E. M. STRASSER,  CHAIRMAN  OF THE  NATIONAL 
PROVISIONAL  RULING  COUNCIL  OF THE  REPUBLIC  OF SIERRA  LEONE 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly  will  now hear  an address  by  the 
Chairman of  the National  Provisional  Ruling Council  of  the Republic  of Sierra 
Leone. 
Captain Valentine  E. M. Strasser. Chairman of  the National  Provisional 
Ruling  Council  of  the  Republic  of Sierra  Leone, was  escorted  into  the General 
Assembly  Hall. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly,  I have  the honour 
to welcome  to  the United  Nations  the Chairman  of  the National  Provisional 
Ruling  Council  of  the Republic  of Sierra  Leone, His  Excellency 
Captain Valentine  E. M.  Strasser,  and to  invite  him  to address  the  Assembly. 
Chairman  STRASSER:  It is with  a deep  sense  of humility  that I 
ascend  this  rostrum  and bring  the greetings  and best wishes  of  the people of 
Sierra Leone  as we  approach  the close  of one of  the most momentous years in 
our  recent  history. 
Permit me  to convey  to you. Sir, warm  felicitations  on your election to 
the presidency  of  the General  Assembly  at  its forty-seventh  session.  Your 
election  is a tribute  to your  country  and  a testimony  to  its  faith  in this 
Organization  and  all  that  it stands  for.  I wish you  success  in the 
performance  of your duties. 
A/47/PV.9 
18-20 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
The year  1992 has witnessed  the accession  to membership  of  our 
Organization of  a record  number  of  States, 13, thus bringing  closer  the 
attainment  of  the goal of universality  envisaged  in the Charter.  To  all  these 
new Members,  Sierra  Leone  extends  a warm  hand  of welcome  and  friendship, 
feeling sure that  together  we  shall  cooperate  in forging  a new era of  peace 
and  progress  and  a better  life  for all  the peoples  of  the  world. 
JB/8/1312 
A/47/PV.9 
21 
(Chairman Strasser) 
Since Sierra Leone was admitted as the hundredth Member of this 
Organization some 30 years ago, we have come to regard this Organization as 
the custodian of international peace and security and as a bastion for the 
defence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of all States, and 
particularly small States such as ours.  At the same time, this Organization 
has not failed to deploy yeoman's efforts in solving the many international 
problems of an economic, social, cultural, and humanitarian character which 
continue to plague us.  In spite of all that may have been said and done, the 
United Nations in the course of its relatively short history has not only 
contributed to preventing the nightmare of a nuclear war but also made an 
invaluable contribution towards eliminating those other scourges that have 
afflicted mankind since time immemorial and continue to afflict it still. 
Sierra Leone is indeed very grateful for the unstinting all-round support 
it has received from this Organization and its specialized agencies in 
confronting these problems.  I wish once again to pay a tribute to all those 
noble men and women who in the name of the United Nations and its agencies 
have participated in the socio-economic development of our country, in the 
eradication of diseases, in caring for the needs of our children and giving 
help and succour to our refugees and displaced persons.  Sierra Leone owes a 
debt of gratitude to them all. 
Regrettably, the problems of poverty and underdevelopment have continued 
to have a direct bearing on our country.  It is also a matter of regret that, 
despite the assistance received from this Organization over the years. Sierra 
Leone has not registered the necessary economic growth and development that 
should have brought about a fundamental and meaningful improvement in the 
standard of living of its people.  The past 24 years have witnessed a decline 
in the socio-economic fabric of our nation, resulting in tremendous hardship 
JB/8/1312 
A/47/PV.9 
22 
(Chairman Strasser) 
and suffering for our people.  Though the reasons for this are manifold and 
complex, in the case of our country, however, one of the principal causes has 
been a succession of bad Governments that conspired against our people and 
neglected their welfare, and that when not sharing the national wealth among 
themselves conspired with foreign elements to dispose of our natural resources 
at give-away prices, thereby depriving Sierra Leoneans of an improved standard 
of living and reducing them to second-class citizens in their own God-given 
land. 
Amid this nightmarish experience. Sierra Leoneans wondered what really 
had gone wrong with their country, endowed as it is with rich natural and 
human resources alike, a country that was once referred to as the "Athens of 
West Africa", given its rich educational and cultural heritage.  Over the last 
24 years. Sierra Leone experienced such a far-reaching decline in its 
socio-economic fabric that the average life expectancy of Sierra Leoneans was 
reduced to a mere 42 years, with one in four children dying before the age of 
five owing to malnutrition and other diseases; with vital surgical operations 
carried out in constant fear of a breakdown of the electricity supply; with 
teachers forced frequently to withdraw their services for non-payment of 
salaries and trying to eke out a living other than by teaching; with the 
capital city itself in perennial darkness for years because the Government had 
failed to make provision for electricity supply.  All this led to the 
concomitant and inexorable decline in the national production and the standard 
of living of our fellow countrymen. 
While the external factors contributing to this decline cannot be denied, 
the truth of the matter is that the incompetence and malpractices of the 
previous Government had so permeated all facets of national life that the 
nation was left to drift without any sense of direction.  Thus, instead of 
JB/8/1312 
A/47/PV.9 
23-25 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
economic  development,  there was  a national  slide  into poverty  and  economic 
malaise.  It was  as  if  the  light had gone  out  of  the nation's  life with no 
one  in charge  to  rekindle  it. 
As  if  that were  not  enough,  as members  are  aware,  last year,  as a result 
of  the civil war which had been  raging  in Liberia,  at  a time when  Liberians 
had  turned  against  each  other, engaging  themselves  in an orgy  of massacre, the 
people  of  Sierra Leone  opened  their homes  and  schools  to them  and offered them 
sanctuary.  In order  to end  the killings  and  conseguent  suffering which they 
had  to endure,  and  in the  absence of  any  semblance  of government  in that 
country,  the  States  of  the  sub-region,  including  Sierra Leone, with great 
reluctance  and purely  on humanitarian  grounds, decided  to  send  a peace-keeping 
force 
the Economic  Community  Monitoring  Group  (ECOMOG) 
to Liberia to stop 
the  carnage  and bring  the  fighting  among  the various  factions  to an end. 
It was because  Sierra  Leone provided  a base  for  the ECOMOG  peace-keeping 
force  in Liberia  that Mr. Charles  Taylor  and his band  of NPFL  rebels  launched 
a premeditated  and  unwarranted  invasion  against  our  country.  This  senseless 
act of  revenge was  also motivated  by  the fact  that Taylor  had been denied the 
use of  our  territory  to  infiltrate  arms  and  ammunition  to prolong  the conflict 
in Liberia.  Thus, because we  allowed  our  country  to be used  to bring peace to 
Liberia, we  now have  a war  imposed  on us. 
In the  course  of  this  act  of perfidy,  many  innocent  lives,  including 
those  of women  and  children,  have been needlessly  lost.  The  national economy 
has  been  laid  to  ruin,  as no meaningful  agricultural  and mining  activities 
could  be  undertaken  in the  areas of  rebel  activity.  The  cost of  this imposed 
war  for  Sierra  Leone  and  its people has been  incalculable  and  agonizing. 
A/47/PV.9 
26 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
As  the custodian  of  international  peace  and  security,  this  Organization 
cannot  sit  idly by while  a group of  armed bandits,  let  loose  as a result  of 
the total breakdown  of  law and order  in a neighbouring  State,  continues  to 
engage  in a campaign  of  terror  and destabilization  of  the whole  subregion.  On 
behalf of  the people  of  Sierra Leone,  I strongly  appeal  to this body  for  its 
economic, military  and diplomatic  support  to eliminate  this  cancer  once  and 
for all.  If this  is not  done, there  could be  further  destabilization  and 
insecurity  in the whole  subregion.  The Government  and people  of  Sierra  Leone 
expect  and deserve  such support,  especially when  facing mortal  danger  launched 
from without.  We hold  Charles  Taylor  responsible  for the  suffering  Sierra 
Leoneans have had  to endure  as a result  of his  acts of murder,  banditry  and 
international  lawlessness. 
My  country  need not have been  left  so exposed  and  so unprepared  for  such 
acts of aggression,  our  people  need  not have  suffered  such an ordeal, if only 
the previous  government  had  taken  its  responsibilities  seriously;  if only  the 
necessary material  and  logistical  support had been provided  for  the  armed 
forces to repel  such aggression.  The previous  regime  again  failed  to meet 
this challenge. 
Not only  did  the previous  Government  breach  its  social  contract  with  the 
people and neglect  their welfare, but  it also  failed  to safeguard  the 
territorial  integrity  of  the nation.  These  factors  impelled  us, as patriots 
in the armed  forces,  to intervene  in a bloodless  takeover  on  29 April  this 
year and  set up  the National  Provisional  Ruling Council  (NPRC) to  save  our 
nation  from  further  catastrophe.  Herein  lies  the  legitimacy  of our  action. 
We intervened  because we  saw no way out of our  affliction,  no  future  to match 
the sacrifice  that  people had been  asked  to make  over many years. 
A/47/PV.9 
27 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
In assuming  so onerous  a responsibility,  my  colleagues  and  I had no 
personal  ambition  to assume power  for  its own  sake.  We  saw it as our 
patriotic  duty  to take bold  and  forthright  action  to  save our  beloved  country 
from  the political, economic,  social  and moral  decline  that had  overwhelmed 
it.  As patriots, we  felt we  could not  stand  idly by  and watch  the  total 
collapse  of our  nation.  We had  to act  to put  our  country  back  on the road of 
socio-economic  development  and  to  restore  its moral  fibre. 
Ours was  a very popular  move,  a case of  unrepentant  patriotism,  as 
evidenced  by  the mass  support we  received  then and  continue  to receive  today. 
By our  action,  our  fellow  citizens have  once more  found  strength  and 
inspiration.  Once more,  the  light  in them has begun  to glow  and  the fire to 
be  rekindled. 
Notwithstanding  such popular  approval  and  the efforts we have  exerted to 
rehabilitate  and  reconstruct  the  socio-economic  fabric  of our  nation,  let me 
declare  from  this  rostrum  that  the government  of  the National  Ruling 
Provisional  Council  has  not  come to  stay  in power.  In the  several  decrees and 
proclamations  issued  since we  assumed management  of  the affairs  of the nation, 
we made  our  intentions  and  objectives quite  clear.  They  remain  the same: 
first,  to bring  to an end  the  rebel war  imposed  on our  country  and to 
rehabilitate  the devastated  war  areas; secondly,  to put  our  country's 
beleaguered  economy  on a sound  and  solid  foundation;  thirdly,  to take all 
measures  necessary  for  the  recovery  of  all  financial  resources  lawfully 
belonging  to  the Government;  and  finally,  to  relaunch  the democratic  process 
on  a just,  fair  and  lasting basis. 
With  regard  to the Liberian  rebel  invasion, my  Government  is  employing 
all  the  resources  at  its disposal  to ensure  that  our  gallant  soldiers, who are 
A/47/PV.9 
28 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
defending the nation  at the war  front,  carry out  their  duties  in the  proper 
spirit and  atmosphere.  Not  only are the proper  logistics  being provided  for 
them, but  their material welfare  is being  assured  as well. 
But alas, against  a weak  economy  such as ours and  facing an  aggressor 
that receives  armed  support  from  a country  in our  continent, which  sees  it as 
its mission  to  carry out  revolutionary  warfare  and create  instability  in the 
various regions of our  continent  and beyond  in the name of  revolutionary 
ideals, my  country  should  not be  left  alone  to face such  foreign  onslaught. 
Hence my plea to  this Organization  for  the necessary military,  economic  and 
diplomatic  support  to  repel  the  invaders. 
The war has  continued  to attract  attention  at  international  gatherings. 
At the recent  summit  of Economic  Community  of West African States  (ECOWAS) 
held at Dakar,  for example,  a far-reaching  communique  was  adopted  by the Heads 
of State which,  among other  things, gave Charles Taylor  and his  fellow  rebels 
one month to fully  comply with  the Yamoussoukro  Agreement,  which  includes, as 
an important  element,  the creation of  a buffer  zone between Liberia  and  Sierra 
Leone.  Failing  such compliance,  all countries  of  the  subregion would  be 
required  to impose  sanctions  against him  and his  armed bandits.  We  call  upon 
the international  community  to lend  full  support  to the efforts  of ECOWAS  and 
the Organization  of African Unity  (OAU) to bring these  senseless  and  reckless 
acts of banditry  to a speedy  conclusion. 
On the question  of  the  rehabilitation of  areas devastated  by the war, my 
Government  has  adopted  definitive measures  that will be put  into place  as  soon 
as peace  returns  to  those  areas.  In this  connection,  a National 
Rehabilitation  Committee  has been  set up to oversee  this particular  matter. 
A/47/PV.9 
29-30 
(Chairman Strasser) 
It is for us a source of comfort that the international community stands ready 
to support us with a rehabilitation exercise as soon as the right atmosphere 
prevails. 
A/47/PV.9 
31 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
In so far  as the  second  objective,  regarding  the  revitalization  of  our 
sick and battered  economy,  is concerned,  my Government  has  continued  to be 
guided by the understanding  reached with  the World  Bank  and  the  International 
Monetary Fund.  My Government  has demonstrated  its determination  to  keep  the 
International Monetary  Fund programme  on course.  The new  1992-1993  budget, 
which was  recently  adopted,  was  framed with  this particular  aim  in view.  The 
signs are that we  shall  succeed.  A dynamic  programme  for the collection  of 
Government  taxes  and  dues has been  launched by  the Department  of  Finance,  and 
weekly as well  as monthly  revenue  returns  show that  effective work  is now 
going on to harness  all  financial  resources  due  the Government.  The 
Department of Trade  and  the Armed  Forces have  taken effective  steps  to ensure 
that our basic  commodities  are not  taken out of  the  country  illegally,  a 
practice which was  rampant  in the past. 
Naturally  the undertakings  subscribed  to by our  Government  have  not  been 
easy to implement  in view of  the weak  nature  of the economy  and  the  suffering 
it imposes  on our people.  Nevertheless,  the National  Provisional  Ruling 
Council Government  is determined  to see  the programme  through because  of  its 
awareness that  only by  succeeding  in this difficult  endeavour  can we hope  to 
achieve meaningful  economic  salvation  and progress  in the near  future. 
On the objective  relating  to the  relaunching  of  the democratic  process  in 
Sierra Leone, the National  Provisional  Ruling Council  firmly believes  that  a 
democratic  system  of government  can operate  only within  certain  parameters 
which, if absent, will  abort  that process  sooner  or  later.  When  the  National 
Provisional  Ruling  Council  assumed  the  reins of government  it also  inherited 
an unresponsive  bureaucracy  which had  aided  and  abetted  the political  system 
that had  ruined  the  socio-economic  fabric of our  society.  The  National 
A/47/PV.9 
32 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
Provisional  Ruling  Council  Government  therefore  found  it necessary  as a first 
step to embark  on a cleaning-up  exercise  to provide  the basis  for building a 
sustainable  democratic  system.  For  reasons  of national  security,  some people 
have had  to be  taken  into protective  custody while  they are, naturally, being 
investigated.  All  such persons  are being well  treated  and  investigated  in 
accordance with  internationally  accepted  standards.  They have been  allowed 
access  to their  lawyers.  The  International  Committee  of  the Red Cross and 
Amnesty  International  have been allowed  to make  regular  visits.  Recently, 18 
Liberian nationals who had been detained  for alleged  rebel  activities were 
released. 
The various  commissions  of  inquiry  set up to  investigate  the detainees, 
among others, have  remained  impartial.  Those  found  innocent will  immediately 
be  released while  those with  cases  to answer will  face  an open and  impartial 
trial. 
I wish  to reiterate  here  that the National Provisional  Ruling  Council 
Government  is committed  to the  rule of  law and to the  fundamental  human rights 
and  freedoms of the individual. 
As an indication  of our  commitment to the democratic  process, the 
National  Provisional  Ruling Council has established  an advisory  council made 
up of  eminent  citizens  from various walks of  life  and of proven  integrity to 
advise  the Government on the  restoration of the democratic  process.  The 
principal  task of that  council will  be to work  out the modalities  for 
returning  the country  to genuine multiparty  democracy  in the  light of our 
national  experience  and within  the shortest  time possible. 
A/47/PV.9 
33 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
Since  assuming  office  four months  ago the National Provisional  Ruling 
Council has brought  about a completely  new framework  and  spirit within which 
affairs of  State  and Government  are conducted.  In the first place, a new 
drive has been  launched  to generate  total  commitment, dedication  and 
efficiency on the part  of  all Government  and State  functionaries.  Sierra 
Leoneans generally  are being made  aware  that they  should  see themselves  as 
first-class  citizens  in their  own country  and  that the potential  of  their 
country, in terms of economic  and natural  resources, can be harnessed  to the 
full only by hard work, honesty  and dedication on their part.  We have 
attempted to liberate  Sierra Leoneans  from  shame, restore their vision of what 
our country  should be and enable every  citizen to enjoy  the fruits of his or 
her labour. 
In spite of our youth we believe we have demonstrated  that capacity  for 
leadership, that concern  for our nation's welfare  that previous  Governments 
had failed to provide our  country  in the past  24 years.  The youthfulness  of 
the National  Provisional  Ruling Council Government  should  therefore  not be 
held against us or made  a reason  for not extending  economic  assistance  to our 
country.  After  a long period of darkness  and neglect, the men, women  and 
children of Sierra Leone deserve  the  support of  the international  community. 
We in Sierra Leone  continue  to view with dismay  the  unfavourable 
international  economic  environment.  The continuing denial of  access  to a 
greater market  share  for our exports, the gradual  decline  in export  earnings 
and the continuing  inability  to meet  the  target  for official  development 
assistance, not  to mention  the shortfall  in real  terms of  such  assistance, 
coupled with  the high percentage  of our gross  domestic  product diverted  to 
debt-servicing.  Each year  it has been  reported  that the  countries  of 
A/47/PV.9 
34-35 
(Chairman Strasser) 
sub-Saharan Africa struggle to pay about one third of the interest due on 
their debt of $150 billion;  the rest is added to the rising mountain of debt 
under which the hope of the continent lies buried.  The fact of the matter is 
that even the small portion of the interest which developing countries such as 
mine manage to pay is absorbing one quarter of all our export earnings and 
costing us each year more than our total expenditure on the health and 
education of our peoples.  It is in the light of this that the conclusion has 
been drawn that all our efforts at socio-economic development will come to 
naught unless and until effective measures are taken to address the African 
debt problem, which is now an unbearable burden. 
While Sierra Leone continues to welcome the various initiatives that have 
been proposed, including those first put forward by Prime Minister Major of 
the United Kingdom and since developed into the Trinidad terms, and to pay 
tribute to those creditor countries that considered it necessary to cancel 
some of our debts, it is the widely held view, after careful study, that the 
present initiatives cannot be even remotely effective in achieving the 
objective of relieving debt burdens sufficiently for African countries to have 
a reasonable chance of successfully achieving structural adjustment, recovery 
or growth in the foreseeable future.  It therefore remains our firm conviction 
that our plea for debt relief is both compelling and humane and hence must be 
answered. 
A/47/PV.9 
36 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
For many  developing  countries 
especially  the  least  developed,  like 
Sierra Leone  - negative  growth has become  an all-too-familiar  feature  of 
economic performance, with  three-digit  inflation  among  its worst  features. 
Simply put,  this  is not  a situation  that  can be  sustained  indefinitely. 
Invariably,  the greater  the  stresses many of  our  countries  are called  upon to 
bear, the less  likely  it becomes  for  the world  economy  to  assume  its own 
steady growth.  While  the  interdependence  of  the global  economy  cannot  be 
over-emphasized,  the  fact  remains  that  in a global  recession the pain  is all 
the greater  for  countries  such as mine. 
It is primarily  for  this  reason  that we hope  that  the New Agenda  for the 
Development  of Africa  in the  1990s, adopted  by the Assembly  last year, will 
attract a much greater  degree of  response  and  support  than did  its 
predecessor, the United  Nations  Programme  of Action  for African  Economic 
Recovery and Development  1986-1990.  The  innovative  and more positive  approach 
that the New Agenda offers  should  be  seized by the  international  community  to 
arrest and reverse  the downward  trend  that  the  severity  of  the many  economic 
and human crises has  inflicted  on African development.  We  cannot  afford  one 
more failure  in this  enterprise. 
Serious  as our  domestic  preoccupations  are, we  shall be  remiss  if we  fail 
to see events  taking place elsewhere  as  important.  It  is in this vein  that we 
must once again  register  our  deep concern over  the bloody  violence  that  in 
recent months  has been visited  on the people  of  South Africa.  The  massacres 
in Boipatong  and,  even more  recently,  in Ciskei  have  today become  a metaphor 
for the struggle  against  apartheid  - just  as Soweto was  decades  ago.  How many 
more lives have  to be  lost, how many more  families  must  taste  the bitter  fruit 
of violence, before  the South African Government  realizes  that  the campaign  of 
A/47/PV.9 
37 
(Chairman Strasser) 
terror being waged by its agents merely increases the scepticism over its real 
intentions? 
If the South African Government is to continue to receive the cautious 
approval of the international community for its agenda of political reform of 
its society, it must demonstrate good faith by arresting the descent into 
anarchy and bringing the perpetrators of the violence to justice.  Denials can 
no longer be seen as allaying the fears of those who fervently wish to see 
change come by peaceful means. 
Sierra Leone therefore supported the decision of the Organization of 
African Unity Summit to bring the matter once again before the Security 
Council.  We welcome the decision of the Council and commend the 
Secretary-General for dispatching observers to South Africa.  This 
demonstrated the international community's continued concern over South 
Africa, and it is our hope that the mission will help to bring a halt to the 
violence and will facilitate resumption of the talks aimed at a peaceful 
solution of the problem. 
Southern Africa continues to be plagued by conflict, and the human cost 
is a grim reminder of how much more needs to be done to bring hope to the 
lives of the peoples of the subregion, especially those of Mozambique.  Too 
many years of conflict have done little but ravage the country and leave the 
people with not much to hope for.  Lately, with the proposed ceasefire 
agreement, there have been some hopeful signs.  We commend the role playod by 
various statesmen .in bringing this about, and we believe that the United 
Nations should bring its experience to bear in this final phase of the 
conflict.  Now that a solution to the conflict is in sight, it is our hope 
that the world community will increase its humanitarian assistance to 
Mozambigue, in view of the famine that threatens the population. 
A/47/PV.9 
38 
(Chairman Strasser) 
With preparations under way in Angola for elections leading to a national 
government, it is our hope that peace will once again reign in that war-torn 
brotherly country. 
Somalia today has the makings of a great tragedy.  With the raging of 
war, and the consequent massive outflow of refugees from that country, it is 
essential that the international community respond much more urgently and 
vigorously to this catastrophe.  We cannot afford to sit by and watch the 
people of Somalia descend into a quagmire of death and destruction.  From this 
tribune Sierra Leone calls on the Somali leaders to stop the war  a war that 
has caused so much suffering to their people  end the national suicide and 
embark on a process of negotiation and reconciliation.  We should like to 
express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for bringing this tragedy to 
the attention of the international community. 
The plight of the southern Sudanese people, though perhaps less visible 
and less reported, is no less tragic than that of the people of Somalia.  As a 
result of a long-running civil war, millions of Sudanese are today languishing 
and facing a slow and painful death through neglect and famine and because of 
military siege.  Given the perils and immense suffering facing them, we call 
on this Organization to intensify its humanitarian-assistance efforts and its 
efforts to find a durable solution to the civil war now going on in that 
brotherly country.  The peoples of Somalia and Sudan require all the support 
of this Organization, and, indeed, of the international community as a whole, 
in this their hour of national tragedy. 
The current Middle East negotiations have renewed our confidence that 
there will be peace in that volatile region.  We allow ourselves to hope that 
in the peace talks now taking place all the parties - Israelis, Palestinians 
A/47/PV.9 
39-40 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
through  their  chosen  representatives,  Syrians, Jordanians  and  Lebanese 
will 
work  conscientiously  and  in good  faith  towards  a resolution  of  decades of 
suspicion  and  conflict. 
What  the world  continues  to witness  in the  former Yugoslavia  defies human 
comprehension.  The gravity  and  conseguences  of  that war  are  reminiscent of 
conduct  that  the world  had wished was only  a memory.  As  the war  continues to 
unfold,  we may  once  again be  facing,  in an  insidious  form,  the dread  effects 
of  racism  in the  former Yugoslavia,  euphemistically  described  as  "ethnic 
cleansing".  This  time  should be different.  We  are  concerned  over  the 
situation  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina.  The world  cannot  afford  to be  silent 
over what may become yet  another  sad chapter  in its history.  The  ongoing 
efforts  to bring  that  conflict  to a speedy  conclusion  and  save  innocent lives 
must  be  intensified.  We  call  upon all  the peoples  of  the  former  Yugoslavia 
peoples we  so much  respected  and  admired 
to hearken  to our plea, to bury the 
hatchet  and  try to  live  in peace once more. 
A/47/PV.9 
41 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
In other  areas  of  the world,  the guns of war have  fallen  silent  and 
peace  is being given  a chance.  In Cambodia  and Angola  there  is  renewed 
expectation  and hope  that peace will endure.  To  all  these peoples, we  in 
Sierra Leone  extend  our best wishes  and urge  them not  to be distracted  from 
the path of peaceful  solution upon which  they have  embarked. 
When  I started my  address  to  the Assembly,  I referred  to this year  as 
being a momentous  one.  Few years have been  as auspicious  as this  one.  The 
United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  held  at 
Rio de Janeiro  this year provided  us with  a renewed  opportunity  to  demonstrate 
our respect  for  the environment  and ensure  that our  efforts  at  socio-economic 
development  and  the elimination  of poverty  should  not be at the expense of  the 
environment.  Hence, Sierra Leone welcomes  and  supports  the  call  for 
sustainable  development  of  the  environment. 
Also  in the course of  this momentous year we have observed  a renewal  of 
faith in the United Nations  as mankind's  best hope  for peace,  security  and 
progress.  Nowhere was  this more visible  than at the  summit  meeting  of  the 
Security Council  held  on 31 January.  We  saw life breathed  into  a dormant 
concept,  a blueprint  take  shape, and  the first  steps of  a long-delayed  journey 
charted.  For  over  four  decades  the Organization  has wrestled with  itself, 
torn between  competing  ideologies, becoming  a helpless  spectator  to  conflicts 
across the globe, paralysed  with  the  cold-war  neurosis.  Our  collective 
actions during  this period  seldom  bore  resemblance  to the vision  of  the 
Charter, embracing,  as  they often did, more  an  inclination  towards  the veto 
than inspirations  by  altruistic  considerations. 
A/47/PV.9 
42 
(Chairman Strasser) 
Looking back, many will say we came through a crippling ritual sorely 
testing the Organization's capacity for promoting conflict resolution, social 
progress and better standards of living, while undermining our own faith in 
the efficacy of multilateralism.  History may yet treat us kindly if we seize 
this sense of moment, seeing it as one more opportunity for all of us to give 
birth to the dream of the Charter. 
As the Secretary-General observes in his report, "An Agenda for Peace": 
"The manifest desire of the membership to work together is a new 
source of strength in our common endeavour." (A/47/277, para. 6) 
Indeed, the road ahead may be a demanding one, replete with pitfalls, 
challenging the emerging metamorphosis while enticing us to return to the 
mentality of the past.  We must therefore be driven by a focused determination 
to broaden our horizon of cooperation, acting in a manner consistent with the 
Charter, thus ensuring that the peoples of the world inherit the common ends 
envisaged by the Charter. 
In closing, I should like, on behalf of my delegation and on my own 
account, to pay a tribute to our Secretary-General who, since his election, 
has left no stone unturned in exerting himself to find peaceful solutions to 
the many problems facing our world today. We recall our first encounter with 
the Secretary-General earlier this year in Dakar during the summit meeting of 
the Organization of African Unity (OAU) when we came to appreciate his wise 
counsel, which we took to heart.  He has been reported to be a man who was 
born to be Secretary-General.  By his leadership and other qualities he has 
justified the confidence which we in Africa first reposed in him and which the 
rest of the international community later endorsed.  We wish him continued 
success in his mission. 
A/47/PV.9 
43 
(Chairman  Strasser) 
Finally,  I should  like once  again to appeal  through you, Mr. President, 
to the international  community  for  their understanding.  Our  intervention  of 
29 April was prompted  by the highest of motives 
the  salvation of our 
nation.  Like most of  the  representatives  in the Assembly, we  are committed  to 
the democratic process  and  to the  fundamental human  rights of our  fellow 
citizens.  We  also happen to believe  in good governance, that political  power 
must be exercised  responsibly  and  in the interest of those  for whom  it is held 
in trust.  This  is our  credo.  We therefore  appeal  to the  international 
community to give us a chance, to enable us to plot  a new course  for our 
nation and  its people, to lay a solid  foundation  for  a genuine  democratic 
process and to put  in place  a realistic programme  of economic  recovery  and 
survival. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General Assembly, I wish to  thank 
the Chairman of  the National Provisional  Ruling Council of the Republic  of 
Sierra Leone  for  the  statement he has  just made. 
Captain Valentine  E. M.  Strasser. Chairman of the National  Provisional 
Ruling Council of  the Republic  of  Sierra Leone, was escorted  from the General 
Assembly  Hall.* 
* 
Mr. Aksin  (Turkey), Vice-President, took  the Chair. 
A/47/PV.9 
44-45 
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued) 
GENERAL DEBATE 
Mr. SOLANA MORALES (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):  The 
Government of Mexico congratulates Mr. Stoyan Ganev on his election as 
President to guide the work of the General Assembly.  It also congratulates 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali on his decision to engage in active diplomacy, to 
initiate the changes called for in the Secretariat and to devise new ways of 
strengthening the Organization. 
A/47/PV.9 
46 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexico) 
Mexico  extends  a most  cordial welcome  to  the  13 new Member  States. 
The new conditions  in the world,  the  long-standing  aspirations  of peoples 
and the pressures  of  all  kinds  facing this  forty-seventh  session  of  the 
General Assembly  reguire us to chart  a clear  course.  The disappearance  of  the 
blocs has not  led to the emergence  of  the peaceful world  of which we  dreamed. 
Uncertainty prevails.  In many  societies, one political  order has  disappeared 
and the order which has  taken  its place  is in the midst  of a difficult  process 
of shaping  itself.  World  trends  are extremely  contradictory.  Some  countries' 
efforts  to  integrate  are  in contrast  to the disintegration  of  other 
countries.  It would  appear  that  the potential  for  conflict,  now free of 
ideological  bonds, has  increased  in various  regions of  the world. 
Despite  the  fact  that bipolarity has vanished,  international  peace  and 
security  continue  to be threatened  by aggressive  nationalisms, political  and 
religious  fanaticism  and,  above  all, the  conditions  of  critical  poverty  and 
inequality of opportunities  that  separate  some peoples  from others.  As  this 
session of  the General Assembly  takes place, thousands  of people  are 
continuing  to die  in the  fratricidal wars  in former Yugoslavia  and other  parts 
of the world.  In Africa,  the  life of whole populations  is threatened  by 
hunger.  The  life of more  than half  of the world's  population  is dominated by 
unemployment  and  the  impossibility  of  attaining  decent  levels of health, 
education,  food  and  housing. 
Decisive  progress  in economic,  social  and human development  and 
root-and-branch  rectification  of  the  structural  imbalances  in  international 
society  are necessary  conditions  for genuine  and  lasting peace.  One  fifth of 
the world's  population,  1 billion people  inhabiting  the most  industrialized 
countries, consume  70 per  cent of  the planet's  resources.  In  income  terms. 
A/47/PV.9 
47 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexiro) 
the polarization  of  inequalities  is even greater.  The  richest  fifth of the 
world's  population  accounts  for  83 per  cent  of  total  income, while  the poorest 
fifth has  to make  do with  1.4  per  cent.  Future prospects  are no  less tragic: 
the World  Bank  estimates  that  the  income  of  the population  with  the  fewest 
resources will  fall  from  $370 a year  to only  $225 by  the year  2000. 
Now  that  the cold war  is over,  there  is no  argument  strong  enough to 
justify  the persistence  of  these  imbalances.  Plenty  and overabundance  for a 
few cannot  coexist with poverty  and deprivation  for  the majorities.  We can 
already  see  the global  impact  of  these  inequalities:  The  increase  in 
migrations  to the more prosperous  countries  is unprecedented.  Millions of 
people  throughout  the world  are  forming  legions  of  refugees  and  displaced 
persons.  It would  be a dangerous  illusion  for  the  rich  societies  to believe 
that  their  security  is not  in jeopardy  from  the  intensification  of  these 
imbalances. 
It must be  recognized  that  it will  not be possible  to  cure 
underdevelopment  and  the resulting poverty  and marginalization  in many 
countries  by the use of market  forces  alone.  What  is needed  is a major 
internal  correction  effort  involving both  the State  and private  individuals, 
or  involving mainly  the State, when private  individuals  are unwilling, do not 
know how or do not have  the  resources  to act.  A  favourable  international 
environment  is also  required  to more effectively  encourage  a  comprehensive 
solution  to the  serious problems  of  underdevelopment. 
The Government  of President  Carlos  Salinas  de Gortari  is promoting the 
expansion  of markets  and  the need  for  flows of goods  and  services  to grow 
without  artificial  barriers  of  a political  or  economic  nature.  We  therefore 
already have  a free  trade  agreement  with  Chile,  and we have  just negotiated a 
A/47/PV.9 
48 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexico) 
treaty to establish  the North American  free  trade  area, which will be  the most 
potent  trading  zone  in the world.  With  an open  trading  system,  without 
discrimination  and protectionist  barriers, the developing  countries  could  earn 
around $44 billion more  from exports.  That would  undoubtedly  increase  the 
viability of  the  structural  reforms  these  nations have undertaken,  and would 
reflect  international  solidarity with  these  countries. 
Mexico has been  active  in promoting  reform  of  the United  Nations.  It has 
joined the consensus  that  there  is a vital  need  to redistribute  functions  and 
responsibilities  among  its organs,  increase  coordination  and democratize  its 
procedures.  Our Organization  is overworked  and underfinanced.  Its  renewal 
must include  the  fulfilment  by  all Members  of  their  financial  commitments. 
That there  is an endemic  financial  crisis  at the United Nations,  in the  face 
of the extensive  tasks  the  community  is seeking  to assign  to it,  is an 
incongruency which must be  resolved without  delay. 
Mexico  recognizes  the  relevance  of the  Secretary-General's  report 
entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace",  submitted  for  the consideration  of  Member 
States.  It is a rigorous  document,  and proposes  the  innovative measures  that 
are needed  in order  to enable  our  Organization  to respond  to the  challenges  of 
a new era.  The  ideas  that  it puts before  us for achieving  a better  balance 
between the principal  organs of  the United Nations  appear  to us to be on the 
right lines. 
We need  to give  the General  Assembly  the primacy  it should  enjoy  as the 
Organization's  universal  and pluralistic  organ par  excellence.  We have  to 
achieve better  coordination between  it and  the Security  Council,  above  all in 
matters  of  international  peace  and  security.  We  agree with  the  strengthening 
of the Secretary-General's  capacity  for action.  We  consider  that  the 
A/47/PV.9 
49-50 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexico) 
Secretary-General should be authorized to seek advisory opinions from the 
International Court of Justice  on condition, of course, that the States 
concerned have reguested his involvement. 
Mexico has also indicated the need for a better balance in the treatment 
of the items on the international agenda.  We pay too much attention to the 
so-called new global issues at the expense of development problems, combating 
extreme poverty and strengthening international cooperation.  The best 
preventive diplomacy is one in which programmes in support of development are 
an essential element.  These are the best guarantees of stable and lasting 
peace. 
The economic and social sector of the Organization needs to be 
revitalized.  Now is the time to increase the efficiency of the organs on 
which rests the main responsibility for economic and social activities:  the 
Economic and Social Council and the Second and Third Committees of the 
Assembly. 
My country has reiterated that the internal transformation of the United 
Nations organs, as well as of relationships between them, needs to be 
supplemented by the democratization of decision-making.  This will entail 
reviewing, in due course, the anachronistic veto system.  We must dispel the 
risk of the Security Council's becoming merely an instrument for lending the 
appearance of joint action to the designs of a few powerful countries.  The 
deliberative and decision-making processes must be transparent.  The tendency 
for the taking of decisions by consensus to become more widespread must not 
pose an obstacle to participation by Council members, nor must it impede 
in-depth debate among them. 
A/47/PV.9 
51 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexico) 
Some of  the measures  proposed  in the  Secretary-General's  report  need  to 
be studied  thoroughly  and carefully,  as they might prove  to be 
counterproductive.  Deployment  of  troops  along  the borders  of  a State  that 
feels threatened  might  aggravate  the problem  it was designed  to  forestall. 
The proposal  for  the conduct  of preventive  deployment  operations  in 
conditions of national  crisis gives grounds  for  concern.  A measure  of  this 
kind could  involve  the Organization  in issues  that  are  strictly within  the 
internal  jurisdiction  of  States. 
Similarly,  what  is known  as  "support  for  the  transformation  of  deficient 
national  structures  and capabilities, and  for  the  strengthening  of  new 
democratic  institutions"  (A/47/277, para.  59). should be examined with  great 
care, since these matters  fall within  the exclusive  sovereignty  of States. 
The  report  also  echoes positions  that Mexico  has  supported.  We  agree 
that States  should  accept  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice.  Honduras  and El  Salvador  have  set  the world  an example  of  their 
desire  for harmony  and peace by  submitting  their  territorial  dispute  to the 
International  Court  for  resolution. 
Mexico welcomes  the  insistence  of  the Secretary-General  that  diplomatic 
action should be exhausted  before  use  is made of  the coercive measures  for  the 
maintenance of  international  peace  and  security  referred  to  in Chapter VII  of 
the Charter. 
Despite  the disquieting  signs  in the  international  environment,  obvious 
advances have been made which enable us  to look with hope  to the potential  of 
the United  Nations  to work  towards  a more  stable  and  a more  secure  world. 
Long-drawn-out  conflicts  that had been deadlocked  for years  are  today on  the 
way to resolution.  The peace process  in El Salvador  is perhaps  the most 
A/47/PV.9 
52 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexico) 
successful of those in which the Organization has participated.  It is up to 
the parties and the Organization itself to do everything in their power to 
ensure the implementation, within the time-frame scheduled, of the commitments 
entered into.  Mexico appeals to the international community to provide, as 
soon as possible, the economic assistance promised for the cause of peace in 
El Salvador. 
In the realm of disarmament, definite progress has been achieved in the 
quantitative reduction of nuclear arsenals  but we are far from having 
eliminated the danger of a nuclear catastrophe.  There has been an increase in 
the number of States that possess nuclear weapons, and the doctrine of nuclear 
deterrence continues to serve as grounds for justifying the existence and 
improvement of such weapons. 
In the face of these dangers, we must put an end to nuclear testing.  We 
therefore express our gratitude to those countries that have decided to 
institute moratoriums.  Mexico will continue to work to see to it that at this 
session we are able to make progress together towards the total elimination of 
nuclear weapons from the planet. 
Therefore, the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons deserves our full attention.  We are 
gratified at the progress in respect of the Treaty of Tlatelolco.  We welcome 
the ratification by France of Additional Protocol I and the process leading to 
the full incorporation of Argentina, Brazil and Chile in the 
nuclear-weapon-free zone in Latin America.  We hope that Cuba will also soon 
be incorporated into this regime, as well as Guyana and St. Kitts and Nevis. 
Mention also needs to be made of the Convention on chemical weapons, the 
outcome of 10 years' work by the Ad Hoc Committee of the Conference on 
A/47/PV.9 
53 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexico) 
Disarmament.  Although  the Convention  is undoubtedly  subject  to  improvement, 
Mexico hopes  that  it will  lead  to the elimination of one of  the most 
reprehensible means  of mass  destruction. 
The Rio de Janeiro  Conference, held  last June, was  a basic  step  towards 
greater awareness  at the world  level of  the relationship  between  the  problems 
of the environment  and  those of development.  The General Assembly has  the 
responsibility  of  creating  institutional machinery  to follow up, promote  and 
perfect the implementation of  "Agenda  21", approved  at Rio.  The  establishment 
of the Commission  on Sustainable Development  is a central  item on our  agenda. 
In this  regard,  I should  like to make three points:  the  first  is that 
this Commission  should not confine  itself  to  reviewing  the progress made  in 
Rio, but should become  a high-level  forum  for updating  and  introducing  new 
proposals designed  to promote  development  and  the protection  of the 
environment. 
The  second point  relates  to its mandate  of  supervising  and broadening  the 
commitment with  regard  to  financing.  We  shall achieve  little  in the  struggle 
for sustainable development  of  the planet  if the countries  that possess  the 
most and have  contributed  the most  to pollution do not  increase  the  resources 
allocated  to halting  the destruction of the environment.  The Commission  to be 
appointed by  this General Assembly must  ensure  that  it is the polluter  who 
pays. 
Finally,  following  up on the Rio  agreements  calls  for a  competent 
secretariat.  We are expecting  a small but high-level  group with direct  access 
to the Secretary-General  and  a clear mandate  to avoid  duplication of  functions 
with other bodies. 
A/47/PV.9 
54 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexico) 
We are living through a phase characterized by profound respect for human 
rights and democracy as the foundations of peace, freedom and human dignity. 
The defence of human rights has always been at the centre of our 
Organization's attention. 
Nevertheless, we are concerned at the desire to focus greater attention 
on some aspects of human rights to the detriment of others.  Only a 
comprehensive view of human rights can ensure that their protection will not 
be partial or motivated by veiled aspirations towards interference. 
The Organization has the opportunity of becoming the cornerstone of a new 
world order worthy of that name.  It is our responsibility towards future 
generations to begueath to them a forum in which peace is guaranteed and in 
which the conditions required for the development of all nations are created. 
International cooperation for development cannot be approached from one 
standpoint alone.  We must not view it solely as a complement to actions to 
resolve conflicts or to reduce it to technical assistance programmes, nor can 
it be confined to general recommendations regarding the liberalization of 
trade and internal and international competitiveness. 
The priorities are clear:  putting an end to extreme poverty and creating 
the conditions in which all human beings will find real opportunities for 
development.  To this end, a tremendous and serious effort to coordinate 
economic policies and the explicit will to make international law the 
compulsory reference point governing relations among peoples are essential. 
International- law is the binding force that will make it possible to 
build a true international order at the end of this century.  Our Organization 
must assume with clear vision, dedication and courage world leadership in the 
A/47/PV.9 
55 
(Mr. Solana Morales. Mexico) 
defence of  international  law.  Respect  for  the  internal  jurisdiction  of  States 
is the basis  for our  civilized  and peaceful  coexistence. 
Mexico  categorically  rejects  the claim  of any  State  to have  the  right  to 
apply its  laws beyond  its own  frontiers.  Nor  can acts  that violate  the 
juridical order  of  another  country on  the pretext  of ensuring  respect  for 
one's law be  legal.  All  States must  conform  in their  actions  to the  rules 
that have been  accepted  by the  sovereign will  of nations  and  agreements.  This 
is the only  lasting  foundation  on which  to base  changes  in a world  order  that 
is in a state of  transition. 
Here  in this  universal  forum, Mexico  emphasizes  its unswerving  commitment 
to the need to  strengthen  international  law. 
A/47/PV.9 
56 
ADDRESS  BY MR. HANS  BRUNHART, HEAD OF GOVERNMENT  AND MINISTER  FOR  FOREIGN 
AFFAIRS  OF THE PRINCIPALITY  OF  LIECHTENSTEIN 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly  will  now hear  an address  by  the Head of 
Government  and Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the Principality  of 
Liechtenstein. 
Mr. Hans  Brunhart. Head  of Government  and Minister  for  Foreign Affairs of 
the Principality  of Liechtenstein, was  escorted  to  the  rostrum. 
The  PRESIDENT:  I have great pleasure  in welcoming  the Head of 
Government  and Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the Principality  of 
Liechtenstein,  Mr. Hans  Brunhart,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  BRUNHART  (Liechtenstein):  Permit me  to extend  to you, Mr. 
President,  our  heartfelt  congratulations  on your  election, which  demonstrates 
Member  States' conviction  that you have  the ability  to conduct  the work of 
this  session  of  the General  Assembly  with diplomatic  skill  and  efficiency.  I 
assure you of  the  support  of  the delegation  of  Liechtenstein. 
I  should  like  to also express  to your  predecessor. 
Ambassador  Samir  Shihabi, our  recognition  of his  outstanding  conduct  of the 
business  of  the General Assembly  at  its  forty-sixth  session. 
Furthermore,  I wish  to take this  opportunity  to pay  tribute  to you, Mr. 
Secretary-General,  for your  efforts  better  to eguip  the United  Nations  to meet 
the new  challenges  it  faces  as a result  of  the  far-reaching  changes  taking 
place  in the world.  We hope  that  the Organization,  under your  leadership and 
in close  cooperation  and  agreement  with Member  States  and  other United Nations 
organs  and bodies, will be able  to continue  to perform  its  important  duties 
effectively.  It  is my hope  that  close  cooperation will  develop  between you 
and my  country. 
A/47/PV.9 
57 
(Mr. Brunhart.  Liechtenstein) 
Two years  ago Liechtenstein was  accepted  as  the one hundred  and 
fifty-ninth member  of  the United  Nations.  This  occasion was  for my  country 
the culmination  of  its efforts  to become  an equal partner  in the  international 
community  of  States  and  to  share  responsibility  for overcoming  the global  and 
regional problems we  face  today. 
The  two years  of our membership  have been marked  by  far-reaching 
political  changes.  As one of  the conseguences  of  these  changes,  20 new 
Members have been  admitted  to the United Nations  since  1990.  Accordingly, 
Liechtenstein would  like particularly  to welcome  those  countries  that have 
become Members  of  the United Nations  this year:  Armenia, Azerbaijan,  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina,  Georgia,  Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,  Croatia,  the Republic  of 
Moldova,  San Marino,  Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan  and  Uzbekistan. 
Since  its entry Liechtenstein  has  sought  to be an active member  of the 
United Nations, although  as a small  country our possibilities  are very 
limited.  We  are thankful  for  the understanding  Member  States have  shown  for 
our special  situation. 
All  States, whether  small  or  large, whether  powerful  or powerless, need 
the United Nations.  Small  States, however, have  special grounds  for  belonging 
to the world  Organization.  One  of these  is the  fact  that  the United  Nations 
is based on a requirement  of universal  respect  for  the  law of nations; 
sovereignty,  especially  that  of a small  State, can be  secured,  ensured  and 
guaranteed  only when  all  States, especially  the  large  and powerful,  respect 
international  law.  We have  confidence  in the United  Nations, but  at the  same 
time we  are aware  that  the Organization  cannot  resolve  all  conflicts.  It can, 
however, establish  standards  of  conduct  for the  civilized behaviour  of  nations 
towards one  another. 
A/47/PV.9 
58 
(Mr. Brunhart.  Liechtenstein) 
For  a short  time  after  the end of  the cold war we believed  that we were 
going  through  a phase of  almost  exclusively  positive  changes  and  upheavals. 
Democratic  Governments  were  replacing  authoritarian  regimes, and millions of 
people were  attaining  the  freedom  they had  long been  denied.  But  that  time 
was  short-lived.  Today  the  international  community  of  States  finds  itself 
facing  no  fewer  problems  than before.  Instead  of  a diminution,  there has been 
a deepening  of  the North-South  conflict;  regional  conflicts  driven by ethnic, 
religious,  social  and  cultural  differences  are  coming  to  a head;  and 
environmental  damage  is threatening  us and  future  generations. 
Simultaneously,  however, expectations  have  risen  and prospects  improved 
of  the United Nations  being  able  to play more  fully  the  role  that was 
envisaged  for  it when  it was  established.  Liberation  from  the burden of the 
big-Power  confrontation has  indeed made  our peoples  and  nations  clearly aware 
of  the world's mutual  interdependence, but we  are  still not  of one mind 
regarding  the order  in which  to  list the problems  to which  the United Nations 
should  devote  its priority  attention.  Quite  obviously,  the  structures of an 
organization  founded  47 years  ago need  to be  adapted  to the  realities  and new 
demands  of  these greatly  changed times. 
We  therefore welcome  the Secretary-General's  report,  "An Agenda for 
Peace"  (A/47/277),  and  see  it as providing  a useful  basis  for  the efforts to 
improve  the  capacity  of  the United  Nations  to establish  and maintain peace in 
the world.  We believe  that  the proposals  regarding preventive  diplomacy in 
particular,  contained  in section  III of  the  report,  need  to be  looked at very 
closely with  a view  to creating means of preventing  disputes  or  limiting their 
escalation. 
A/47/PV.9 
59-60 
(Mr. Brunhart.  Liechtenstein) 
Internal  conflicts  have become  a special  challenge  to  the  community  of 
States.  Ethnic,  social  or  religious  disagreements  often give  rise  to  regional 
instability.  We  are  aware  of the  fact  that  a number  of  the new  States  Members 
of the United  Nations,  in particular,  are  in an extremely  difficult  economic 
and political  situation. 
Liechtenstein would  like  in this  connection  to express particularly  its 
sympathy with  the victims  of  the  conflict  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina.  The war 
unleashed  by  the  aggression  of  Serbia  and Montenegro  is causing great  human 
suffering  in that  country.  We  are  following with  deep concern  the  continuing 
reports of massive  and  systematic  violations  of human  rights  and  international 
humanitarian  law,  for which  all parties  to the  conflict  are  responsible.  The 
killing of  innocent human beings  and  the destruction  of an  irreplaceable 
cultural heritage  must  stop,  and  all parties must  immediately  make efforts  to 
bring about  a peaceful  solution  to their  difficult  problems.  We  support  the 
declaration of principles  issued on the occasion of  the London  Conference, 
held on 26 and  27 August  1992, and  the  framework  established  by the  Conference 
participants within which  a comprehensive  political  solution  to the crisis  is 
to be sought.  We  express  our hope  that  the political will demonstrated  in 
London will be  transformed  into  specific  actions  and  that  the  follow-up 
negotiations  taking place  in Geneva will  soon yield positive  results. 
It is within  that  framework  that  I should  like to  refer  to the  initiative 
that the Head  of  State  of  the Principality  of  Liechtenstein, 
His Serene Highness  Prince Hans-Adam  II, introduced  in his  address  to  the 
forty-sixth  session  of  the General  Assembly. 
A/47/PV.9 
61 
(Mr. Brunhart. Liechtenstein) 
On that occasion His Serene Highness referred to the need to find ways 
of promoting peaceful solutions to the many conflicts which have their roots 
in the tensions which exist between communities within States.  His Serene 
Highness considered that such solutions should be sought within the framework 
of the principle of self-determination. 
Liechtenstein is aware of the consideration already given within the 
United Nations  and indeed within other bodies - to the principle of self-
determination.  We acknowledge the great international effort devoted to this 
question in the past. 
The right to self-determination as a principle is now universally 
accepted.  I would recall not only that self-determination is one of the 
foundations of the Charter but also that most States represented in the 
Assembly are already under certain specific legal obligations in this area by 
virture of Article 1 of each of the great human rights Covenants of 1966. 
There it is formally and with legally binding effect acknowledged that: 
"All peoples have the right of self-determination.  By virtue of 
that right they freely determine their political status and freely 
pursue their economic, social and cultural development." 
Despite all this, and with some notable exceptions, the practical and 
peaceful application of that principle has often been lacking.  Tensions 
between distinctive communities within States, or between such communities and 
the State itself, persist in many parts of the world.  Regrettably, they have 
in a number of ins.tances led to outbreaks of serious violence.  Apart from the 
human suffering which ressults, such tensions and violence often affect 
neighbouring States, and may have a more widespread impact on the maintenance 
of international peace generally.  Much can be done to try to limit the 
A/47/PV.9 
62 
(Mr. Brunhart.  Liechtenstein) 
suffering once  the violence  has  started; but  how much better  it would be  to go 
to the root  of  the problem 
which  is often  to be  found  in the  frustrations  of 
distinctive  comunities  when  they  are denied  the  legitimate  expression  of  their 
communal  identities  and  aspirations. 
I am glad  to say that His  Serene Highness's  statement  last  year 
attracted  the  interest  of  a number  of  delegations.  During  the past  year we 
have undertaken  extensive  consultations,  and we have benefitted  greatly  from 
constructive  suggestions which delegations  have been  kind enough  to make.  We 
are most grateful  to  all  those Governments  for the  interest  they have  shown. 
We have  also  sought,  and  taken  into  account,  some  independent  expert views. 
It  is against  this background  that Liechtenstein  believes  that  the 
international  community,  through  this Assembly,  should  take  steps  to make  the 
right of  self-determination  more  effective,  and by doing  so contribute  to the 
avoidance of  some  future  conflicts.  It  is our  conviction  that  the  time  has 
now come  for  the  international  community,  through  the United Nations, to offer 
a realistic  way  forward,  by establishing  a practical  framework  through which 
communities  can give  expression  to their distinctive  gualities. 
Such  a practical  framework would  need  to satisfy  four main  reguirements: 
First,  there  should  be  flexible  and graduated  forms of 
self-determination  involving  different  levels  of autonomy,  taking  account  of 
the differing  needs  of differing  communities  and  the States of which  they  form 
part; a subdivided  community  which  allows  its various parts  to pursue  the 
common goal  in their  own way  can on occasion be  a very good expression  of  the 
principle  of  self-determination; 
A/47/PV.9 
63 
(Mr. Brunhart. Liechtenstein) 
Secondly, communities invoking the principle of self-determination 
should renounce resort to violence and commit themselves to pursuing their 
aims through peaceful means only; 
Thirdly, assistance in the effective realization of the principle of 
self-determination should be available through independent procedures; and 
Fourthly, a proper balance must be maintained between self-determination 
and the territorial integrity of States. 
Subject always to those requirements being met, we believe that the 
international community should recognize that self-determination is an 
inherent attribute of all communities which possess a distinctive social and 
territorial identity.  This involves the free choice by each community of its 
political, social, economic and cultural destiny in accordance with the best 
interests of its members. 
Self-determination, it must be stressed, is not necessarily  or even 
primarily  a matter of moving towards independent statehood.  Indiscriminate 
independence would lead to the fragmentation of the international community 
and would insufficiently respect the territorial integrity of States.  In 
reality, however, full independence is, if only for purely practical reasons, 
the least likely outcome in most cases. 
Respect for diversity can be adeguately reflected in other ways. 
Self-determination can take various forms, as may be best suited to each 
community's and each State's particular circumstances. 
It is important to retain the essential flexibility of the concept.  But 
in all cases where there exists a community with a sufficient degree of 
distinctive identity, it seems right that a certain basic level of autonomy 
should be acknowledged.  I am referring to such very elementary matters as 
A/47/PV.9 
64 
(Mr. Brunhart.  Liechtenstein) 
non-discrimination  against  the community  or  its members,  their  freedom  to 
practice  and  enjoy  their  distinctive  community  characteristics,  and  their 
participation  in appropriate  ways  in public  affairs, particularly  in matters 
directly  affecting  the community's  interests.  A commitment  to  acknowledge 
such a modest  degree of  autonomy  for  all  communities  that merit  it  should  not, 
we believe,  cause  serious problems  for  any Member  of  the United Nations. 
More  advanced  levels of  autonomy will be appropriate  for  communities 
whose particular  circumstances  demonstrate  their  fitness  to enjoy  them.  But 
we do not  think  it would be  realistic  for the United Nations  to  seek to  lay 
down detailed mandatory  requirements  for the  self-determination  of  communities 
with a vast  range  of  distinctive  characteristics,  settled within  States  whose 
own histories  are  so diverse.  Anything  beyond  the  sort of basic  level of 
autonomy  to which  I have  referred  is probably best  left  to be developed on an 
optional basis  and  case by  case 
the  circumstances  being  so diverse  that  each 
is best  left  to be  treated  on  its own merits. 
Nevertheless,  there would,  in our view, be  some  advantage  in the United 
Nations  indicating  the kinds  of  further  elements which might  find  a place  in 
the more  advanced  levels of  autonomy. 
These  further  elements  of  autonomy 
would progressively  add  to the degree  to which  the community  conducts  its own 
affairs but would  only be available  to a community  with  satisfactory 
experience 
and  even  then, only  if the State  concerned  is ready  to accept  the 
community's  more  advanced  level  of  autonomy. 
A/47/PV.9 
65 
(Mr. Brunhart.  Liechtenstein) 
In this  complex  area we  cannot  assume  that  any general principle or 
rocedures which might be  agreed  internationally  will  be applied  without 
difficulty  in particular  cases.  We  should  therefore  also  envisage  that some 
procedures  be  available  to assist  if any difficulties  arise  in the  application 
of  the principle  of  self-determination  and  to assist with  the  peaceful 
resolution  of  any differences  there might be. 
A/47/PV.9 
66 
(Mr. Brunhart.  Liechtenstein) 
A number  of delegations  with which we have discussed  our  ideas  in general 
terms suggested  that  it would be  advantageous  for  the matter 
which,  as well 
as being of great  political  importance,  is also  of  considerable  technical 
complexity  - to be  the  subject  of  some  further  examination by  a group of 
experts so as to  facilitate  the progress which may eventually be made  in this 
Assembly. 
We have  accordingly  concluded  that  the most  appropriate  course will  be 
for the Government  of Liechtenstein  to  invite  each Government  represented  in 
the Assembly 
and  that  includes  those here  as observers 
to nominate  an 
independent  expert  to attend  an  informal meeting  of experts  in  Liechtenstein 
next March.  We hope  that  the experts  attending  that meeting will be  able to 
assist us  in further  developing  the  ideas advanced  initially  by 
His Serene Highness  at the  forty-sixth  session of  the Assembly.  We  envisage 
that the experts  nominated  to attend will do so in their personal  capacities, 
since we believe  that by adopting  procedures which  avoid  committing 
Governments we  are more  likely  to have  a constructive  and expert  discussion. 
Invitations  to nominate  experts  to attend  the meeting will be  issued  during 
the course of  the present  session.  In the  light of the views expressed  at the 
meeting of experts, the Government  of Liechtenstein will  consider  how best  to 
return to the Assembly,  perhaps  at its next  session  in 1993, with  proposals 
for carrying  further  the  initiative  introduced  last year by His  Serene 
Highness. 
As the  international  community  makes progress, however  haltingly,  towards 
preventing  the outbreak  of violent  conflicts  between  States,  it becomes  all 
the more  important  that  together we  seek ways of  avoiding  the no  less  inhuman 
consequences  of  civil wars between communities  within  a State.  In  informing 
A/47/PV.9 
67 
(Mr. Brunhart. Liechtenstein) 
the Assembly of the lines along which our thinking on this important and 
sensitive matter is developing, I hope that I may have demonstrated the depth 
of our concern that some way should be found of controlling one major source 
of much violence and human suffering in today's world. 
May I express my hope that the new spirit of cooperation in the United 
Nations will help enable us to discharge the responsibility entrusted to us 
and to find, in consensus, solutions to the manifold problems that we face. 
My delegation is ready to make its contribution in order to achieve, in 
efficient cooperation with other delegations, the objectives of the United 
Nations. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank 
the Head of Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Principality of 
Liechtenstein for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Hans Brunhart. Head of Government of the Principality of 
Liechtenstein, was escorted from the rostrum. 
Mr. BOUNKOULOU (Congo) (interpretation from French):  It is with a 
full awareness of the significant turning point reached by the world and the 
United Nations that the delegation of the Republic of Congo is approaching the 
work of this forty-seventh session of the General Assembly over which 
Mr. Ganev has the honour and privilege of presiding.  On my own and my 
delegation's behalf, I should like to congratulate him on his unanimous 
election to the presidency.  The General Assembly's choice reflects the high 
esteem and prestige which his country, Bulgaria, enjoys on the international 
scene.  It is equally a tribute to his experience and personal qualities. 
I also wish once again to offer our profound gratitude to his 
predecessor. Ambassador Samir Shihabi of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, who 
skilfully guided the forty-sixth session. 
A/47/PV.9 
68 
(Mr. Bounkoulou.  Congo) 
My  delegation  would  like to ensure Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  the 
Secretary-General  of  the United Nations, of  its  full  cooperation. 
Lastly,  I wish  to extend  a warm welcome  to  the new Members,  whose 
admission  further  strengthens  the universality  of  the United Nations.  I am 
pleased to  say that  the delegation  of  the Republic  of  the Congo will be  happy 
to work with  them  during  the  forty-seventh  session  and  in the  future. 
The  cold war has  run  its course.  Upon  the  ruins of more  than 40 years  of 
extreme  tension.  States  and  the United Nations  system  are  striving  to  organize 
on this planet  a new, more  democratic  and more humane  order.  Under  the 
impetus  of world  developments, which have galvanized  the  spirit  of  reform 
everywhere, the United Nations  as an institution  is undergoing  a process  of 
change.  It has  accordingly  undertaken major  initiatives  in the  realm of 
cooperation  for  development  and  in the  realm  of peace-keeping  operations  and 
the restoration  of peace. 
What  new  ideas  are emerging?  What  are their  chances of  success?  What 
risks are posed  to human  rights  and democracy  by the  challenges  of  growing 
poverty,  third-world  debt,  the AIDS pandemic,  drugs, and ethnic  and  religious 
hatreds,  and by ecological  disasters  or  those  that,  as we  approach  the end of 
the century,  result  from  the world  population  explosion? 
As has been  stated,  the meeting held by  the Security  Council  on 
31 January  1992 was  the  first  it had ever held  at the  level of Heads  of  State 
or Government.  That  summit  symbolized  the end of  an era of discord  that had 
long paralysed  the United  Nations.  It is understandable  that  the 
international  Organization  should henceforth  seek to define  itself.  It wishes 
to strengthen  its potential  in various  areas, while  at the  same  time 
increasing  its efficacy  in complying  with  the provisions  of  the  Charter. 
A/47/PV.9 
69-70 
(Mr. Bounkoulou. Congo) 
Africa and the developing countries are active partners in reform.  For 
is that not part of a new universalism which has become more urgent and whose 
aim remains the satisfaction of fundamental needs?  Let us concern ourselves 
as much with the flowering of dignity and human rights as with the economic 
and social well-being of all peoples. 
For Africa in particular, external assistance stands as a basic 
princple.  But it is also to a large extent the starting point of Africa's 
development.  That is why Africa will remain vigilant about subtle proposals 
that tend to marginalize its relations with the world system.  Thus, in this 
new interplay of interests aimed at introducing a new culture into the United 
Nations, Africa has everything to gain by preserving, for instance, the 
decisive role the United Nations plays, under the relevant provisions of the 
Charter, in the realm of cooperation for economic and social development. 
A/47/PV.9 
71 
(Mr. Bounkoulou, Congo) 
In all times, the Governments that we have the honour to represent have 
assumed to right to lead people by assuming the duty to address forcefully the 
needs of the immediate present, the hypothetical, the near future, and the 
long-term.  The first ambition remains to work for better societies that offer 
the citizen, both as an individual and as part of the whole, less alienation 
and less constraint with more knowledge and more freedom. 
It is noteworthy that in the constant struggle for man and society, the 
community of nations assembled within the United Nations has accompanied 
national efforts with appropriate assistance.  The General Assembly, ennobled 
by its solemn nature, captures the resounding echo of public opinion from 
around the world.  In this respect, it is a major source of hope.  The demands 
which the Organization must now meet are unprecedented in their nature.  The 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his report on the work of the 
Organization, has written that: 
"The turning-point in the scale and scope of United Nations 
activities can be discerned after the year 1987.  For the first time in 
many years, agreement on a wide range of issues became possible, 
effectively marking an end to the cold war." (A/47/1, para. 14) 
Thus, today more than ever, the debate in the General Assembly is rich with a 
variety of issues that illustrate the expanding role of the Organization. 
In actual fact, what is involved are generally new, modern challenges 
that the States Members of the Organization will have to confront.  This state 
of affairs, disturbing in itself, is mitigated by the dispelling of some 
problems.  Furthermore, a number of diverse national experiences, full of 
opportunity and hope, have developed in recent years and acquired real 
significance for freedom and restored democracy in a number of countries. 
A/47/PV.9 
72 
(Mr. Bounkoulou. Congo) 
I once again welcome the fact that the United Nations is contributing 
actively to the democratization efforts of these nations, which are referred 
to in the report on the work of Organization that I have already mentioned. I 
should like to address the specific case of the institutions in my country, 
the Congo. 
In specific terms, the Republic of the Congo is moving towards an 
enlarged and more participatory democracy, the blossoming of the intellectual 
and psychological potential of the Congolese people, and the growth of 
national solidarity.  Decentralization, the keystone of the new policy of 
Professor Pascal Lissouba, the first democratically elected President of the 
Republic, will grant administrative powers to regions in the areas of 
management and economic development. 
There are two dimensions involved in this:  the rehabilitation or 
construction of administrative installations, and the promotion of initiative 
and innovation in the area of development and the rural environment.  The aim 
is to improve living conditions for the poorest sectors of the population by 
giving them the means to gain access to decent housing, with the emphasis on 
local building materials, water supply and sanitation, family health, the 
education of infants, and income-generating activities. 
In the course of this year, 1992, through the exercise of universal 
sufferage, the Congolese people, during successive free and fair elections 
performed their duties as active citizens under the supervision of 
international observers, to whom my Government expresses its profound 
gratitude for the very beneficial assistance they provided our country.  The 
happy outcome of these elections today heralds a new era, that of democracy, 
to which our people is henceforth committed.  Congolese public opinion, 
revitalized by a reborn national press, has effectively contributed to 
A/47/PV.9 
73 
(Mr. Bounkoulou.  Congo) 
averting political  violence.  In short,  the Congo  is now engaged  in meaningful 
structural  reform,  starting  at the  institutional  level. 
The Congo's  new Constitution,  adopted by  referendum  on 15 March 1992, 
during the transitional  period  following  the national  conference,  increases 
freedoms  in all  areas.  Almost  45 articles make  up  chapter  II of the 
Constitution  on  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  Our  Constitution  also 
provides  for balanced  public  powers  and  seeks  to establish  strengthened 
solidarity  and  equity. 
The establishment  of  democracy  at the  local  level 
not without  its  risks 
set the  first  conclusive  test  for  the Congolese  people.  Local  councils  and 
mayors were elected  by universal  sufferage.  Despite  some  inevitable  but minor 
hitches,  the overall  system  functioned  in a satisfactory  manner. 
It is  important  to note  the people's  commitment  to the new political, 
economic,  social, and  cultural  foundations  upon which,  after  30 years  of  error 
and disarray,  the new political  legitimacy  of our  country now  rests.  A 
bicameral  parliament  has been  elected, with predominance  given  to the  first 
chamber,  the National  Assembly,  to which  the government  is accountable.  Its 
functioning  reflects  the meticulous  Congolese  electoral  process. 
This process  culminated  with  the presidential  election held  on  2 and 
16 August  1992.  This  final phase  readily highlighted  to public  opinion,  long 
unfamiliar with  such  things, the  complex  interplay  of  the many  political 
parties  and  their  strategic  alliances.  The presidential  election was  carried 
out in two ballots.  It was hotly  contested.  The Congolese  electors  voted 
without  constraint  in secret ballot.  Professor  Pascal  Lissouba was  elected 
President  of  the Republic  of  the Congo. 
A/47/PV.9 
74-75 
(Mr. Bounkoulou.  Congo) 
message  of  the President  of  the Republic,  His  Excellency 
Professor  Pascal  Lissouba.  There  are many  reasons  for hope  nowadays.  For our 
country,  the message  proclaims,  there  is an  irresistable  democratic  urge that 
has  freed  energies  and galvanzied  enthusiasm.  Everything  has once more become 
possible. 
This historic  new beginning  implies  a break with  a development 
fundamentally  based  on  such  factors external  to our  civil  society  as 
international  assistance,  negotiated  or  imposed  improvement  in the  terms of 
trade,  foreign  investment,  and  the preponderant  intervention  of  the State. 
The  new  idea  is that economic  development  and  social progress  should be based 
principally  on  the  sense  of  initiative,  the creativity  of  individuals  and the 
civil  society,  and on their  capacity  to act,  innovate,  and better  manage the 
human  resources  and  riches  of  the Congo. 
As will have been  noted,  Congo's  ambitions  are bold.  Mindful  of the 
magnitude  of  the task before  us, the President  of  the Republic  of Congo has 
stated: 
"The  concept  of democracy  nowadays may  appear  to be  a gift.  It is a 
culture,  and  any culture  is a blending.  Thus we, by virtue  of our own 
culture, which  involves  a methodical  and deliberate  search  for consensus, 
must mitigate  the  inhumane  or hard-to-accept  aspects  of  a democracy 
fashioned  in other  climes." 
The  President  went  on  to ask:  "What  is law without  custom?"  That  is why he 
calls  for: 
"respect  for  the assets  of  the  community  and  for  the  love of work.  This 
is what  it will  take  to win  the  respect  of  our  partners,  even  this must 
necessarily  rest with  strengthening  our  links with our  usual partners"-
A/47/PV.9 
76 
(Mr. Bounkoulou.  Congo) 
In this vital  recovery  effort,  the Government  of  national  union  and  the 
Congolese people will  be able  to derive  the greatest  possible  benefit  from 
cooperation with  industrialized  countries, with  international  organizations, 
including non-governmental  organizations,  and  from  the  contribution  of  new 
forms of  cooperation, without  frontiers, between  towns, regions  and 
enterprises  in the north  and  in the  south. 
Members  will  not be  surprised  to hear me  speak of  certain major  problems 
that call for  the  attention  of  the  international  community  and, hence, of  the 
United Nations.  It  is quite  natural  that  any member  State might  ask  itself 
"What can be done?  Where  can we  start?"  It  seems  to us that  the  general 
debate is an excellent  opportunity  to gather  together  the material  for a 
response to these questions, on the basis of proposals  and of  the desire of 
some to take action  and others  to  refrain  from  taking  action. 
What  is our  attitude  at this moment  of great political  and  ideological 
upheaval?  The Congo  shares  the view that  it  is essential  that  the United 
Nations continue  to be  an especially well-suited  forum  for the analysis of 
events and  for concept  development,  particularly  in respect  of  socio-economic 
problems, in a spirit  of  renewed partnership.  Indeed,  the United Nations  must 
serve as the  right  institution within which  to strive  for global  solutions. 
Those solutions must  take  into  account  the political, humanitarian  and 
socio-economic  dimensions  of world problems.  My delegation  endorses  this 
approach, particularly  with  respect  to assistance,  trade, the transfer  of 
technnologies,  commodity  prices  and debt  relief. 
There  is a prevailing  feeling  that  the United  Nations  has  a  fresh 
opportunity  to  attain  the objectives  of  the Charter  - in particular,  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  the  restoration  of peace  and,  it should be  added 
A/47/PV.9 
77 
(Mr. Bounkoulou. Congo) 
since the summit meeting of the Security Council, the promotion of preventive 
diplomacy.  Despite all the scepticism. Member States would be justified in 
keeping alive the flame that was lit on 31 January in New York.  In this 
respect my delegation cannot but associate itself with the wise words that 
have already been spoken from this rostrum. 
Sadly, it must be acknowledged that the end of the cold war has not put 
an end to age-old antagonisms.  After so many promising and hopeful events, we 
witnessed the Yugoslav crisis break out suddenly in the heart of Europe.  In 
Africa, in addition to the mounting violence in South Africa  violence that 
reflects the difficult birth pangs of a democratic, non-racial and united 
South Africa  the Liberian and Somalian tragedies continue to give us reason 
to fear the destabilization of a number of States.  As representatives must be 
well aware, all these concerns have an impact on subregional security. 
Is it still acceptable that, in a world rich in rights and freedoms, not 
all peoples are really receiving the benefit thereof?  Continued tribal or 
ethnic conflicts, accompanied by war crimes, if viewed with indifference, may 
lead almost unnoticed to the extermination of tens of thousands of people.  In 
Europe, people are dying in the name of ideology, and in Somalia, in the 
extreme eastern part of the African continent, the situation is even more 
tragic.  Drought, combined with mindless blood-letting by clans fighting over 
the shreds of power, are claiming thousands of victims.  There is undoubtedly 
a need for more international assistance.  Here, once again, the activities of 
the United Nations deserve praise. 
We should also hail the role of the non-governmental organizations in 
their daily endeavours in the service of the human individual, as a gesture of 
solidarity with mankind, regarded in its universal nature as a reasonable 
A/47/PV.9 
78 
(Mr. Bounkoulou.  Congo) 
being.  The picture  is not  an entirely gloomy  one,  if we  can  judge  by  the 
glimmers  of hope  coming  from  the  talks  that  are under way  in,  for  example, 
Liberia and the Middle  East. 
In the  case of  South Africa,  all parties must  agree  to end  the violence, 
and they must  show  restraint.  The  parties  must  cooperate  in order  to bring 
about the earliest  possible  resumption  of  the negotiation  process.  The 
developments of  the  last  few weeks give us grounds  to hope  that  this will, 
indeed, happen.  In any event,  the Republic  of  the Congo  supports  the 
initiatives  and  all  the efforts  being made by  the  international  community  to 
find the right  solutions  to these questions.  It  is in this  spirit  that, 
despite its difficult  economic  circumstances,  the Congo  is contributing  to 
various operations within  the United  Nations  framework.  Recently we 
participated  in the United Nations  Angola Verification Mission  (UNAVEM II), 
following the positive  experience  of our presence  in UNAVEM  I. 
Likewise, my  country  supports  the  initiatives  and decisions  relating  to 
arms reduction,  the halting  of nuclear  tests  and  the endeavours  intended  to 
promote transparency  in  international  transfers  of conventional  arms. 
The promotion  of  confidence-building,  peace  and  security  is still  the 
constant concern of many  States  - in particular,  the States  of  the  central 
African subregion.  In this  context,  in May,  the Standing  Advisory  Committee 
on Security Matters was  created  under  the  auspices  of  the United  Nations. 
This is one more  instrument  in the  system  of  subregional  cooperation. 
Although we must  unite  our efforts  to overcome war,  it is not  true  that 
the peoples  that  are not  experiencing  the turmoils  of war  are  necessarily 
living in peace.  A glance  at a map  of  the world  proves  that  the  reverse  is 
true.  Africa,  for  example,  is  suffering  from drought,  famine  and  disease 
an 
appalling picture  that  calls  for  action  from  the  community  of nations. 
A/47/PV.9 
79-80 
(Mr. Bounkoulou. Congo) 
It is clear that, along with the questions of the maintenance of peace, 
drug abuse, the environment and humanitarian assistance, Africa is one of the 
five priorities of the United Nations in the 1990s.  Paradoxically, however, 
since the adoption, on 18 December 1991, of the United Nations New Agenda for 
the Development of Africa in the 1990s, the implementation of that programme, 
based on a new partnership, is suffering from a lack of priority.  This 
situation requires attention. 
The problems of drug abuse present another painful and devastating 
picture for the peoples of the continents of Europe, America and Asia.  How 
can we successfully tackle all these challenges and others  the acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) pandemic, for example  without cooperation 
and solidarity between States? 
There is one undeniable fact: the aspiration to democracy is now 
universal.  This heightened awareness should be regarded as a tremendous 
advance that will promote peace and security in the world.  For the developing 
countries, our thinking should now concentrate on the future and the fate of 
that democracy  in other words, on how to build on the achievements stemming 
from the advent of a democratic system in a good number of countries.  In 
other words, democracy and development are indivisible.  It is only by linking 
the two aspects of the question that we shall be able to derive the proper 
benefits from the changes that we all nowadays recognize as significant on the 
eve of the third millennium. 
A/47/PV.9 
81 
Mr.  ABDULLAH  (Malaysia):  I should  like  at the outset  to extend my 
warmest congratulations  to Mr. Ganev  of Bulgaria on his  election  as  President 
of the General Assembly  at its forth-seventh  session.  I am sure  that with his 
experience  and  skill he will guide  the Assembly  to a successful  conclusion. 
I  should  like also  to take  this opportunity  to express my  deep 
appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Samir  S. Shahibi, who carried  out his 
tasks with dedication  and commitment.  He made  an invaluable  contribution  to 
the revitalization  of  the work  of the General  Assembly. 
It is also  a pleasure  for me, on behalf  of Malaysia, to extend  a warm 
welcome to the delegations  of  those  countries  that  recently  joined  us as 
Members of the United Nations. 
.  In the last two to three years we have  seen dramatic  developments  and 
changes around  the world.  In many ways we  are at a historic point, where we 
must make  fateful  choices  that will  determine  the  future of mankind.  There 
are opportunities  to develop  a new era of  international  cooperation based on a 
collective desire to  seek  social  and economic progress  in a peaceful  and 
stable environment.  There  are  renewed hopes  in the ability  of  the United 
Nations to play  a central  role  in the maintenance  of peace  and  security, while 
at the same  time being  the  catalyst  for the revival  of  international 
develolpment  cooperation. 
The end of East-West  rivalry  and  the success  of  the role of the United 
Nations  in settling  a number  of  regional  disputes  understandably  gave  rise to 
euphoria about a new world order.  Unfortunately,  events  of  the last  two years 
prove that  such euphoria has been  rather  short-lived.  Numerous  and  complex 
challenges, as well  as uncertainties, are  still  unfolding. 
A/47/PV.9 
82 
(Mr. Abdullah. Malaysia) 
Sadly, the dawn of the new post-cold-war era is looking more and more like the 
old world order, characterized as it was by open conflicts based on clashes 
between competing nationalists and ethnic forces.  Certain parts of Europe are 
once again becoming areas of tension and destruction, with ugly ethnic and 
nationalistic strife in the former Yugoslavia and a number of component States 
of the former Soviet Union.  There are also disturbing unresolved local 
conflicts in other parts of the world  in Afghanistan, Liberia, Mozambique 
and Somalia. 
Indeed, our initial hope and confidence that the end of the cold war 
would encourage and bring about better cooperation at the United Nations are 
on the wane.  Experience over the last several months has raised serious 
concern about certain developments at the United Nations.  Too much emphasis, 
for instance, is given to the role of the United Nations in the maintenance of 
international security, and there is less focus on the social and economic 
dimensions of peace.  There is also concern over the dominant role of certain 
permanent members in the decision-making process in the Security Council, 
pushing the scope of the Council's activities into areas considered by many to 
be beyond its mandate. 
There is also growing concern that the Security Council  particularly 
the permanent members - has a tendency to select when and where to apply 
collective measures under the Charter to uphold the rule of law and restore 
international peace and stability.  One obvious example of such selectivity is 
the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina.  The Council has yet to respond to 
requests by a number of countries of the Organization of the Islamic 
Conference for an emergency meeting, with formal debate, to consider the 
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, much less to invoke Article 42 of 
A/47/PV.9 
83 
(Mr. Abdullah.  Malaysia) 
Chapter VII of  the Charter.  To uphold  the  rule of  law, the Council  should 
reverse the aggression by  Serbia-Montenegro  against Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and 
should initiate  legal proceedings  against  Serbian  leaders  and  individuals 
responsible  for  "ethnic  cleansing" and other war  crimes  against  Bosnian 
Muslims and Christians. 
The London Conference has yet to prove  effective, and even  the  latest 
Security Council  action, expanding  the  size and mandate  of  the United  Nations 
Protection Force  in Bosnia  is limited  to the protection of  humanitarian 
relief.  It is Malaysia's  strong belief  that humanitarian  relief, however 
effective it may be, will not bring  an end to aggression  and atrocities, which 
are causing  so much destruction  and  loss of  life, as well  as outflows of 
refugees to neighbouring  countries. 
The case of Bosnia and Herzegovina has highlighted  the need  for, and the 
importance and validity  of, preventive  diplomacy.  If the United Nations  is 
expected to play  an effective  role  in the maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security, there must be greater  recourse  to preventive  diplomacy. 
Selectivity or double  standards  in dealing with potential  conflicts  and with 
the parties  involved would  lead us nowhere  and would only make  a mockery  of 
the United Nations. 
We are all conscious  of  the  fact that the grave  situation  in Somalia was 
largely ignored by  the  Security  Council  until  the Secretary-General  took  the 
Council to task.  Millions  of  Somalians have been  suffering  for months, and 
many are dying by  the day  in a tragic  civil war  that  is raging out of 
control.  Somalia  is in many ways  a casualty of  cold-war politics  and  is now 
left to struggle  on  its own.  In this  instance  the United Nations must  assist 
not only in bringing humanitarian  relief 
as is being done  - but  also  in 
A/47/PV.9 
84-85 
(Mr. Abdullah. Malaysia) 
restoring  normality.  Continuation  of  the  civil war  in Somalia  is of  no good 
to any party,  and we  urge  the warring  parties  to  settle  their  conflicts 
speedily  and peacefully  for  the  sake of  their  people  and  country.  There  is a 
Malaysian  proverb  that  aptly describes  the  futility  of  such a situation: "The 
victor  becomes  charcoal,  and  the  loser  the ashes." 
Two  international  issues  that have  long been on  the agenda of  the United 
Nations  are Palestine  and  South Africa.  The  current Middle  East peace process 
is showing  signs of progress  as, for  the  first  time, negotiation,  begin to 
enter  into  substantive  questions  touching  on the principle  of  land  for peace. 
The  time has  come  for the United  Nations  to be  involved  in  confidence-building 
measures  in the occupied  territories,  including  the dispatch  of observers, as 
well  as the extension  of  social  and economic  assistance beyond  the  current 
limited  efforts  of  the United Nations  Relief  and Works Agency  for Palestine 
Refugees  in the Near  East  (UNRWA)  to help the Palestinians  during  the period 
of  transition  towards  self-rule  and  independence. 
Similarly,  in South Africa,  the process  of  change  towards  democracy and 
majority  rule has  reached  a critical  impasse, which  calls  clearly  for a more 
assertive  and  tangible United  Nations  role.  Malaysia welcomes  the decision of 
the  Security  Council  to  send observers  to help  to  create  confidence  and to 
facilitate  the process  of  change.  But we believe  that  the United  Nations 
should be  able  to do more  in extending  confidence-building  measures 
particularly  in restoring  law and order 
as well  as  in looking  at the needs 
of black  South Africans  living  in squalid  conditions,  long neglected  under the 
apartheid  system. 
A/47/PV.9 
86 
(Mr. Abdullah.  Malaysia) 
On the question  of Cambodia,  Malaysia, being part  of  the Association  of 
South-East  Asian Nations  (ASEAN) and  the  region, has  a special  interest  in 
Cambodia's peace,  stability  and economic well-being.  Bilaterally,  Malaysia 
stands ready  to  join hands with  its Cambodian  neighbours  in economic  and 
technical  cooperation.  We  are also  fully  supportive  of  the United  Nations 
role in Cambodia  and we  are doing what we  can to both  assist  and  support  the 
United Nations  peace-keeping  efforts.  To date we have  already  contributed  a 
total number  of  1,060 men  to the United  Nations  Transitional  Authority  in 
Cambodia  (UNTAC).  The  task before UNTAC  is certainly  not  an easy one  in 
facilitating  the process  of national  reconciliation  and paving  the way  for  the 
setting up of  a freely elected  democratic  Government.  Actions  of  some 
Cambodian parties  could well  threaten  the Paris peace Agreements.  Clearly, 
the Paris Agreements must be  fully  implemented  and the United  Nations  is there 
to ensure  such  a course.  Also  the United Nations, as represented  by UNTAC  on 
the ground,  in its unique  role  in Cambodia,  must gain  the  full  confidence  of 
all parties  in order  to  facilitate  implementation  of  the Agreements  in the 
peace process. 
The situation  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  and  in Somalia,  is a serious 
test of the credibility  of  the United  Nations  concept  of  collective  security. 
At a time when  there  is  such enormous  expectation  concerning,  and  reliance  on, 
the United Nations  collective  security  system  to ensure  the maintenance  of 
international peace  and  security,  there  is an urgent  need  to examine  the 
Charter  and  functioning  of  the collective  security  system.  Under  Article  24 
of the Charter, Members  of  the United Nations  confer  the  responsibility  for 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  on the  Security  Council 
A/47/PV.9 
87 
(Mr. Abdullah.  Malaysia) 
and  the Council  acts on their behalf.  The  general membership  of  the United 
Nations  surely has  the  right  to expect  transparency  and  accountability  in the 
work  and  actions  of  the Council.  A major  reform  of  the Council  to  achieve 
such  transparency,  accountability  and  democracy  is overdue. 
The Council's  present membership  of  15 must  be  increased  to a level that 
is more  representative  of  the United Nations  general  membership,  which has now 
grown  to 179  countries.  The  representation  of  Europe  in  the Council  far 
outweighs  the  size of Europe.  The present  constitution  of  the  permanent 
membership  largely  reflects  the  situation  immediately  after  the end of the 
Second World War  and has  now become  untenable  and  anachronistic.  The veto 
power which guarantees  the exclusive  and dominant  role of  the permanent five 
in the Council must  be examined  anew.  Malaysia will  contribute  to examining 
in all  aspects  the  structures  of  the United  Nations.  We  regard  as timely the 
decision of  the  recent  tenth non-aligned  summit  meeting  in Jakarta to 
establish  a high-level  working  group  to pursue  the  restructuring, 
revitalization  and democratization  of  the United  Nations  and will give  it our 
full  support. 
Malaysia would  also  support  a collective  effort by  the General  Assembly 
to  study  the  content  and  conseguence  of  the extremely  valuable  contribution of 
the Secretary-General  in his  report  "An Agenda  for  Peace".  We hope that a 
collective  examination  in a democratic  fashion will help  to define  clearly the 
important  principles  contained  in the document  and  the  actions  contemplated as 
a programme  of  action  for  the United Nations  in a changing  world  order. 
A/47/PV.9 
88 
(Mr. Abdullah.  Malaysia) 
The  time has  also  come  for us  to treat  the  financial  crisis  facing  the 
United Nations  as a matter  of  utmost  urgency  if  the Organization  is to be  the 
foundation  and  centrepoint  of  the post-cold-war  world  order.  The  increasing 
demands on the United Nations  to undertake  peace-keeping  operations  around  the 
world are overstretching  its  scarce  resources.  Arrears  for both  regular  and 
peace-keeping budgets  now  stand  at  around US$1.75 billion  and  they  are 
affecting  adversely  the  ability  of  the United Nations  to perform  its tasks. 
Of particular  concern  is the  fact  that more  than half of  the  total  arrears  is 
owed by two of  the  five permanent  members. 
Malaysia,  like many  other developing  countries, welcomes  the  bilateral 
agreements  reached between  the United  States  and Russia  on  nuclear-weapons 
reduction and  arms  control.  As  a strong proponent  of  a universal  disarmament 
process within  the United  Nations  framework, Malaysia welcomes  the positive 
work of the Conference  on Disarmament  on the proposed  chemical  weapons 
Convention  and we  are happy  to  cosponsor  a draft  resolution  on  it at  this 
session of  the General  Assembly.  Malaysia  also believes  that  the process  of 
transparency  and  confidence-building  would  contribute  to the general  goal of 
disarmament  and peace,  and we  support  the  idea of  a United  Nations  register  on 
armaments.  Such  a  register, however,  should  not be  limited  only  to the  sale 
and transfer  of  conventional  weapons but  should  also  include  the  production 
and stockpiling  of  conventional  weapons  and  in due  course  cover 
non-conventional  weapons. 
The  suitability  of  the United  Nations  as the  focal point  for 
international  cooperation  to build  a new world  order  is its noble  objectives 
and universal  character.  For  it is here  that  sovereign  States  are  equal 
A/47/PV.9 
89 
(Mr. Abdullah. Malaysia) 
partners, and hence the Organization provides a good starting point for 
instituting democracy in inter-State relations and multilateral diplomacy. 
Unfortunately, since the collapse of communism there has been an increasing 
tendency on the part of the victors of the ideological rivalry to dictate 
their values relating to human rights and democracy to others, not only in the 
conduct of their bilateral relations but also in their activities at the 
United Nations and in its bodies.  Malaysia believes that a comprehensive and 
constructive treatment of human rights issues must certainly take into 
consideration the cultural and religious values that influence the national 
outlook and development of Member States.  We look forward to participating in 
the World Conference on Human Rights next year. 
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is an important 
instrument for the maintenance of law and order in maritime affairs and for 
international cooperation.  As a littoral State, Malaysia would like to draw 
the Assembly's attention to the use of the Straits of Malacca as a waterway 
for international shipping.  Larger and faster vessels capable of carrying 
cargoes of a previously unimaginable magnitude now ply the Straits in record 
numbers.  Most of them are expected to share the same narrow waterway with 
fishing boats and the ever-growing number of pleasure craft. 
The increasing international traffic and the passage of large 
sophisticated vessels through our waters have certainly landed us with new 
problems, risks and responsibilities.  In particular, the passage of tankers 
carrying dangerous and hazardous cargo adds to our worries and the risks to 
our environment.  There have already been cases of collisions and spillage in 
the Straits, polluting our sea and shore and affecting our marine resources. 
A/47/PV.9 
90 
(Mr. Abdullah.  Malaysia) 
The latest collison, last weekend, between  two vessels  in the Straits, 
involving an oil  tanker  and a container  is a glaring  example.  When  such 
accidents occur we have to do the clearing up, which  is a financial burden, 
and endure the  sudden harm  and destruction  to our marine  resources  caused  by 
pollution.  This  is too much  for  the poor  littoral  States  to bear alone. 
Obviously there  is an urgent  need  to take  a fresh  look  at existing 
international maritime  law and  regulations  applicable  to the Straits  and  find 
a mechanism  to share  the  responsibility  of ensuring  the  safety of navigation, 
as well as collectively  to combat the growing piracy with  effective 
surveillance through  the use of  advanced eguipment  and with the  improved 
resources  at our disposal.  To meet  such objectives Malaysia  is not  suggesting 
the introduction of  levies  or  collection of dues but  is asking  for the 
operational  and  financial  responsibility  for this  to be  shared eguitably  among 
the maritime nations, users  of  the Straits  and the  littoral States. 
A/47/PV.9 
91 
(Mr. Abdullah.  Malaysia) 
Any  attempt  at building  a new world  order must  address  the  increasing 
inequity  in the  international  economic  system  resulting  in a widening 
North-South  gap.  The  1992 United  Nations  Pevelopment  Programme  human 
development  report,  for  instance,  in highlighting  the  increasingly  difficult 
external  economic  environment  and  its adverse  repercussions  for  developing 
countries, has  stressed  that  the North must be held  primarily  responsible for 
this  situation.  The  report pointed  out  that protectionism  and  subsidies in 
the developed  countries  resulted  in a loss of  $500 billion  a year  for the 
developing  countries,  ten  times what  they  received  in  foreign  assistance.  The 
total  external  debt  of developing  countries has multiplied  thirteenfold  in the 
last  two decades,  from  $100 billion  in 1970 to  around  $1,350 billion  in 1990. 
While  the deadlock  in the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade  (GATT) 
Uruguay  Round  has yet  to be  resolved,  recent  tendencies  towards  unilateral 
protectionist  trade  actions, the  creation of new  trade blocs  and  instability 
in the major  currency markets would  only worsen  the  already  difficult global 
economic  environment.  Nothing  short  of  a major  reform  and  restructuring of 
the world  economy,  including  the  financial  system,  is  required  in order to 
bring  about  a strong  revival  and ensure  its  long-term  stability. 
In  recent  years  some progress  has been made  towards  revitalizing and 
restructuring  cooperation  in the economic  and  social  fields  at  the United 
Nations.  But  those  changes, no matter  how  constructive  and well-meaning, are 
not  sufficient  to  revive  international  economic  cooperation  and  to allow for 
global  social  development  for as  long  as the developed  countries  are not 
A/47/PV.9 
92 
(Mr. Abdullah.  Malaysia) 
prepared  to initiate  concrete  changes  at the policy  level  and  to  fulfil  their 
obligations, particularly  in terms of meeting  the official  development 
assistance  targets. 
The Rio  de Janiero  summit  on environment  and development  has  raised  the 
hopes of many  that we have, within  the context  of  the decisions  of  the  summit 
and the establishment  of  the Commission  on Sustainable  Pevelopment,  set  the 
framework  for  launching  a new global  partnership with a view  to  economic 
development  and  the protection  of  the environment.  However,  real  success  is 
dependent upon  the  availability  of new and  additional  resources  as well  as on 
the transfer  of  technology  from  the North  to the South.  As agreed  at Rio, we 
are expecting  our  partners  in the North  to make  their pledges  during  this 
session of the General  Assembly. 
The world  today has  reached  a defining moment  in history.  The 
imperatives  of global  interdependence  require  that we members  of  the 
international  community  work  closely  together  in a new global  cooperative 
spirit to move  away  from  the past  decades  of  ideological  confrontation  towards 
the building  of  a better world  for all.  In this  regard  the United  Nations 
remains the best  forum  and vehicle  for bringing  about  a new global  consensus 
for international  peace,  security  and development.  Together,  as a family of 
nations, we must  have  the vision  and  courage  to address our  common  interest 
and future. 
Mr.  ELLEMANN-JENSEN  (Denmark):  Let me begin by  congratulating  the 
President  upon his election  to the presidency  of  ihe forty-seventh  session  of 
the General  Assembly. 
A/47/PV.9 
93 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmark) 
I wish  to pay  a tribute  to the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali.  His  able  and efficient  leadership  of  the United 
Nations  since he  took office  only  nine months  ago has  impressed  us all and I 
wish  to assure him  of Penmark's  full  support  of his  continuing  efforts to 
reform  and  streamline  the  Organization. 
During  the past year  the world  Organization  has become more  nearly 
universal  than ever.  What  in 1945  started  out  as an organization  of 51 Member 
States has now become  an organization  consisting  of  179 Members.  This year 13 
new States have  joined  the United  Nations.  All  the new  States of  the former 
Soviet Union,  as well  as Croatia,  Slovenia,  Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and 
San Marino, have  now  joined  the  Organization. 
Let me  take  this opportunity  to welcome  all  the new Member  States and to 
express my hope  for  future  fruitful  cooperation  in the  spirit  of  the United 
Nations. 
The very deplorable  developments  in the  former Yugoslavia  have 
demonstrated  how  fragile  the  situation  is in many parts  of  the world  in the 
post-cold-war  era and have  led  to the  largest  refugee  crisis  in Europe since 
the Second World War.  The  international  community  has  reacted with great 
responsibility  to the  intensified  crisis  in the  former Yugoslavia  and the 
overwhelming  humanitarian  needs  it has  caused.  We have made very  large 
resources  available  for monitoring,  mediation  and  peace-keeping  operations, as 
well  as  for humanitarian  assistance.  I welcome  the enlarged  role of the 
United  Nations  in the peace  efforts  in the  area as well  as  the central  role of 
the United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  in the provision  of relief, 
where  coordination  remains of paramount  significance  in ensuring  that the 
relief work  is carried  out with maximum  speed  and  efficiency. 
A/47/PV.9 
94 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen.  Denmark) 
Denmark has worked  closely with  the High  Commissioner  in providing  very 
substantial humanitarian  assistance, both  financially  and otherwise.  Lately 
we have accepted  a more  direct  involvement  in the provision  of  accommodation 
and shelter  for  refugees  and  displaced  persons.  We  intend  to continue  our 
efforts. 
The Yugoslav  crisis  is a crisis  in Europe,  and Europe  is willing  and  able 
to take its part  of  the  international  responsibility,  but  the United  Nations 
as the international, global  actor  has  its  important  role  to play  as well. 
The international  Conference  in London on the  former Yugoslavia  assembled  all 
the main actors  involved  in the crisis  and war  in the  region.  The  results 
were encouraging.  The  framework  for  the absolutely  necessary  political 
dialogue and  for  the negotiations  was established,  including  the  structure  and 
the principles  upon which  any peaceful  solution must  be based. 
Developments  in the  first month  after  the London  conference  have  shown 
that the conference  was  able not  only  to produce very good documents but  also 
to establish  the  follow-up mechanism  enabling  us  to turn words  into deeds. 
Denmark wholeheartedly  supports  the efforts  in Geneva under  the 
co-chairmanship  of Mr. Cyrus Vance  and Lord  Owen. 
Under  the  impact  of  all  the  combined  international  efforts  - the United 
Nations Protection  Force  (UNPROFOR),  the European Community  Monitoring  Mission 
(ECMM), the Geneva  talks 
we must  not  forget  that  the main  responsibility  for 
bringing an end  to  the cruelties  and violence  lies with the  conflicting 
parties.  All  the peoples, groups  and minorities  and  their  leaders  must 
realize that  the only way  their  communities  can  flourish  is through a 
negotiated,  commonly  accepted political  settlement  of  their disputes. 
A/47/PV.9 
95 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmarlr) 
Diverging interests can coexist peacefully only through compromise.  The basic 
principles for a political solution will not change:  the inviolability of the 
borders which can be changed only by mutual, peaceful agreement;  the human 
rights and the rights of minorities must be respected; the sanctions against 
Serbia-Montenegro will be upheld until the acts of aggression have stopped; 
the so-called "Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" is not the sole successor to 
the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia;  humanitarian help to all in 
need shall be possible;  persons who have committed crimes against 
international humanitarian law shall be prosecuted individually, if possible 
by an international court under the United Nations. 
A/47/PV.9 
96 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen,  Denmark) 
The  situation  in  the  former Yugoslavia  is  still grave, but  I think  we 
have created  the  foundations  for a possible  improvement  and  eventual 
settlement.  There will be difficulties  and backlashes  ahead.  As  Prime 
Minister Major  said  at  the London Conference,  it will  be a long haul. 
But 
nobody should  doubt  that  Denmark,  nationally  as well  as  in its  capacity  as  the 
next holder  of  the Presidency  of  the European Community,  will  devote  all  its 
strength to the  international  efforts  aimed  at obtaining  a political,  peaceful 
settlement  in the  former  Yugoslavia. 
After  a period  of  impressive  progress,  the  reform  process  in South  Africa 
came to an unfortunate  standstill  in the middle of  this year because  of new, 
tragic outbreaks  of violence.  The high  level of violence  remains  one of  the 
major obstacles  to a resumption  of  negotiations. 
The Secretary-General  took  an  important  step by  sending his  Special 
Representative  to South Africa.  As a result,  a number  of United Nations  peace 
observers have been deployed  in violence-stricken  areas.  After  a visit 
earlier this month by  the Troika  of European Community  Foreign Ministers,  the 
European Community  has  also  decided  to  send peace observers  to South Africa. 
In addition, European  experts will  support  the work of  the  Goldstone 
Commission  and other  efforts  to curb the violence  in South  Africa. 
At the end of  the day, however,  only  the South Africans  themselves  can 
bring about  the new,  democratic  South Africa  that we  are  looking  forward  to. 
We stand ready  to provide  our  fullest  support.  For more  than  25 years, 
Denmark has granted  humanitarian  assistance  to the victims  of  the  apartheid 
system, and  it  is prepared  to  initiate  a programme  of transitional  assistance 
to South Africa once  an  interim  government  is in place.  We encourage  the 
international  community  to  join in the efforts  to  redress  the  social  and 
A/47/PV.9 
97 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmark) 
economic imbalances in South Africa, and to contribute to the creation of a 
non-racial and democratic South Africa. 
The tragedy in Somalia amply illustrates the need for a process of 
national reconciliation in that country leading to the re-establishment of a 
legitimate government.  Following the visit to Mogadishu by the troika of 
European Community Foreign Ministers in early September, the European 
Community Foreign Ministers stressed this, as well as the particularly 
important role of the United Nations, in their declaration of 13 September. 
In the Middle East the parties involved in the Arab-Israeli conflict and 
the Palestinian guestion have embarked on a negotiating process that gives 
grounds for hopes of a just, comprehensive and lasting settlement.  Denmark, 
together with its European Community partners, fully supports, and remains 
committed to the peace process. 
The policy adopted by the new Israeli Government has given a new impetus 
to this process.  The subsequent response of the Arab countries and the 
Palestinians bodes well for the future.  I sincerely hope that all parties 
will now engage in substantive negotiations by building incrementally on the 
progress achieved so far.  Pragmatism is what counts at the present stage.  I 
therefore call on all parties to translate good intentions into concrete 
proposals and open-mindedness. 
In Irag the Baghdad regime continues to ignore its obligations under 
international law by obstructing the work of United Nations inspection teams. 
The regime is continuing its flagrant violations of human rights and 
fundamental freedoms, in particular by victimizing Kurds and Arab Shiites 
living in the marshes.  And Baghdad is actively impeding the efforts of the 
United Nations and non-governmental organizations to relieve the plight of 
A/47/PV.9 
98 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmark) 
those suffering.  The harassment of United Nations peace guards, the refusal 
to renew the Memorandum of Understanding and the rejection of the food-for-oil 
arrangements laid down in Security Council resolutions 706 (1991) and 
712 (1991) are all cases in point. 
Saddam Hussein's strategy, however, is doomed to failure.  In no 
circumstances will the international community relax the United Nations 
sanctions imposed on the Baghdad regime unless it fully and unconditionally 
complies with all relevant Security Council resolutions. 
In my speech last autumn I pointed out how Security Council 
resolution 688 (1991) might become a turning point as to the balance between 
the principle of national sovereignty and that of humanitarian intervention. 
The guestion of humanitarian intervention has had a considerable impact on 
international debate during the last year.  The course of events in Somalia, 
the former Yugoslavia and recently, anew, in Irag has shown the relevance and 
importance of the concept. 
There seems to me to be growing support for the point of view that the 
principle of non-intervention in the internal jurisdiction of States cannot be 
taken as a shield behind which massive violations of human rights can be 
allowed to take place, especially not where the human rights situations have 
been characterized by the Security Council as a threat to peace.  A new 
balance between sovereignty and international intervention is being struck, in 
favour of international intervention.  My Government welcomes that 
development.  We should insist on recognition of the basic principle that 
Governments have to cooperate fully to ensure access to all persons in need of 
assistance.  Far too often political motives continue to prevent humanitarian 
assistance from entering a country or from reaching population groups in need 
of such assistance. 
A/47/PV.9 
99 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmark) 
It has been appalling to witness the continuing disregard for 
humanitarian conventions shown by Iraq during the Gulf War, and, most 
recently, by parties to the conflict in the former Yugoslavia.  The 
perpetrators of these criminal acts are individually responsible, and must be 
prosecuted individually. 
In this connection I welcome the work of the International Law Commission 
on the guestion of establishing an international criminal tribunal.  The 
Danish Government is ready to contribute constructively in these efforts 
during this and the coming session of the General Assembly. 
The Secretary-General's report entitled "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277) 
contains a number of interesting proposals, some of which Denmark can support 
wholeheartedly:  for example, the proposal to make wider use of good offices, 
the proposal to establish a reserve fund for peace-keeping operations and the 
proposal to make wider use of the International Court of Justice.  However, 
both the use of the good offices of the Secretary-General and the use of the 
International Court depend on the political will of the parties involved. 
The United Nations is facing steadily growing demands for peace-keeping 
efforts, and the scope of these efforts is increasing.  Suffice it to mention 
Cambodia, Somalia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Since the United Nations is 
already heavily overburdened, we welcome the Secretary-General's call upon 
European regional organizations to carry out peace-keeping functions in 
accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter, as in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
Despite the substantial Danish contribution to the United Nations 
Protection Force, we remain committed to further contributions to United 
Nations peace-keeping operations, both in Europe and in other parts of the 
A/47/PV.9 
100 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen.  Denmark) 
world.  Let me  add,  however,  that  a peace-keeping  operation must  be  seen  as  an 
interim offer  to  the parties  to  a conflict,  and  thus must  be  limited  to  a few 
years.  A peace-keeping  operation must  never, by  the mere  length of  its 
existence, turn  out  to be  an excuse  for  the parties  not  to  seek  a negotiated 
settlement  of  their  dispute. 
In fulfilling  its mandate  as  the guardian of peace,  the United  Nations 
has an important  role  to play by  contributing  to  social  and  economic 
development  and  the eradication  of poverty.  The  significant  role that  the 
United Nations  has  acquired  in efforts  to  solve political  conflicts  should  not 
overshadow  its  responsibilities  in the economic  and  social  field.  As  pointed 
out by the Secretary-General,  no  lasting peace  can be  achieved while  the 
existing gap between  rich and poor  nations persists. 
The  improved  international  political  climate,  the breakup  of  the  old 
power blocs  and  the  reductions  in military  expenditures  offer  a unique 
opportunity  to promote  social  development. 
A/47/PV.9 
101 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen, Denmark) 
We must now face our responsibility to improve living conditions for the more 
than one billion people living in absolute poverty, and for the even larger 
number of people suffering under unemployment and social insecurity.  If we do 
not, problems will multiply and put global stability at risk. 
The solutions to those problems must be based on respect for human 
rights, the rule of law and political institutions that are effective, 
accountable and enjoy democratic legitimacy.  It is time to face, discuss and 
tackle these interlinking aspects of social development. 
Denmark welcomes the proposal adopted by the Economic and Social Council 
to convene in 1995 a world summit for social development.  We intend to 
propose Copenhagen as venue for the world social summit, thereby confirming 
Denmark's commitment to social development and our wish to make the summit an 
important event in the mobilization of all efforts to attain the ultimate 
objective  to improve the quality of life of man. 
This year, the General Assembly will undertake a review of the 
operational activities of the United Nations system.  It will give us an 
opportunity to assess the functioning of the development activities of the 
United Nations system during the past three years, and establish new 
guidelines and priorities for the coming three years.  At the same time, 
discussions of fundamental reforms of the United Nations system as such have 
entered an important stage which gives an excellent opportunity for a 
comprehensive discussion of the demands of the emerging new world order as 
they relate to the. structure and functioning of the United Nations and its 
Secretariat. 
At the centre of the reform discussions is the need for a clearer 
definition of the role of the United Nations system in development activities, 
including better distribution of work and improved coordination among the 
A/47/PV.9 
102 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen.  Denmark) 
various organizations.  The United Nations must  also  show  leadership  in this 
field and  carry  out  its own operational  activities  in a consistent  and 
coherent  manner. 
Progress  in the  discussions  of  reforms  of  the United Nations  operational 
activities was made  at the  recent  session of  the Economic  and  Social  Council. 
It is our hope  that  at  this year's  session  the General  Assembly  will bring  the 
process  forward  from  the  level  of discussing  principles  to  that of  concrete 
action.  The proposals  contained  in the Nordic  United  Nations project  would, 
in our view,  enable  the United  Nations  to  regain  its  rightful  leading  role  in 
operational  development  activities.  Only  through  substantial  changes  in the 
governance  and  financing  of United  Nations  funds  and programmes  will  it be 
possible to ensure  a more effective  and efficient  role for  the United  Nations 
in this field,  to the benefit  of  developing  nations. 
During  the  last  few years, we have  seen a succession  of natural  and 
man-made disasters  of unprecedented  frequency,  scope  and  complexity.  After 
the extraordinary  events  of  last year, we  all hoped  to  see  a reversal  of  this 
trend in 1992.  Unfortunately,  such hopes have not been  fulfilled. 
The adoption  of  resolution  46/182  on emergency  assistance  at  last  year's 
session was  seen  as  a major  step  forward  in the direction  of  improved 
coordination within  the United Nations  system  and  increased  efficiency  in the 
delivery of humanitarian  emergency  assistance.  It was  an  important  step. 
However, much more  needs  to be done  to translate  the aims of  that  resolution 
into reality. 
The public  criticism  which has been  raised  in many  countries,  including 
in Denmark,  of  the  response  of  the United Nations  system  to  the  large-scale 
tragedy  in Somalia  is  an example which makes  it clear  that  this year  the 
A/47/PV.9 
103 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmark) 
General Assembly must give increased and renewed attention to the issue of 
improved performance by the United Nations.  A determined effort must now be 
made to ensure that sufficient humanitarian assistance is given in time, with 
maximum speed, and in a well coordinated manner.  We appeal in particular to 
the organizations of the United Nations family to try harder to cooperate, act 
jointly and compete less. 
The World Conference on Human Rights, scheduled to take place in June 
next year, will provide an opportunity to review progress made in the field of 
human rights since the adoption of the Universal Declaration.  Obstacles to 
further progress will be identified, and specific measures which can assist 
individual countries in their efforts to promote respect for human rights will 
be outlined. 
The Danish Government is committed to ensuring a successful outcome to 
the Conference, and will work for a balanced result containing both political 
benchmarks and operational guidelines for corresponding implementation 
activities.  In this regard, special attention should be paid to the 
interlinkages between democracy, human rights and development and to the need 
for a concentrated assistance effort in this area, based on the principle that 
violations of human rights are a legitimate concern of the international 
community. 
Democracy, respect for human rights, equal status for men and women and 
principles of good governance play an essential role in development efforts. 
This has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and reflected both in 
the wide-ranging reforms undertaken in a number of countries and in the 
continued policy dialogue aimed at supporting development efforts.  At the 
same time, the process towards broadening public participation in the 
decision-making processes is bound to continue. 
A/47/PV.9 
104 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmark) 
The Danish Government will seek to assist countries undertaking policy 
reforms in establishing administrative and political structures which are 
conducive to development  for instance, by setting up new democratic 
institutions and by strengthening the rule of law. 
Equally we attach great importance to the question of military spending. 
Excessive military spending not only reduces funds available for other 
purposes, but can also contribute to increased regional tensions and 
violations of international law, and can in some cases compromise moves 
towards democracy and the rule of law at the domestic level. 
Denmark stands ready, through its programme for development assistance, 
to provide substantial support for specific activities aimed at consolidating 
human rights, democracy and good governance, and we shall seek our future 
partners in development from amongst countries which are making a genuine 
effort in this regard. 
Next year has also been designated the International Year of the World's 
Indigenous People.  The Panish Government looks forward with great interest 
and high hopes to that Year, and plans are well under way both in Greenland 
and in Denmark on how to work actively towards increasing the understanding of 
the special situation facing these peoples and how to further the respect for 
the cultures and rights of indigenous peoples. 
It is well known that the Inuit, the inhabitants of Greenland, have 
chosen the status of home rule within the Panish realm, and at the domestic 
level we will cooperate closely with the representatives of the home-rule 
Government of Greenland in our preparations for the Year. 
The results the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development 
recently achieved in Rio provide a good basis for a new global partnership 
A/47/PV.9 
105 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmarlr) 
based on common responsibility for the Earth, even if it did not meet all our 
expectations.  The Rio Declaration, Agenda 21 and the Conventions on climate 
change and biodiversity are far from being the end result:  they are 
instruments to mobilize governments and peoples from all over the world in a 
joint effort towards sustainable development in the future. 
The most significant institutional recommendation of the Conference to be 
followed up at the international level is the high-level Commission on 
Sustainable Development.  It is important that the Commission's scope of work 
be oriented towards the future in order to ensure a dynamic approach to future 
technological and economic developments. 
A/47/PV.9 
106 
(Mr. Ellemann-Jensen. Denmark) 
Implementation of Agenda 21 and the conventions requires financial 
resources and thus calls for partnership and real burden-sharing among 
nations, not only between North and South but also among the donor countries 
themselves. 
From the very beginning, the Danish Government has been committed to the 
process of the United Nations Conference and Environment and Development.  We 
are prepared to provide our fair share of the necessary resources, and would 
like to see similar firm commitments from as many countries as possible. 
At this session we are marking the end of the United Nations Decade of 
Disabled Persons.  The disabled remain among the most vulnerable groups, in 
particular in the developing countries.  During the Decade awareness of the 
problems and difficulties facing disabled persons all over the world has been 
increased.  Much however, still remains to be done.  The development 
organizations of the United Nations should play an important role in this 
respect by integrating the needs of disabled persons more strategically in the 
regular programming of their activities. 
Let me end by stating the obvious:  we all wish the United Nations 
success in the reform process and in carrying out its many tasks.  But that 
wish must be accompanied by a willingness to live up to our legal obligation 
to pay our contributions to the Organization and to do so in full and on time. 
Prince Mnhamed BOLKIAH (Brunei Darussalam):  I congratulate 
His Excellency Mr. Ganev on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session.  I am sure he will guide us well. 
A/47/PV.9 
107 
(Prince Mohamed Bolkiah. 
Brunei Darussalam) 
I should like also to thank the outgoing President, His Excellency 
Mr. Samir Shihabi.  His valuable contribution to the work of the United 
Nations was much appreciated. 
I wish also to thank the Secretary-General for his efforts on behalf of 
peace in the world.  His report, "An Agenda for Peace", should be given urgent 
attention by Member countries.  I offer the Secretary-General my continued 
support in all his demanding work. 
This year, we are very pleased to greet the new Members of the United 
Nations.  Their admission should further strengthen our Organization. 
Since last year's session we have continued to see great changes in the 
world.  Brunei Darussalam welcomed most of them.  However, we have approached 
others with caution.  This is because we are not yet sure what they will lead 
to.  Generally, though, we feel that the Members of the world body are now in 
a better position than ever before to build a just and lasting peace in the 
world. 
However, we believe that certain things must be in place before any 
United Nations action can have a good chance of success.  These are strong 
bilateral relationships between individual countries which lead to 
multilateral cooperation through regional associations.  We feel that these 
two structures are essential.  It is our view that, if they exist, the United 
Nations will be able to function well in terms of both peace-keeping and 
peace-building.  We think they are required because no one nation or single 
organization is able to stand alone. 
A/47/PV.9 
108 
(Prince Mohamed  Bolkiah. 
Brunei  Darussalam) 
That  is why my  country,  like many  others, has been  engaged  in  intense 
diplomatic  activity  over  the past year.  We  feel we have  to establish  a wide 
range of bilateral  relations  and participate  fully  in regional  and 
international  organizations.  We  think  that,  in this way,  even  small  nations 
such as ours  can  contribute  a great  deal  to the  success of  this  Organization. 
We would  like  to  see United  Nations  action  complementing  regional  and 
international  institutions. 
I  feel  that  this  is illustrated  by  the part  the Association  of  South-East 
Asian Nations  (ASEAN) has played  in finding  a solution  to the  Cambodian 
problem.  ASEAN's  hard work  and patience  in the  initial  stages was  crucial. 
So were  the efforts  of other  concerned  and  interested  parties.  Also, the 
willingness  of  the Cambodians  themselves  to seek a peaceful  solution was  a 
most  significant  factor.  The peace  accord  sponsored by  the United  Nations  was 
built on  this  foundation. 
The  situation  in Cambodia  today may offer  a further  illustration.  We 
believe  it  shows  that  peace-building  does not necessarily  end when  an 
agreement  is  signed.  The effort must  still go on.  A continuing  spirit  of 
cooperation  among  all parties  to any international  settlement  must  be 
encouraged. 
We,  therefore,  see  reasons  for optimism  in our  own part  of  the  world. 
But we  do not  overlook  realities  elsewhere.  We  are glad  to note  that, even  in 
some very  difficult  situations,  individual  countries  are trying  to play  their 
part  in bringing peace  and  stability  to their  regions. 
A/47/PV.9 
109-110 
(Prince Mohamed Bolkiah. 
Brunei Darussalam) 
We are particularly glad to see this happening in the Middle East.  The 
peace talks sponsored by the United States and Russia are providing the 
countries concerned with the means to make peaceful progress.  Certainly, the 
core problem of Palestine has not yet been resolved, and we regret that the 
Israelis still defy Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). 
But in spite of all this, we see some progress.  For this reason, we urge 
everyone involved to try to make the talks succeed.  At the same time, we feel 
that the United Nations still has an important role to play in the search for 
a solution. 
We believe that the world body should increase its effort to help bring 
about peaceful change in South Africa.  This would strengthen the considerable 
efforts made by institutions such as the Commonwealth and the Organization of 
African Unity. 
In our opinion, there are sound reasons for the United Nations to be 
involved in Cambodia, the Middle East and South Africa.  This is because 
certain favourable conditions have been created by those directly involved. 
Unfortunately, this cannot always be the case.  The situation in the 
Balkans seems likely to be typical of the dilemmas the world body may be 
forced to face in the future.  On the one hand, there is a need to act because 
of our moral and human obligations.  On the other hand, there may be no 
framework of good sense, reason and peaceful intent established at all 
levels.  Calls for United Nations action in similar circumstances may multiply. 
A/47/PV.9 
111 
(Prince Mohamed  Bolkiah. 
Brunei  Darussalam) 
That  is why  I do not  feel we  can consider  peace  and  security  only  in 
their political  context. We  see them  as closely  linked with  economic 
development.  Here  I refer  to the grave  social  and economic  problems  faced  by 
a great number  of  developing  nations.  They pose  a considerable  threat  to 
those countries'  internal  security  and,  therefore,  to international  stability. 
If present  conditions  continue, developing  countries will be  in no 
position to undertake  peaceful  cooperation.  This could mean  that  the  United 
Nations  is called  upon  time  and  again  to try to  solve  local conflicts  under 
very difficult  circumstances. 
We therefore  think  it  is vital  that developing  and developed  countries 
engage in peace-building  together.  We  feel there  is an urgent need  to provide 
the building  blocks  of  international  peace  today.  These  take the  form of 
cooperative  international  trading  relations. 
In my  view,  the  first  test we  all  face is whether we  can bring  about  a 
successful  conclusion  to the current Uruguay  Round.  Other  things  should  then 
fall into place,  such as open markets  and the  free transfer  of modern 
technology  to developing  nations. 
Those  seem  to me  to be  the most  practical ways  in which we  all  can  engage 
in preventive  diplomacy.  They will  ensure  that  the primary  role of  the United 
Nations  is not  only  to  solve political  crises but  also  to help  individual 
nations  and  regions  build  their own peace  in their own way. 
A/47/PV.9 
112 
Mr. NASTASE (Romania):  I would like first to join previous speakers 
in extending to Ambassador Ganev my warm congratulations on his election.  It 
gives me particular pleasure to see the representative of one of the new 
European democracies, which is also a friendly neighbour of Romania, heading 
such an important session. 
I should like also to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali, whose tireless endeavours to catalyze our common efforts aiming 
at conferring on the United Nations a new role attuned to a changing world 
enjoy my country's full support. 
Within a few days, we in Romania are going to experience a historic 
moment in the post-revolutionary history of our country.  On 27 September, 
parliamentary and presidential elections - the first since the adoption of our 
new democratic Constitution  will take place.  We see them as a landmark for 
a country whose firm choice of political pluralism, the rule of law, democracy 
and a market economy has, for the most part, been undeservedly doubted.  I 
want to inform the Assembly that the Romanian Government has done its best to 
ensure a fair electoral campaign, and free and fair elections.  In turn, the 
presence of thousands of domestic and numerous foreign observers is a solid 
guarantee of this. 
It is not my intention to speak here and now about the heavy tolls the 
Romanian people has already paid on the road to a reform process able to 
strike a feasible balance between legitimate aspirations and the scarcity of 
the economic resources needed to meet them.  But I feel entitled to say that 
the incidental lapses that have sometimes seemed to jeopardize the steady 
course of transition stemmed not from attempts to look back but rather from a 
certain eagerness to step into the future one day sooner. 
A/47/PV.9 
113 
(Mr. Nastase.  Romania) 
Like  all  the other  new Central  European democracies,  Romania  is 
undergoing  a test  that  has no historical  precedent,  namely  simultaneously  to 
create new political  structures  and new, workable  economic mechanisms. 
However,  as our Prime Minister  recently  said, we have  already  saved  ourselves 
from five years  of perestroika.  And we must  keep on  forging  forward while, 
paradoxically,  we  are  still  searching  for gradualism.  Moreover,  there  is no 
sign that  someone has  an  ideal,  fool-proof  blueprint  for  the  changes we  are 
striving  for.  Thank  God,  it seems  that Romania has  already  left behind  most 
of its childhood  diseases.  Considering  that the  saying  "the  sooner  the 
better" goes  for measles  too, we might prove  in the  long  run  to have  been 
among the  lucky ones  in post-Communist  Europe. 
To cite  just  one  example,  I would  recall  that  in the past  year 
allegations  concerning  so-called  Romanian  anti-semitism  have been  freguently 
voiced.  Now,  that  it has become  clear  that  they were groundless,  it  is our 
turn to be  concerned  that  in neighboring  countries  and other  Central  European 
countries, xenophobic,  racist  and  anti-semitic  trends have  emerged. 
The crux  of  the matter  for our  country  and  for other  countries  in 
transition  is to  strengthen  the  learning  capacity  of  society.  We have no 
comfortable  dogmas  or patterns  to follow.  We  are  courageously  taking  risks. 
The whole process  of  reform  has  already  reached  the point  of no  return: 
another  reason why  countries  in transition  should  not be  left  alone, the more 
so because,  in a certain  sense, not  only post-Communist  Europe but  the world 
as a whole  is  in  transition. 
A/47/PV.9 
114 
(Mr. Nastase. Romania) 
The economic, moral and political investments Romania has enjoyed during 
the last year have already proved that our message has been perfectly 
understood by most of our potential partners.  I make no secret that such 
investments of confidence have followed an ascending curve, one corresponding 
both to the growing domestic stability of Romania and our ever increasing 
international confirmation as a reliable pillar of Central European and 
continental security. 
Such a positive judgement on the last year's developments in Romania is 
convincingly supported by a series of parallel achievements in our domestic 
and our foreign policy.  Let me mention just a few of our domestic 
achievements:  the setting up of a new legislative and institutional framework 
able to guarantee the rule of law, political pluralism, free and fair 
elections, transition to a market economy and full respect for human rights 
and fundamental freedoms; the adoption by the Parliament elected in May 1990 
of the new Constitution approved by national referendum on 8 December 1991; 
and the fact that, according to our fundamental law, the State recognizes and 
guarantees to persons belonging to national minorities the right to preserve, 
develop and express their cultural, linguistic and religious identity, to 
which one can add a particular feature of Romania's Constitution, whose 
article 20 states that 
"constitutional provisions concerning the citizens' rights and liberties 
shall be interpreted and enforced in conformity with the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, and with the covenants and other treaties to 
which Romania is a party" 
A/47/PV.9 
115 
(Mr. Nastase. Romania) 
and that 
"where any inconsistencies exist between the covenants and treaties on 
fundamental human rights to which Romania is a party and domestic laws, 
the international regulations shall take precedence". 
Another achievement is the local elections held in February 1992, 
confirmed as fair and free by their main outcome:  by the fact that the 
opposition parties won an important number of seats everywhere in the 
country.  As a result, Romanian society enjoys more balanced political 
representation, clearly contradicting allegations pointing to the danger of 
"monolithism" in Romania.  The fairness of the elections was confirmed also in 
the conclusions drawn by the foreign observers who witnessed the ballot.  The 
country qualifies to be called pluralistic and democratic. 
A/47/PV.9 
116 
(Mr. Nastase, Romania) 
The unfolding of the current election campaign brings new proof that 
political pluralism, the rule of law, free access to the media, and freedom of 
speech are becoming normal facts of life in today's Romania.  All of these are 
promises that they will greatly contribute to the strengthening of both the 
institutional framework and its functioning, thereby irreversibly including 
Romania in the family of stable and democratic States. 
Through adequate legislation, the building-up of economic and financial 
market mechanisms, the privatization of the land, industry, trade, services 
and tourism, Romania has succeeded in breaking away from the command economy 
and in becoming more and more attractive to foreign investors.  Romania is now 
in its third year of transition.  It has laid the foundations of a market 
economy and is ready to begin structural reform.  As part of the reform, the 
Romanian Government adopted an economic stabilization programme supported by a 
stand-by loan from the International Monetary Fund.  The programme lays stress 
on classical anti-inflationary measures and, at the same time, has specific 
elements conditioned by the need to create a market mechanism. 
As a matter of principle, Romania aims at developing normal relations of 
cooperation with all States, and in particular with its neighbours.  The 
foreign policy of our Government is inspired by the political will to create 
the necessary conditions leading to Romania's irreversible anchorage within 
the Euro-Atlantic space and its viable institutions, and, respectively, to 
increase the country's contribution to the building-up of the Euro-Atlantic 
community of values and of a new continental security order. In this spirit, 
Romania entered into negotiations on an association agreement with the 
European Communities that is about to be concluded, and a cooperation 
agreement wiui the European Free Trade Association.  At the same time, like 
the other Central European countries, Romania entered into a special 
A/47/PV.9 
117 
(Mr. Nastase. Romania) 
relationship with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and attaches 
particular importance to its participation as a partner in the North-Atlantic 
Co-operation Council. 
The efforts to restore and consolidate democracy in Romania cannot and 
should not be isolated from the international environment in which we are 
living.  Our major concern about the situation in Yugoslavia has been made 
manifest in many circumstances.  Being in the unique position in this area of 
having never waged a fighting war against any of the peoples of the former 
Yugoslavia, Romania is its only neighbour whose perception and attitude are in 
no way biased by territorial or other interests of any kind.  As a State 
providing full evidence of balanced conduct and good relations with all the 
Yugoslav republics, Romania can afford to take a neutral stand on any related 
matter and is determined to contribute further to the efforts of the 
international community to restore peace and stability in Yugoslavia. 
As participants in the London Conference on Yugoslavia, we have stressed 
that a peaceful settlement is the only acceptable alternative for all the 
parties to the conflict.  Despite the evolution of the conflict in the 
aftermath of the London Conference, we still believe that the relevant action 
programme adopted there is comprehensive and realistic, although peace may not 
be achieved overnight. 
The concerted efforts of the United Nations and the European Community, 
supported by all the participants in the Conference, including Romania  which 
is the first non-Community neighbouring country represented in the Steering 
Committee - should not ignore the fact that the specific patchwork of 
Yugoslavia has always challenged conventional wisdom.  Now it also challenges 
the application of the basic concepts of international law.  There cannot be a 
A/47/PV.9 
118 
(Mr. Nastase. Romania) 
separate international law for Yugoslavia.  Although the conditions are 
historically and psychologically peculiar, international law is the same for 
all. 
We may think of arrangements adapted to the specific situation and 
acceptable to the parties concerned.  Whatever their contents, they will 
remain what they are  one-time solutions that do not create international 
law.  Given that Romania's initiative in asking for international monitoring 
of the observance of the embargo along our Danubian frontier with former 
Yugoslavia has been confirmed as a positive example to be followed by other 
neighbors, I shall not dwell at length on this matter.  But I cannot help 
underlining that the costly consequences of my country's scrupulous compliance 
with the resolutions of the Security Council on Yugoslavia have triggered 
legitimate concerns among the population of the country.  It fears that, as in 
the case of the Gulf War, Romania could again economically and financially pay 
more than it can afford for being a law-abiding member of the international 
community. 
That is why we would suggest that the Security Council devise a set of 
measures involving the financial institutions and other components of the 
United Nations system that can help States to meet the economic difficulties 
entailed by compliance with the regime of sanctions.  We envisage a standing 
compensation fund to be administered by the Security Council in order to 
alleviate, if not fully compensate for, the economic losses of countries 
particularly stricken by embargoes and other sanctions established by the 
Security Council.  We are in the process of working out a more detailed 
proposal to this effect, which we are going to submit to the United Nations 
community for consideration.  The existence of such a fund would be a way of 
encouraging States to cooperate with the Council in situations of crisis 
management. 
A/47/PV.9 
119 
(Mr. Nastase.  Romania) 
In the  case  of  the  conflict  in the eastern part  of  the Republic  of 
Moldova, we  are  seeing  a sort of  "pacification"  that  is, in fact, proving  to 
be a kind  of blackmail  for  the  independence  and  territorial  integrity of  that 
State.  It  is precisely  the  same  army  that generated  the  conflict  and  gave 
arms and  other  support  to separatist  forces  that  today  is performing  the  role 
of "peacekeeper". This  pattern has been  resorted  to in other newly  independent 
States  as well.  We  sometimes  ask ourselves  if the  independence  of  all  these 
former  Soviet  republics  is taken  seriously by  the  international  community  or 
whether  it is only  a smoke  screen behind which  a new  imperial  structure  is 
taking  shape. 
In any  case, we  in Romania  take  it seriously.  We  cannot  remain 
indifferent  when we  see tendencies  to remake  the old empire,  into which 
Moldova was  forcibly  incorporated  as a result  of  the Molotov-Ribbentrop  pact. 
Our interest  in the  independence  and democratic  development  of  a State  where 
65 per  cent  of  the population  is Romanian  is natural.  We  are concerned  that  a 
wise propensity  for  compromise  from  the Moldovan  leaders was  rewarded with a 
policy of  fait  accompli  aimed  at  institutionalizing  the  separation  of  the 
Trans-Dniestr  region  from  the Republic  of Moldova.  The  evolution  of  the 
conflict  in the Republic  of Moldova,  taken  in conjunction with  the  conflicts 
generated  elsewhere  in the newly  independent  States, shows  that  nostalgia  for 
the former  empire  exists  and has painful  conseguences  for the peoples  that 
have gained  their  freedom  at so high a cost. 
It  is the  common wisdom  that  the United Nations  remains  a major  actor  in 
the whole  process  of world  change  and  a flag-bearer  of  undisputable 
authority.  In this  respect,  the new lease  on life given  to  preventive 
diplomacy  is crucial.  An encouraging  and valuable  political  consensus  on  this 
issue was  expressed  during  the  summit-level  Security  Council  meeting  held  on 
A/47/PV.9 
120 
(Mr. Nastase.  Romania) 
31 January  1992.  The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
includes  a set of  inspired guidelines which,  once  adopted  and  implemented, 
would bring  us closer  to the  ideals  the United  Nations  pursues  in a world of 
turbulence.  At  the  same  time, we have  to be mindful  that we  are  contemplating 
a  long-lasting  framework  and  that  there  is therefore  a need  to avoid  ephemeral 
solutions  and mechanisms  inspired  by  specific  and  temporary  conflicts or 
influenced  by  emotional  or  short-view  approaches. 
A/47/PV.9 
121 
(Mr. Nastase.  Romania) 
Given  the  tragic  situation  in Yugoslavia  and other  lessons drawn  from 
recent history,  we must  also  forgo hasty generalizations  and biased views. 
Wisdom  and patience,  an even-handed  attitude, and  the  spirit  of  compromise  are 
the necessary basic  ingredients  for any  settlement  involving  the destiny  of 
peoples.  In this  respect, we wholeheartedly  endorse  the pertinent  remarks  of 
the Secretary-General, who  says  in his  report  that,  if every ethnic,  religious 
or linguistic  group  claimed  statehood,  there would be no  limit  to 
fragmentation,  and peace,  security  and  economic well-being  for all would 
become ever more  difficult  to achieve. 
Yet, we would  find  it extremely  useful  if the General Assembly  were  to 
analyse more  thoroughly  the concept  of  the self-determination  of peoples  in 
order to prevent  any distortion  of  this  specific  concept  in the  sense of 
extrapolating  it to the  case of national minorities.  Generally  speaking, we 
should try  to avoid  a risky  tendency  towards  a "proliferation of principles". 
Of course,  some might be  tempted  to say that  the current  turmoils  in  different 
parts of  the world  are  living proof  that  the principles  enshrined  in the 
United Nations  Charter  are out of  date or at  least  incomplete.  We  share  the 
view with  the great majority  of United Nations Member  States  that  it is not 
the principles  that  are wanting but  the way  they are put  into practice. 
Disregard or breaches  of  international  law favour  conflicts  and not  a 
so-called  "scarcity"  of principles. 
The year  1992  is a milestone  year  for  cooperative measures  aimed  at  arms 
control  and  disarmament,  transparency  and  confidence,  strengthening 
action-oriented  dialogue, and  cooperation  on security  issues.  The  Romanian 
Government welcomes  the  conclusion  of the Convention  on the destruction  and 
prohibition of  chemical weapons  and  is ready  to  sign the Convention  in 
A/47/PV.9 
122 
(Mr. Nastase. Romania) 
January 1993 in Paris.  We regard this Convention as a genuine pillar of 
international security. 
At the same time, the set of major agreements that were signed or that 
entered into force this year at the European level  the Treaty on 
Conventional Forces in Europe, the Vienna Document, the Helsinki Final Act on 
Conventional Armed Forces, and the Open Skies Treaty - have laid the 
foundation for lasting cooperation and stability on the Continent.  The 
opening in Vienna, this very week, of the Forum for Security Cooperation 
launches a further stage of the dialogue among the participating States of the 
Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe (CSCE) in their joint 
endeavour for increased security and stability for each and every country in 
the Euro-Atlantic area. In addition, particular mention should be made of the 
historical processes within both the North Atlantic Cooperation Council and 
the partnership established among the Western European Union (WEU) member 
States and the eight countries of Central Europe, including Romania. 
Thus, step by step, the basic components of a new security order in 
Europe are taking shape, taking into account the structural transformations on 
the European continent.  In fact, today the security of any country in the 
European sphere cannot be conceived but as a result of harmonious interaction 
between the United Nations, CSCE, NATO and WEU, and also of increased efforts 
at the subregional level. 
We welcome the decisions to convene the World Conference on Human Rights 
in 1993 and a world summit on social development in 1995.  In our opinion, the 
1993 World Conference should represent an important occasion for putting a 
final stop to the tendencies to politicize minority issues by taking them out 
of their natural framework - the framework of human rights  a framework which 
offers the best and the only viable answers to concerns connected to 
A/47/PV.9 
123 
(Mr. Nastase.  Romania) 
guaranteeing  and  respecting  the  legitimate  rights  of persons  belonging  to 
national minorities  and  to the protection  of ethnic, cultural, linguistic  and 
religious  identity. 
The health  of  the world  community  vitally  depends  on  the health  of  our 
planet itself.  The  Rio Conference proved  that mankind  is ready  to  forge  a new 
partnership  for promoting  sustainable  development 
the  key  concept  to 
safeguarding human  civilization.  Romania  is ready  to put  its  shoulder  to  the 
wheel with a view  to alleviating  as  soon as possible  the actual  threats  to  the 
health of our planet  and  to the wealth  of  the world  community. 
Seeing  in this  audience  representantives  of  such  a great  family  of 
nations, we  realize  the  immense  potential  that good will  and determination  can 
offer to the genuine  universality  of  the world  Organization.  I am happy  to 
welcome all new  States Members  of  the United  Nations  and  to extend  to all of 
them the best wishes  of my  Government  and  the Romanian people.  May  I address 
our congratulations  to  the  representatives  of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,  the Republic  of 
Moldova, San Marino, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,  and Uzbekistan.  I am 
confident that  the  authoritative  voice of  the United Nations will be  a  source 
i for action-oriented  measures  for  the  sake  and well-being  of  all nations. 
Romania, as a democratic  country  fully attached  to the  ideals  embodied  in 
the United Nations  Charter,  in making  its own  contribution  to the  achievement 
<of mankind's  aspirations  and  to the vital  answers we  are expected  to give  to 
{the challenges  of  the  forthcoming  century,  in which  international  cooperation 
should be governed  by  law.  For  its cogency with  the objectives  of  the  current 
-United Nations  Pecade  of  International  Law, I would  like  to recall  the 
A/47/PV.9 
124 
(Mr. Nastase. Romania) 
prophetic words of a great Romanian diplomat, Nicolae Titulescu, who, 55 years 
ago, stated: 
"Only when the law shines like the rising Sun in the soul of all men 
as a guiding spirit, an imperative requirement, and a self-imposed 
obligation that is one with organized freedom  only then will Mankind 
have been saved." 
The meeting rose at 7.40 p.m. 
