INITED 
lATIONS 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
&GUl.'.v'-->'•-•. 
sfK 
A/47/PV.55 
16 November  1992 
EHGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GEHERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIOHAL VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  55th MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Tuesday,  3 Hovember  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later; 
later: 
Mr.  KALPAGE 
(Vice-President) 
Mrs.  ESCALER 
(Vice-President) 
Mr. DAHGUE  REWAKA 
(Vice-President) 
(Sri  Lanka) 
(Philippines) 
(Gabon) 
Report  of  the United  Hations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  [79]  (continued) 
(a)  Report  of  the  Conference 
(b)  Report  of  the  Secretary-General 
This  record  contains  the original  text of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one week, to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61737  9173V  (E) 
A/47/PV.55 
2 
In the absence of  the President,  Mr. Kalpage  (Sri  Lanka),  Vice-Presiden^• 
took  the Chair. 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.15  p.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  79  (continued) 
REPORT OF THE UNITED HATIOHS  CONFERENCE  OH ENVIRONMENT  AND  DEVELOPMEHT 
(a)  REPORT OF THE CONFERENCE  (A/CONF.151/26. vols. I-IV  and  vol.II/Corr.l) 
(b)  REPORT OF THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/598  and  Add.l) 
Mr.  RAZALI  (Malaysia):  The United  Nations  Conference  on Environment 
and Development  (UNCED), held  in Rio  last June, was  attended by virtually all 
countries.  More  than  120 Heads  of  State  or Government  participated.  There 
was  a drawn-out  preparatory  process  that  involved  Governments,  international 
agencies  and  non-governmental  organizations.  That  such an  international 
effort  could be marshalled  in order  to  focus discussion  in an  integrated 
manner  on environment  and development must be  seen as  a major,  unprecedented 
achievement. 
Unlike  the Stockholm  Conference  of  1972, UHCED  elevated  development 
issues  to  an equal  footing with  the  issue of  environment.  UHCED  took 
definitive  steps  to promote  a global  partnership  for  sustainable  development, 
placing people  at  the centre  of  this  challenge.  It was  a historic 
opportunity,  of which we  availed  ourselves  against  the backdrop  of major 
political, economic  and  social  transformations  that  placed  fresh demands on 
issues  such  as polarization  between Horth  and  South, poverty  and  the neglect 
of  the South  and  the  fragile  state  of  the planet,  and with  an enhanced public 
awareness  world-wide. 
However,  the  actual  results  of  Rio,  in terms  of written  commitments and 
initiatives,  fell  far  short  of  the promise  raised.  To many,  the  serious gap 
between  the promise  and  the  actual  results  amounts  to  a major  failure of 
UNCED,  arguably  of historic  proportions. 
A/47/PV.55 
3-5 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
Even  as we  extol  the  accomplishments  of UHCED, we  cannot  gloss over  the 
shortcomings  of UNCED.  The  Convention  on Climate Change,  for example,  is 
disappointingly  weak,  revealing political  timidity  and  the absence  of  resolve 
on the part  of  industrialized  countries.  Key  issues of  financial  resources 
and technology  have  not been  adequately  addressed,  neither  is there  a 
determined,  clear  response  to  issues  of global warming,  dumping  of  hazardous 
wastes  in developing  countries, consumption  patterns  in developed  countries 
and nuclear-related  issues.  Agenda  21 fails  to advocate  accountability  for 
some of the key  actors  in global  environmental  destruction,  such as 
transnational  corporations.  A  strong  code of conduct  is required  to  regulate 
the activities  of  the  transnational  corporations.  The  challenge before us now 
is to promote  and  implement  real change  from  the national  to the  international 
levels. 
UNCED was hardly  forthcoming  in addressing  the  inequalities  of  the 
international  economic  structure.  The  follow-up  to UNCED must make up  for 
this lapse, examining  issues  such as the  reverse  South-North  outflow of 
resources, improved  South  terms of  trade  and  the  reduction of  the  debt 
burden.  Such  reform  is essential  if the South  is to gain  the  necessary 
economic space  to  implement  a transition  to ecologically  sound  and  socially 
equitable development.  Also, we must work  for  a total ban on the export  of 
hazardous wastes  and dirty  industries  from  the North  to the South.  On the 
issue of nuclear weapons,  if compared  to the Stockholm  Conference, UHCED went 
backwards  rather  than  forwards. 
UNCED  failed  to address what  needs  to be 
done in the Horth  in order  to  shift  towards  ecologically  sound  development, 
such as dealing with  the problems  of  the unsustainable  production  and 
consumption patterns  of  the North. 
A/4-/PV.55 
6 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
Another  serious  shortcoming  of UHCED was  the  absence of  leadership from 
the North.  The  differences  of view between developed  countries  resulted iu 
the  lack of  a clear  sense of direction  from  that group.  Some  industrialized 
countries  took negative positions.  Instead  of  forward movement  on the core 
issues, one  could  detect  a tendency, on the part  of  those  countries, to hide 
behind  each other, as was evidenced  in respect  of  the  issue  of  financial 
resources. 
With  regard  to the  road ahead,  it is clear  that  the  transition  to 
sustainable  development  involves major  changes  in the way  in which we  look at 
our  use of nature.  This  is a complex  exercise,  and one  of  its basic 
components  is scientific  cooperation,  particularly  with  regard  to  access to 
environmentally  friendly  technologies  and,  above  all, the building  up of the 
technical  and  institutional  capacity of  all  countries  to  implement  Agenda 21. 
These  issues  received  a great  deal of  systematic  attention  in the UHCED 
process  and  are now  reflected  in a series of programmes  that make  up three 
chapters  of Agenda  21.  In many ways, the  successful  implementation  of 
Agenda  21 requires  that  these  cross-cutting  programme  areas, which deal with 
the  knowledge  base  for  sustainability,  receive  the most  consistent  and 
systematic  attention  at national,  regional  and  international  levels. 
The  implementation  of Agenda  21 programmes  will  clearly  involve costs, 
which must be  seen  in the context  of what would be  the consequences  of 
inaction.  It can no  longer be contested  that  developing  countries  require new 
and  additional  financial  resources.  The  flow of  new  resources will  serve the 
common  interests  of  the developed  countries  and  the developing  countries. 
A/47/PV.55 
7 
(Mr. Razali, Malaysia) 
However, at present  there  is a substantial  gap between the  estimated 
$125 billion  that  is required  annually by  the South to implement  Agenda  21 and 
the annual official  development  assistance  of  $55 billion  currently  provided 
to the South.  Without  the means  of  implementation 
the provision  of 
financial  resources, the  transfer  of  technology  and  related  issues, such  as 
capacity-building  and  institutional  development 
Agenda  21 will  be 
meaningless. 
Many delegations  at UNCED  called  for capacity-building  programmes 
designed to help  countries  to develop  their policy  infrastructures  and 
institutions, to train their human  resources  and co  facilitate  the 
participation of  all  stake-holders  iu decision-making processes.  The  ability 
of a country  to follow  a sustainable  development path  is determined  by  the 
capacity of its people  and  its institutions.  In this  context, my  delegation 
fully supports  the  initiative  to launch Capacity  21 
a  capacity-building 
programme in support of Agenda 21.  The UNCED  secretariat has estimated  the 
cost in the area of  capacity-building  as being between $300 million  and 
$1 billion.  Fulfilment  of  this  responsibility will  require  resources  in 
addition to those  available  from the  core  and  special  funds of  the United 
Nations Development  Programme  and other  existing mechanisms. 
On financial  resources, the developed  countries  reaffirmed  at the Rio 
Summit that they were committed  to reaching  the accepted  target of 
0.7 per cent of gross national product  for official  development  assistance  and 
to augmenting  their  aid programmes  with  a view  to  reaching  this  target  as  soon 
as possible.  Some developed  countries have  agreed  to  reach  the  target by  the 
year 2000. 
A/47/PV.55 
8 
(Mr. Razali, Malaysia) 
But this was not enough, as specifics were absent.  The affirmation by 
the developed countries has to be further defined in terms of specific 
commitments so that the enhanced flows of aid to developing countries are 
predictable and provide a sound basis for long-term planning.  We must 
translate the many promises made in Rio into specific commitments.  We must 
also start the process of developing new sources of funding, because the steps 
we have taken still do not provide any guarantee that the larger needs will be 
met. 
The current situation is not encouraging as, at the end of UNCED, we are 
still not in a position to estimate the amount of the new moneys committed by 
the North.  The indications are that they fall far short of the estimated 
amount.  New moneys must also be generated through new sources of funding, 
such as the reallocation of funds wasted in existing subsidies or in support 
for non-environmentally-sound activities. 
Agenda 21 proposes the use of all available funding sources and 
mechanisms.  Amongst these is the International Development Association (IDA) 
of the World Bank.  Special consideration should be given to the idea of an 
earth increment to the tenth replenishment of IDA.  The provision of 
additional funding through IDA, particularly for anti-poverty programmes and 
related areas of sustainable development, is vital to the effective fulfilment 
of Agenda 21.  In many ways the tenth replenishment of IDA is a test of the 
credibility of the commitments made in Rio. 
However, the latest developments in this area are not encouraging, and 
the spirit of Rio appeared to be missing at the World Bank meeting held 
recently in Washington.  Malaysia is disappointed at the lack of sufficient 
response from developed countries.  I refer to the absence of any announcement, 
A/47/PV.55 
9 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
in clear  and  specific  terms, of  commitment  to provide  the new  and  additional 
financial  resources  required  for the  successful  implementation  of  the  various 
activities under  Agenda 21. 
On the Global  Environmental  Facility  (GEF),  arrangements  must  now be made 
for the proposed  restructuring  agreed  to  iu chapter  33 of Agenda  21 -
restructuring  involving  such matters  as universal participation,  transparency, 
flexibility  in expanding  the  scope  of  the  Facility,  and  coverage  and 
predictability  in the  flow of  funds without  new  forms of  conditionality.  At 
Rio leaders  of major  countries  of the Organisation  for Economic  Cooperation 
and Development  (OECD) committed  themselves  to  increasing  substantially  the 
financial  resources  of GEF  and  to transforming  the  facility  into  a universal 
and transparent  funding mechanism  for  the  incremental  costs  associated  with 
global environmental  benefits. 
It was  in these  circumstances  that developing  countries  agreed  to  accept 
GEF as an interim mechanism  to  fund  implementation  of  the provisions  of  the 
Conventions on climate  change  and biodiversity.  However,  it is  important  to 
note that GEF would  provide  only  a small, though  strategically  critical, 
portion of  the  required  new  and  additional  financial  resources  - only  2 to 
10 per cent of  the  total  required. 
My delegation  looks  forward  to participation  in the December  meeting,  in 
Cote d'lvoire, of  the Participant  Assembly  of GEF  intended  to  restructure  the 
mechanism  in line with UNCED  decisions.  We believe  that  the  proposed 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development will have  an  important  role  to play  iu 
monitoring  the  activities  and outputs  of GEF  iu relation  to the  implementation 
of UNCED decisions  that  involve  utilization  of  the  funding  mechanism. 
A/47/PV.55 
10 
(Mr. Razali, Malaysia) 
The transfer of environmentally sound technologies is integral to the 
efforts of developing countries to protect the environment while promoting 
growth and development.  This, in our view, could be done by making use of 
international information networks, collaborative and human resources, 
capacity-building, environmental-impact assessment and sustainable-development 
planning.  My delegation attaches great importance to the agreement referred 
to in chapter 34 of Agenda 21, which, among other things, highlights the need 
of developing countries for convenient access to environmentally sound 
technologies. 
Malaysia looks forward to the establishment, at this session of the 
General Assembly, of the Commission on Sustainable Development under the 
Economic and Social Council.  Some Rio issues with regard to institutional 
arrangements are still unresolved.  My delegation hopes that these issues will 
be properly addressed by the ad hoc working group on the UNCED follow-up.  We 
are of the view that the Commission should be composed of 53 Member States 
elected by the Economic and Social Council for three years on the basis of 
equitable geographic distribution.  There should also be arrangements for 
non-governmental organizations and other interested groups to contribute to 
the multifaceted work of the Commission. 
A/47/PV.55 
11 
(Mr. Razali. Malaysia) 
In order to ensure the effectiveness of the Commission on Sustainable 
Development iu monitoring the implementation of Agenda 21 and all other 
aspects of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development 
(UHCED), it is essential that the Commission have close links with all 
relevant organs, programmes and organizations of the United Nations system, 
including the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the Bretton 
Woods institutions.  Arrangements have to be worked out to ensure that the 
three entities take consistent and reinforcing decisions on sustainable 
development.  UNCED has given us an opportunity for the interfacing of the 
Bretton Woods institutions and GATT with the United Nations system. 
My delegation supports a separate and identifiable secretariat to service 
the Commission; the secretariat should be headed by an Under-Secretary-General 
reporting directly to the Secretary-General.  We also look forward to taking 
part in the negotiations on other important resolutions expected at this 
session, such as those on the international convention to combat 
desertification, on the global conference on sustainable development of 
small-island developing States, on the international conference on straddling 
and highly migratory fish stocks, and on the overall outcome of UNCED. 
Malaysia stands ready to participate and contribute in the work of the 
the Commission on Sustainable Development, since such high expectations are 
being placed at its door.  While we are open to all contributory efforts, we 
are determined to ensure the intergovernmental nature of the Commission.  We 
must caution against not only excessive expectation but also against moving 
too fast and precipitiously in its work.  The Commission should be seen as an 
evolving mechanism that must obtain progressively the confidence of 
Governments.  We would be worried if the functions of the Commission were 
A/47/PV.55 
12 
(Mr. Razali,  Malaysia) 
likened  to that  of  the Security  Council.  He hold  strongly  that  the  Commission 
should  not be dominated  iu such a way  that development  is determined  through 
solely  an environmental  prism.  Also we would,  with others, resist  any efforts 
to erode  the  integrated  approach  and  to  "sectoralize"  away  from  the  Commission 
issues  such as  finance  and  trade. 
For  the countries  of  the  South, UHCED provides  a crucial  opportunity to 
work  for a general policy  orientation  of  the  international  agenda  after a 
neglect  of over  40 years.  UHCED  also provides  us  in the  South with  a sense of 
purpose  to demonstrate  our  commitment  to  the environment  and  the  state of the 
planet, given  a collective  commitment  to enhance development  in the  South. 
The  countries  of  the  South have  a direct  interest  and  responsibility  to ensure 
that  their  own environmental  resources  are protected  and  used wisely  in the 
process  of  industrialization  and  development.  We believe  that  the South, 
through UNCED, has been  successful  to  some degree  in placing  the  issue of 
development  for proper  address.  It is now necessary  for us  in the South to 
organize  ourselves  to  influence  and  steer  the UHCED  follow-up.  We need to 
push  further  the  sharing  of  the overarching  conceptual  framework  of policy(cid:173)
making  and  action.  He expect  resistance  that will make  the  future  course not 
easy, but we  in the South will  insist  on a clear  and  a shared  role on managing 
global  interdependence. 
On  the environment  we will  not  allow ourselves  to be  the  sole  targets of 
change  and  corrective  actions.  Our  development  cannot  be hindered  by 
impositions  whi^ch shift  the burden of protecting  the ecology  to  the 
developing  countries.  He would  insist  on  changes  in the North  and  the process 
of  self-correction  in the North's  production  and  consumption  patterns. 
A/47/PV.55 
13 
(Mr. Razali, Malaysia) 
In order  to  study  and  review the various  implications  of UNCED  decisions 
at the national  level, my Government  has  taken  steps  to examine  the  various 
measures  required  for  sustainable  development.  These  include  sensitizing  all 
Malaysians  to the decisions  in Rio  in terms of national  commitments  through a 
series of  seminars  and other  efforts.  What we hope  to achieve  in Malaysia  is 
a clear national  consensus  to  formulate  overall policies  that  satisfy  the 
developmental  as well  as the environmental  aspects of national  planning. 
Malaysia views  sustainable  development  as an evolutionary  process  that would 
be phased  in within  the  short-, medium-  and  long-term  time-frame.  He  believe 
that environmental  imperatives  need  not be incompatible  with  development 
objectives  and would  like  to stress  that an integrated  approach on a national 
basis would  require  and benefit  from  inputs  and participation  from  the 
non-governmental  sector,  such as business  communities,  academicians  and  other 
interest groups.  On  forestry, we would  operate on the basis of  the  forest 
principles  agreed  to  at UNCED  and wish  to call upon  all  countries  to 
contribute  towards  efforts which would put  in operation  the principles  agreed 
to in Rio. 
Finally, Malaysia welcomes  the outcome of Rio.  The Rio  Declaration, 
Agenda 21, the  forest principles,  and  the Conventions  on Climate Change  and 
Biological Diversity  are agreements  achieved  at  the highest  level  that we must 
now translate  into  implementable  programmes.  Malaysia  readily  shares  in this 
commitment.  We  recognize  the  shortcomings  but believe  that  the  road  from  Rio 
can be constructive,  given  commitment  by all. 
A/47/PV.55 
14 
Mr. WISNUMURTI  (Indonesia):  At the outset let me express my 
delegation's appreciation to the Secretary-General for his important 
introduction to his report now before us.  We would also like to thank the 
Chairman of the Group of 77 for articulating the position of the Group. We 
meet at a unique juncture in history.  The end of the cold war has ushered in 
a new era of promise and challenge.  The ambitious agenda of our current 
session of the General Assembly clearly reflects the myriad interests and 
concerns associated with the changes inherent to the emerging new era.  Peace 
and security are now seen as much in economic as in political and military 
terms and the degradation of the environment is considered a real and serious 
threat to the very survival of humanity. 
It is against this dynamic backdrop that we take up item 79, "Report of 
the United Hations Conference on Environment and Development".  Central to our 
tasks is the need to build upon the momentum registered at Rio and to 
translate its commitments and outcome into tangible action.  The major 
outcomes of the Conference, the Rio Declaration and Agenda 21, have squarely 
placed sustainable development at the heart of international relations and 
have called for a new global partnership to give it concrete effect.  The 
outcome has thus set a unique and solid framework within which the 
international community can pursue its critical goals iu the field of 
environment and development. 
It has also reinforced the growing recognition of interdependence between 
developed and developing countries for ecological survival and developmental 
imperatives.  And it has clearly demonstrated that a lasting solution to 
global environmental degradation can only be achieved through shared 
responsibility in the implementation of the concept of sustainable 
development.  Moreover, UNJED reflects a global consensus and political 
A/47/PV.55 
15 
(Mr. Wisnumurti.  Indonesia) 
commitment  at the highest  level on how we, the  international  community,  should 
effectively  address  the  situation of worsening poverty, hunger,  ill health and 
illiteracy,  and  the alarming  deterioration  in many of  the world's  vulnerable 
ecosystems. 
The Rio Conference  is over, but  the  formidable  task of  translating  its 
outcome into  action now  stands before  us.  We  cannot  allow the momentum 
generated  at Rio  to be  squandered.  Rather  the challenge before  us  is to 
ensure the concrete  implementation  of  its  landmark  outcome while  at the  same 
time striving  to build  an  international  economic  environment  conducive  to 
achieving these  ends.  Allow me  therefore  to address  the questions  of 
follow-up action  that  are  required  of this  current  session of  the United 
Hations General  Assembly.  In doing  so, my  delegation would  like to  focus only 
on certain aspects  of  the  follow-up process.* 
Mrs. Escaler  (Philippines), Vice-President,  took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.55 
16 
(Mr. Wisnumurti,  Indonesia) 
Agenda  21 constitutes  a comprehensive  and  far-reaching  programme  designed 
to ensure  sustainable  development  for the  1990s  and beyond.  As  such,  its 
implementation  at  the national,  regional  and  international  levels  is of 
crucial  importance.  Thus  to achieve  these objectives  and  to monitor  the 
implementation  of  the Agenda,  it was  agreed  in Rio  to establish  the high-level 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development  as an  intergovernmental  mechanism.  Its 
purpose was  to achieve  the vital  environmental  and developmental  goals 
outlined  in Agenda  21.  In view of  the great  importance  of  the work  of the 
high-level  Commission  to  all member  countries,  it is  imperative  that  its 
membership  reflect  the widest  possible  representation. 
For  this  reason  Indonesia  is in  favour  of  a convergence  of views on 
membership  size emerging  during  consultations  among  the membership,  which 
stands  at  53.  We  trust  it will  not only act  as a follow-up  to Rio but also 
provide  full  coordination  for all United Nations  bodies  in the  implementation 
of Agenda  21.  The  formulation  of  its modalities  represent  the next  step.  Ihe 
Group of  77 has  already presented  its positions  on this  matter. 
He would particularly  like to emphasize  the position  of  the Group on the 
importance  of  the Commission's  functions  regarding  the  adequacy  of both 
funding  and mechanisms,  together with  the  transfer  of  technology  and the 
necessity  of  capacity-building,  so that  implementation  of Agenda  21 can be 
secured.  We  look  forward  to addressing  the  Secretary-General's  report on 
institutional  arrangements  during  the  forthcoming meeting  of  the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  dealing with  the matter. 
We would  like to  recall  in this  connection  that  at  the Tenth  Summit, 
recently  held  in Jakarta,  the  non-aligned  countries  adopted  a Declaration in 
A/47/PV.55 
17 
(Mr. Wisnumurti,  Indonesia) 
which they expressed  their  concern with  the new and  increasing  threats  to  the 
environment, which,  if  left unchecked,  could  jeopardize  the  long-term  survival 
of the ecosystem  and undermine  the world's  ecological  balance.  They  confirmed 
their  longstanding  conviction  that,  since  the  issues  of environment  and 
development were  inseparably  linked,  they  should be  addressed both  in an 
integral manner  and  on the basis of  common  but differentiated  responsibility. 
They also attached great  importance  to the effective  implementation  of  agreed 
policies  and  the need  for  constant  monitoring.  In this  context,  in order  to 
maintain the momentum  generated  at Rio, the Heads of  State  or Government  could 
meet at appropriate  and mutually  agreed  upon times under  the aegis of  the 
United Nations  General  Assembly. 
Another  urgent  agenda  item  requiring  concerted  follow-up  action by  the 
forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly  is that of  combating 
desertification.  Chapter  12 of Agenda  21 contains  specific  programmes  for 
dealing with  this  serious  problem.  Its harmful  conseguences  for human  life 
and the environment  at  the national,  regional  and global  levels  are a  source 
of deep concern  to my  delegation. 
In this context,  as  is well  known, we  fully  support  the United  Nations 
Plan of Action  to Combat  Desertification.  Yet my  delegation  cannot hide  its 
disappointment  with  the  lack of progress  in implementing  this  important  plan. 
Failure to do  so  is largely  due  to the  lack of  adequate  financial  resources. 
Ill 
As stated by  the  Secretary-General  in his  report,  funds  allocated  to  drought 
and desertification  activities  are not  commensurate  with the  scale of  the 
problems. 
iiit 
However, we  are pleased  to note  that, with  the advent  of  the UHCED 
process, the  level  of global  awareness  of desertification  and drought  facing 
A/47/PV.55 
18 
(Mr. Wisnumurti.  Indonesia) 
many developing  countries, particularly  in Africa,  has been  increased 
dramatically.  In view of  the  seriousness  of  these problems,  it  is our sincere 
hope  that  the  international  community  will  strive  to  increase  the volume of 
resources  and  the  level of  assistance  for  these problems  as directed  in the 
Agenda. 
Therefore my delegation would  like to  reaffirm  its commitment  to the 
efforts  for combating  desertification  outlined  in chapter  12, and, on behalf 
of the non-aligned  countries,  to  fully  support  the establishment  of the 
intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  for  the elaboration  of  an 
international  convention  to combat  desertification,  particularly  in Africa. 
That  convention  should be  finalized by June  1994. 
Allow me now to turn  to a topic  of  crucial  importance  to UNCED's 
follow-up.  Undoubtedly,  the  availability  of  new and  additional  financial 
resources  and  the transfer  of environmentally  sound  technology  on the basis of 
preferential  and  concessional  terms  are essential  requirements  for  achieving 
sustainable  development  in developing  countries.  Since progress  in 
sustainable  development  is the  sine qua non for  a meaningful  contribution by 
developing  countries  for  the preservation  of  the global  environment,  the 
absence  of  adequate  financial  flows  and  the  lack  of  access  to technology could 
jeopardize  the  significant  achievements  already  reached  in Rio. 
Agenda  21 has  in  fact clearly  spelled  out  the  crucial  requirements.  It 
states  that  the provision  of effective  means,  inter  alia  financial  resources 
and  technology,' to the developing  countries  will  serve  the  common  interests of 
both  developed  and developing  countries,  including  their  future generations. 
In this  light, we  therefore  trust  that  the developed  countries  and  others in a 
A/47/PV.55 
19 
(Mr. Wisnumurti.  Indonesia) 
position  to do  so will give positive  effect  to this  decision of UNCED  at  the 
current  session of  the General Assembly.  It is  important,  however,  that  these 
efforts not be  stymied  by  restrictions  of  conditionality.  We  also  trust  that 
the developed  countries will  take  solid  steps  towards  facilitating  developing 
countries  in their gaining  access  to and  the transfer  of environmentally  sound 
technology. 
Another  important  issue  for  attention  in this  regard  is that  of  island 
developing  countries.  Such countries, particularly  small  and  remote ones, are 
intimately associated  with numerous  difficulties  concerning  the  environment 
and development.  Many  such difficulties  arise  from  such  factors  as  their 
vulnerability  to natural  disasters,  their  lack of natural  resources  and  their 
fragile ecosystems,  together with  the high  cost of  infrastructure  and  public 
services.  In addition,  their highly  limited  internal markets  and  their  heavy 
dependence on  imports  represent  severe  constraints.  Moreover, global  warming 
resulting  in the  rise of  sea-levels  poses  special  threats  to  the existence  of 
these territories. 
As an archipelagic  State, combined  with  the  longest  coastline  in the 
world,  Indonesia  is deeply  concerned with  the potentially  disastrous  impact  of 
global warming  and  rising  sea-levels.  He  therefore  fully  support  the 
convening of  a global  conference  on the  sustainable  development  of  small 
island developing  countries  to take place  in 1993.  This  first  global 
conference  should  be designed  to elaborate  strategies  and measures  to  enhance 
the sustainable  development  of  small  island developing  countries  in the 
context of  increased  national  and  international  efforts  to  promote 
environmentally  sound  and  sustainable  development. 
A/47/PV.55 
20 
(Mr. Hisnumurti.  Indonesia) 
never  before have  the  issues of  forest  and  forestry  generated  such 
interest  as they have  today.  Hot  only  are  they  important  resources  for 
development,  but  they  are also  an  important  component  of  the global 
ecosystem.  Therefore  the conservation  of  forests  is not  an objective per se 
but  rather  an instrument  to be employed  on  the  larger  stage  of  achieving 
national  and  international  development  priorities. 
Indonesia,  as a country blessed with vast  and bountiful  forest  resources, 
is acutely  aware  of  the need  to protect  and  conserve  existing  forests  and to 
promote  their  sustainable management.  Such  resources  are essential  for both 
promoting  development  and preserving  the global  environment.  A proper balance 
between  these  two essential  dimensions  should be  sought  on the basis of the 
right  of  all  countries  to develop  their  natural  resources  according  to their 
own  socio-economic  needs, as well  as taking  into  account  their  national 
policies  for  sustainable  development. 
In this  context, we welcome  the non-legally-binding  statement  of 
principles  for  the  sustainable management  of global  forests  adopted  at Rio. 
For our part,  in Indonesia we  are acutely  aware  of  the endangered  rainforests 
and have  taken  concrete  steps  towards  sustainable  forest management,  including 
cooperation  with  other  countries  and parties  to achieve  these worthy goals.  I 
would  like  to add  that we  strongly believe  that  the  ability  of  the  developing 
countries  to tackle  these  concerns  ultimately  depends  upon whether  or not a 
supportive  economic  environment  is  in place. 
A/47/PV.55 
21 
(Mr. Wisnumurti.  Indonesia) 
In conclusion,  let me  reiterate  that while we  are pleased with what was 
accomplished  at Rio, we  cannot  afford  to be complacent.  Much more needs  to be 
done.  Today's  challenge  is for the  international  community  to take  effective 
action towards  the  achievement  of  the goals  set  in the Rio Declaration  and 
Agenda 21.  The Hon-Aligned  Movement  is seriously  interested  in the matter  and 
ready to participate  actively  in the high-level  Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development. 
Mr. O'BRIEH  (Hew  Zealand):  The good news  is that  the United  Hations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UHCED) process has not only  given 
rise to  a good  deal of  thinking  about  a new  "global partnership  for 
sustainable  development",  but has  also  turned out  a global work plan  to  tackle 
the interrelated  economic,  social  and environmental  problems  identified  in 
Agenda 21, which was  adopted  at Rio.  The Agenda  recommends  actions  at every 
level, from  the  local  to the global, to address environmental  problems  and 
promote sustainable  development  into the twenty-first  century.  It is a 
commendable  beginning,  even  if  it is not  the  last word  on the  subject. 
The underlying  assumption  of  sustainable  development  is that  everyone  has 
a common  stake  in current  actions  and  future outcomes.  In an  interdependent 
world, development  must  be global  if it is to be  sustainable.  The vision of 
Rio can be  realized  only  if the world  community  works  together  as a whole. 
We draw satisfaction  from  the  fact that Agenda  21 gives high priority  to 
the implementation  of what  can be  called win-win policies  that build  on the 
complementarity  between po^ erty  reduction,  economic  efficiency  and  sound 
environmental management.  In particular  among  the win-win elements,  an 
international  trading  system  that genuinely  recognizes  comparative  advantage 
is critical, indeed  indispensable,  to the achievement  of  sustainable 
A/47/PV.55 
22 
(Mr. O'Brien.  New  Zealand) 
development.  Without  an open trading  system,  sustainable  development  is a 
contradiction  in terms.  Predictability  in trade  is as  significant  as 
predictability  in  aid. 
UNCED has provided  the United Hations with a central  role  in  carrying 
forward  the Rio  commitments.  The establishment  of  the Commission  on 
Sustainable  Development  is  in itself  a test of  new commitment,  as we  endeavour 
to give practical  effect  to the  framework  agreed  at Rio. 
The  aims  are  ambitious;  a dynamic  institution  that will  enable 
Governments  working  through  the United nations  system  to achieve  an  integrated 
approach  to  future  development  and  environment  activities.  As  previous 
speakers  have  said, we  are building  the  room when  the house 
the United 
Hations  - is being  remodelled. 
My  delegation  listened with great  interest  to the  Secretary-General's 
contribution  yesterday.  It provides, we believe,  real  food  for  thought. 
Reform  is absolutely  vital  for our overall United  nations  system,  but  for us 
the early  and  effective  establishment  of  the Commission  is an  absolute 
priority.  The  Commission must be  set up with  sufficient  flexibility  to evolve 
over  time, to  take  full  advantage  of  institutional  changes  in the United 
Nations  system  and  to  respond  to external  changes  as  international 
understanding  of  sustainable  development  issues broadens.  Through  its work 
the Commission  may  also  contribute  to the ongoing  reform  process  by 
highlighting  areas where  rationalization  of effort  and  activity  is possible. 
But  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development  must  not  be  the child of 
the United  Nations  system  alone.  Just  as the Rio process  engaged  the broadest 
range  of  stakeholders  in the environment  and  development  areas, so must the 
Commission  reach out  to  and embrace  other  institutions  and  regional 
A/47/PV.55 
23 
(Mr. O'Brien, Hew  Zealand) 
organizations.  It must  have  a robust  relationship with  international 
financial  institutions, especially  the Global Environment  Fund,  and  regional 
development  banks.  Other  organizations, too, such as those  within 
New Zealand's  neighborhood  of  the South Pacific  region,  should  be  able to 
develop  close  links with  the  Commission. 
New Zealand  attaches  importance  to Commission  attributes  of  widespread 
participation,  impartial  assessment,  transparency,  equity  and  accountability. 
If the consensus  reached  at Rio  is not  to slip away,  it  is imperative  that  the 
full complement  of  countries, non-governmental  organizations  and other  major 
social groups  that  contributed  so meaningfully  to the UNCED process  remain 
fully engaged.  He believe  that  the membership  of  the Commission  must 
accordingly be broadly  representative  of countries  and  regions, with 
rotational  equity  for  all within geographical  entitlements.  All  countries, 
great and small, should be  able to take  a turn,  if they want  it, on  the 
Commission;  no countries  can or  should  assume  automatic  permanency. 
Hew Zealand  is also  concerned  to ensure  that clear guidelines  for  the 
effective participation  of non-governmental  organizations  and major  groups  in 
the work of  the Commission  are established  at this  session of  the  General 
Assembly.  The Commission  secretariat  will  also, we envisage, have  an 
important  liaison  function  in relation  to non-governmental  organizations  and 
other major groups, keeping  them  informed  of  the Commission's  work  and 
collecting  and  assessing  information provided by  them  for  its use. 
The neutrality  of  the Commission  on Sustainable Development  will  also be 
critical  to the effective  discharge  of  its  review  functions.  Fair  and 
equitable governance  of  the Commission  itself,  and  indeed  of  related 
A/47/PV.55 
24-25 
(Mr. O'Brien. Hew ZealanrI) 
institutions  like the Global  Environment  Fund,  is indispensable  to  the 
necessary  confidence  on all  sides  that will  underpin  its  effectiveness. 
If  the Commission  is to act  as  a forum  for  sharing  national  experience 
for  the mutual  benefit  of  the global  community,  it must,  as envisaged  in 
Agenda  21, generate  reports  from  all  countries.  Sensitivity  about  sovereignty 
has, quite  rightly, been  raised.  The  starting-point  should be  a  shared 
commitment  to the principles  of  sustainable  development  affirmed  at Rio. 
Ensuring  that  the exercise  is worthwhile  in substantive  terms 
that 
individual  countries  obtain  necessary  information  on emerging problems  and 
possible  solutions 
should provide  a real  incentive  for  all  Governments 
voluntarily  to  submit  national  information  to  the  Commission. 
Responsibilities  for achieving Agenda  21 objectives must  be  allocated 
eguitably  among nations  and  implemented  equally.  Participants  will  quickly 
grow disillusioned  without  tangible  evidence  that progress  is being made and 
that  all parties, including  donors  and  recipients,  are playing  their part.  At 
a national  level most  countries,  including my  own, are  taking  a hard  look at 
what must be done  to  implement  Agenda  21.  The  Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  is charged,  critically, with ensuring  the  shared  political will 
for  change  and providing  practical  and  clear  direction  on how  to achieve our 
goals. 
In addition  to fixing  the organizational  arrangements  for  the  Commission, 
the Assembly  is charged with  a number  of  other  immediate  tasks  in the UHCED 
follow-up.  I wish  to  touch here quickly  on a few matters  that  Hew  Zealand 
believes  are of  significenia. 
A/47/PV.55 
26 
(Mr. O'Brien, Hew  Zealand) 
First,  a negotiating  process must be established  to prepare  a  Convention 
to combat  desertification  and drought.  Hhile  it does not  confront  all 
countries  directly,  a solution  to these  scourges will boost  efforts  to  achieve 
globally based  sustainable  development.  In the Pacific  region  the  closely 
related  issue  of  freshwater  resources  is a concern  in this overall  context. 
Secondly, Agenda  21 has  also  focused  further  attention on the  problems 
relating to  the conservation  and management  of  living marine  resources  on  the 
high seas.  Over-exploitation  of  resources  on  the high  seas have  a  devastating 
impact  on  resources within  exclusive  economic  zones.  These  resources  are of 
crucial  importance  to the economic  development  of coastal  and  island States. 
They are essential  to  the  achievement  of broader  sustainable  development 
objectives. 
UHCED's  decision  to convene  a conference  to deal with  such problems  is 
therefore most  timely.  The Hew Zealand  delegation  is at present working  with 
others on a draft  resolution, procedural  in nature, which  incorporates 
appropriate  arrangements  for  the convening  in 1993 of  a United  Hations 
conference on  straddling  and highly migratory  fish  stocks. 
Thirdly, we welcome  also  the decision to convene  the  first  Global 
Conference  on the Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Countries.  The 
special problems  faced  by  island  States have been  recognized  in  successive 
General Assembly  resolutions.  Problems  related  to  size,  isolation  and 
environmental  vulnerability,  while not  confined  to  island  developing  countries 
alone, are  in character  and  combination  undoubtedly  unique.  The  Global 
Conference will  clearly have  a key  role  in identifying  the  strategies  that 
will assist  islands  to develop  on a sustainable  basis  into  the  twenty-first 
century. 
A / 4 7 / P V . 55 
27 
(Mr.  O ' B r i e n.  Hew  Zealand) 
We have  set ourselves  an  ambitious  agenda.  Our  efforts  to  achieve UHCED 
objectives must be  clearly  targeted.  As  a general  principle,  the  Commission 
on Sustainable  Development  and  its  secretariat  should  not  take on  tasks that 
can be adequately  handled  in other  forums.  Their  relatively  scarce  resources 
should be employed  in the  areas where  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  has  a comparative  advantage,  namely  drawing  together  information 
across  sectors, programmes  and national borders, which will  assist  in the 
advancement  of  sustainable  development  objectives. 
The principle  of  subsidiarity,  much discussed  at Rio  de Janeiro, has of 
course much broader  application.  Tasks  should be handled  at the most 
decentralized  or  lowest  level  at which  they  can be handled  effectively.  We 
all  face the challenge  of  translating  this global  framework  into  action at the 
local  level.  It  is at the  local  community  level  that  the  key decisions for 
the  implementation  for much of Agenda  21 will  have  to be  taken. 
The  tasks  facing us are  indeed many.  Agenda  21 provides  a daunting work 
plan.  We must  establish  a good  international  framework  for  follow-up  action 
through  the decisions  of  tnis  session of  the General  Assembly  on UNCED 
matters.  And,  of  course, we must  also  strive  at  the national  level, as well 
as cooperate  globally,  to achieve  the goals  set  for  it by UNCED. 
Mr. DAHGUE  REWAKA  (Gabon)  (interpretation  from  French);  It is a 
pleasure  for my delegation  to be  taking part  in  this debate devoted  to 
consideration  of  the  results  of  the United  Hations  Conference  on  Environment 
and Development  (UHCED) held  in Rio de  Janeiro,  Brazil,  in June  1992.  We 
should  like once  again  to thank  the Brazilian  Government  for  the quality of 
the organization  which  it provided  for us  and which  contributed  to  creating 
conditions  conducive  to thi  success of  the Conference.  Our  thanks  also go to 
A/47/PV.55 
28 
(Mr. Dangue  Rewaka,  Gabon) 
Mr. Maurice  Strong  and Ambassador  Tommy  Koh, who guided  the UHCED  preparatory 
process with  such  efficiency. 
We  consider  that  the Rio  de Janeiro  Summit  laid  the  foundations  for  new 
international  cooperation  in the  fields  of  the environment  and  sustainable 
development.  The  adoption of Agenda  21, the Rio Declaration  and  the  forest 
principles  and  the  signing  of  the Conventions  on Climate  Change  and  Biological 
Diversity  are  fine  illustrations  of  that.  My  country welcomes  this  and will 
do everything  in  its power  to translate  the undertakings  it made  in Rio de 
Janeiro  into deeds. 
The  success  of Agenda  21 will  in the  first  instance  depend  on the 
commitment  of  Governments, but  it will  also depend  on the active  participation 
of non-governmental  organizations  and of  the bodies  and  specialized  agencies 
of the United  nations  system.  Its  implementation will  require  a  substantial 
input in terms  of new  and  additional  resources which will  enable  the 
developing countries  to cover  the extra expenditure  incurred by measures  taken 
to solve national,  regional  and global  ecological problems,  and will  enable 
the international  institutions  concerned  to  strengthen  their  capacity  to 
intervene. 
It is therefore  of  the utmost  importance  for developed  countries  which 
have not achieved  the official  development  assistance  target  of  0.7  per  cent 
of GHP to be  able to achieve  that  objective  before  the year  2000. 
It is also essential  that  the Global  Environment  Fund be  restructured  as 
soon as possible  in accordance with  chapter  33 of Agenda  21, with  the aim,  in 
particular, of extending  its  spheres of  action,  encouraging  universal 
participation,  and providing  on  favourable  terms new and  additional  financial 
resources, especially  to  the developing  countries. 
A/47/PV.55 
29-30 
(Mr. Dangue  Rewaka. Gahnn) 
It would  also be  appropriate  for  lasting  solutions  to be  found  to the 
debt  problems  of  the  low- and middle-income  countries  in order  to give  them 
the means of promoting  sustainable  and  environmentally  rational  development. 
Among  the agreements  reached  at Rio  de Janeiro, my  country  attaches 
particular  importance  to  the  statement  on  forest principles, which  should 
serve  as a basis  for  international  cooperation  in this  field.  Gabon,  in fact, 
has  85 per  cent  forest  cover.  The  forestry  sector  alone  represents more than 
40 per  cent of  our  overall  exports, apart  from  oil, and  so plays  an undeniable 
economic  and  social  role.  It employs  nearly  25 per  cent  of  the  active labour 
force.  The  redynamization  of  this  sector will, among  other  advantages, stem 
the  rural  exodus which has  concentrated  approximately  47 per  cent  of  the 
population  in urban areas. 
Well before  the Rio  de Janeiro  Conference  Gabon undertook  to  institute a 
policy  for managing  and  conserving  its  forestry  resources by  pursuing 
activities  such as  reafforestation  - since  the year  1990 
with  an  indigenous 
species  called  okoume or gaboon mahogany;  improvement  in the natural  planting 
of gaboon mahogany;  projects  concerning  the biology  of gaboon  mahogany, 
agroforestry,  the conservation  and  rational  utilization  of  natural  forest 
ecosystems, and  the  inventory  and management  of  forests  and plantations. 
A/47/PV.55 
31 
(Mr. Dangue Rewaka.  Gabon) 
Furthermore,  it has established  a programme  to put  in place  a network  of 
preserves  and  areas  closed  to exploitation.  This network  covers  1,800,000 
hectares, which  in time will  increase  to 4 million hectares, under  the 
provisions  of  current  legislation.  Of  course, Gabon will  not be  able 
successfully  to  carry out  this vast programme  without  the  firm  support  of  the 
international  community. 
In accordance  with  chapter  38 of Agenda  21, the General Assembly  has been 
entrusted  at  its  forty-seventh  session with determining  the  specific 
operational modalities  of  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development 
in other 
words,  its composition,  its  relationship with  the other  intergovernmental 
bodies of the United  Hations  system  that deal with environment  and  development 
issues, as well  as the  frequency,  the duration and the venue of  its  sessions. 
In this context, my  delegation  firmly  supports  the  Secretary-General's 
proposals on the operational  modalities  of the high-level  Commission  on 
Sustainable Development,  contained  in his  report.  My  delegation  intends  to 
participate  actively  in the work  of that  Commission. 
Our  shared  objective  is to ensure  that the commitments  undertaken  in Rio 
will lead to concrete  action  in order  to guarantee  better  standards  of  life 
for our populations  and  to  safeguard  the  lives of  future generations.  In this 
connection,  I should  like  to  recall  that  in March  1993 my  country will  host 
the first African  conference  of ministers  for planning  and  the environment  to 
followup UHCED. 
Mr.  KRYZHANIVSKY  (Ukraine);  In recent  years, issues  relating  to the 
development of  international  nature  conservation  and  to the  solution  of  the 
most acute ecological  problems have been  among  the major  concerns  of  the 
A/47/PV.55 
32 
(Mr. Kryzhanivsky. Ukraine) 
General Assembly.  But  at the present  session  the Assembly  faces  an especially 
difficult  task;  to establish  the principal  organizational  foundation  for 
implementing  the decisions  of  the United Hations  Conference  on Environment and 
Development  (UNCED), which,  in our view, has become  the  starting-point  of an 
arduous but quite  real process  of  the transition  of humankind  to  sustainable 
development  and  to a new, ecological, global way of  thinking. 
The  delegation  of Ukraine would  like to  comment  on  the principal  results 
of  the Conference  as well  as on  some aspects  of environmental  protection on 
the global, regional  and national  levels. 
It is well  known  that opinions  as to the  results  of  the world  ecological 
forum  in Rio  de Janeiro  differ, depending,  to a large extent,  upon 
expectations  concerning  it.  We  deem  it unfair  to  form  an opinion  about such a 
major  event  as UHCED only  on the basis of  the  financial  aspect  of  the matter 
and  thus  regard  its outcome  as  "a great  failure" or  "a great  success". 
In our view,  the  success of  the Conference  is  first of  all proved by the 
fact  that, because  it was held  at the political  summit  level, the process of 
creating  a general  understanding  of  the necessity  of  environmental  restoration 
and preservation  and of  attaining  sustainable  development  received  an 
unprecedented  and  forceful  impetus.  For  two weeks  Rio  de Janeiro  attracted 
the world's  attention with  its  focus  on environmental  protection  issues.  The 
world  community,  including  scientific  and business  circles, the  "green 
movement"  and  individuals,  is now  taking  a more  active  and vigorous  part in 
dealing with  issues of environmental  concern.  Group  actions have  been 
undertaken  by non-governmental  environmental  organizations. 
All  this  leads us  to the  firm belief  that  the  spirit  of Rio, born at the 
Conference  and  figuratively  referred  to by  the  Secretary-General, 
A/47/PV.55 
33 
(Mr. Kryzhanivsky,  Ukraine) 
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, will  not be  forgotten,  and that  the proposed  model 
of ecological  order will  function effectively,  providing optimum  conditions  of 
life and development  for  every human being  and humankind  in general,  in 
harmony with  the unique  nature of  the Earth. 
The Conference  provided  an environmental  assessment  of major  ecological 
problems, summed  up  the experiences  of States  in solving  them,  defined  the 
means to ensure  our planet's  environmental  survival, and outlined  guidelines 
for international  cooperation  in this  field  for the next  several  decades.  Its 
basic documents,  such as  the Rio Declaration  on Environment  and  Development 
and Agenda 21, being  the  results of  compromise, may not  seem perfect  to, or 
totally satisfy,  us or  our  colleagues  from other  countries.  But  their 
elaboration has  convincingly  brought  us closer  to an era of  stable  development 
and testifies  to  the  fact  that humankind  not only has  reached  a critical  stage 
in its realization  of  the  full  extent  of the  imminent  danger  to the 
environment, but  is eager  to avoid  it through  joint efforts. 
Ukraine  supports Mr. Strong's expression  at the Conference  of  the 
necessity to continue  the work  leading  towards an Earth charter, with  the 
principles of the Rio Declaration  as  its basis.  We hope  that by  1995  this 
work will have been  successfully  completed  and  that  an Earth  charter  will  have 
become a worthy  contribution  to the preparation of  the United  Hations 
fiftieth-anniversary  celebrations. 
Ukraine  considers  that global  environmental  protection  efforts  should be 
based on a solid  foundation  of  international  law.  Therefore, we believe  that 
there can be no doubt  that  the Framework  Convention on Climate Change  and  the 
Convention on Biological  Diversity, which were  actively  prepared  over  the  last 
A/47/PV.55 
34-35 
(Mr. Kryzhanivsky. Ukraine) 
few years  and  signed  at the Conference,  should  be considered  as  achievements 
of  the Conference.  We  also believe  that work  on  the protocols  to  those 
Conventions  should be  actively  undertaken,  and Ukraine  is prepared  to 
contribute  to this process. 
We  consider  that  the  legal  standards  that  determine  the  activities  of the 
United Hations  in the  field of preventive  nature-protection  measures  should be 
further  developed with  the  aim of more  effectively  implementing  UHCED's 
decisions. 
In this  respect, Ukraine  deems  it necessary  to draw  the  General 
Assembly's  attention  to the need  to work  out  a set of  international  legal 
documents  that would  deal with,  among other  things, environmental  crimes, 
environmental  emergency  areas, mechanisms  for  the peaceful  resolution of 
environmental  disputes,  international  environmental  monitoring  and  control 
with  international  on-site  inspections,  and expansion  of  the exchange of 
environmentally  safe  technologies.  We  support  the  idea of  creating  an 
institution with  international  responsibility  in regard  to  environmental 
damage,  and  in particular  an international  ecological  court  of  justice, as 
well  as  rapid-response  ecological  forces  in case of  environmental  emergencies 
and disputes,  including  the  "United Nations  Green Helmets"  idea. 
The  delegation  of Ukraine  realizes  that  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions  of Agenda  21 will be  a labour-intensive  and  complex  process that 
will  require  the efforts  of  the entire United  Nations  system.  From our point 
of view,  the  structure  of  the United  Hations  bod;BS  that  deal  with 
environmental  protection  has become  outdated  in nany  respects  and  should be 
improved.  We  regard  the  creation of  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development 
as the  first  step  along  this  road. 
A/47/PV.55 
36 
(Mr. Kryzhanivsky,  Ukraine) 
It  is also necessary,  in view of  our  environmental  goals, to  scrutinize 
and make use  of  the  Security  Council's potential  as well.  On the basis  of  the 
Secretary-General's  report,  the  Security  Council  could  devote  at  least  one 
session each year  to the  issues  related  to the  rising  environmental 
instability  as a potential  threat  to peace  and  security. 
We are convinced  that  the  final  results of  the Conference will  mainly 
depend on how  actively  joint environmental  actions will be  supplemented  with 
the required  action on a national  scale.  The  issue of nature  conservation 
should be dynamically  integrated  into national  economic  policy.  Based  on  the 
decisions adopted  in Rio  de Janeiro, Ukraine will work  out  its  national 
strategy for attaining  sustainable  development  and  take  account  of  ecological 
security priorities when  adopting  economic  decisions. 
For many  countries,  and primarily  the developing  countries,  providing 
environmental  safeguards  and  the transition  to  sustainable  development  will 
require mobilizing  additional material  and  financial  resources, which,  under 
present conditions,  is beyond  their powers  to realize without  external 
assistance.  Unfortunately,  the Conference  in Rio de Janeiro  did not give a 
definite answer  to that  question. 
We are deeply  convinced  that  every  country  is primarily  responsible  for 
its socio-economic  development,  including  environmental  protection.  At  the 
same time, rendering  assistance  to  realize  transition  to  sustainable 
development  should  rather be  considered  a required  contribution  to the  global 
system of ecological  security.  Hew approaches  are necessary  to  find  sources 
for its  realization. 
Ukraine  supports  the  idea that  ecological  conversion  can be one  of  the 
non-traditional  sources 
that  is, the partial  cancellation  of  foreign  debts 
A/47/PV.55 
37 
(Mr. Kryzhanivskv. Ukraine) 
with the consent of donor Scates with a view to obtaining means to improve 
environmental protection and the ecological modernization of production.  We 
are glad that such an approach has found a positive response among developed 
countries.  Proceeding from the "polluter pays" principle, we stand for 
providing financial means for the joint financing of environmental action and 
the free exchange of environmentally safe and sound technologies and relevant 
information between States in order to establish a regional and global network 
of scientific information centres and data banks on environmentally sound 
technologies within the framework of the United Nations. 
In our view, there is a considerable potential to provide development and 
additional resources, with the aim of preserving and restoring the 
environment, including that of the developing countries, in the practical 
realization of the "disarmament for development" principle, which would entail 
diverting enormous financial means from the military to the civil sphere. The 
delegation of Ukraine notes with satisfaction that through dialogue the 
Conference found an acceptable compromise and reflected the interests of all 
groups of countries, including the specific interests of countries with 
transition economies.  We are convinced that the earliest possible integration 
of Ukraine and other countries with transition economies into the world 
economic system will be in the interests of their peoples and will promote 
stable and predictable economic development in the interests of all countries. 
Years will pass before the importance of the Rio ecological forum is 
fully assessed..  But it is already clear today that its convening was yet 
another proof of the renaissance of the United Nations, which is transforming 
itself into an ever more ui.iversal centre for the joint action of its Members. 
A/47/PV.55 
38 
Mr. NUNEZ MOSOUERA (Cuba) (interpretation from Spanish);  Today, the 
speedy and growing deterioration of the environment is possibly the most 
serious long-term threat to the human race as a whole and in particular to the 
so-called third world.  Together with the ever-present risk of nuclear 
destruction, it is the gravest danger to all humanity.  As regards the 
underdeveloped countries, it is one of the factors that most exacerbate the 
already frightful living conditions of hundreds of millions of people. 
The Summit Conference in Rio de Janeiro was undoubtedly a gathering of 
crucial importance.  At the highest possible level and with greater 
participation than ever before, the Governments of the world adopted decisions 
aimed at curbing the most widespread and destructive aggression ever committed 
by man against the balance of the living systems of our planet. 
The commitment to sustainable development and the definitions related to 
it are among the Conference's most important achievements.  It is a well-known 
fact that the patterns of production and consumption of the opulent societies 
are the basic cause of the deterioration of the environment.  The wealth and 
well-being enjoyed by some of the citizens of the world are based on 
unsustainable models of development that the non-renewable resources of our 
planet will not be able to support much longer.  In the underdeveloped world, 
underdevelopment and poverty themselves are the main factors of added pressure 
on the environment.  It is therefore fair and timely that the Heads of State 
or Government have recognized the right to development, which, as has been 
stated, must be exercised so as to respond equitably to the development and 
environmental needs of present and future generations. 
After Rio, the task bifore us is in no way reduced.  We now have an 
immense body of commitments and goals that, although limited, given the 
A/47/PV.55 
39-40 
(Mr. Nunez Mosguera. Cuhiji) 
magnitude  of the problem, will  have  to be  implemented  if  the  first  steps are 
to be  taken  towards  a healthier  life.  As part  of  that  undertaking,  it will be 
necessary  to break  down  the  strong  resistance  that  the  industrialized 
countries  showed  in Rio  to the establishment  of  commitments  in the area of 
transferring  new  and  additional  financial  resources  and  technology  to the 
developing world.  It will be necessary  to define more  clearly  the 
institutional  mechanisms  to ensure  the  follow-up  and  implementation  of the Rio 
Declaration  on Environment  and Development  and Agenda  21.  It will  also be 
necessary  to work harder  to achieve pending  agreements  on desertification, on 
the urgent problems  of  small  island  States, and on the management  and 
protection  of  low-lying  coastal  regions. 
The greatest  danger  is that,  following  the Conference, we  should  lose the 
political  impetus  and  the  social  and moral  pressure  that  led  to very  important 
decisions.  This  session of  the General  Assembly  offers  us  the  first 
opportunity  to avoid  such a mistake.  Cuba's position  regarding  the 
characteristics, mandate  and  composition  of  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  is correctly  reflected  in the document  submitted  in  that  respect 
by  the Group  of  77  for  these  deliberations.  Among  the points  contained 
therein,  I should  like to underscore  a few to which we  attach  special 
importance. 
A/47/PV.55 
41 
(Mr. Hunez Mosquera.  Cuba) 
The  complexity  of  the  subject  of  sustainable  development  and of  the 
decisions  taken at Rio  attest  to the need  for  the Commission  to have  the 
broadest  and most  equitable  representation possible  of  the States Members  of 
the Organization  and  for the Commission  to guarantee  the participation  of 
observers under  the  existing  rules  and with completely  open,  transparent 
working methods.  The distribution  of posts on the Commission  must be based  on 
the recognized principles  of equitable  geographical  distribution.  Any 
proposal or  formula  that would  deviate  from  such an arrangement  must  be 
rejected. 
Agenda  21 outlines  quite  specifically  the  functions  of  the  Commission, 
both in the  specific  decisions  of  chapter  38 regarding  institutional 
arrangements  and  in explicit  and  implicit  references  in the various  thematic 
chapters, such as chapters  33 and  34.  We hope  that  at this  session  the 
General Assembly will  fulfil  the mandate  to specify  the  Commission's 
functions, in accordance with  the decisions  adopted  under  the various  chapters 
of Agenda 21.  If the  Commission  on Sustainable Development  is to be 
responsible  for monitoring  the  implementation  of Agenda  21, it will have  to 
base its work on  the premise  recognized  in Rio  that  the  implementation  of  the 
enormous programmes  of  sustainable  development will  require  the  developing 
countries  to be provided with  substantial  new and additional  financial 
resources.  The monitoring  and  review of  the  financing process  is thus  an 
unavoidable  responsibility  of the Commission  if  it is to be  truly  relevant. 
The support  given by  the Secretariat  to the work  of  the Commission  and  in 
general to the complex mandates  of  the Conference will be decisive  for  the 
attainment of  the goals  that have been outlined.  For  this  reason we  agree 
with the proposal  that  the mechanism  to be  created  should  be  a separate  and 
identifiable entity within  the  structure  of the  Secretariat  of  the 
A/47/PV.55 
42 
(Mr. Nunez Mosquera,  Cuba) 
Organization  and  should be headed  by  an Under-Secretary-General  reporting 
directly  to the  Secretary-General. 
The  decision on the location  of  the  secretariat  and  the venue  of  the 
meetings  of  the Commission  is a matter  that  should  reflect  first  and  foremost 
the objective  of guaranteeing  the best  conditions  and opportunities  for  the 
due participation  and  follow-up  of  all Member  States.  It  is both  detrimental 
and offensive  to the  small, poor  countries  that  the debate  on  this  subject 
revolves  around  the preferences  of the  rich countries  and  the balance  between 
them, when  in fact  they  already monopolize  the  right  to host  multilateral 
bodies.  Cuba considers  that  the  interests  enunciated  by  the  small  countries, 
particularly  the alliance of  small  island  States,  should  be  taken very much 
into  account  in the deliberations  on this  question. 
Forming  a part  of our  agenda,  in the context of  the  implementation  of the 
results of  the Summit, will be the convening  of  a global  conference  on 
sustainable  development  of  small  island  States.  For  those who have been 
involved  in the negotiations  for the  last  two years  and  and who  are  familiar 
with  the vast  amount  of  information  that has been circulated  on the particular 
vulnerability  of  small  island  States,  it will  be easy  to understand  the 
importance  of  such a conference  for  those  countries.  Our  aim would be to gain 
the  support of  the  international  community  for  the  achievement  of  the 
objectives  of  sustainable  development  under  the difficult  circumstances  of 
countries  that,  in addition  to being  small  and vulnerable,  are poor  and 
underdeveloped. 
Among  the decision^; of  the Rio  Summit,  there were  undotibtedly  some that 
yielded  very  limited  results  because  of  the difficulty  of  reaching  firm 
agreement  between  all  the participants,  and  those  results will  sooner  or later 
require greater  specificity.  Chapter  33 of Agenda  21, on  financing  resources 
A/47/PV.55 
43 
(Mr. Hunez Mosquera.  Cuba) 
and mechanisms,  is the one we most  need  to work  on.  We  are  in  favour  of  the 
General Assembly's  specifying,  at  this  session,  the  steps  and modalities  for 
financing  resources  that will  lead  to the  complete  fulfilment  of  the 
provisions  of Agenda  21. 
Ho  less  important,  in our view,  is the obligation  to guarantee  the 
suitable, not-for-profit  transfer  to the developing  countries  of  the 
technologies  needed  to create  conditions  and  capacities  for  environmentally 
sustainable development.  Until  that  objective  is met,  steps  towards 
environmental  protection will be very  limited. 
Cuba,  a small  third-world  country which  carries out  its  struggle  for 
development  under  uniguely  adverse  circumstances  and which  requires, like all 
underdeveloped  countries,  international  technological  and  financial 
assistance, can nevertheless  share with  the world, particularly  the 
underdeveloped  world,  the experience  of what has been achieved  in our  country 
in environmental  conservation  and protection,  as well  as the  results  achieved 
by our people  in various  fields  reflected  in Agenda  21, such as health, 
education, eguity  and  social  justice.  He hope  that  those who  are able to will 
also be willing  to  share.  I can assure  the Assembly  that efforts  to  comply 
with the decisions  of  the historic  Rio  Summit  are already  a reality  in our 
country. 
Mr. CHEH  (Singapore);  This debate  comes  exactly  five months  after 
the historic United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  at Rio 
de Janeiro.  It provides  a good  opportunity  to take  stock of what was  achieved 
at Rio.  The  Rio  Conference marked  the beginning  of  a new phase  of 
international  cooperation  for  integrated  consideration  of environmental  and 
developmental  issues  at the  international,  regional  and national  levels. 
However, the  success  of  the Rio Conference will  ultimately be  judged by  the 
A/47/PV.55 
44-45 
(Mr. Chew.  Singapore) 
faithful  implementation  of  the commitments  agreed  to, in particular  Agenda 21. 
To put  it  simply,  if  the Rio Conference  is to be  considered  a success, then 
steps must  be  taken  to ensure  the effective  implementation  of Agenda 21. 
The effective  implementation  of Agenda  21 requires  several  factors.  I 
should  like  to highlight  tlree  at this  stage. 
The  first  is financial  resources.  The  secretariat  of  the United  nations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development  estimated  the average  annual  cost of 
implementing  Agenda  21 in the developing  countries  to be  over  $600 billion, 
including  about  $125 billion  to be  spent  on grant  or  concessional  terms. 
There  is no doubt  that  the  implementation  of  the  various 
sustainable-development  programmes  in developing  countries will  require the 
provision  of  substantial  new and  additional  financial  resources. 
A/47/PV.55 
46 
(Mr. Chew.  Singapore) 
External  funding  for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21 is critical.  The 
developing  countries,  in particular  the  least developed  countries, will 
require  additional  external  funding,  including  increased  official  development 
assistance.  In this  respect we welcome  the  reaffirmation  by  the  developed 
countries  of  their  intention  to  reach  the accepted United  Hations  target  of 
0.7 per  cent  of gross  national product  for official  development  assistance. 
However, the bulk  of  financing  for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21 is expected 
to come  from  a country's  own  sources,  from both  the public  and the  private 
sectors.  A  country's  ability  to mobilize  resources  for  sustainable 
development  depends primarily  on  its ability  to promote  economic  growth  and 
development.  At  the  international  level  free trade  and  access  to markets  is 
fundamental  to economic  growth  and  development,  in particular  in the 
developing  countries.  An open, non-discriminatory,  multilateral  trading 
system will  enable  all  countries,  and particularly  the developing  countries, 
to improve  the  standard  of  living of  their peoples  through  sustained  economic 
development.  Environmental  protection  can come about  only with  economic 
growth and  development. 
The  second major  requirement  for  the  successful  implementation  of 
Agenda 21 is the  existence  of  an appropriate p^.an of  action  and  strategy  for 
sustainable  development  at the national  level.  It  is necessary  to establish a 
clear policy  framework  that  integrates  environment  and  development  and 
identifies  national  and  local priorities  as well  as ways  and means  to build 
the capacity  and  capability  to  implement  Agenda 21. 
The articulation  of  a clear  national  plan  of  action  is essential  for at 
least two  reasons.  First,  a clear plan of  action  is necessary  to  attract  the 
necessary external  funding  for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21.  Secondly,  a 
A/47/PV.55 
47 
(Mr. Chew, Singapore) 
national plan is necessary!to build consensus at all levels of the society to 
implement Agenda 21.  The main task of any national plan of action should be 
to build endogenous capacity.  Here, we have found in Singapore that 
human-resource development through education and technical training is crucial 
for capacity-building.  Another important element for capacity-building is the 
transfer of technology and the relevant know-how.  In the long term, the 
successful implementation of Agenda 21 requires easy access to technological 
information and capabilities.  This would enable individual countries to 
expand and build their own capacity to promote sustainable development. 
In Singapore the Government has attached particular importance to 
national programmes and actions.  We began our own programmes for 
environmental protection some 30 years ago and have put into place an 
effective system of infrastructure and legislation for environmental 
protection.  We have also formulated a "Green Plan" that charts the strategic 
directions for environment and development policies for the next decade. 
Singapore would be pleased to share its experiences in sustainable development 
with other countries.  We also hope to be able to facilitate the transfer of 
environmental technology in the Asia-Pacific region. 
The third requirement is an effective institutional framework at the 
international level for the promotion of sustainable development, the 
implementation of Agenda 21 and the follow-up to the United Hations Conference 
on Environment and Develop.nent (UNCED).  In the view of my delegation, there 
are at least four major issues with regard to international institutions. 
First, there is the question of setting up an intergovernmental mechanism 
for the follow-up of UHCED.  In this respect we urge the early establishment 
of the high-level functional Commission for Sustainable Development. 
A/47/PV.55 
48 
(Mr. Chew, Singapore) 
Secondly, there is the question of complementarity, cooperation and 
coordination, both at the intergovernmental and the Secretariat levels, 
between United Nations bodies, agencies and programmes for the promotion of 
sustainable development.  Here, we should like to stress the importance of 
placing the new Commission on Sustainable Development within the context of 
the ongoing restructuring and revitalization exercise in the economic, social 
and related fields. 
Thirdly, there is the question of the link between any international 
institutional arrangements and multilateral financial institutions.  On this 
point, we should like to underscore the need for close and effective 
cooperation and exchange of information between the United Nations system and 
the Bretton Hoods institutions in the implementation of Agenda 21.  There is a 
strong link between financial support and substantive action.  That linkage 
must be reflected at the level of international institutions. 
Fourthly, I should like to stress the fundamental importance of the role 
of the Secretary-General in the follow-up process of UHCED.  The continued 
strong and effective leadership of the Secretary-General is crucial to giving 
the issue of sustainable development the importance and high-level 
consideration it deserves and requires within the United Hations system.  The 
Secretary-General should be the focal point for all sustainable development 
matters within the United Hations system. 
The establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development will be 
one of the most important decisions to be made by the General Assembly at this 
session.  We welcome the report of the Secretary-General on the institutional 
arranqements for UNCED follow-up.  My delegation would also like strongly to 
endorse the position paper put forward by the Group of 77 on the Commission on 
A/47/PV.55 
49 
(Mr. Chew, Singapore) 
Sustainable Development.  I should nevertheless like to make two additional 
observations. 
The first concerns the size and membership of the proposed Commission. 
The Commission will have an important role in forging a global partnership for 
cooperation in the field of sustainable development.  It is therefore 
important that its size and membership be large enough to allow a broad 
spectrum of both developed and developing countries to participate.  My 
delegation supports the position of the Group of 77 for a 53-member Commission 
elected on the basis of equitable geographical representation.  To ensure full 
participation, representatives of non-member States of the Commission should 
have observer status. 
My second observation concerns the location of the secretariat of the 
Commission.  The location of the secretariat should be guided by the basic 
principle that it should be accessible to all States, in particular the 
smaller developing States.  Similarly, the venue for the meetings of the 
Commission should be fixed in a location where the largest number of countries 
are represented. 
It is imperative to set in motion quickly an effective follow-up process 
and mechanism for the implementation of Agenda 21.  As the preamble to 
Agenda 21 states, humanity stands at a defining moment in history.  If we do 
not seize this moment and set aside our differences for the sake of 
sustainable development, wo shall never be forgiven by future generations. 
Mr. IHSANALLY (Guyana):  The United Nations Conference on 
Environment and Development (UNCED) stands out in retrospect as a towering 
landmark in the field of international cooperatioi.  In the long and arduous 
negotiations that preceded the event, many doubted that, as the saying goes, 
A/47/PV.55 
50 
(Mr. Insanally.  Guvana) 
the game would  be worth  the candle,  that  the  results would  be commensurate  to 
the time and effort  invested.  Yet,  in the end,  the Conference  has offered  to 
the world  a blueprint,  however  tentative  and  ambitious,  for bringing  about  its 
salvation.  It explored  the  limits of mutual  agreement  and produced  a  common 
Agenda  for the  sustainable  development  of  all nations. 
The States  of  the Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) for whom  I have  the 
honour  to  speak  today 
namely, Antigua and Barbuda,  Bahamas, Barbados, 
Belize, the Commonwealth  of Dominica,  Grenada,  Jamaica,  Saint Kitts  and Nevis, 
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent  and  the Grenadines, Trinidad  and Tobago  and my  own 
country, Guyana  - participated  actively  in the  search  for  meaningful 
consensus.* 
* 
Mr. Dangue  Rewaka  (Gabon), Vice-President,  took  the Chair. 
A/47/PV.55 
51 
(Mr.  Insanally.  Guyana) 
In preparation  for the United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and 
Development  (UNCED),  our  Governments  encouraged  a process  of  consultation with 
relevant  institutions,  including  non-governmental  organizations.  They 
assembled  a Special Task  Force  to  consider  the particular  concerns  and needs 
of the  region.  Within  the Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  (AOSIS) and the 
Group  of 77, of which we  are members, we  sought  to make  common  cause with all 
developing  countries.  The  statement made yesterday by the  Chairman of the 
Group of  77 to  the General  Assembly  reflected  the priorities  that we  continue 
to attach  to the  several  agreements  arrived  at  in Rio.  If  I might, however, I 
would  like to highlight  some of  the Caribbean  Community's  perspectives  on 
post-UNCED  cooperation. 
Ever  since  Columbus' encounter with  the Caribbean,  the world has looked 
upon our  region  somewhat  as an earthly paradise.  And  rightly  so, for the 
rosary of  islands  stretching between  the mainlands  of  Belize  to the Horth and 
Guyana  to the  South  are  set  like precious  jewels  in the Caribbean  diadem. 
Their  tropical beauty,  evidenced by  their  lush vegetation,  white  sands and 
azure waters,  is celebrated.  It is no wonder  that  the Caribbean  is a most 
popular  tourist  destination. 
However, behind  the proverbial  silver  lining  there  is a cloud,  for, while 
nature has been bountiful  in  its blessings  on the  region,  there  is also a dark 
side  to  its gifts.  These  lands  are unfortunately  prone  to disasters 
both 
natural  and man-made  - that wreak  havoc  on  their populations.  Battered by 
violent hurricanes,  ravaged by  over-exploitation  and eroded by  the sea, the 
environment  is  frequently  under  assault.  The precious  coral  reefs  that adorn 
the Caribbean  Sea  are put  in jeopardy.  And  as if  this were  not  enough, recent 
A/47/PV.55 
52 
(Mr. Insanally.  Guyana) 
times have brought  the additional  danger  of  shipments  of hazardous  waste 
passing through our waters. 
As Pere Labat  reminded  the Caribbean  some  250 years  ago 
"You are  all  together,  in the  same boat,  sailing on the  same  uncertain 
sea." 
As a result  of  these  threats  to our  fragile  ecosystem,  we  are  forced  to  spend 
an inordinate  amount  of  our  scarce  resources  to arrest  further  degradation. 
At the same  time, we  are obliged  to provide our peoples with  the basic 
necessities  of  life.  These  twin responsibilities  were  acknowledged  by  the 
First CARICOM Ministerial  Conference  on the Environment  when  it  stated 
"Central  to all  our  environmental  concerns  is our  shared  desire  for Man's 
survival  in a manner  that  is both  in harmony with nature  and  consistent 
with human welfare." 
The CARICOM  States  are  therefore pleased  that this  symbiotic  link  between 
the environment  and  development  has been  fully  recognized  and enshrined  in the 
declaration of principles  that  issued  from Rio.  We  are  satisfied  that 
Agenda 21 represents  an ambitious  and comprehensive  attempt  to  translate  our 
aspirations  into  reality.  We  realize, of course, that  this  cannot be done  all 
at once.  We would  therefore  urge  that Agenda  21 be examined with  an eye to 
establishing  our priorities  for action.  In many  cases, the Agenda has  set 
specific  targets  and  timetables.  It is important  that  these be  scrupulously 
followed  and  that  the dynamic momentum  achieved  at Rio be  sustained. 
Undoubtedly,  our most  urgent  task  is the creation of  a commission  on 
sustainable development  to  satisfy  the clear need  for  a suitable  body  to 
ensure the effective  follow-up of  all UHCED decisions  and  to monitor  the 
progress of  the  implementation  of Agenda  21.  Given  these  important  functions. 
A/47/PV.55 
53 
(Mr.  Insanally,  Guyana) 
it is  imperative  that  the  commission  be  clearly  democratic  in  concept, 
composition  and  operation.  It may be  recalled  that, while  it was  agreed  in 
Rio  to make  the  commission  a subsidiary  body of  the Economic  and  Social 
Council,  this was done  largely  for  the  sake of  administrative  convenience. 
The general  understanding,  however,  is that  the  commission  should  be 
autonomous  and high  level  in order  to  function  effectively.  Its  membership 
should be  sufficiently  large  to allow  for adequate  representation  by 
developing  countries.  In this  regard,  the CARICOM  countries  believe  that it 
should have  53  seats, decided  on  the basis  of  the Council  formula  as applied 
to the high-level  Commission  on Science  and Technology  for  Development. 
With  regard  to the  functions  of  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development,  we would wish  to give  special  importance  to  national 
capacity-building  in developing  countries.  An  independent  provision  should 
therefore  be made  under  financing  that would  require  the Commission  to monitor 
assistance  to these  countries  so as to ensure  their  capability  to  undertake 
their obligations  under Agenda  21.  In so  far as  the  service  secretariat is 
concerned,  we  are  in agreement  with  the  structure  proposed  by  the Group of 
77.  He would,  however,  ask  that due  attention be given  to the  need  for 
gender-balance.  Moreover,  the Commission  should  ideally  be  located  in 
New York  so as to  facilitate  maximum  participation  by  the developing countries. 
CARICOM  fully endorses  the proposal  for  a review meeting  in  1997.  The 
programme  of work  of  the Commission  in the  initial  stages would  seem  to 
suggest, however,  that  at  least  in the  first  two or  three years,  the 
Commission  should  aim  to meet  at  least  twice  a year.  In any event,  a 
programme  of meetings  up  to  1997 would  seem  to be highly  desirable.  He would 
ask  that  in preparing  for  these meetings,  the Commission  should  seek  to 
facilitate  the continuous  participation  of developing  countries,  in 
A/47/PV.55 
54 
(Mr. Insanally.  Guyana) 
particular,  small  island  States  and  the  least developed  countries.  The 
CARICOM  countries  intend  to play  a full and active  role  in the work of  the 
Commission  and will  therefore  seek  appropriate  representation  on  it. 
Looking beyond  the  creation of  the Commission,  we would wish  to  call 
attention  to  several  important  follow-up  conferences  on  the environment  and 
development  calendar.  It  is not  too early  to begin addressing  our minds  to 
the organization  of  these meetings.  The  CARICOM  countries  understandably  have 
a particular  interest  in the  convening  in 1993 of  the  first global  conference 
on the sustainable  development  of  small  island  States.  The  aim of  this 
conference  is, inter  alia,  to develop  and  strengthen  inter-island,  regional 
and inter-regional  cooperation  and  information  so as to  reduce  the  inherent 
vulnerability  of  small  States.  We  urge  full  support  of  the conference, which 
our sister  State  of  Barbados  has  kindly  agreed  to host. 
Of  special  concern  to CARICOM  is the  issue  of general marine  and 
integrated  coastal  zone management.  The problems  of global warming  and 
sea-level  rise  are  already being  felt  in some of our  countries, which  are 
forced,  as a consequence,  to wage  a constant  and  costly battle with  the  sea in 
order to protect  valuable  coastal  areas  and economic  resources.  The 
endangered marine  resources  contained  in our  exclusive  economic  zones  are  also 
essential  to our  economic  and  social development.  As  recognized  in Agenda 21, 
there is a dire  need  for  international  cooperation  and  coordination  at  all 
levels 
"to support  and  supplement  national  efforts  of  coastal  States  to  promote 
integrated  management  and  sustainable  development  of  coastal  and  marine 
areas."  (A/COHF.151/26  (vol. II). para.  17.10) 
A/47/PV.55 
55 
(Mr.  Insanally.  Guyana) 
It  is hoped  that  the  conference  recommended  at Rio  to  address  this  issue  can 
be held  before  1994.  At  stake  is the very viability  and  survival  of  some of 
our  countries. 
Although Agenda  21 does not prescribe  any  specific  action  to be  taken by 
the Assembly  in order  to ensure  the  sustainable  use  of  forests, it  is none the 
less  important  for  the  international  community  to abide  as of now by  the 
statement  of principles  agreed  upon  in Rio.  We must  also proceed  to put in 
place  the  review mechanisms  to determine  to what  extent  these principles have 
served our purpose  and  to chart  a plan  for  the management  of  our  forests. 
This entails  the  continuing  examination  of  the need  for  and  feasibility of 
appropriate  international  arrangements 
"to promote  international  cooperation  on  forest management,  conservation 
and  sustainable  development  of  all  types of  forests,  including 
afforestation,  reforestation  and  rehabilitation".  (A/COHF.151/26 
(vol. II). para. 11.12  (el) 
A/47/PV.55 
56 
(Mr. Insanally.  Guyana) 
Forest  conservation, management  and development  are viewed  by  our 
Governments  as critical  elements  of  a strategy  for environmental  rectitude. 
In this context  CARICOM has endorsed  fully  the  Iwokrama project  for  the 
sustainable development  and  conservation  of  900,000  acres of virgin  Amazonian 
rain forest  in the heart of my  country's hinterland.  This project  has  been 
launched  as one of  regional  interest, with the  collaborative  involvement  of 
the Commonwealth  Secretariat,  other Commonwealth  Governments,  the United 
Hations Development  Programme  (UHDP) and other  international  agencies. 
With  respect  to those  countries which  are under  threat  of 
desertification,  the CARICOM  countries  repeat  their  call  for the  early 
introduction of  an  international  convention  on halting  desertification, 
particularly  in Africa,  the  region most  affected by this dreadful  scourge.  At 
the same time we would  urge  the early  convening  of  an  intergovernmental 
conference  under United Hations  auspices with  a view  to promoting  effective 
implementation  of  the provisions  of  the United Hations  Convention  on the  Law 
of the Sea on  straddling  fish  stocks and highly migratory  species.  This  forum 
should provide  a timely  opportunity  for  considering means of  improving 
cooperation on  fisheries  among  States  and  formulating  appropriate 
recommendations.  The work  and  the  results  of  the conference  should  be  fully 
consistent with  the  law of  the  sea Treaty which we  trust will  shortly  come 
into force. 
Two important  Conventions  which have  already been  agreed  upon by  the 
international  community  - namely  on biodiversity  and  climate  change 
now 
demand that  an  impetus  be given  to their  early  ratification  and 
implementation.  In  the case  of  the climate  change  treaty, we  should  now 
contemplate  the development  of new protocols, especially  one  aimed  at  limiting 
A/47/PV.55 
57 
(Mr.  Insanally,  Guyana) 
the emission of greenhouse  gases  and  at dealing with  the harmful  consequences 
of  sea-level  rise.  It  is understood  that  the  Intergovernmental  negotiating 
Committee  for  a Framework  Convention  on Climate Change  is due  to meet  in early 
December  to prepare  for  the convening  of  a conference  of  the parties.  With 
regard  to the Convention  on Biological  Diversity,  an area which  is the  common 
concern of humankind,  the contracting  parties must  now proceed,  according to 
their particular  capabilities,  to formulate  strategies  for  its practical 
implementation. 
This quick  review of  the post-UHCED  agenda  again points  up  the 
indispensability  of  two  important  provisions, namely  the  transfer  of 
appropriate  technology  and  adequate  financial  resources  to enable  developing 
countries  to  fulfil  their  obligations  under  the Rio  compact.  Developing 
countries must have  access  to environmentally  sound  technologies  on a grant or 
concessional  basis  in order  to deal with  these  responsibilities.  They must 
equally have  at their disposal  new and  additional  resources  to be  able to 
satisfy the  several  financial  requirements.  We would  therefore  appeal to our 
developed  partners  to address  these  issues urgently  and,  as was  envisaged at 
Rio,  announce  their  commitments  at  this  session  of  the General  Assembly. 
It has been  estimated  that  the  resources  needed  annually  for  the adequate 
implementation  of Agenda  21 in developing  countries  is of  the order  of 
$600 billion.  This may  seem  an  astronomical  sum but with  the  cooperation of 
both developed  and developing  countries  the  financial  needs  can be met. 
Obviously,  given  the principle  of differentiated  responsibilities,  the 
developed  countries will  be expected  to make  the much greater  contribution. 
This  is as  it should  be  since  the burden of  responsibility  on  developing 
A/47/PV.55 
58 
(Mr. Insanally.  Guvana) 
countries will  be especially  onerous.  Our  share has  to be measured  not  only 
by our portion  of  the  financial  costs but  also by  the  sacrifice  resulting  from 
the constraints  inherent  in the need  to balance  the use of our  natural 
resources  and  the demands  of environmental  conservation.  In the  reckoning 
too, one must  take  into  account  the burden  faced by our  societies  in the  cost 
of debt-servicing  and  the undertaking  of major  structural  adjustment 
programmes. 
We therefore  call upon  the developed  countries  to  attain quickly  the 
long-stipulated  goal  of  0.7  per  cent of  their gross national product  (GHP) for 
official development  assistance.  This  step alone would  realize  a  significant 
amount  towards  reaching  our  target.  He would  also expect  an appreciable  tenth 
replenishment  of  the  International  Development  Association  (IDA) enhanced  by 
an Earth increment  especially  earmarked  for environmental  purposes.  He  would 
at the same time encourage  the exploration of  all possible  sources  of 
funding.  The  successful  launching  of Agenda  21 will  demand  substantial  early 
commitments  of  concessional  financing  for developing  countries.  He must  act 
on this now. 
The Global  Environment  Facility will be  an important  mechanism  for 
channelling  resources  to the twin  areas of  the environment  and  development. 
He should not  delay  the  task of  restructuring  it to enable  it to operate  in 
optimal  fashion.  In order  to do  so, it should have  three  essential 
characteristics.  First,  it should  be universal  in membership  with broader  and 
more equitable  representation.  Secondly,  its  resources  should  be  more 
accessible  to the needs of  small  island  and  low-lying  States.  And,  thirdly, 
there should  at  all  times be  transparency  and  accountability  in its  operations. 
A/47/PV.55 
59 
(Mr.  Insanally.  Guyana) 
Still on the  subject  of  financing,  the CARICOM  countries would wish to 
welcome  the provisions  outlined  by UNDP  for  inputs  under  Capacity  21. 
National  capacity-building  effectively  to  implement  Agenda  21 is a priority 
requirement  of most,  if not  all, developing  countries.  The  CARICOM  countries 
certainly have  specific  needs  in this  area and  therefore welcome  the mandate 
which has been given  to UNDP  and  all multilateral  institutions  for  the 
provision  of  assistance.  As  I have  already  stated,  one  of  the most  important 
tasks  for  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development would be  to monitor the 
implementation  of  this mandate. 
These  are  some of  the broad  perspectives  which CARICOM will  bring to bear 
during the more detailed  discussions  of  these  issues  in the  Second  Committee. 
It  is to be hoped  that  the  spirit  of  cooperation  and  consensus which was 
manifest  in Rio will pervade  these deliberations  so that  at  the end of the day 
we  can  say that  another  positive  step has been  taken  towards  realizing the 
aspirations  and goals  of UNCED.  For our part,  CARICOM  countries  are 
determined  to continue  their  close  collaboration  and  coordination  to ensure 
the  full  and  rapid  implementation  of Agenda 21. 
As we  stand  at the  threshold  of  the twenty-first  century, we  cannot but 
be conscious  of  the perilous  stage which civilization  has  reached.  In his 
relentless  pursuit  of progress man has  recklessly  ravaged  his  environment.  As 
a result  the world  is today under  serious  threat  of  irreparable  destruction. 
UNCED has  enjoined  us  to act collectively  to avert  this disaster.  Agenda 21 
offers  a rescue plan.  He must  together  begin  to  implement  it.  In the words 
of one of  our Caribbean poets; 
A/47/PV.55 
60 
(Mr. Insanally.  Guvana) 
"Like  a jig shakes  the  loom; 
"Like  a web  is  spun the pattern; 
"All  are  involved! 
"All  are  consumed!" 
He are  thus destined  - developed  and developing 
to work  together  for 
our survival  and that  of  the planet  Earth.  This  is an obligation which  cannot 
safely be  postponed. 
A/47/PV.55 
61 
Mr. MUSUKA  (Zambia);  Zambia welcomes  the opportunity  to  participate 
in this debate marking  the  first  stage  in the  international  community's 
efforts  to  initiate  the  follow-up process  of  the United Nations  Conference on 
Environment  and Development  (UHCED) held  in June  this year  at Rio  de Janeiro. 
My  delegation would  like  to extend  its appreciation  to the  Secretary-
General  of  the United  Nations  and  to  the Rapporteur-General  of  the United 
Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development,  the  Foreign Minister of 
Algeria,  for  the  comprehensive  introduction  of  the  report  of  the United 
Nations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development. 
In welcoming  the  report,  I should  also  like  to pay  tribute  to all 
participants  in the United Hations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development, 
as well  as those who participated  in the preparatory  process.  As observed by 
the  Secretary-General  in his  report,  the Conference was unprecedented  in many 
respects which makes  it a unique  achievement  in the process  of  international 
cooperation. 
The  international  community  came out of Rio  de Janeiro  with  a helpful 
agenda  that  can usher  our world  into  a new age of  sustainable  development 
our basic  condition  for evolving  the common  resolve  that  should  commit  the 
international  community  to  safeguarding  the environment  for present  and future 
generations. 
In this  respect,  the task of  the Assembly  is to harness  the  spirit of Rio 
de Janeiro  and  evolve  an  innovative  system  of  international  cooperation for 
sustainable  development.  My  delegation  deems  it  imperative  for nations of the 
world  to  form  a formidable  alliance  fully dedicated  to  fostering  sustainable 
development  in order  appropriately  to  implement  the  agenda  agreed  upon in Rio 
de Janeiro  and where  necessary  to build  upon  it. 
Laudable  efforts  that  aim  at  facilitating  international  cooperation for 
A/47/PV.55 
62 
(Mr. Musuka,  Zambia) 
sustainable  development  started  in Rio de Janeiro  as  reflected  in the  report 
of the Conference.  In looking beyond  Rio de Janeiro, we  also  see  hopeful 
signs of greater willingness  among Governments  to pool  their  influence  and 
come up with  an  intergovernmental  structure  that will be  at the heart  of  the 
post-Rio process. 
However,  let us all  remember  that  institutional  mechanisms will  only be a 
platform  for  implementing  the multifaceted  agenda  for  sustainable 
development.  Of  crucial  concern  to the developing  countries  is whether  or  not 
they will get  the  "environmental  space" they  crucially  need  to participate  in 
the agenda  for  sustainable  development. 
This  concern has  lingered  on because  it defines  the capacity  of 
developing countries  to  take up  the  additional burden of protecting  the 
environment while  attempting  to  implement  the difficult  agenda of  development. 
The concept  of  sustainable  development,  suggesting  an idea of  full 
integration of environmental  and  developmental  concerns, cannot  be carried  to 
its logical  conclusion  if one part  of  the  international  community  remains 
unable to rise to the  challenges placed  upon  it without  risking 
retrogression.  In this  regard, greater willingness  to cooperate  among  nations 
of the world must  be  followed by greater  commitment  to the  fundamentals  that 
give substance  to  the  imperatives  of  cooperation  and,  in the process,  generate 
greater confidence  in the mutual  responsibility  of moving  forward  into  the 
future. 
The massive  problems  of  drought,  desertification,  the dumping  of  toxic 
waste and poverty,  all  of which have  an adverse  impact  on  the  environment, 
still stand  out  as major  concerns  of  the developing  countries.  The  agreed 
initiative  to negotiate  an  international  convention  to combat  desertification. 
A/47/PV.55 
63-65 
(Mr. Musuka,  Zambia) 
which  is before  the current  session of  the General Assembly,  will  be  an 
instrument  by which  to add  to the hopes  of millions  of people  in  developing 
countries, particularly  in Africa,  eking out  an existence  in the  harsh 
conditions  of vanishing  life-support  systems.  Drought  and  desertification, 
being  inseparable,  demand  that  the proposed  international  convention  include 
adeguate  provisions  to assist  afflicted  countries  in withstanding  the effects 
of droughts  and  rehabilitating  ravaged  ecosystems. 
There  are other  concerns  that will  affect  our  transition  to  sustainable 
development.  Through preferential  technology  transfers,  the  international 
community  possesses  the capacity  to assist many  countries  of  the world to 
initiate  a development  process  that  transcends  the patterns  that  have hitherto 
been environmentally  degrading.  The process  of  education  and  training for 
technological  advancement,  complemented  by  the enhanced  savings  potential of 
developing  countries  through external  debt  reduction  and multilateral  trade 
liberalization  in the Uruguay  Round,  can generate  incentives  for  developing 
environmentally  sound  technologies, notwithstanding  the need  for  developed 
countries  to  improve  access by developing  countries  to environmentally  sound 
technologies. 
Rio de Janeiro  opened  a new chapter  in cooperation  between  national 
Governments  and private  enterprise.  It will be  the duty  of every  Government 
to generate  incentives  that will promote private  sector  investments  generating 
environmentally  sound manufacturing  and waste  disposal.  The  basic  challenge 
will be  for Governments  to design  environmental  policies  that  set high and 
truly  competitive  standards.  Protectionism,  or  its  threat,  disguised  as 
environmental  sustainability,  runs  the  risk of generating  selectivity and 
undermining  sovereignty  in the enforcement  of environmental  standards, 
especially  in  sensitive  areas,  such as trade  in tropical  timber. 
A/47/PV.55 
66 
(Mr. Musuka.  Zambia) 
The  emerging  change  towards  sustainable  development  offers  unprecedented 
opportunities.  Our world body has  a crucial  opportunity  to  improve  and 
strengthen  the  Secretariat  and  intergovernmental  structures  as we  evolve 
institutional  arrangements  to underpin  the long-term  involvement  of  the United 
Nations  in  integrating  environment  and development.  It  is my  delegation's 
hope that  agencies  like  the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade  (GATT),  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) and  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and Development  (IBRD) will  also develop  reforms  complementary 
to the efforts we  are undertaking  at  this  session of  the General  Assembly. 
The  international  community  also has  a timely  and  unprecedented 
opportunity  to  initiate  a concerted  attack  on poverty  and meet basic  human 
needs  in addition  to empowering  billions  of people world wide  to  lead 
productive  lives. 
In all  these opportunities,  and  innumerable  others, the manner  in which 
the international  community  will harness  the  spirit  of  compromise  and 
commitment  to change will  define  the possibilities  of making meaningful  use of 
the opportunities  for preserving  the  integrity  of  the environment.  The  road 
to Rio  identified  opportunities  and difficulties.  Rio  itself developed  new 
values which  the  international  community  has  to build  upon.  It will  be 
possible  to do  so if the  international  community  invokes  the human  spirit  to 
survive. 
Mr. NYAKYI  (United  Republic  of Tanzania);  It  is a great  pleasure 
for my delegation  to address  the General Assembly  on the very  important  item 
on the United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED). 
My delegation  listened  very  carefully  to the  statement  made yesterday  by 
the Secretary-General  on  the  restructuring  of  the United  Nations  and on  the 
A/47/PV.55 
67 
(Mr. Hyakvi. United  Republic 
of  Tanzania) 
necessary  follow-up, with  additional  arrangements,  to the United  Nations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development.  The  statement  gives  us  a sense of 
his  commitment  to  the building  of  a United Hations which  is responsive  to the 
needs  and  aspirations  of  the peoples  of  the world 
not  just  in the  economic 
and  social  fields, but  in all  other  areas  of human endeavour.  I thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  a very  inspiring  address.  I should  also  like  to thank 
the delegation  of  Pakistan  for  its  statement.  My  delegation  fully  endorses 
the  statement  delivered  yesterday  by Mr. Akram  Zaki, the  Secretary-General of 
the Ministry  of  Foreign Affairs  of Pakistan, who  spoke  also  on behalf  of the 
Group of 77. 
The  Rio  Conference was  the culmination  of  a 20-year  campaign  of 
sensitizing  the world  community  and persuading  it that  environmental  problems 
are global  in nature,  that  their  solution will  thus  require  an  international 
consensus,  and  that  to ascertain  the  sustainable  existence  of  our  fragile 
planet  Earth  requires  the  integration  of  developmental  and  environmental 
programmes.  That  is what Agenda  21 endeavours  to do.  It  is a commitment  by 
States  to establish  a new global  partnership  in order  to engage  in a 
continuous  dialogue  inspired  by  the need  to  achieve  a more  efficient  and 
equitable world  economy  and by  the  imperative  of protecting  the  environment. 
It  is therefore  the  responsibility  of  the General  Assembly  at  its 
forty-seventh  session  to build  on  the  impetus which was  created  at Rio by 
establishing  strong  and effective  follow-up  institutional  arrangements. 
The  painstaking  efforts  devoted  to the  intricate  process  of  negotiation 
which  characterized  the UNCED process  from  the  first  session  of  the 
Preparatory  Committee  through  the  fourth  session  and  the  intergovernmental 
A/47/PV.55 
68 
(Mr. Nyakyi, United  Republic 
of  Tanzania) 
negotiating  process  for  the Convention  on Climate Change  and  the Convention  on 
Biodiversity  is a clear demonstration  of  the  international  community's 
interest  in, and  according  of priority  to the  issue of environment  and 
development.  The  1972 United nations  Conference  on Human Environment  was a 
conference which brought  together  industrialized  and developing  nations  to 
delineate  the  rights  of  the human  family  to a healthy  and  productive 
environment.  The  Rio  Conference  defined  actions which humankind  has  resolved 
to take for  its  sustainable  survival  in a healthy  environment.  This  means 
that unless Agenda  21  is implemented  in its entirety  the whole exercise  which 
led to Rio will  have been  futile. 
It is now almost  five months  since we departed  from  the beautiful  city of 
Rio de Janeiro,  satisfied  that we had  successfully  negotiated  an agenda which 
will deliver  us  into  the twenty-first  century.  Unfortunately,  it appears  as 
if not all  the  square brackets  placed  around  the  means of  implementation 
during the preparatory  process were  removed by  the Conference.  The  developed 
countries have yet  to make  concrete pledges which will  commit  them  to the 
implementation  of Agenda  21. 
The principle  of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities,  agreed  at 
the Conference, has not been  translated  by States  into  a concrete  resolve  to 
play their part  in this  endeavour.  The  challenge  remains  to translate  the 
concepts negotiated  and  agreements  reached  in Rio  into workable  strategies  and 
policy measures.  Despite  the unpromising  start, we  in the South  remain 
optimistic  that  the Horth will honour  its commitment  to  reach  the  accepted 
United Hations  target  of  0.7  per  cent of  its gross  national  product  for 
official development  assistance,  and we hope  that  those  countries which  have 
not yet  reached  that  target will  augment  their  aid programmes  in order  to do 
A/47/PV.55 
69-70 
(Mr. Nyakyi, United  Republic 
of  Tanzania) 
so as  soon  as possible.  He welcome  the  recent  initiative  by  some  countries in 
the North  to cancel  their  debts  to developing  countries.  Similarly,  we 
welcome  the United  Nations Development  Programme's  innovative  mechanism 
entitled  "Capacity  21", aimed  at  supporting  developing  countries  in their 
efforts  to  implement  Agenda  21.  We  see the mechanism  as paving  the way  for 
creative  initiatives  by  the donor  community  and multilateral  financial 
institutions  as a whole. 
Principle  4 of  the Rio Declaration  on Environment  and Development  states 
that; 
"In order  to achieve  sustainable  development,  environmental 
protection  shall  constitute  an  integral part of  the development  process 
and  cannot be  considered  in isolation  from  it." 
Today,  nearly half of  the people  of Africa  live  in abject poverty.  The number 
of  the poor  in Africa  is projected  to  increase by more  than  100 million by the 
end of  the century,  at a time when the number  of  the poor  in the entire world 
is expected  to decline by 400 million.  This will mean  that by the end of the 
century Africa will  account  for more  than 30 per  cent  of  all  the poor of the 
developing  world. 
A/47/PV.55 
71 
(Mr. Nyakyi. United  Republic 
of  Tanzania) 
This  is an emergency  situation.  In relation  to Africa, when we  talk 
about combating  poverty,  organizing  the  transfer  of  resources  and  technology, 
assisting  in capacity-building,  protecting  and promoting human health  and 
promoting  sustainable  human  settlement,  we  are talking of  things  that  should 
happen now.  The  real work must begin now  in order  to ensure  that  the  two 
years' difficult  negotiations  are converted  into constructive  action.  As 
Prime Minister  Gro Harlem  Brundtland  of Horway  rightly  stated  at Rio, 
"Poverty  degrades  not  only  those who  suffer  it but  also  those who 
tolerate  it." 
The mandate  that  is given  in paragraph  38.12 of Agenda  21 to  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session places  on this body a heavy 
responsibility  - namely,  to determine  specific  organizational  modalities  for 
the work of  the high-level  Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  The 
attention of Governments, experts, non-governmental  organizations  and  all 
others who participated  in the UHCED process  is firmly  focused  on our 
deliberations  and  conclusions  at this  session of  the General Assembly,  and  it 
should be our  endeavour  to ensure  that we meet  their expectations.  As 
Agenda 21 is expected  both  to  address  the pressing problems  of  today  and  to 
prepare the world  for  the  challenges  of  the next  century,  the  post-UHCED 
institutional  framework  that we  are  in the process  of  creating  should  embody 
the dynamism  and  flexibility  necessary  to last  through  the  twenty-first 
century. 
My delegation believes  that,  following UNCED, the United  Hations  has  a 
unique opportunity  to assume  a leadership  role  in advancing  the process  of 
integrating  environment  and development  in order  to attain  sustainable 
A/47/PV.55 
72 
(Mr. Nyakyi, United  Repuhlir 
of  Tanzania) 
development.  We  are embarking  on the  task  of  creating  a  post-UHCED 
institutional  framework  at  an opportune  time 
a time when  the United  Hations 
is undergoing  a process  of  restructuring  and  revitalization  in the  economic, 
social  and  related  fields.  As  the only universal  and  democratic 
intergovernmental  Organization  capable  of playing  a pivotal  role  in 
coordinating  the macroeconomic  policies  of Member  States  at  the global  level, 
as embodied  in the Charter,  the United Hations  can make  a  decisive 
contribution  to the  successful  implementation  of Agenda 21. 
The post-UHCED  institutional  framework  should  be used  as  a means  of 
striving  to  strengthen  the United nations  system  so that  it  is not 
marginalized  or denied  its proper  role as the  international  community's 
pre-eminent  deliberative  and  legislative body.  After  the  collapse  of  the cold 
war, which  for nearly  50 years paralysed  the Organization's  machinery,  the 
United Hations  can now  start  not only  to play  the  role envisaged  in the 
Charter with  regard  to conflict management  and  the provision  of  humanitarian 
assistance  but  also  to discharge  its Charter  functions  in the  economic, social 
and  related  spheres. 
We  could  not  agree more  fully with  the  former UHCED  Secretary-General's 
comment  that  the  fact  that  the Earth  Summit  - the  largest-ever  gathering of 
Heads of  State  or Goveriunent  - was  convened by  the United nations  is of 
profound  significance.  That  it marks  a turning-point  in  the history  of the 
United  Nations  system  justifies  recognition  of  the United  Nations  as the only 
forum where  the world  community  can unite  for  the  common  good.  My  delegation 
looks  forward  to cooperating with other  delegations  to ensure  that  this 
momentum  is not  lost. 
A/47/PV.55 
73 
(Mr. Hyakyi, United  Republic 
of  Tanzania) 
Agenda  21 indicates  keen  consciousness  of  the  fact that both  economic 
policies  of  individual  countries  and  international  economic  relations  have 
great relevance  to  sustainable  development.  It  is also  clear  that  sound 
macroeconomic  and  environmental  policies have  a positive  environmental 
impact.  A  large  number  of developing  countries,  including  Tanzania,  are 
undertaking  structural  adjustment  and other  reforms.  The process  of 
integrating  environmental  components  into our  national  planning  system  is 
ongoing.  But  the  international  climate has  continued  to be unpromising  for 
developing  countries  as  interest  rates have  remained high  and  as  commodity 
prices, in real  terms, have  fallen  to their  lowest  level  since  the great 
depression of  the  1930s. 
The external  debt  of  developing  countries  continues  to weigh  negatively, 
and servicing  it has  led  to the perverse  phenomenon  of  the  reverse  flow of 
resources  from  the developing world  to the developed  countries.  Improvement, 
as gauged by  such  indicators  as  life expectancy  and  infant mortality,  has 
slowed down.  Education  and health programmes  have been  adversely  affected  by 
economic difficulties  and by  the need  for  cuts  in public  expenditure  as a part 
of adjustment  programmes. 
The Uruguay  Round  of multilateral  trade negotiations, which  started  in 
1986, has not made much progress.  A  successful  conclusion  to  the Uruguay 
Round could do much  to  improve  the  international-trade  environment  and 
contribute  to economic  recovery.  A more  open, transparent  and  rule-based 
system would help  to provide  developing  countries with better market  access 
and increased  opportunity  for export  growth. 
A/47/PV.55 
74 
(Mr. Hyakyi. United  Repuhlir 
of  Tanzania) 
The  General Assembly  has  a responsibility  at  this  session  to establish an 
intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  for  the elaboration  of  an 
international  convention  to combat  desertification  in those  countries 
particularly  countries  in Africa 
that  are experiencing  serious  drought or 
desertification.  We have  come a long way,  through  tedious  negotiations, to 
the present  happy  stage of establishing  an  intergovernmental  negotiating 
committee.  It is our  sincere hope  that  the  convention  will  be  finalized by 
the target  date  of  1994.  We  request  the Secretary-General  to establish as 
soon  as possible,  for the purpose  of maintaining  the momentum,  an ad hoc 
secretariat  to assist  the  intergovernmental  negotiating  committee  in the 
pursuit  of  its mandate.  We  also  urge  relevant  organizations  in the United 
Hations  system  that  deal with drought,  desertification  and  development  to 
share  their  knowledge  and  experience with  the  committee. 
I  should  like at this  juncture  to turn to the modalities  for  the 
establishment  of  the high-level  Commission  on Sustainable  Development.  The 
purpose of  designating  the Commission  as a high-level  body was,  first, to 
establish  that  the proposed  institution would  be  strong,  effective  and capable 
of carrying  out  its  functions  as envisaged  in Agenda  21 and,  secondly, to 
ensure  that  representation would  be at  the highest  possible  level.  We 
understand  that  it may not be possible  for countries, especially  developing 
countries,  to be  represented  at ministerial  level  in all  the  Commission's 
deliberations,  but  every effort  should be made  to ensure  representation  at the 
highest  possible  level.  This will greatly  facilitate  and  speed  up the work of 
the Commission  and will make possible  the quick  implementation  of  its 
decisions by  the  avoidance  of  tedious bureaucratic  red  tape. 
A/47/PV.55 
75 
(Mr. Hyakyi. United  Republic 
of  Tanzania) 
Membership  of  the Commission  should  take  account of  the great  importance 
attached  to  its mandate  and of  the unprecedented  interest  that  its work  has 
aroused among  the Members  of  the United Hations.  Anything  less  than the 
maximum permitted  under Article  68 would  not be adequate.  In accordance  with 
established practice, membership  should be based  on the principle  of  equitable 
geographical  distribution.  We  also  agree with  the view,  expressed  by  the 
Secretary-General  in his  report,  that  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  should  encourage  the participation  of  non-governmental 
organizations,  including  industry  and  the business  and  scientific  communities, 
in accordance with  the  rules  and procedures  adopted  during  the UNCED process. 
My delegation welcomes  the proposal  for the establishment  of  a high-level 
advisory body on  sustainable  development  consisting of eminent persons.  He 
believe that that body  too  should be appointed  on the basis of  equitable 
geographical  distribution,  taking  into account  the need  for broad  knowledge 
and experience  of  environmental  and development  issues. 
A/47/PV.55 
76 
(Mr. Hyakyi, United  Repuhlir 
of  Tanzania) 
noting  the  important  role of women  in development  and  therefore  their 
indispensable  contribution  to successful  implementation  of Agenda  21, my 
delegation  believes  that  the Assembly  has an obligation  to ensure  a realistic 
gender  balance  and not merely go  in for  tokenism  in regard  to the  composition 
of  the Commission  on Sustainable  Development,  the high-level  advisory  body and 
the Commission's  secretariat. 
Besides  generally monitoring progress  in the  implementation  of Agenda 21, 
the Commission  should  have  as its main  functions  reviewing  progress  in the 
implementation  of  the commitments  in Agenda  21, including  those  related to 
provision  of  financial  resources  and  transfer  of  technology,  and  regularly 
reviewing  the  adequacy  of  funding  and mechanisms,  including  efforts  to reach 
the agreed  objectives  of Agenda 21. 
The  Commission  on Sustainable  Development  should  ensure  effective 
follow-up  to UHCED  and provide  an essential  forum  for on-going  Horth-South 
dialogue  on environment  and development  issues.  The  Commission  should 
consider  reports  and  information provided by Governments,  international 
institutions  and United Hations  agencies  regarding  their  activities  to 
implement  Agenda  21 and  the problems  they  face.  It  should  also be  in a 
position  to  review the operations  and  activities  of  the United  Hations 
specialized  agencies,  including  the Bretton Hoods  institutions,  and  of trade 
and  related  conferences,  and  it must  be able  to  recommend  action on the basis 
of  these  reports. 
Last  but  not  least,  the Commission's  operations must  be  transparent, 
accessible  and  accountable  to United  Nations Member  States  and  the public at 
the national,  regional  and  international  levels. 
A/47/PV.55 
77 
(Mr. Nyakyi. United  Republic 
of  Tanzania) 
Our  journey  to Rio  and deliberations  at the Earth  Summit  were  extremely 
successful.  In  setting  out on the  road  from Rio, we have no option but  to 
implement  effectively  chapter  33  relating  to  financial  resources  and 
mechanisms, and chapter  34, on  the transfer  of environmentally  sound 
technology  and  capacity-building,  of Agenda  21.  It  is our  sincere hope  that 
at the conclusion  of  our  deliberations  on this  agenda  item, we may have  a 
sense of the terrain  through which  the  road  from Rio will  take us. 
Mr. KARUKUBIRO  KAMUHAHHIRE  (Uganda):  The  Earth Summit  recently 
concluded  in Rio de Janeiro  laid down  important  areas of  commitment  in the 
field of environment  and development.  The Assembly  at this  forty-seventh 
session is expected  to put  in place  the necessary  institutional  mechanism  to 
follow up the achievements  of  that  Summit  and  look  into possible ways  of 
making further progress.  The United  Hations  and  its family of  agencies  are 
thus expected  to  lead  the way  forward,  to ensure  that  the goals  of Rio  are 
achieved. 
Agenda  21 stands  as the most  comprehensive  framework  for  attaining  the 
objective of  sustainable  development.  It responds  to the understanding  that 
our planet  Earth  can no  longer  sustain  a human  species  caught  between  the 
desperation of  the poor, whose bid  to  survive drives  them  towards  its 
destruction,  and  the unrestrained  appetite of  the  rich, whose  consumption 
patterns have become  unsustainable.  The  clarion  call  from Agenda  21 is  that 
all nations of  the world must  now  join in a global partnership  for  sustainable 
development.  The  focus  from  now on must be on  sustainability  and  continuity. 
In Rio,  from  the perspective  of developing  countries  came the  objectives 
of reducing poverty,  attaining  economic  growth  and managing  the  environment. 
A/47/PV.55 
78 
(Mr. Karukubiro  Kamunanwiry, 
Uganda) 
The  thrust  of Agenda  21 is that measures  adopted  to protect  the  environment 
should  not be  at the expense of  the development  process.  Developing  countries 
must have  the  legitimate  right  to utilize  their  natural  resources  for their 
own development.  Preservation  of the ecosystem  and  the promotion  of concerted 
management  of  sustainable  development must go hand  in hand.  This means that 
environmental  questions must be  integrated  into  the broader  issue of 
sustainable  development  in its  social  and  economic  sense.  This  also  calls for 
a new  responsibility:  while we  set out on the path of  sustainable 
development, we  should  also  take cognizance  of  the  impact  of  our policies that 
might be detrimental  to those  around  us and  beyond. 
In developing  countries  the difficulty  in coping with  environmental 
problems has been exacerbated  by poverty,  natural  disasters,  such as the 
drought  and  famine which have brought havoc  to most parts  of  southern and 
eastern Africa, with disastrous  consequences  for  crops  and with  loss of life, 
exemplify  our  incapacity  to cope with  these problems.  This  terrible 
incapacity,  coupled with  lack of  awareness  of  the  inevitable  consequences of 
exhausting  our  fragile  resources, have been  in part  responsible  for the 
ecological  disasters. 
In our  case, therefore, given  the over-reliance  of  our  economies  on 
agriculture,  the case  can be made  that  the concept  of  sustainable  development 
for  the present  can only  start  from  the application  of  sustainable 
agricultural  productivity.  Agricultural  production  can be  sustained  on a 
long-term  basis  only  if the  resource base 
land, water  and  forests  - is not 
degraded.  Agricultural  production  should  then be  able  to  rediversify  into new 
crops  and new  agro-industries. 
A/47/PV.55 
79-80 
(Mr. Karukubiro  Kamunanwire. 
Uganda) 
It follows, therefore, that human  resource  capabilities  necessary  for 
implementation  of  sustainable  development  programmes  must be one  of  the  top 
priorities.  Practical  steps  to provide  access  to environmentally  efficient 
technologies will be  a necessary  complement  to this  critical  area and must  be 
given equal priority.  International  cooperation  is required  to  assist 
developing  countries  in the  framework  of meeting  the demands  of Agenda 21. 
The larger question, however,  still  remains:  how can  developing 
countries be expected  to  cope with  the myriad  environmental  problems  facing 
their fledgling  economies?  Sub-Saharan Africa  is the  region with  the highest 
per capita debt  ratio  in the world. 
A/47/PV.55 
81 
(Mr. Karukubiro  Kamunanwire, 
Uganda) 
Debt-servicing  alone has  come  to penalize  the  region's  economic  growth 
and  its capacity  to protect  the environment.  As a  result,  it is not  uncommon 
to see natural  resources  being overexploited  in order  to  increase  production 
in the effort  to get  export  earnings  to pay  for  the unending  debts. 
It is therefore  evident  that  implementation  of  the programmes  under 
Agenda  21 will  require  enormous  resources.  Yet  throughout  the UHCED process 
and  out  of Rio, no clear  commitment  has emerged  in this  critical  area so far. 
It  should be pointed  out  that  the pledge  to commit  0.7  percent  of  gross 
national product  to development  assistance was  actually  first made  in 1980, 
almost  12 years  ago, and has  since been  repeated  year  after year.  Only a few 
devoted  countries  have been  able to demonstrate  their  commitment  to assisting 
developing  countries  since  this pledge was made.  But  for  the majority of the 
developed  countries  in a position  to  assist,  if the pledge made  in 1980 has 
remained  largely  unfulfilled,  how can we be  sure  that  this will  now be 
honoured  and met by  the year  2000, as was pledged  in Rio de  Janeiro? 
Those who have  indicated  that  they will  pay  their  contributions  through 
the Global  Environment  Facility will be missing  the mark.  It  is now a matter 
of  common  knowledge  that most  of  the programmes  under Agenda  21 could not 
possibly  fit  into  the constitution  of  the Global  Environment  Facility. 
Essentially,  if  the goals of Agenda  21 are to be met,  it will be  necessary for 
the Global  Environment  Facility  to be  restructured  so as  to meet both the 
reguirements  of Agenda  21 and  the  format  of  representation. 
As  constituted  today, governance  and management  of  the Global  Environment 
Facility  is hardly  representative  of developing  countries.  Its method of 
operation  has yet  to be made  transparent.  Fundamentally,  there  is need to 
A/47/PV.55 
82 
(Mr. Karukubiro  Kamunanwire, 
Uganda) 
review its criteria  for  selecting  programmes  if  the programmes  of Agenda  21 
are to fit  in  its scheme of  funding.  The Global  Environment  Facility  must 
therefore do more  to demonstrate  its commitment  in fulfilment  of  the 
provisions of Agenda 21. 
Implementation  of Agenda  21 is going  to be  a country-driven process. 
Many developing  countries  are now  in the process  of drawing  up their  action 
plans for  the  implementation  of Agenda  21, which will  involve drawing  up 
priorities  and  time-tables  for  their  implementation.  Given  the conditions  of 
abject poverty  and  chronic  deprivation  in many  developing  countries, 
especially  in sub-Saharan Africa,  there  is no way countries  of  the  region  can 
be expected  to  come up with  resources  of  their  own for the  implementation  of 
the programmes  of Agenda  21.  Hew and  additional  funding will be  required  to 
support developing  countries  in their efforts  to achieve  sustainable 
development,  and  to be  able to participate meaningfully  in measures  to  obviate 
global risks. 
It is in this  regard  that Uganda wishes  to  reiterate here what we  have 
often stated  in different  forums 
that  the  starting-point  for  the  raising of 
financial  resources  for Agenda  21 must be  a programme  that will  release 
resources from  these  categories:  first, the cancellation  of  all  official 
bilateral debts; secondly,  the  cancellation  of all  commercial  debts  procured 
under arrangements  of  import-export  guarantees; and,  thirdly, with  the  support 
of donor countries,  the cancellation  of all  debt  owed  to  multilateral 
financial institutions, which  for  countries  in sub-Saharan Africa  constitute 
the bulk of external  indebtedness.  These  actions  should be  complemented  by 
the provision  of  new  and  additional  resources  for  the  implementation  of 
A/47/PV.55 
83 
(Mr. Karukubiro  Kamunanwir^^ 
Uganda) 
Agenda  21.  These measures will  no doubt  provide  resources  for  a head-start in 
the  implementation  of Agenda 21. 
This  forty-seventh  session of  the General  Assembly  was mandated  to set up 
a high-level  commission  on  sustainable  development  that will  oversee  the 
implementation  of programmes  under  Agenda  21.  The most  critical  element for 
the yet  to be established  commission  will be  its  coordinating  functions.  The 
United  Nations  system must  play  a leading  role by ensuring  that  its various 
bodies  and  agencies  cooperate  in an  integrated  way  in the  implementation of 
the programmes  of Agenda 21. 
To be  able to  function effectively,  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development will  need  to be  supported by  a strong  and effective  secretariat. 
The  secretariat will have  to be headed by  a person of  sufficient  knowledge and 
seniority,  appointed  by the  Secretary-General. 
A  lot of hope  is therefore  pinned  on the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  yet  to be established.  Through  it, we hope  to  see Agenda 21 
implemented  with vigour  and vitality  in the  integration  of environment and 
development. 
Mr. KOKEYEV  (Russian  Federation)  (interpretation  from  Russian):  In 
the wake of  the United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and  Development 
(UHCED), which was  called  for, and which became  a watershed  in the  life of the 
international  community,  for  the  first  time we  are  to address  environment 
issues  in the context  of  sustainable  development,  giving questions  related to 
protection  of  the environment  priority,  instead  of  treating  them  as ancillary 
matters,  and  integrating  them  into  all  areas  of United  Hations  activities. 
A/47/PV.55 
84-85 
(Mr. Kokeyev,  Russian  Federation) 
As this debate  confirms,  it  is no secret  that  the  results of  the 
Rio de Janeiro  forum  are viewed with different  degrees  of  optimism  in 
different  countries, which  is only natural.  Diversity  of opinion  is  an 
essential element  of  a creative  search  for consensus  and  its  practical 
implementation.  In Rio  a  sound  foundation was  laid  for  a complex  and  lengthy 
process of harmonizing  the movements  of  States  through unexplored  terrain 
towards the historically  unprecedented  objective  of  sustainable  development  as 
both a prerequisite  for, and  the  final objective  of, the  strengthening  of 
universal  security,  of  a new partnership  now at  last being  removed  from  the 
tethers of polemics  and  ideology. 
The  large picture  can only be  seen  from  a distance.  Less  than  five 
months after  the Conference,  I am sure that  the scale of  its achievements  has 
not yet been  fully comprehended.  But even now one  can see that  a code of 
rules of  sustainable  development  has emerged  in the form of  the 
Rio Declaration.  Hhile perhaps  the text  itself may not be  sufficiently 
polished due  to  lack of  time, the work proposed by  the Secretary-General  in 
his Rio address may well  be  continued with  a view to  its completion  in time 
for the fiftieth  anniversary  of  the United Nations.  It is important  that 
these efforts be generated  in advance, on a well  thought-through 
organizational  and practical  basis. 
A/47/PV.55 
86 
(Mr. Kokeyev,  Russian  Federation) 
Further, we  now have Agenda  21 embodying  a concrete  programme  of  joint 
action by  States  in the  interests  of  sustainable  development.  This  programme 
defines  both  the most  important  tasks  and  directions  of  cooperation  and the 
technological,  financial  and  organizational  mechanisms  for  implementing  it. 
Obviously,  success will  depend,  decisively,  on efforts  at  the  national level; 
but  for  the  first  time  it has become possible  to  integrate  these  efforts into 
economic  policies  at all  levels. 
I would  also  like to emphasize  that we  attach  special  importance  to 
coordination  of  existing  and new mechanisms,  to ensure  that  in practice 
sustainable  development  and environmental  issues  are brought  from  the fringes 
to the  forefront  of  the activities  of  the United  Hations,  its General  Assembly 
and  the Economic  and  Social  Council. 
The United  Nations  Commission  on Sustainable  Development, with a 
secretariat  to which clear  functions  are assigned  and  adequate  personnel and 
resources  allocated,  should become  an important  instrument  for evaluating the 
implementation  of  the Rio decisions  and  for continuing  dialogue  initiated at 
the Conference.  To ensure  the effective  work  of  the Commission,  it is 
important  to maintain  the momentum  built  up during  preparation  for  the 
Conference.  Establishing  the optimal  organizational  framework  for  the 
Commission's  future  effective  work  is one of  the  cardinal  tasks before the 
Assembly  under  this  agenda  item.  The  Secretary-General's  report  and his 
statement  in this  forum  contain very  interesting  and wise  considerations to 
this effect  and'should  be heeded  in our  work. 
It would  also  be useful,  in our  opinion,  to  take  a decision  in principle 
on putting  the work  of  the Environmental  Centre  for Urgent  Assistance  onto a 
permanent  basis. 
A/47/PV.55 
87 
(Mr. Kokeyev,  Russian  Federation) 
The  scope  of global  environmental  issues  covered  by  international  legal 
agreements has expanded  significantly.  Conventions  on climate  and  biological 
diversity have been  signed,  reflecting  the  interests  of all  countries, 
including  those with  transitional  economies.  Principles  governing  the 
management, preservation  and development  of  all  types of  forests have  been 
agreed upon with  a view  to concluding  a relevant  convention.  Preparations 
have been  initiated  for  negotiations  on a convention  on  combating 
desertification.  There  is another  factor  too.  The  new global  partnership 
that was born  in Rio has  already  encompassed  the  interaction  of  governmental 
and non-governmental  structures,  joint efforts  aimed  at  promoting 
environmental  education with  the wide  and  active participation  of  all major 
population groups. 
Thus  the Rio Conference  has  accomplished  much 
the maximum  possible  in 
today's circumstances,  it might be  said 
and  the pivotal  task  is perceived  to 
lie in managing  this  formidable  treasure pragmatically,  without  a maximalist 
"all-or-nothing"  approach, without  egoism,  prejudice  and  suspicion, but with a 
readiness  to bolster  the  concept  and practices  of  sustainable 
that  is, 
environmentally  feasible 
development. 
Russia, despite  all  the difficulties  of  its transition  to  a market 
economy, has demonstrated  such  readiness.  A new confirmation  of  this  is to be 
found in the  "National  Report  on the Condition  of  the Environment  of  the 
Russian Federation  in  1991", recently published  in Moscow. 
One of  the  features  of  the  report  is its impartiality.  The  document 
points openly  to  the unsatisfactory  condition  of  the human  environment  in 
Russia.  Environmental  deterioration,  in particular  contamination  by  harmful 
substances, continues.  The  report  states  that  the  substantial  decline  in 
A/47/PV.55 
88 
(Mr. Kokeyev,  Russian  Federatign) 
production  in 1991 has not  resulted  in an adequate  improvement  of  the 
environmental  situation.  In 84 Russian  cities, repeatedly  and  sometimes 
regularly,  atmospheric  contamination  levels were  recorded  at a level  10 or 
more  times higher  than  the maximum  concentration  allowed by  sanitary norms. 
Today,  critical  ecological  conditions prevail  in  13 regions, with  a total area 
of  2.5 million  square  kilometers, or  almost  15 per  cent  of  Russia's  territory. 
However,  another  virtue  of  the  report  is that  it  is not  restricted  simply 
to recording  existing problems.  The document  objectively  describes  the 
growing number  of positive  signs  that  are mostly  associated with  the adoption 
on  19 December  1991 of  the comprehensive  market-oriented  law  "On the 
protection  of  the natural  environment".  The  introduction  by  the  Russian 
Government  of  fines  for polluting  the environment  has heightened  the  role of 
environmental  criteria  applicable  to norms  and  standards  that  are a vital part 
of  the mechanism  ensuring  the efficient  implementation  of  environmental 
protection  legislation.  To monitor  the  implementation  of  this  legislation, 
more  than  267,000 enterprises  and  organizations  were  screened  last year. 
The  same  spirit of balanced  and thoughtful  analysis  permeates 
environmental  forecasts  aimed  at taking  appropriate  preventive measures.  The 
proposed  complex  of priority measures 
legal, organizational  and  economic 
intended  to prevent  a worsening  of  the environmental  situation  in the country 
during  the next  two or  three years  is designed  to create  an efficient  legal 
and economic  basis  for  strengthening  environmental  security.  The  task is set 
to work  out  a new State  policy  to  lay an efficient  foundation  for  stable 
economic  development  based  on the maintenance  of  the  required  parameters of 
A/47/PV.55 
89 
(Mr. Kokeyev. Russian  Federation) 
the natural  environment  and  a careful  use of natural  resources.  Among  the 
main lines of this policy  is the elaboration of  a new legal  and  economic 
mechanism  for governing  the  interaction between State bodies  at various  levels 
and users of natural  resources, as well  as the  inclusion of  environmental 
requirements  in assessing  the  social  and economic  efficiency  and  consequences 
of managerial  decisions.  A  series  of measures  are envisaged  to ensure 
environmental  safety on  local, regional  and global  levels  in full  accordance 
with international  agreements  and conventions  in force.  The document  proposes 
to initiate the elaboration  and  implementation of  ad hoc  State programmes  of 
environmental protection  and efficient use of natural  resources; it  recognizes 
the active participation  of  all  strata of  the population  and all  social  groups 
in the environmentalization  of the economic  reforms under way  as an  absolute 
condition of  the efficient  implementation  of environmental  policy.  The  task 
is set to elaborate  an efficient mechanism  to implement  the right of  each 
citizen 
and  I stress, each citizen 
to participate  in the adoption of 
decisions that affect his or her  interests; to  receive  compensation  for health 
damage due to environmental pollution or other harmful  effects; and  to  receive 
swift, accurate  and  analytical  information on the state of  the  natural 
environment and on the quality of drinking water  and  food products. 
It is not difficult  to see that the measures  envisaged  are  fully 
compatible with  the  recommendations  of  the United Hations Conference  on 
Environment and Development, with  the  letter  and  spirit of  the Rio 
Declaration, with Agenda  21; they form  a natural part of our  resolve  to 
implement the  recommendations  of  this  forum. 
A/47/PV.55 
90 
(Mr. Kokeyev,  Russian  Federatinn) 
The  understanding  and  solidarity  of  the  international  community  and a 
favourable  attitude on  its part  towards  our  problems,  requirements  and 
capacities  in the period  of  transition  are of especial  importance  to us in the 
realization  of  these  endeavors.  The  Russian delegation will  do everything at 
this  session  to strengthen  the new global partnership,  to  imbue  it with more 
concrete meaning  and  to  transform  it into  the driving  force  of  qualitatively 
new United  Nations  activities  in the economic,  environmental  and  social 
fields. 
We  are grateful  to all  the enthusiasts  of  the Earth  Summit,  including the 
secretariat  of  the Conference.  In particular  we  salute  its  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Morris  Strong, who  is also  a special  adviser  to  the Administrator  of the 
United Nations Development  Programme  and head  of  the prominent  company 
Ontario-Hydro 
for his  steadfast  and  active  commitment  to  the  ideals of our 
Organization. 
This  is a further manifestation  of  the unity between word  and  deed, 
between  the concept  and  the practice  of  sustainable  development.  It is such 
unity  that  is capable of ensuring  the  implementation  of  the greatest possible 
proportion  of Agenda  21, even  in this  century,  of making  sustainable 
development  a reality  and of bringing  closer  the time when  the great 
achievements  in the  field  of environmental  protection  and  development,  as a 
valuable  contribution  to the  strengthening  of peace, will  be  assessed by the 
world  community  at  their  true value  and will  come  to  the notice  of the Nobel 
Prize  Committee.  When  this will happen depends  on  all of  us, in my opinion. 
A/47/PV.55 
91 
Mr. ELIASHIV  (Israel);  Our delegation  joins  in the debate  to 
express  its great  interest  in the  follow-up of  the United  Hations  Conference 
on Environment  and Development  (UHCED).  We  look  forward  to the  concrete 
results of  these  deliberations  and  their  implementation,  which  should meet  the 
aspirations  of  mankind. 
We have  read  the  comprehensive  reports of UHCED  and of  the 
Secretary-General,  and we  listened with great  interest  to the 
Secretary-General's  incisive  statement  focusing on the  crucial  issues  before 
us as well  as on the  restructuring  of  the United  nations  system. 
Israel brings  to  this  dialogue  its belief  in the  frontier  direction  of 
human history,  its  conviction  that progress  and  sustainable  development,  not 
predetermined  repetition,  is the  law of life. 
It has been our view  for many years now that the gap  in standards  and 
capacities between  the  rich and poor nations  is still  a greater  threat  to 
universal peace  and  a stronger  affront  to man's dignity  than any  threat 
arising from  the  admitted  neglect  of ecological  prudence  and  restraint.  Our 
solutions must  come  to terms with  industrialization  and  technical  advances. 
The scientific  inheritance  is not going  to be  the monopoly  of  those  countries 
which are  fortunate.  The  aim  is to  find  a positive  reconciliation  between 
development  and  the preservation  of man's natural  legacy. 
There  can be no  real, long-term  solution  to the poverty problem  unless 
environmental  concerns  are properly  integrated  into all  development 
activities.  A global,  integrated  approach  should  encompass  human  development, 
protection of  the  environment,  social  and demographic  problems,  vocational 
training, health  and  education  for  all, transfer  of  technology  and  eradication 
of poverty.  This  inextricable  link between environment  and  sustainable 
development was  indeed  recognized  in Rio. 
A/47/PV.55 
92 
(Mr. Eliashiv.  Israel) 
In Stockholm  20 years  ago  the United nations  Conference  on the Human 
Environment  aroused  impressive  universal  ecological  awareness. The  Earth 
Summit  in Rio marks  the beginning  of  action.  The main  success  of Rio  lies in 
the  fact that  it managed  to  lay down  new  important  commitments  for environment 
and development  cooperation.  As was  strongly  emphasized  in Rio, the 
environment  is an integral  part  of  sustainable  development  and  cannot be 
viewed  in  isolation. 
Agenda  21 certainly  opened  up new vistas  for  attaining  the objective of 
sustainable  development.  It  is incumbent  upon us  to continue  to build on the 
momentum  of  international  cooperation  on the environment  and  sustainable 
development.  We must  create  a new  sense of partnership  for  the  future.  We 
must  translate  the words  of  the Agenda  into deeds.  We  owe  it to our children 
and grandchildren.  A great deal of  responsibility  lies with  the  new 
Commission  on Sustainable  Development, which  is to be  established  to become a 
primary  forum  for  international  cooperation  and  action. 
Israel  is especially  sensitive  to  the  fragility  of  the environment and 
development,  because  our  country's  rebirth  is a continuous  ecological drama of 
rehabilitating  a scarred,  eroded,  denuded  landscape, of  redeeming  fertile 
valleys  degraded  into buzzing malarial  swamps, and of  reversing  the rapacity 
and neglect which had  created  the  desert. 
There  are  few examples  in  the  literature  of  national  movements  of such 
compassion  for  a suffering  landscape.  This  solicitude  is deepened  by a 
religious  tradition which  thousands  of years  ago enacted  laws  that  land should 
lie  fallow every  seventh year  and  that  domestic  animals  should  be  the objects 
of humane  care.  In our  own day  Israel, which now uses  100 per  cent of its 
A/47/PV.55 
93 
(Mr. Eliashiv.  Israel) 
available  fresh water, has given  a unique emphasis  to  conservation, 
purification  and desalination  under  strict  centralized  control. 
But  the central  gift  of  Israel's  experience  to the hope of  environmental 
improvement  lies  in the Negev  adventure.  Believing  that  the desert  is man's 
creation and not  the  inexorable  decree  of history, we have  launched  a  campaign 
against aridity with  results  that  are being  shared with other  nations  of  the 
world.  We  can  avoid  each other's  errors  and  emulate  each other's  successes. 
Nothing is more  urgent  than  a programme  of environmental  information, 
compilation,  dissemination  and monitoring  under  international  auspices. 
Nearly every problem  has  a possible  technological  or  scientific  solution, 
provided that  there  is a desire  to  solve  it and  to make  financial  means 
available.  Solutions  are viable  only  if they  are conceived  and put  into 
effect on a global  scale.  The United Nations may  recapture much of  its 
prestige and  resonance  if  it gives  first priority  to those predicaments  which 
have global  dimensions. 
As the Minister  of  Foreign Affairs  of  Israel, Mr. Shimon Peres, said  in 
his statement  to  the General Assembly  on  1 October  1992, 
"The United  Nations must be  the headquarters  for an  all-embracing 
struggle  to  safeguard  the environment  against  new threats.  It must be  a 
powerhouse  to arrest  starvation."  (A/47/PV.20, p. 46) 
Indeed, it seems  that  as  a result  of  a world-wide  concern  it has  finally  been 
established  that  the environment  is no  longer  an exclusive  item on the  agenda 
of rich nations.  Threats  to the environment  make  no distinction  between 
nations and continents, and  in order  to combat  them  successfully  a global 
approach is necessary.  Ho  country may be exempt  from  this effort,  and  each 
one, large or  small,  rich or poor, must  contribute  in facing  the challenge  to 
A/47/PV.55 
94-95 
(Mr. Eliashiv. Israel) 
the extent of its capabilities. An overall willingness to share knowledge, 
expertise, experience and resources must also prevail, so as to make this 
campaign for the protection of our planet truly global. 
The Earth Summit in Rio agreed on a framework for global sharing of 
responsibility for the well-being of our planet.  While general awareness and 
policies must be outlined on a global level, special importance should be 
attributed to regional cooperation in solving the problems of common 
interest.  In this respect, the Mediterranean Action Plan, of which we are 
proud to be an active member, may serve as an excellent example.  Much of what 
has been achieved would not have been possible if dealt with on an individual 
national basis.  The shores of Israel and those of other Mediterranean 
countries, to mention just one example, would not have become cleaner without 
a concerted effort by all Member States. 
We face the challenge of the future with the certainty that protection of 
the environment is not contrary to development, that in fact environment and 
development achievements will be in vain if we are unable to integrate with 
development in all sectors. 
Technology is a key element in sustainable development and it must be 
carefully selected with a view to adapting it to the specific needs of each 
developing country.  Technological change holds the promise of meaningful 
medium- and long-term programmes towards sustainable development and 
environment.  Research and development in the use of solar energy has been and 
is a major field of endeavour in Israel.  Solar energy industrialization and 
uses of biomass have already been proved cost-effective. We are also 
concentrating on several projects for the utilization of solar energy for 
agricultural and industrial purposes. 
A/47/PV.55 
96 
(Mr. Eliashiv,  Israel) 
As part  of  the  international  effort  to protect  the environment,  a group 
of more  than a hundred  Israeli  companies  are engaged  in extensive  research  in 
order to develop  sophisticated  and  innovative  technologies  that  are 
export-oriented. 
A few of  the  areas  of  activity  are  reducing  jet-plane  noise,  devising 
anti-pollution  measures  against  chemical gases  and biological  pollutants, 
identifying poisonous  substances  in water,  improving  the  removal  of oil  spills 
in the sea and  converting  crop-sprays  into benign materials. 
We believe  that  such environmental  technologies, which we  are willing  to 
share with other  developing  countries,  could play  an  important  role  in the 
global effort  to  achieve  sustainable  development.  These  interrelated  issues 
are certainly  relevant  to  the  implementation  of Agenda 21. 
Our research  is adapted  to the peculiar  requirements  of our  area,  and  it 
is linked to the very  extensive  development  that has  taken place  in Israel  in 
the use of water  resources  and  in processes  to desalinate  sea water  and 
brackish water  in the desert.  All  this  research  and development,  which 
includes the highest  degree of water  control  in the world,  is directed  towards 
turning arid  deserts  into green,  fruitful,  food-bearing  soil. 
Desertification  affects  the  lives  and well-being  of  2.7 billion  people. 
All of us who  are concerned  about  the environment must  redouble  our efforts  to 
eradicate desertification.  It  is our belief  that  today's  scientific  skills 
and developing  technology  offer hope of  facing this problem  and  converting 
arid zones  into habitable  and productive  ones. 
The national  Desert  Research  Institute,  at Ben-Gurion  University  in 
Israel, is engaged  in research  and development  on arid  zones  and  in  particular 
the conversion of  the desert  into  a productive  environment.  The  scope  of  the 
A/47/PV.55 
97 
(Mr. Eliashiv, Israel) 
Institute's activities transcends Israel's borders, for much of its research 
has world-wide significance.  It is our aim to share our experience and 
know-how with any country.  The Middle East possesses vast desert land but 
meagre water resources.  The desert can be turned into green, fertile land. 
The experience and technology is available, water can be reused, and new, 
fresh water can be produced from the sea. 
From a historical point of view, man's endeavours to settle the desert 
and his attempts to extract a livelihood from the barren land are as ancient 
as man himself.  The Biblical Prophet Isaiah gave expression to these 
endeavours when he said: 
"The wilderness and the arid land shall be glad; and the desert 
shall rejoice, and blossom like the tulip." (The Holy Bible, Isaiah 35:11 
It is obvious that a plan of action on an international scale is needed in 
order to combat desertification.  Therefore, in this context we welcome the 
suggested establishment of a framework to draft a convention, and we hope that 
such action will be taken expeditiously. 
The human factor is no less central to development in bringing about the 
effective involvement of the population and in implementing national 
policies.  Therefore, increased attention will have to be directed to human 
resources, sustainable development and the transfer of training and 
technology.  We have placed a great deal of emphasis on the development of 
human resources, which has become the key to the country's technological 
expansion and a marked feature of its extensive technical and economic 
cooperation with other countries. 
The importance of adequate funding mechanisms cannot be overemphasized, 
for they represent the key to environmental protection.  In the past decades 
A/47/PV.55 
98 
(Mr. Eliashiv.  Israel) 
the World  Bank,  the  regional  development  banks  and other  international 
institutions have  achieved  laudable  success  in promoting  development  in 
agriculture,  industry,  education, health  and  social welfare  in  countless 
developing  nations.  They  can exercise  the  same  skill  in  fostering 
environmentally  sound  development. 
We must  strengthen  the capability  of  the Global  Environment  Facility 
(GEF) to finance  environmental  programmes  of  concern  to all nations.  The 
December meeting  in Cote  d'lvoire  should  lead  to the  restructuring  of GEF, as 
agreed in Rio, to become  operational  before  the end of  1993. 
International  organizations  should play  a transitional  role  in the 
developing world while  the various  nations  are building  a  national 
infrastructure  for environmental  administration.  In Rio our  delegation 
proposed that  the United  Hations Development  Programme  network  could  be 
drafted into the  service  of  the environment,  and my  delegation  is pleased  to 
note that the Administrator  has  already  taken  action  to this  effect. 
Hon-governmental  environmental  organizations  should be given  our 
support.  It  is our hope  that  they will  continue  to  serve  as catalysts  for 
environmental  improvement. 
We welcome  the  agreement  reached  in Rio on the  institutional  arrangements 
to follow up UNCED, and  in particular  the establishment  of  the Commission  on 
Sustainable Development.  Follow-up  to UNCED  should be  fully  incorporated  into 
the ongoing  revitalization  of  the United Nations  economic  and  social  sectors, 
thus ensuring  that  the UHCED  recommendations  are  integrated  into  the  United 
Nations operational  activities. 
We support  the view  that  the central  purpose of  the Commission  should  be 
to provide an appropriate  intergovernmental  forum  for  the exchange  of 
A/47/PV.55 
99 
(Mr. Eliashiv,  Israel) 
information  about  national  and multilateral  experiences.  We must  ensure not 
only  that  the Commission  will be  an efficient  and effective  body,  but also 
that  it will  represent  the national  interests  of  all nations,  so as to ensure 
genuine  international  cooperation.  In deciding  the composition  and membership 
of  the Commission,  we  should  take  into  consideration  the principle  of 
universality.  We  support  the view  that Member  States  that  are not members of 
the Commission  should have  the  right  to participate  fully  in  its deliberations 
as observers. 
As we have mentioned  before,  regional  cooperation  is an essential element 
for  the  implementation  of environmental  action.  All  agree  that  environmental 
problems  know no boundaries; nevertheless, conflicts  and  disputes  all over the 
world prevent  genuine  cooperation. 
The Middle  East holds  tremendous potential  for economic  development.  A 
variety  of  joint  and multilateral  projects  for economic  cooperation would be 
of mutual  benefit  and would  enhance  the well-being  of  all parties.  We are 
currently  engaged  in bilateral  negotiations  to bring  an end  to the conflicts 
of  the past  and  in multilateral  negotiations  to  lay the  foundations  for the 
future. 
During  the  recent multilateral  talks  in the  framework  of  the Middle East 
peace process,  Israel presented  detailed  and  concrete proposals  on projects 
for  regional  cooperation  and development  in the  fields  of,  inter  alia, 
arid-zone  agricultural  development,  a centre  for combating  desertification, 
alternate  sources  of energy,  desalination  technology  and protection  of the 
environment.  Those projects  mean not only  cooperation,  but  also, and above 
all,  confidence-building  and progress  towards  peace. 
A/47/PV. 55 
100 
(Mr. Eliashiv,  Israel) 
The Rio Declaration  on Environment  and Development  stipulates  in 
Principle  25 that 
"Peace, development  and environmental  protection  are  interdependent  and 
indivisible." 
It is our  desire  and vision  that peace  should  eventually  embrace  all 
neighbouring  countries,  so that we  can achieve  a comprehensive  settlement  in 
our region that will  enable  us to  live  together with  equality,  trust  and 
mutual  respect,  thus making  it possible  for  all people  and nations  in our  area 
to devote  and dedicate  their  efforts,  resources  and energies  to social  and 
economic development  through genuine  cooperation  - for peace  and  prosperity 
are indivisible. 
The meeting  rose at  6.30  p.m. 
