UNITED 
NATIONS 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.24 
15 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session
' 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  24th MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Monday,  5 October  1992, at  10  a..m. 
President: 
later: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
Mr.  JESUS 
(Vice-President) 
Mr.  GANEV 
(President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Cape Verde) 
(Bulgaria) 
Address by Mr. Nursultan  Nazarbaev,  President  of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan 
General  debate  [9]  (continued) 
Statements  made by 
Mr.  Pursoo  (Grenada) 
Mr.  Sipaseuth  (Lao People's Democratic  Republic) 
Mr.  Hurst  (Antigua  and  Barbuda) 
Mr.  Toure  (Guinea-Bissau) 
Mr.  Gyaw  (Myanmar) 
Tentative  programme  of work 
This record  contains  the original  text of  speeches  delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
2ae_week, to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office  of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750,  2 United Nations  Plaza, and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61316  1619V  (E) 
A/47/PV.24 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 10-25  a.m. 
ADDRESS BY MR. NURSULTAN NAZARBAEV,  PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF  KAZAKHSTAN 
The PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will  first hear  an address by the 
President of  the Republic  of  Kazakhstan. 
Mr. Nursultan Nazarbaev.  President  of  the Republic  of  Kazakhstan, was 
escorted  into  the General  Assembly  Hall. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General Assembly,  I have  the honour 
to welcome  to the United Nations  the President  of  the Republic  of Kazakhstan, 
His Excellency  Mr. Nursultan Nazarbaev,  and  to  invite him  to address the 
Assembly. 
President NAZARBAEV  (interpretation  from  Russian):  First, I should 
like  to express  our profound  satisfaction.  Sir, at your  election  to your high 
post,  and we wish you every  success  in carrying  out your  duties  as President 
of  the United Nations  General Assembly  at its current  session. 
At the preceding  session the Republic  of  Kazakhstan was  unanimously 
admitted  as a Member  of  the United Nations.  On behalf  of  the people of 
Kazakhstan,  I have  the honour  to express  our deep gratitude  for  that step and 
to declare  that the Republic  of  Kazakhstan, as a peace-loving  State, is fully 
capable  of  fulfilling  its obligations, as defined  in the Charter  of  the United 
Nations,  and of making  a constructive  contribution  in all  the  spheres of 
activity  of  this authoritative  international  Organization. 
The  current  session  is no  less  important  for us, since  during  this 
session the President  of  the Republic  of  Kazakhstan  has  for  the  first time, 
been given  the opportunity  to speak  from  this  rostrum.  I take  this 
opportunity  to extend  cordial greetings  to all  the States Members  of the 
United Nations.  It would  be difficult by now  to conceive  of  the present world 
order without  the United Nations.  The world  community  places many hopes in 
A/47/PV.24 
3-5 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
this unique  international  organization,  chief  among  them  being  the  formation 
of a reliable machinery,  reliable  stability  and  security. 
The world has  now  come  close  to  the  threshold  beyond which  the  visible 
disturbing challenges  of  the  future  compel  us  to adopt  a new quality  of 
coordination,  a new way  to organize  our  joint  efforts. 
We must  clarify what  is the essence  of  this  new  and  as yet  unknown 
process, and we must master  it within  the  context  of our whole  community,  our 
continent, our  region  and  our  own  country.  These  are  the  aspects on which I 
should like to focus Members'  attention. 
A/47/PV.24 
6 
(President Nazarbaev) 
The first aspect relates to the world community itself and the role of 
the United Nations in the world.  At this session there has already emerged an 
understanding of the new realities, which must be defined in a new agenda for 
the entire world.  It is no accident that this is the title of 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's well-known report.  We believe that 
his concept of preventive diplomacy is an extremely timely, politically 
rational initiative, in the realization of which all members of the world 
community should become involved. 
In this connection I regard preventive diplomacy as a system of political 
and socio-economic measures designed to prevent hotbeds of potential tension 
from bursting into flame.  An important place in it is occupied by the 
conditions which are needed for maintaining social and political stability and 
are visible on the surface and by those problems the detection of whose very 
existence requires prognosticatory analysis in depth. 
It is not difficult to understand that the question of borders is a 
powder-keg that could explode at any moment, and the explosion usually hurts 
not only those who are playing with fire but also many others who have only a 
very remote connection with the fuse-lighters.  In my view, it is obvious that 
even one precedent in the revision of currently existing borders would cause a 
chain reaction of geopolitical disintegration with unforeseeable consequences. 
In referring to the importance of the principle of the inviolability of 
State territory-, I should like to emphasize that the rights of national 
minorities today are often thought to be identical with the rights of nations 
to self-determination, extending even to the establishment of independent 
States.  If we were to hold to such an approach, then, hypothetically 
speaking, thousands of economically weak sovereign States might arise all over 
A/47/PV.24 
7 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
the world.  Such  a situation would  be  a striking  demonstration  of  turning  a 
principle  into  a fetish, carrying  it to  the ultimate  absurdity. 
I am convinced  that  the world  community, which  today guite  rightly  gives 
so much attention  to the  rights  of national minorities, should define  clearly 
the criteria  for  such  rights, in order  to ensure  that human  rights and  the 
rights of nations will  triumph  on  the basis  of  the  triumph of  democracy  and 
peace.  Otherwise, under  cover  of  a nation's  right  to  self-determination,  the 
integrity of any national  State will be  called  into question, i.nd the 
corrosive principle  of  separatism  will go on without  end. 
At the same  time, taking  a look  forward  from  the present day to the 
twenty-first  century  in a search  for hotbeds  of potential  tension, I wish to 
draw the world  community's  attention, among other  guestions  that give  cause 
for great concern, to the problem  of water  in the Central Asian  region, which 
in time might become  a source  of dangerous disputes  in the very heart of  the 
oldest continent.  I am convinced  that we need  to speed  up work  now, not 
later, on the preparation of  special United Nations projects  that would 
provide for a gradual  and effective  solution to the problem  of  furnishing 
water resources  to Central Asia. 
I must point out  that  the decrease  in geopolitical  tension  along 
East-West lines and  the  increasingly  dangerous  confrontation between North  and 
South is a universally  recognized  fact.  However, the emergence  and 
exacerbation of  the  second  confrontation  do not decrease  the timeliness  of  the 
first.  The  long-standing  complexity  of  relations between East and West  cannot 
he dissipated with  the breakup  of  the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics. 
Accordingly,  I believe  that  the proposed  efforts  for preventive  diplomacy 
in establishing, keeping  and enhancing  the peace  should be exerted  equally 
A/47/PV.24 
8 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
along  all  the  lines  of global  interaction.  I stress  this  because  some 
distortions  have  already  become  visible  in this  connection.  United Nations 
efforts,  to judge  from  the events  of  recent months,  are  predominantly 
political  and military-political  in nature.  We  see more  use being made of 
prohibitions  than of  encouragement  and  incentives.  These measures  are aimed 
at  reducing  the  tensions, visible  on  the  surface, but  so  far  they have not had 
any  influence  on  the  roots  of  the  conflicts  that  have  arisen  and grown.  The 
real  cause  of  these  conflicts was  recently  pointed  out  from  this  rostrum.  The 
richest  20 per  cent  of  the world's  people,  in the Northern  and  Western 
countries,  consume  83 per  cent  of  the world's  gross product,  and  the poorest 
20 per  cent  of  the world's  people,  in the  countries  of  the  South  and the East, 
only  1.4  per  cent.  As we  can  see, the  income  of  the  richest  20 per  cent is 
60 times  that  of  the poorest  20 per  cent.  I would  call  this  60 to  1 ratio the 
formula  for world  ineguality.  Until  this gap begins  to narrow, we  shall not 
have  a real basis  for  the  comprehensive  prevention  of  conflicts. 
I emphasize  that,  in the  final  analysis, we  are  not  talking  about 
redistributing  the  income  of  the wealthiest  20 per  cent  for  the benefit of the 
poor.  The world  inequality  formula  should  be changed  not by  reducing  the 
income  of  the wealthiest  20 per  cent but by  increasing  that  of  the poorest 
through  organized  assistance  to help  their  countries  develop.  It may be 
worthwhile  to think  about  redirecting United Nations  efforts  towards genuine 
conflict  prevention  and  finding  the  root  causes  of  conflicts.  What  practical 
steps  can be  taken  in this  regard? 
I can understand  the Secretary-General's  concern  over  the main problem 
that  impedes United Nations  peace-keeping  efforts 
the  shortage  of  financial 
A/47/PV.24 
9 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
resources.  It is obvious  that United Nations  expenditures  for  the 
establishment, maintenance  and enhancement  of peace must be  increased  each 
year.  But how  can this be  done? 
As is well  known, until  1992, United Nations  expenditures  on 
peace-keeping totalled  approximately  US$8.3  billion, not even  1 per  cent of 
total annual defence  expenditures  in all  countries  at the end of  the  last 
decade, which was  approximately  1 trillion dollars. 
I propose  that  all countries  should, as a demonstration  of  their good 
will, begin to set up a fund  for United Nations  peacemaking  efforts  on  the 
basis of the  "one plus  one" formula.  This means  that each State would  begin 
to transfer  1 per  cent of  its defence budget  to the  fund  and would  increase 
its transfers by  the  same  1 per  cent each year.  Thus  the  amount  allocated  to 
peacemaking in 10 years would  increase  tenfold. 
I think  that the  national  security of every member  of  the world  community 
would be by no means harmed but, on the contrary, actually  strengthened  by 
such an action.  It  is appropriate  to  recall here  the Eastern  story which 
tells of some people who held  a contest of  strength.  One  showed  the power  of 
his muscles and  fists, another  found  strength  in the hardness  of his skull, 
the third in his  fleetness  of  foot, the  fourth  in the  sharpness  of his 
tongue.  But a wise man,  remembering  the heart, without which no strength  is 
possible, suggested  that  they  should  compete  in generosity.  The generosity  of 
each country will  be what  determines  the degree  to which my  proposal  is 
implemented 
a sort of  competition  for  the benefit  of  the whole world.  The 
Republic of Kazakhstan  is  ready  to begin  this process  immediately.  There are. 
A/47/PV.24 
10 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
of  course,  also  other ways  that  can be provided  for  States  to contribute to 
the  fund  for United Nations  peacemaking  efforts. 
The  second  aspect  on which  I should  like  to dwell  is the problem  of peace 
and  security  in our  continent  of Asia or, more broadly,  in Eurasia.  I am 
referring  to the  initiative  put  forward  by  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan  to hold 
a conference  on  Interaction  and Confidence-building  Measures  in Asia  (CICMA). 
The  idea of establishing  structures  for  security  and  cooperation  in Asia of 
the  same  type  as  the Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE) 
has  long been  in the  air but  has  not yet  gained wide  support. 
The  useful  experience  of  the  activities  of  continental  organizations in 
the Americas,  in Africa  and  in Europe  should,  it would  seem,  impel  Asia as 
well  to establish  unified  bodies  for  interaction  and  cooperation.  But  this is 
not happening,  and  there  are quite  a few  real  reasons  for  that  fact. 
Politicians  and  analysts  critical  of  the  idea of  setting  up  structures  for 
security  and  cooperation  in Asia often  advance  the weighty  argument  that the 
level  of geographical, historical,  economic,  political  social  and  cultural 
heterogeneity  among Asian  countries  is much higher  than  that  among  the 
countries  of  Europe,  the Americas,  or Africa.  Such heterogeneity  in economic 
and  political matters  naturally  interferes with  the  action  of  continental 
structures  for  collective  security. 
A/47/PV.24 
11 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
This can be countered with  a well-known  piece  of Oriental  wisdom:  A 
journey of a thousand  steps  starts with  the  first  step.  It  is by no means 
necessary to move  towards  a unified  Asian  structure  and  collective  security  in 
all these types of  interaction  at once.  It is  sufficient  to start  levelling 
out the heterogeneity  in one  area  - for  instance,  in the military-political  or 
economic sphere  - and  then  look  for  joint  approaches  in other  fields of 
cooperation.  The move  towards  such a continental  structure  could  take place 
in many steps and on a stage-by-stage  basis.  For example,  it could go  from 
bilateral relations  through  regional  and  continental  structures  and  coalitions 
in particular  types of  cooperation,  through  the elaboration  of 
confidence-building measures  and  collective  security,  as well  as  humanitarian, 
economic and cultural  interaction,  to common  continental  bodies  for 
cooperation on a broad  spectrum  of problems. 
Prospects  for  this process  and  its main  stages might be  as  follows: 
The first stage would  consist  of preparatory work  to organize  and  conduct 
the Conference  on Interaction  and Confidence-building  Measures  in Asia 
(CICMA).  The  approximate  time-frame  would  be  1992  to 1994. 
The second  stage would  involve  accelerating  the work  of CICMA,  increasing 
the number of  its members,  adapting  it to  the  framework  of  a Conference  on 
Security and Cooperation  in Asia  (CSCA) and  forming pan-Asian  structures  of 
the CSCE type.  The  approximate  time-frame  could be  1994  to 1998. 
The third  stage would  include  defining  the development  of  CSCA, 
strengthening  its permanent  structures,  interaction between  CSCE  and CSCA  and 
the creation of  transcontinental  bodies  in particular  areas of  cooperation. 
The approximate  time-frame would  be  1998  to 2000. 
A/47/PV.24 
12 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
The  fourth  stage would  consist  in forming  a unified  transcontinental 
conference  on  security  and  cooperation  in Eurasia  and  creating machinery for 
permanent  interaction  between  the continental  systems  of  collective  security 
in Asia, Europe, Africa  and  the Americas, with  the  further  prospect  of setting 
up  a unified  global  system  of  collective  security  and  cooperation.  The 
approximate  time-frame would  be  2000 to 2005. 
We  in Asia  live  in a remarkable  land.  All  the major  religions  of the 
world 
Judaism,  Buddhism,  Christianity  and  Islam 
were  born  in the  sacred 
soil  of our  continent.  All  the  spiritual  teachers  of mankind,  ranging from 
Lao-tse  and  Gautama Buddha, Jesus  Christ  and Muhammad  to  the greatest  of 
contemporary  thinkers, of the  calibre of Mahatma  Gandhi, were born  in our part 
of  the world.  Is it not possible  for Asia  to absorb  everything  that has been 
accumulated  over  the  ages  and  synthesize  a new concept  of  continental 
cooperation  and  collective  security? 
This position by no means presupposes  any  regional  autarky.  We  are not 
going  to  lock ourselves within  continental  borders.  On  the  contrary,  in the 
interests  of Asian  countries  and peoples, we  shall  collect  the best  of what 
was born  in other parts of  the  world. 
I  am  convinced  that we must make  a collective  search  for  the best way to 
meet  the  challenges  of  the  future  and  lay new  foundations  for  mankind's 
existence  in a world more  integrated  than ever before.  Accordingly,  I suggest 
that we  should  convene  a special  session or  a United  Nations  conference to 
discuss  the problems  of  the post-confrontation  era,  for  it  is the mission of 
the United  Nations  to play  a decisive  role  in confirming  new  levels of 
organization  in the  international  community.  The United  Nations  itself should 
A/47/PV.24 
13 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
probably be  reorganized  to  a certain  extent,  and  this  includes  the guestion  of 
the membership  of  the  Security  Council. 
The third  aspect, which we  cannot  fail  to mention,  concerns  the  events 
that are taking place  in the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS). 
The fragile  structure  of our  Commonwealth,  set  up  at the end of  last 
year, does not yet  fully  take  into  account  the age-old  traditions  of 
interaction between  States  and peoples  in this  part  of Eurasia.  As  a result, 
the processes of  transition  to  free-market  economics  and  democracy  in the CIS 
are accompanied  by  increasing  socio-economic  and political  instability,  the 
exacerbation of existing  conflicts  and  the emergence  of  new ones. 
Kazakhstan  is making  every possible  effort  to  re-establish  a  common 
customs and economic  area  in a new  capacity within  the  framework  of  a unified 
free-trade  zone. 
Realists  in the CIS have  no  illusions  as  far  as the $24 billion of 
assistance promised  to Russia  is concerned.  We  take a calm view of  the 
neo-isolationist  policy  that  some of  the world's  countries  are  pursuing 
towards the CIS.  We  realize  that only we ourselves,  through  our  own efforts, 
can stop industrial  decline,  the  severing  of economic  ties, hyperinflation  and 
other destructive  processes.  However, we  cannot  rule out  the possibility  that 
despite efforts  to  strengthen  the principles  of  coordination  and  the  process 
of integration,  contradictory  trends may prevail  in the CIS  in the  immediate 
future, so that  the  entire  territory  of  the Commonwealth  could  turn  into  an 
area of instability  and  disintegration.  I am  certain  that  such  a tragic 
outcome would  not be  in the  interest  of  anyone  in the  world. 
In this  connection,  I believe  that  the concept  of  early  conflict 
detection and  preventive  diplomacy might  find  direct  practical  implementation 
A/47/PV.24 
14 
(President  Nazarbaey) 
in the  former  Soviet  federation.  I am  referring  primarily  to  strengthening 
the  areas of  stability  that exist  in the CIS  and  then gradually  expanding 
their borders  by  reducing  tensions  in the areas of  conflict.  To that end, I 
propose  setting up  a regional  centre, or  a United  Nations  commission,  on 
preventive  diplomacy  in Central  Asia.  The headquarters  of  the  centre could be 
located  at Alma-Ata,  the capital  of  our  State. 
Lastly,  I should  like  to discuss  the vitally  important  issues of ecology 
and environmental  protection.  For  Kazakhstan,  these  issues  are embodied  in at 
least  two  areas, the  Aral  Sea and  Semipalatinsk. 
The  Aral  Sea drying  up;  it  is a zone of ecological  catastrophe  that 
demands  large-scale  international  emergency  assistance.  The  desertification 
of  its basin,  accompanied  by  the dissemination  of  150 million  tons of salty 
dust,  is causing  drastic  deterioration  of  the environment  and  increasing the 
negative  effects  on the economy  and  the health of  a vast  region with a 
population  of more  than  300 million  inhabitants.  If today  this means  tragedy 
for  tens of  thousands  of people,  tomorrow, without  emergency  intervention by 
the United  Nations,  it could mean  tragedy  for millions. 
Kazakhstan  is grateful  for  the decision by  the  leadership  of  the United 
Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP) to  set up  an assistance  project  for 
developing  a plan  to  save  the Aral  Sea and  also grateful  for  the  suggestion by 
a group  of UNEP  experts  that  the Aral  Sea basin  should  be declared  a zone of 
global  ecological  disaster. 
The  other  severe  ecological  problem  we  are  suffering  from  involves the 
Semipalatinsk  nuclear  test  site, which was built  on Kazakh  land  against the 
will  of our people.  The  total power  of  the nuclear warheads  that were  set off 
A/47/PV.24 
15 
(President  Nazarbaev) 
here  in the atmosphere,  on  the ground  and underground 
brought  suffering  to 
more than half  a million  people;  it  is hundreds  of  times  as  large  as the  power 
of the devices  that  brought  tragedy  to Hiroshima  and Nagasaki. 
By a decision  of our  Government,  we have  closed  down  this  source  of 
death, but  tremendous  amounts  of  resources will be needed  to clean up  this 
region, to cure those who  have  suffered  and  to ensure  the  safety of  the 
children who will  again be born here.  The people of  Kazakhstan will  therefore 
need active  international  assistance. 
Today, on  5 October, we  celebrate  the anniversary  of  the creation of  the 
United Nations  Centre  for Human  Settlements  (Habitat).  Recognizing  its 
unquestionable  importance,  Kazakhstan hopes  for effective  technical  and 
advisory assistance  from  the Centre  to our programmes  of  governmental 
development  for urban  and  rural  construction. 
The Kazakh people  has  a proverb,  "Elu  zhylda el  zhana," which  literally 
means, "The world  becomes  new every  50 years".  The  first half-century  of  the 
existence of the United Nations has been marked by  confrontation  between 
super-Powers  and  the burden  of  opposing military blocs.  Now the world 
community has  a historic  opportunity  to  find  in the  form of  the United  Nations 
the means to bring  about  effective  cooperation  in the name of peace  and 
progress.  We must  do our  utmost  to  take  full  advantage  of  it. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General Assembly,  I wish  to  thank 
the President  of  the Republic  of Kazakhstan  for  the  statement  he has  just made. 
Mr. Nursultan  Nazarbaev.  President  of  the Republic  of Kazakhstan,  was 
escorted  from  the General  Assembly  Hall. 
A/47/PV.24 
16 
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued) 
GENERAL DEBATE 
Mr. PURSOO (Grenada):  It is with profound pleasure that my 
delegation conveys to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session the 
greetings and best wishes of the Government and people of Grenada. 
We wish to extend to you. Sir, warm congratulations on your election to 
the presidency of the General Assembly at this session.  My delegation 
commends Mr. Samir Shihabi of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the excellent 
manner in which he conducted the business of the forty-sixth session of the 
General Assembly. 
We take this opportunity also to extend congratulations to the new 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to commend him for the 
strong leadership he has brought to the United Nations and for the dedication 
with which he has carried out his duties since assuming office. 
The delegation of Grenada is delighted to welcome to the United Nations 
the 13 new Members:  Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, 
Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino, 
Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. 
The current world situation presents a scenario of unmistakable 
complexities.  The end of the cold war, rapid democratization world wide, the 
emergence of new national sentiments, intolerance towards ethnic, religious 
and cultural differences and the formation of regional economic blocs have 
brought about a restructuring of programmes and a reordering of agendas 
locally, regionally and globally.  Economic interests now appear to be given 
precedence in most, if not all, considerations. 
The proponents of those changes declare their objectives to be the 
creation of efficient and competitive production systems, free trade and 
A/47/PV.24 
17 
(Mr. Pursoo.  Grenada) 
absolute freedom  from  control  of market  forces.  But  those  objectives,  though 
ostensibly neutral,  are  in fact  heavily  tilted  in  favour  of  the 
technologically  advanced  economies  and  insensitive  to  the  capacities  and 
priorities of the developing  countries. 
That there  are  other  equally  important,  even primary,  objectives  to be 
achieved by the  less  developed  countries  cannot  be  denied.  Indeed,  the market 
economy  is being perfected,  and  the  time  is  right  for  serious  responses  aimed 
at eradicating  the  conditions  of poverty  and  deprivation  that  are  so 
widespread  in the modern world.  That  process must  be  activated with  the 
urgent aim of ensuring  that  economic  progress  is buttressed  by  social  equity, 
freedom  from want,  good  health  and  education  and  the enjoyment  of basic  human 
rights.  Those  concerns will  no doubt  be  addressed  at the proposed  World 
Summit  for Social Development,  which my  Government  is pleased  to  support.  If 
we fail to develop  strategies  and programmes  to address  those  problems,  then 
the impending  conditions  of  increased  hunger,  poverty  and  social  deprivation 
can culminate  in very  serious  global  unrest  and  instability. 
Grenada  is dealing with  this  new  cold economic world  at both  the  domestic 
and regional  levels.  I wish  to make  it clear  that  the Government  and people 
of Grenada  recognize  and  accept  that  the  responsibility  for  the  advancement  of 
our country  rests,  first  and  foremost,  sguarely  on our  shoulders. 
Grenada has  taken  steps  to  restructure  its economy  in the  face of  severe 
fiscal deficits, which  threatened  to erode  our  credit-worthiness,  deny  us 
space for growth  and  development  and  pauperize  our  people.  Our  self-imposed 
structural  adjustment  programme  has  its  social, political  and  other  costs. 
However, my  Government  is convinced  that with prudent management  of  our  very 
limited resources,  a willingness  to  sacrifice,  firm  and  cohesive  political 
A/47/PV.24 
18-20 
(Mr. Pursoo. Grenada,) 
leadership  and  external  assistance, we will  in due  course  restore  our economic 
well-being  and place  our  country  on a sound growth path.  My  delegation is 
happy  to  report  that  some  improvements  have  already  been  realized,  and we look 
forward  to achieving  all  the goals  of our  structural  adjustment  programme.* 
* 
Mr. Jesus  (Cape Verde), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.24 
21 
(Mr. Pursoo.  Grenada) 
Small countries,  in particular  small  developing  island  countries with  all 
the particular  difficulties  that  development  presents  to them,  can hardly 
compete in the world  arena with developed  countries.  While  demonstrating  our 
determination  to help  ourselves, we  appeal  to donor  countries  to give  renewed 
consideration  to  the difficulties  confronting  small  developing  island 
countries; and we  appeal  to the  international  community  in general  for  the 
concessions we  need  to  attain  our  development  goals. 
As we meet  at  this  forty-seventh  session  of  the General  Assembly,  a 
number of small  island  States  in the Caribbean,  highly  dependent  on the  banana 
industry, are  faced with  an uncaring  call  by certain  countries  to have  bananas 
placed within  the  framework  of  the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT).  My  delegation  submits  that  the  outcome  of  such  a campaign  could wipe 
out the banana  industry  in our  islands.  The  resulting  social hardships  and 
political  instability  are  costs which will  be  ruinous  to our  societies.  These 
situations  can be  avoided  if present  conditions  continue  to prevail.  Grenada 
reiterates  is appeal  for  flexibility  on  the banana  issue  and  calls  upon  the 
pro-tariff  lobby  to  relax  its efforts. 
At this particular  time  in the history  of  the Caribbean  region, we  are 
seized of the urgency  to organize  our  response  to the new  international 
order.  Earlier  this year,  regional  Governments  received with pleasure  the 
report of the West  Indian Commission,  which was mandated  to examine  the 
conditions of Caribbean  societies  and  to make  recommendations  for  preparing 
the region  for  the  economic,  political  and  social  challenges  of  the 
twenty-first  century.  The  report  of  the Commission  was very  inspiring.  It 
points the  region  along  certain beneficial  paths, and Grenada  looks  forward  to 
the full consideration  of  the Commission's  recommendations  by Caribbean  heads 
of Government  in  the near  future. 
A / 4 7 / P V . 24 
22 
(Mr.  P u r s o o.  Grenaflal 
The  recently  concluded United Nations  Conference  on Environment and 
Development  (UNCED) heralded  a new beginning  and was  undoubtedly  one of the 
most  significant  undertakings  of  the United Nations.  My  Government wishes to 
applaud Mr. Maurice  Strong  and  the entire UNCED  secretariat  for  the successful 
conclusion  of  that  summit  and  to extend  our  congratulations  to the Government 
of  Brazil  for  successfully  hosting  the Conference.  Its  real  achievements 
should become manifest over  time  through  the  implementation  of  the work plan 
on sustainable  development. Agenda  21, which  comprehensively  addressed the 
critical  indivisibility  of development  and  concern  for  the  environment.  My 
Government  is also pleased with  the conventions  on  climate  change  and 
biological  diversity which were opened  for  signature  at the Rio  summit.  We 
look  forward  to an early  implementation  of both  conventions.  The  Government 
of Grenada urges  conscientious  efforts  to establish  the mechanisms, strategies 
and  the  resource  commitments  agreed  to.  From  the perspective  of  small island 
States  in particular,  this  is an absolute  necessity. 
Our overriding  concern  for the welfare  of our people  and  the 
wholesomeness  of our environment, in particular  the  fragile marine  environment 
upon which we  are heavily  dependent, compels  us  to  register  a most  vigorous 
protest  against  the planned  shipment of  tons of  radioactive material  through 
the Caribbean  Sea later  this month. 
The problems  of  illicit drug  trafficking  and money-laundering  have now 
reached  levels  that  no country  is able  to combat  single-handedly.  Indeed, the 
security  and  sovereign  integrity  of  our  State, the  rule of  law  and  the 
well-being  of our  economic  and  financial  institutions  demand  that we persevere 
in this  fight.  My  Government wishes  to  take  advantage  of  this occasion to 
express  its appreciation  for  the efforts  undertaken by  a number  of developed 
A/47/PV.24 
23 
(Mr. Pursoo.  Grenada) 
countries to assist developing nations  in the campaign against  the drug 
trade.  We appeal  for  increased multilateral  support  to  institute 
comprehensive measures  aimed  at the  reduction  of demand,  interdiction,  the 
rehabilitation of victims, and  appropriate punishment  for  the couriers  of  this 
particular  form of death  and  destruction. 
It is distressing  to note  that, while progress has been made  in the 
political sphere  in terms  of  the peaceful  resolution  of  certain conflicts  and 
the abatement of  ideological  tensions, the nerves  of  the  international 
community are being  shaken by  the  situation  in the Balkans, most  specifically, 
by the evidence of what  is being  described  as  "ethnic  cleansing".  Recognizing 
that peace and  stability  are essential  to the promotion of  social progress, 
the Government  of Grenada wishes  to  reaffirm  its  support  for United  Nations 
attempts to halt  the  fighting  in Yugoslavia,  and we  call  upon  the 
international  community  to act  in a concerted manner  to put  a stop  to what 
could escalate  into  a larger  and more  intractable  conflict. 
My Government  continues  to be  keenly  interested  in the situation  in South 
Africa.  The persistent  violence  clearly  threatens  the negotiating  process  and 
delays the transition  to a democratic  South Africa.  We  are concerned  that 
while strides have been made  to dismantle  the pillars  of  apartheid, greater 
efforts must be made  to accelerate  the pace of  reforms, so as to enhance  the 
climate for free political  activity  and genuine  democracy.  The Government of 
Grenada therefore welcomes  recent positive  signals pointing  to the  resumption 
of dialogue between  the African National  Congress  and  the Government of  South 
Africa. 
My Government  also welcomes  the peace  talks  currently  taking place  among 
the key parties  to the Middle  East  conflict  and wishes  to counsel  continued 
A/47/PV.24 
24-25 
(Mr. Pursoo.  C r e n el 
dialogue  and  flexibility  in order  to bring  lasting  solutions  to that  region's 
problems. 
Over  the  last year,  numerous  initiatives  to  reinstate  ousted  Haitian 
President  Jean  Bertrand  Aristide  have  been  frustrated.  Sanctions  announced by 
the Organization  of American  States have  not produced  the  anticipated  results 
because  of  the evident  unwillingness  of  some  countries  to enforce  the 
measures.  My  Government wishes  to reiterate  its  support  for  the  return to 
power  of  the  constitutionally  elected  Government  of Haiti  and  calls upon the 
international  community  to continue  to support  the  restoration  of Haiti's 
democracy. 
The  international  community  is now  reasonably  expecting  greater United 
Nations  involvement  in the maintenance  of global  peace  and  security.  At the 
same  time, more  attention  and  resources  are expected  to be  focused  on the 
economic,  social, cultural  and humanitarian  needs of  the  developing 
countries.  My  delegation wishes  to encourage  greater  efforts  to  realize the 
benefits  of peace dividends  and  to channel  them  towards  those needs. 
The  Government  of  Grenada  is cognizant  of  the  challenging  efforts at 
revitalization  being  undertaken  throughout  the United Nations  system  so as to 
increase  efficiency  and  cost-effectiveness.  We  anticipate  that  this 
revitalization  will  emphasize  the priorities  of  the  countries most  in need 
the developing  countries.  We  are convinced  that  the  regional  economic 
commissions  are  in a good  position  to deal with  a wide  range  of  development 
issues  and  should  thus be given greater  autonomy  in  the  implementation of 
regional  programmes. 
A/47/PV.24 
26 
(Mr. Pursoo.  Grenada) 
The  financial  difficulties  confronting  the United Nations  are of  deep 
concern to Grenada,  as  I am  sure  they  are  to many Member  States.  We  recognize 
the importance  of  a  financially  strong United Nations with  the capacity  to 
deal effectively with  problems  of  an economic,  social, cultural  or 
humanitarian  character,  to promote  peace,  security,  respect  for human  rights 
and fundamental  freedoms.  At  the  same  time,  it  is true  that many  Governments 
are experiencing  severe  difficulties  in meeting  their primary  financial 
obligations.  It  is hardly  the  time  for  additional  commitments  due  to  reckless 
causes and  senseless  conflicts. 
As we  approach  the end of  the  International  Decade  of Disabled  Persons, 
we must  acknowledge  that  too  little  has been done  to enable  disabled  persons 
to see themselves  as equal  citizens.  In this  regard my  Government  takes  this 
opportunity  to encourage  measures  aimed  at enhancing  the  fuller  participation 
and welfare  of didsabled  persons  in their  respective  societies. 
Despite  the  tremendous  amount  of work  to be done  in order  to build  and 
consolidate democracy  and  improve  the  standard  of  living  for  peoples 
everywhere, Grenada  believe  that, with  the collective  efforts  of  all  States 
and the purposeful  involvement  of  the United Nations, our  aspirations will  be 
achieved. 
Mr.  SIPASEUTH  (Lao People's  Democratic  Republic)  (spoke  in Lao; 
interpretation  from  French  text  furnished  by  the delegation):  Mr.  President, 
on behalf of  the delegation  of  the  Lao People's  Democratic  Republic,  I wish  to 
congratulate  you on your  election  to the presidency  of  the  forty-seventh 
session of  the  General  Assembly.  I am  convinced  that you will  brilliantly 
fulfil the  important  mission  conferred  upon you by  the  Assembly. 
A/47/PV.24 
27 
(Mr. Sipaseuth. Lao People's 
Democratic Republic) 
I also wish to express sincerest congratulations to the 
Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has assumed 
his office and high responsibilities at a time when the world situation 
requires that the United Nations play an important role. 
We cannot miss this opportunity to pay a special tribute to his 
predecessor. His Excellency Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, for his active 
contribution to the defence of our Organization's cause. 
We warmly welcome the presence among us of new Members:  the Republic of 
Armenia, the Azerbaijani Republic, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the 
Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Georgia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 
Republic of Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova, the Republic of San Marino, 
the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and the 
Republic of Uzbekistan.  Their admission is an important step towards the 
universality of our Organization. 
The global situation is in a state of profound change, both complex and 
full of new promise.  With the breakup of the Eastern bloc, military and 
nuclear confrontation have progressively waned.  None the less, numerous civil 
conflicts, ethnic struggles, religious clashes and border conflicts continue 
to disturb many countries of the world, thus seriously threatening 
international peace, stability and security. 
All of this not withdstanding, it must be noted that the world climate is 
evolving towards co-operation, development and the settlement of global 
problems, including those related to poverty, to misery and to the environment. 
In the changing world in which the new international order is beginning 
to take shape, the United Nations must play a central role in the collective 
A/47/PV.24 
28 
(Mr. Sipaseuth. Lao  People's 
Democratic  Republic) 
effort to define  this  new order, which  should  respond  equitably  to the  rights 
and interests  of  all  countries  and peoples without  discrimination  and must  be 
based on the principles  of  peaceful  coexistence  and  those  of  the United 
Nations Charter.  It  is therefore  necessary  to  revitalize,  restructure  and 
democratize  the United Nations  if we want  the Organization  to be capable of 
the tasks  that  lie  ahead  in this  new  era. 
We are  still  in an uncertain world  characterized  by many  problems  and 
conflicts  in different  regions. 
In Europe,  the  situation  prevailing  in  former Yugoslavia  continues  to 
deteriorate  dangerously.  It  is a major  source  of  concern  for  the 
international  community,  as well  as  a threat  to  regional  and global  peace  and 
security.  The  international  community  must  take  appropriate measures  to put 
an end to that  ethnic  conflict  in order  to  restore peace,  security  and  normal 
life to that part  of  the  world. 
In South Africa,  despite  certain political  reforms  the  foundations  of  the 
apartheid  system  remain  intact.  The  Pretoria  regime  continues  to  resort  to 
violence  to repress  the black  population, while  the African National  Congress 
of South Africa  (ANC)  is forcefully  and  constructively  pursuing  its  struggle 
for the triumph  of  its  just  cause.  The  Lao Government  fully  associates  itself 
with the international  community  in  its efforts  to  support  the  struggle  of  the 
great majority  of  that  people  in order  to make  South Africa  a democratic  and 
non-racial  country. 
In the Middle  East,  the  situation  remains  tense  and precarious.  Israel 
is perpetuating  its occupation  of  Palestinian  territory  and of  the other  Arab 
territories.  We  reaffirm  the view  that  every effort  for peace  now  under  way 
A/47/PV.24 
29-30 
(Mr. Sipaseuth.  Lao  People's 
Democratic  Republic) 
with  a view  to a just,  comprehensive  and  lasting  solution  in the Middle East, 
at  the heart  of which  is  the question  of Palestine,  should work  towards rapid 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967) and  338  (1973) and 
the other  resolutions  of  the United Nations  calling  for  Israel's  withdrawal 
from  all  occupied  Arab  lands,  as well  as  recognition  of  the  Palestinian 
people's  right  to  self-determination. 
In the Persian  Gulf,  following  the end  of  the war  peace  and  security have 
not yet  been  established  because  of  threats  of  and  attempts  at  further 
hostilities. 
A/47/PV.24 
31 
(Mr. Sipaseuth. Lao  People's 
Democratic  Republic) 
In Western Asia,  Afghanistan  remains  a theatre  of  civil war.  The 
international  community  must  appeal  to all  the parties  concerned  to put  an 
immediate end  to their  conflicts  in order  to  achieve  national  harmony  among 
Afghans and to establish  political,  economic  and  social  stability. 
In the Korean peninsula,  the  signing  of  the North-South  Accord  on 
Reconciliation, Non-Aggression  and  Exchanges  and  the Joint  Declaration  on the 
Denuclearization  of  the Korean Peninsula  by  the Democratic  People's  Republic 
of Korea and the Republic  of  Korea has  contributed  to promoting  mutual 
understanding  and  trust.  It has  opened  up  a new prospect  for peace,  stability 
and cooperation  in the  Korean peninsula  and  strengthened  peace  and  security  in 
the North-East  Asian  region  and  in  the  rest of  the  world. 
In the South-East  Asian  region,  in spite  of  certain  factors  of 
instability,  the  situation  as a whole  is moving  towards  peace,  stability, 
cooperation and development  in the  interest  of  the peoples  of  the  entire 
region.  In this  context,  inspired  by  the desire  to  strengthen  relations  of 
friendship and  cooperation with neighbouring  countries,  the Lao  Government, 
applying its consistent  foreign policy  based  on  the  five principles  of 
peaceful coexistence,  signed  the Treaty  of  Amity  and Cooperation with  the 
Kingdom of Thailand,  became  a party  to the Treaty  of  Bali  of  1976.  It has 
also become an Association  of  South-East  Asian Nations  (ASEAN) observer.  It 
j 
will continue  to work  firmly  for  fruitful  cooperation  in South-East  Asia, with 
a view to promoting  the progress  and prosperity  of  the  region,  thus 
contributing  to promoting  peace  and development  the world  over. 
A/47/PV.24 
32 
(Mr.  Sipaseuth. Lao  People's 
Democratic  Republic) 
As  regards  the question  of Cambodia, the  signing  of  the Paris Agreements 
of  23 October  1991 laid the  foundations  for  a comprehensive  political 
settlement  to  the conflict, making  it possible  to put  an end  to the  suffering 
endured by  the Cambodian people during  a long period  of  civil war  and to 
establish peace  and  tranguillity  in the noble  land of Angkor.  Complete 
compliance with, and  implementation  of, these Agreements  is required  to meet 
the aspirations  and  the  interests  of  the Cambodian people. 
In my  own country, the  implementation  of our policy  of  renewal has led to 
important  successes.  Political  stability  and  social  order  are  solidly 
guaranteed.  Democracy  and  the  right of  collective  decision-making  by the 
people have developed  steadily  in accordance with  our  level  of economic and 
social  development  and  the customs  of  the country.  The  adoption  last year by 
the National  Assembly  of  the  first Constitution  of  the Republic makes it 
possible  for  our  country  to move progressively  towards  a State of  law.  In the 
framework  of  that policy we  are focusing  all  our  efforts  on  freeing the 
country  of underdevelopment.  To  this end we have  encouraged  foreign 
investment,  intensified  cooperation with other  countries  and  taken advantage 
of  all economic  sectors  employing market-economy  mechanisms  in order  to tap 
all our  national potential  and  to  improve  the physical  and  spiritual  living 
conditions  of  our people. 
The world  economy  is  in a state of  uncertainty.  Last year  it experienced 
the  first global  recession  since  the  1940s.  Moreover,  the  recovery  remains 
weak  and precarious.  The  developing  countries  continue  to  suffer  from 
coercive  economic  policies  and practices.  The  stifling  burden of  foreign 
A/47/PV.24 
33 
(Mr.  Sipaseuth. Lao  People's 
Democratic  Republic) 
debt, the decline  in resources  allocated  to development, the deterioration  of 
the terms of  trade, the worsening  of  the outflow  of  capital, the drop  in 
commodity prices, the  rise  in protectionism  and  limited  access  to modern 
technology all obstruct  their  economic  progress  at a time when  reforms  and 
readjustments  are under way.  Since  the world  economy  is a single entity whose 
components are  interdependent  and  interrelated,  it  is urgently  necessary 
indeed, crucial 
to develop  a new world  consensus  and  to obtain  a commitment 
to the strengthening  of  international  cooperation, and  in particular  the 
revitalization of  the economic  growth  and development  of  the  developing 
countries, in order  successfully  to  implement  the economic  strategy  of  the 
Fourth United Nations  Development  Decade, 1991-2000. 
One of the most  important  issues  related  to development  is that of  the 
environment, which  is at the  forefront  of our  international  concerns.  Climate 
change, air, sea and ocean pollution, desertification  and  the depletion  of  the 
ozone layer have  all had  a negative  impact on our  lives  and on the  future of 
mankind.  In this  respect, we believe  that  the  recent United Nations 
Conference on Environment  and Development, which was held  in Rio  de Janeiro, 
laid the foundations  of  international  agreement  on cooperation  aimed  at 
integrating  the environment  into  all development  activities.  It will 
therefore be up to the United Nations  and  its specialized  agencies  to 
implement effectively  Agenda 21. 
At the  same  time, the aspirations  of  the  international  community  to a 
better guality of  life  and  social progress have become more pressing  and 
increasingly  important.  In  fact, protection  of  the environment,  promotion 
A/47/PV.24 
34-35 
(Mr. Sipaseuth. Lao People's 
Democratic  Republic) 
of  economic  growth  and  development,  and  the eradication  of  poverty  are 
mutually  reinforcing  and  require  a new global  partnership.  In  this framework, 
we  are awaiting with  interest  the planned  convening  of  the World  Summit  for 
Social  Development. 
The problem  of  the  illicit  traffic  in narcotic  drugs  remains  a source of 
global  concern.  The  struggle  against  this  scourge  requires  concerted,  strong 
action by  all  countries.  For  its part,  in order  to contribute  to the 
international  effort  the Lao Government  has  cooperated  in  the  sphere of 
integrated  rural  development  with  certain  interested  countries,  especially 
neighbouring  countries,  as well  as with  international  organizations,  including 
the United Nations  International  Drug  Control  Programme,  and we  are prepared 
to  continue  this  cooperation. 
In conclusion,  the Lao delegation wishes  to assure  the  President, 
Mr. Stoyan Ganev  of Bulgaria,  of  its complete  cooperation.  We will work in a 
constructive  spirit with other  delegations  to contribute  to  the  success of 
this  session of  the General  Assembly. 
A/47/PV.24 
36 
Mr. HURST (Antigua and Barbuda):  Exactly 500 years ago, in 1492, 
two worlds collided.  That collision completely altered the fate of human 
civilization and the destinies of the two peoples involved.  One people 
achieved ascending heights; the other virtually disappeared.  What remains of 
the indigenous populations of the Caribbean, or much of the "new world", 
serves as a measurement of man's ability to be brutish in the pursuit of 
wealth.  My Caribbean island country has been more than a witness of change in 
the 500-year decline, transformation and recreation of the region.  From 
conquest through slavery, from colonial hegemony to political independence, 
Antigua and Barbuda has been a maker of history in the Caribbean and, indeed, 
in the larger region. 
In 1992, however, our country stands, with the rest of the world, on the 
threshold of yet another momentous collision.  This time the collision is 
between human civilization and nature; this time there are no ascending 
heights; this time humanity itself could disappear. 
For 500 years, from Columbus to Rio, our forests and our oceans, our air 
and our lands - the Earth's gifts to humanity  have been wrongly regarded as 
inexhaustible and unchanging.  "If Columbus uncovered our Earth's expanse, Rio 
revealed its limits."  Humanity, all agree, cannot march along on its present 
course for another 500 years.  In fact, humanity cannot proceed with business 
as usual for even another 100 years.  Island countries, like my own and others 
in the Caribbean and in the Pacific, stand in real danger of being submerged 
by swollen oceans.  Moreover, global warming, insidious climate change, 
ozone-layer depletion, the loss of forests and other dangers threaten 
humanity's very existence. 
Dramatic changes in the systems of production, distribution and disposal 
are required of the industrialized countries if we are to save ourselves. 
A/47/PV.24 
37 
(Mr. Hurst. Antigua and 
Barbuda) 
Developed  countries  cannot  consume  the Earth's  resources  at  current rates; 
developing  countries  cannot  be made  to  languish  in the  dusty exhaust of 
rapidly  accelerating  technological  societies.  Sustainable  development  that 
takes  account  of  environmental  costs must  begin  to guide  humanity's 
technological  future.  Only  the United Nations  and  its General  Assembly can 
construct  the new world which,  in Rio,  this  family of  nations  agreed to 
commence  building  immediately. 
It  is thus  fitting  that,  in 1992, a representative  of Bulgaria has been 
selected  to preside  over  the General  Assembly  at  its  forth-seventh  session. 
His  nation  is taking part  in a great  regional  experiment,  the outcome of which 
is sure  to  influence  the  course of human  civilization  worldwide.  Antigua and 
Barbuda hails  Bulgaria  for  its  courage,  and  I pledge  the  full  support of my 
delegation  for  the President  throughout  the  forty-seventh  session  of the 
General  Assembly. 
Permit me  to applaud  the outgoing  President,  Mr. Samir  Shihabi  of Saudi 
Arabia,  for his unfailing  efforts  to bring  reform  to  the United  Nations and 
for his  diligence  during  Saudi Arabia's  year-long  tenure.  This  community owes 
Mr.  Shihabi  a debt  that  can be  repaid  only  through  a continuous  effort to 
strengthen  the General  Assembly  during  the  coming years.  We must  focus our 
efforts  on economic,  social  and humanitarian matters with no  less vigour than 
is currently  directed  at political  and  security  concerns.  Antigua  and Barbuda 
can be  relied  upon  to promote  the multilateral  approach  to problem  solving, 
confident  that multilateralism  will  always prove  to be  superior. 
In that  regard,  it may be  recalled  that when we  commenced  the  forty-sixth 
session  of  the General  Assembly  one year  ago Haiti was  free.  The  first 
A/47/PV.24 
38 
(Mr. Hurst. Antigua  and 
Barbuda) 
democratically  elected  President  of Haiti  stood  at this podium.  The  United 
Nations had  contributed  to  the ending  of  tyranny  in the Caribbean's  oldest  but 
poorest Republic,  and  all delegations  celebrated  with  President  Aristide. 
Ten days  after  President  Aristide"s  triumphant  declaration  in this Hall, 
tyranny once again  raised  its ugly head  in our  sister  Caribbean  isle.  The 
military plotters who brutally  seized  power  in Haiti  one year  ago  are  still  on 
their perch.  But  this Assembly  will  never  rest  until democracy  is  restored 
and Haiti's people  are  again  free. 
Antigua  and Barbuda, working within  the  framework  established  by  the 
Organization of American  States, will  continue  to press  for  the expansion  of 
sanctions  in order  to isolate  further  the military  regime  in Haiti  and to 
return Haiti to democracy.  If we do not  succeed quickly  in Haiti, the United 
Nations will  risk  tarnishing  its well-earned  reputation  for being  able to 
tackle exceedingly  complex  problems  in extremely violent  situations  in other 
corners of the globe. 
In South Africa,  for  example. United  Nations  sanctions  have  assisted  in 
bringing the apartheid  regime  to the negotiating  table.  It was 46 years  ago, 
in 1946, that  India brought  the question  of  apartheid  in South Africa  to the 
attention of  the United Nations; today,  179 Member  States  are anxious  to  see 
legalized  racism  exorcized  from  the body  politic. 
Twelve weeks  ago, when  the  Security  Council  convened  to seek a  solution 
to the violence  in South Africa, my  delegation  gave notice  to  the  racist 
regime that  any  attempt  on  its part  to delay  the establishment  of  democracy  in 
South Africa by  fomenting  violence  would  cause  us to press  for  the 
reintroduction  of  the  sanctions  that  had been  relaxed.  We  repeat  our  pledge 
A/47/PV.24 
39-40 
(Mr. Hurst. Antigua and 
Barbuda) 
today.  While  they praise  the  courage  of  those who have  entered  into 
constitutional  talks, my  countrymen will  never  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that 
apartheid  is  an evil whose  demise  the world's  peoples  eagerly  await.  Until 
apartheid  is eliminated.  South Africa will  continue  to be  excluded  from this 
family of nations. 
Antigua  and Barbuda  takes  this opportunity  to welcome  to our  family the 
12 newly  independent  nations  that have  emerged with  the end  of  the cold war 
and  the collapse  of  an empire.  Island  countries  in the Caribbean  gained their 
independence, beginning  30 years  ago, during  the decline  of  another  empire. 
It  is thus with  a shared  sense  of exhilaration  that we welcome  Armenia, 
Azerbaijan,  Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  Croatia,  Georgia,  Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan, 
the Republic  of Moldova,  Slovenia, Tajikistan,  Turkmenistan  and Uzbekistan to 
membership  of  the United  Nations.  It may be  too  late  to  caution  our new 
Members  to avoid  the pitfalls  of  fierce nationalism  and unharnessed  ethnic 
rivalry.  Both  inevitably  lead to  fractious  and violent  turmoil, which, we 
know,  surely end without  victors.  All multiracial  and multi-ethnic  societies 
must  learn  to  settle historic  and current  differences  peacefully. 
A/47/PV.24 
41 
(Mr. Hurst. Antigua  and 
Barbuda) 
Notwithstanding  the domestic  discord which may  obtain  following  the 
arrival of  independence,  small nations which dwell  in the geopolitical  shadow 
of a giant must be  forever  diligent  in protecting  their  sovereignty.  The 
United Nations,  fostering  as  it does  respect  for  international  law,  remains 
the most  certain guarantor  of  a small nation's  independence. 
Knowing  the  importance  of  the United Nations,  therefore, we work  towards 
fashioning  a system which  responds  favourably  to  the  interests  of even  the 
least among equals.  Our world  parliament  cannot  become,  and must not  ever 
appear to have become,  the handmaiden  of  a few powerful Member  States.  The 
integrity of  the United  Nations  lies  in the  ability  of even  its  smallest 
Member to participate meaningfully  in shaping United Nations  policy. 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  thus welcomes  San Marino  to membership  in this our 
family of nations.  As our  smallest  Member  State, San Marino bears  a  special 
responsibility  to pronounce  on  the  responsiveness  of  the United Nations  to the 
initiatives of  the  less powerful.  Antigua  and Barbuda pledges  its  fullest 
co-operation with  the delegation  of  San Marino, now and  in the  future. 
We also  congratulate  the  Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  on 
demonstrating  a willingness  to  speak boldly  concerning matters  to which 
insufficient  attention has been paid.  United  Nations  leadership must  chart  a 
course which promotes peace,  justice  and  freedom wherever  these  cherished 
human values  are  in danger  of  disappearing. 
The danger  to cherished  human values  is also manifested  in 
underdevelopment.  Island  developing  countries,  and other  small  countries, 
must look  increasingly  to  the multilateral  institutions  for varied  assistance 
in finding  solutions  to vexing  problems.  The United  Nations  system  cannot 
A/47/PV.24 
42 
(Mr. Hurst. Antigua and 
Barbuda) 
reduce its economic and social development roles without adversely affecting 
prevailing material conditions. 
Notwithstanding this admonition, our experience confirms that development 
is also greatly influenced by good governance and the intelligent use of 
scarce resources, including investment capital.  While we have relied and will 
continue to rely on ourselves to provide good governance, our investment 
capital has to be imported.  Our small size, however, puts us at the mercy of 
the major capital markets, over which Antigua and Barbuda, like other small 
countries, exercises not one iota of control.  The United Nations, aware of 
the special disadvantages that are inherent in the small island developing 
country, must respond in a manner which appropriately reflects these 
circumstances. 
My delegation thus takes this opportunity to commend highly the United 
Nations Development Programme  (UNDP).  Its funding of, and support for, a 
number of beneficial projects within my region earns it great applause. 
However, we continue to object to the use of the per capita gross national 
product (GNP) device for determining development status and funding 
eligibility of small island countries.  For large countries, the device is 
perfect.  It was devised with large countries in mind.  But when applied to a 
small island country, the per capita GNP device results in a distortion. 
The measurement device fails to take into account the much higher cost 
per person which small populations incur for routine services that are 
provided at minimal cost to large populations, even large populations in poor 
countries.  It fails to reflect the inherent inability of our embryonic 
manufacturing industries to penetrate major markets because their production 
A/47/PV.24 
43 
(Mr. Hurst. Antioua  and 
Barbuda) 
levels reflect  small  size.  It  fails  to  reward  good  governance  and  sacrifice, 
preferring  instead  to believe  the  fiction  that  a well-run  small  island 
developing  country has graduated,  is developed  and,  hence,  in need  of no 
assistance because  a distorted  per  capita GNP  device  so determines.  We  are 
flattered  to be  regarded  as developed,  but  that  characterization  is 
inaccurate.  We  reject  the per  capita  GNP  device  and  therefore  call  for  the 
use of more  reliable  indicators when  assistance  to small  island  developing 
countries is  contemplated. 
In projects  relating  to  improvement  of  the  environment,  small  island 
developing  countries  have been  successful  in persuading  their  larger  partners 
to accept  the  fact  that  their  unique  vulnerabilities  require  special 
consideration.  In  this  regard,  Antigua  and Barbuda,  in its  country  report  to 
the United Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  (UNCED), 
identified high-priority  areas  pertaining  to  its heritage  resources  that 
require special  assistance.  It  is our hope  that  the UNDP  and  its capacity  21 
funding mechanism  will  be persuaded  to  acknowledge  our  special needs. 
Antigua  and Barbuda  applauds  the United Nations  Development  Fund  for 
Women (UNIFEM) for  its very  compelling  promotion  of  the  rights of women.  It 
takes no special  effort  for my  small  island  developing  country  to  recognize 
that successful  development  requires  the unhindered  contribution  of  every 
able-bodied  adult,  regardless  of gender.  The  elimination  of de  facto 
discrimination  against women  is therefore  of paramount  importance  in my 
country and my  region.  UNIFEM,  an active  partner  in the development  process, 
can rely upon Antigua  and  Barbuda's  solid  commitment  to  its  universal 
objective of empowering  women  in order  to strengthen  development  and  to  ensure 
that justice  is  gender-blind. 
A/47/PV.24 
44 
(Mr. Hurst. Antigua nffij 
Barbuda) 
The  injustices  heaped  upon  the heads  of  the world's  indigenous peoples 
must  also quickly  cease.  To  that end,  the United Nations  has declared 1993 
the  International Year  for  the World's  Indigenous  People.  In December 1993 
progress made will  be measured  by deeds, not words.  National  legislation and 
funded projects which  are  intended  to ensure  the  continued  survival of the 
indigenous peoples  that  inhabit  remote  corners  of  the  Earth must be in place. 
Having  lost  the  indigenous Arawaks  and Caribs  of Antigua  and Barbuda beginning 
in 1492, my  country  is duty-bound  to ensure  that powerless  indigenous people 
who have  inhabited  the  lands of  their  ancestors  for many millennia are 
adequately  protected  by  the United Nations. 
Each year, Antigua  and Barbuda brings  to the  attention  of  the Assembly 
the state of  affairs  prevailing  on Earth's  last uninhabited  continent 
Antarctica.  Last year, we  applauded when  the  26 voting members  of the 
Antarctic Treaty  Consultative  Parties entered  into  a binding  agreement 
forbidding mining  and oil exploration  on Antarctica  for  50 years, until the 
year  2040.  Although  the  agreement  successfully  curbs  this  generation's 
cupidity, we believe  that Antarctica must  never  become  the possession of large 
States  only.  Transforming  Antarctica  into  a world  park  or protected  area 
under  the umbrella of United Nations  control would  be  a more  certain guarantee 
of  its preservation. 
During  the past year, more  human beings  died of  starvation  and violence 
in Somalia  than the entire population  of my  country.  Tens  of  thousands more 
will  die  in the coming months by  self-inflicted  violence  complicated  by the 
ravages  of  nature.  The United Nations, recognizing  the desperation  of 
Somalia's  4.5 million people, must  further  increase  its efforts  to  find a 
solution  to the crisis. 
A/47/PV.24 
45 
(Mr. Hurst. Antigua  and 
Barbuda) 
On the question  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  the United Nations  has  spared 
no effort  to end  the  crisis.  The  European  Community  is apparently  determined 
that some  crises  require more  than  a regional  response.  Those  of us  from 
Latin America  and  the Caribbean, whose  regional  organization has  addressed  the 
intractable question  of Haiti with  little  success, have  the benefit  of  the 
European experience  as  a guide. 
A/47/PV.24 
46 
(Mr. Hurst. Antigua and 
Barbuda) 
My  country  rejoices with  the Central  American  countries  as peace blankets 
their  region.  The  sound  of working  hands has  replaced  the  sound  of working 
guns, we  are  told.  If  future  civil war  is to be prevented,  however,  the 
economic  systems which prevail  in Central  America must  become  far more 
inclusive:  the  sharing of wealth must  result  in more  than  a trickle going to 
the poor. 
The  trickling  flow of peace  in the Middle  East  is most  heart-warming. 
Antigua  and Barbuda  applauds  the  Israelis  and  the Palestinians  for  finally 
sitting  down  together  and  negotiating  their  future.  It  is our hope  that, 
soon,  Israel will be allowed  to exist within  secure  and  accepted  borders and 
that  the Palestinians  will have  a sovereign  State  of  their  own. 
We  rejoice  at the wave of peace which has  engulfed  Lebanon.  Despite the 
unresolved  problems, which  the electoral  system has  attempted  to address, 
Lebanon  is  facing  the  future with  a certainty  of peace  that  has eluded  it for 
more  than  a decade.  A  land  as beautiful,  as culturally  diverse  and  as full of 
so many warm  people  as  is Lebanon must pledge  to enter  the  twenty-first 
century  at peace with  itself. 
My  delegation  concludes by  recalling  that  the modern history  of our 
peaceful  Caribbean  began  500 years  ago when  another  world  collided  with it. 
The  pursuit  of  accumulated  wealth which propelled  one world  towards  the other 
remains  the motive  force  of  the dominant  civilization  of  today.  Yet,  complex 
webs  have  been weaved  into  this  underlying  theme, which  even  a  small  country, 
a  small place,  like mine  can  take  credit  in  reshaping. 
A/47/PV.24 
47 
(Mr. Hurst. Antioua  and 
Barbuda) 
For example, on  3 October  1736, exactly  256 years  ago this year, an 
unsuccessful  slave  revolution  took  place  in Antigua.  The  leaders  of  that 
revolution are the heroes of  the  freedom-loving  people  of Antigua  and 
Barbuda.  In 1736, our heroes  attempted  to destroy  a wicked  system  which 
guaranteed the most  certain  accumulation  of wealth  at the expense  of  human 
misery.  By our own choosing, therefore, Antiguans  and Barbudans  of  today, the 
descendants of  those  slaves  and  those  slave-masters, have declared  that  in our 
hierarchy of values  freedom  is superior  to all else. 
In 1992, the human being, not wealth  accumulation,  is at the centre of 
development and  civilization.  Yet, our  countries  are now engaged  in a great 
debate about  the  future, and the United Nations General Assembly  is the 
platform.  The  importance  of  keeping  the entire United Nations  system  from 
becoming homogenized  in its  thinking  is most  important  at a time when  the 
emerging new world order  is being  shaped  increasingly  by  a single Power. 
Our task  is not merely  to express  a differing point  of view, but  to 
demonstrate  in a concrete manner  that the  raison d'etre  of  the civilization of 
the next 500 years  has not yet been decided.  In fact, given  the threat  to the 
very existence of  small  islands  from  rising  sea levels, violent hurricanes, 
hazardous-waste  disposal  and other  looming  environmental  calamities, the 
burden of defining  the  future may very  likely  fall upon  the  thinkers  and 
actors from  these most vulnerable, small countries. 
Indeed, our  Prime Minister,  the Right Honourable V.  C. Bird, has 
frequently  said  that  small  size does not mean  small minds  or  the  absence  of 
grand ideas.  And  so, my  countrymen  and  I, having  learned well  the  lessons  of 
our history,  shall  continue  to do  all  in our power  at this United Nations  and 
elsewhere to  influence  the  future.  We  shall  rely upon our  collective  wisdom. 
A/47/PV.24 
48 
(Mr. Hurst. Antioua and 
Barbuda) 
the  strength of  our  institutions,  the vitality  of  our  youth,  and  the will of 
our  leadership  to exercise  that  influence.  Our  very  existence  reguires 
success;  and  so we  shall  succeed. 
Mr. TOURE  (Guinea-Bissau)  (interpretation  from  French):  On behalf 
of my  country  and  Government,  I should  like  first  of  all  to  convey  our 
congratulations  to Mr. Ganev on his  election  to  the presidency  of  the United 
Nations  General  Assembly  at its  forty-seventh  session.  His  competence  and the 
wealth  of experience  he has  acquired  during his  career  as  a diplomat  in the 
service  of his  country,  Bulgaria 
which  enjoys great prestige  on the 
international  scene 
constitute,  for the members  of  the Assembly,  a sure 
guarantee  for  the  success of our work. 
My  delegation particularly  welcomes  this  choice  of  President  because our 
two  countries  have good  relations, which  are marked,  among other  things, by 
the massive  assistance  which his  country gave  to  the heroic  liberation 
struggle of  our people  and of  the African Party  for  the  Independence  of Guinea 
and Cape Verde  (PAIGC) against  colonialism.  Because  of  this, I should like 
here  and now to assure him  of my  delegation's  cooperation  in carrying  out the 
lofty mission  the Assembly  has  just entrusted  to  him. 
My  delegation  offers  its congratulations  and  expresses  its gratitude to 
Mr.  Samir  Shihabi, who, with great  talent, wisdom  and  efficiency,  guided the 
work  of  the  forty-sixth  session.  We wish  him  every  success  in his  future 
endeavours. 
Our  congratulations  and our  thanks  also go  to the  Secretary-General of 
the United  Nations, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  for his  tireless,  constant, 
clear-sighted  and  successful  efforts  to safeguard  peace  and  security  the world 
over.  We  also pay  tribute  to the Secretary-General's  dedication,  to his 
A/47/PV.24 
49-50 
visionary ability  and his  capacity  to act, and,  particularly,  to his  concern 
for preserving  the prestige  and  the effectiveness  of  the United Nations  in all 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
circumstances. 
To his predecessor, Mr. Perez de Cuellar, who worked  relentlessly  for  the 
renewal of  the United  Nations  system,  the establishment  of  international  peace 
and security  and  development,  we extend  all our  congratulations  and  a ringing 
tribute  for  the work  he  accomplished  in the service of  the  international 
community.  We wish him  also every  success  in his  future  endeavours. 
A/47/PV.24 
51 
(Mr. Toure. Guinea-Bissau) 
The admission of new Members is an important stage in attaining the 
universality of the Organization, thereby enabling it to undertake greater 
action and giving it greater dynamism to achieve its objectives.  That is why 
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau welcomes with joy the new Members that have 
joined our great family since the forty-sixth session.  The delegation of the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau congratulates all those countries. 
The forty-seventh session is being held at a time when international 
relations have been given a new momentum for progress and dynamism; and this, 
thanks to far-reaching changes taking place in the world. 
The Secretary-General, at the request of the Security Council, has 
submitted to us a report entitled, "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277), in which 
he refers quite rightly to the concept of preventive diplomacy and the idea of 
the maintenance, strengthening and consolidation of peace throughout the 
world.  The Republic of Guinea-Bissau supports these initiatives. 
This new dynamic which today characterizes international relations, 
henceforth freed from the cold war, is a source of great hope for stability 
and opens up prospects for peace, understanding and cooperation which have 
enabled the United Nations to help in taking concrete initiatives for settling 
many conflicts. 
Yes, the world today has undergone extraordinary change.  Everywhere the 
movement in favour of better democratization and of respect for basic human 
rights is emerging.  We know that such claims will go unheeded if they are not 
accompanied by the same vital movement for prosperity and well-being. 
Furthermore, a number of important and dramatic events have afflicted us in 
A/47/PV.24 
52 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
recent times  and have  led  us  to be pessimistic.  I am convinced  that  today,  as 
in the past,  the Assembly  will  be  able  to  find  its bearings  again. 
The situation  in  southern Africa  is hardly  improving  in spite  of  the 
announcement  of  reforms  that will put  an end  to the  system  of  apartheid.  In 
view of  recent  developments  in that  country we  are  still  concerned.  However 
we are following with great  interest  measures  to  abolish  segregationist  laws 
adopted by the  South African  Government  and we  urge  it to  continue 
negotiations with  the  anti-apartheid  movements  for  the  final  elimination  of 
the apartheid  system  in that  country  where  the overwhelming majority  of  the 
population  still does  not have  the  right  to vote,  to decide  its own  future  and 
freely choose  its  leaders. 
Inter-ethnic  violence  caused  and maintained  by  certain  backward-looking 
forces continues  to bring  the  country bloodshed  and  affliction.  My  delegation 
invites the  international  community  to maintain pressure  on the South African 
Government  so that  the process  that  has begun may  lead  to the  total 
elimination of  apartheid  and  to the establishment  of  a democratic  and 
multiracial  society. 
The Assembly  is certainly  aware  of  the  fraternal  links of  friendship 
which bind  the people  of  Guinea-Bissau  to the brother  people of Angola. That 
is why the Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  its people  and  its Government  were 
overjoyed  at the peace  process  which has begun  in that  country  and which has 
led to the establishment  of  a multiparty  system  and of  democratic,  free  and 
universal elections. 
A/47/PV.24 
53 
(Mr. Toure. Guinea-Bissau) 
For  the Angolan people  new prospects  have  opened  up enabling  it to 
undertake  the  reconstruction  and development  of  its  sorely-tried  homeland.  On 
this  occasion  of  celebrating  peace  and  regained harmony  the Government of 
Guinea-Bissau  reiterates  its  fraternal  feelings  of  solidarity  and  its wishes 
for prosperity  for Angola. 
We  earnestly  hope  that  the peace process  in Mozambique  will have  the same 
outcome  and  that  the  international  community  might  soon be  able  to celebrate 
the end of  the painful  fate  into which  the  civil war has plunged  that 
country.  We  encourage  the Mozambican  Government  to continue  along the path of 
dialogue  and we exhort  RENAMO  to  show good will  in order  to allow  for the 
speedy  establishment  of peace  in that  country  so  sorely  tried by  so many years 
of violence. 
In Western Sahara we hope  that  the necessary  conditions will  quickly be 
met  so that  a referendum  on  self-determination  under  the  aegis of  the United 
Nations  might be held  as  soon as possible  in order  to establish  a lasting 
climate  of peace  and  security  in that  region. 
In Liberia  as well, the efforts  of  the Economic  Community  of West African 
States  (ECOWAS)  to create  an atmosphere  that would  lead  to a normalization of 
the political  situation  and  to the holding  of democratic  elections, have, 
unfortunately,  not yet borne  fruit.  We  reiterate  our  appeal  to  the warring 
parties, especially  the National  Patriotic  Forces  of Liberia,  to  comply 
scrupulously  with  the Yamoussoukro  agreements, especially  the  agreement 
reached  on 30 October  1991. 
The quest  for  a dynamic  solution  for  a global  settlement  of  the problems 
of  that  country  are based  on essential  respect  for  the  rights  of  all.  It does 
A/47/PV.24 
54 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
not depend only on  the willingness  of  States  and people  in the  region;  it must 
also commit  all of  us who,  for various  reasons, have  an  impact  on  the 
behaviour of the various  protagonists  so that  there might be  a lasting  and 
just peace. 
Somalia has become  a field  of  carnage  and of  constant  concern  to the 
international  community.  For  some  time now we have been  seeing  a  fratricidal 
civil war with disastrous  consequences  for that  country  and  its  defenceless 
civilian population.  The Assembly,  a forum  for heightening  awareness  and a 
court of appeal, will  not  fail  to  ask  the international  community  to give more 
coherent and concrete  assistance  in the  face of  this  new development  in order 
to bring this bloody  and  outrageous  conflict  to an end.  We  appeal most 
urgently to the parties  involved  in the conflict  to comply with  the  agreements 
signed in Djibouti  and  to agree  to mitigate  the  sufferings  of  that  brave 
people.  The Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  for  its part,  supports  any proposal  to 
find a peaceful  solution  to this  conflict  as  soon as possible. 
In the Horn of Africa there  is also  Ethiopia,  the authorities of which we 
would like to encourage  to  continue  the dialogue  begun  for  lasting peace  and 
security in that  country  and  in the  region. 
In the Middle  East, we  are  convinced  that peace  is possible  if the 
parties to the conflict  are  imbued  with the necessary  political will. 
Guinea-Bissau hopes  that  a rapid,  negotiated  solution might  be  found  to the 
problem of the Middle  East  so that  the peoples  of  that  region might  be able  to 
live in peace.  The  Palestinian  people  are however  entitled  to a homeland,  to 
A/47/PV.24 
55 
(Mr. Toure. Guinea-Bissau) 
a  sovereign  State, within  secure  and  internationally  acknowledged  borders.  My 
country  therefore  supports  and encourages  all  the  initiatives  undertaken to 
restore peace between  the Palestinian  and  Israeli  peoples. 
We welcome  the prospects  opened  up  for  the  restoration  of peace  and 
security  in Lebanon.  The whole world  admires  the  courage  of  the Lebanese and 
I am certain  that  the whole world will help  them  to bring  about  the triumph of 
their  ideas.  The  Lebanese  people will  find  a source  of  justified  pride in 
this. 
A/47/PV.24 
56 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
In Cambodia,  new prospects  for  a lasting peace were  opened  after  the 
negotiations.  One  of  the most  recent  prospects  is the organization  of  free 
elections, being prepared  with  the welcome  assistance  of the United  Nations, 
which we  should  like  to  commend  and encourage.  We believe  and hope  that  the 
organization of  these  free  and democratic  elections will put  an end  to the 
long years  of  suffering  endured  by  the heroic  people  of  Cambodia. 
As to the question  of  East Timor, the Republic  of Guinea-Bissau  is hoping 
for an acceptable  and  speedy  peaceful  conclusion  to  this  serious  problem, 
which is a source  of  concern  to us.  The Maubere  people must  regain  its 
legitimate  right  to  self-determination  and  independence,  if  it so wishes.  I 
repeat:  if  it  so wishes.  That  is why we welcome  the high-level meeting  of 
delegations of  Portugal  and  Indonesia under the  auspices  of  the United  Nations 
with a view to  finding  the necessary  framework  for a settlement  suitable  to 
all the parties  to the  conflict.  We  should  like to assure  all  the parties 
involved  in the process  of  seeking  a favourable  and  speedy  outcome of  the 
conflict of our  availability  and  support. 
In spite of  their  admission  to the United  Nations, the two Koreas have 
yet to find  common ground  for  the  reunification  of the great  Korean  nation. 
The Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau  is privileged  to have good  economic  and 
diplomatic  relations with  the  two Koreas  - north  and  south.  That  is why we 
appeal to them  to  continue  negotiations  for the  speedy  reunification  of  the 
great Korean  homeland. 
Similarly,  the Republic  of Guinea-Bissau  urges  the Cypriot  communities  to 
continue negotiations, with  the assistance  of  the Secretary-General,  for a 
peaceful  settlement  of  the Cypriot  conflict. 
A/47/PV.24 
57 
(Mr. Toure. Guinea-Bissau) 
The Republic  of Guinea-Bissau,  again within  the  context  of  the quest for 
peace  and harmony  among nations, has  undertaken  diplomatic  relations of 
cooperation  and  friendship with  all  countries  throughout  the world  that 
fervently  seek peace  and  justice. 
Guided  by  this  thinking, we  also maintain  diplomatic  relations of 
cooperation  and  friendship with  the Republic  of  China  (Taiwan).  That  is why 
we  support  and endorse  the  reference made  to that  country by  the President of 
Nicaragua  from  this  rostrum. 
In this  regard, we pay  a well-deserved  tribute  to  the valuable  assistance 
given  to my  country's  development  efforts  by  another  country  from  the 
developing world 
the Republic  of China 
whose economic  performance, which 
now puts  it among  the major  economic  Powers of  the world,  is  in many  regards 
exemplary. 
In Latin America,  we welcome  and  support  the peace  process  begun under 
United Nations  auspices  for the  restoration  of  security  and  stability  in that 
region. 
Since  the developments  of  30 September  in Haiti, President  Aristide, the 
constitutionally  elected  President,  and his Government  are  still waiting to 
take up  their  legitimate  places, to which  they  are entitled.  The 
international  community  and  the Organization  of American  States  should help 
them  in that  regard.  Guinea-Bissau,  which hopes  for  a peaceful  and  speedy 
settlement  of  that  conflict,  urges  all  the parties  involved  to heed  reason and 
to  respect  the basic  rights of  the Haitian  people. 
The growing  tension  and  conflict  in Central  and Eastern  Europe  are 
jeopardizing  international  peace  and  security. 
A/47/PV.24 
58 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
Guinea-Bissau  is anxiously  following  the evolution  of  the  situation  in 
the former Yugoslavia.  Each day we  deplore  the violence  and  the hatred  in the 
confrontations  that have  cost  so many  human  lives.  That  is why  the  Republic 
of Guinea-Bissau  commends  the  initiatives  and  the efforts  of  the United 
Nations, through  its  Secretary-General,  and of  the European  Economic  Community 
with a view to achieving  a peaceful  solution  to  the  inter-ethnic  conflict. 
The successful missions  already  conducted  and  the  restored  confidence  in 
the Organization give  solid grounds  for  satisfaction  and,  above  all, for 
hope.  The Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau  hopes  that  all  those  involved  in  conflict 
will rediscover  the virtues  of dialogue  and  cooperation,  which  are the only 
arms that  lead  to peace. 
The Government  of General  Joao Bernardo Viera,  President  of  the  Council 
of State of  the Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  has  committed  all  of  Guinea-Bissau 
to a process of pluralist  democratization  and  to  the establishment  of  a State 
of law, as well  as to the  improvement  and  recovery  of  the economy, with  a view 
to greater  social  justice. 
The process  of  democratization  now under way  in Guinea-Bissau  is 
perceived everywhere  as the  clear  sign of  fundamental  change, whose goal  is 
justice, social  stability  and greater  well-being.  So that  it can be  effective 
and practical, this process  is based  on my  country's historical  social  and 
cultural realities. 
In our view,  the  recent  adoption  of our  Electoral  Law narrows  the gap 
between the aspirations  of our people  and  reality,  and gives  all  citizens  the 
means to express  themselves  freely  and  indeed  to be  free.  The  progressive 
A/47/PV.24 
59-60 
(Mr. Toure. Guinea-Bissau) 
disengagement  of  the  State  from  the  industrial  and  commercial  sector, the 
encouragement  of private  initiative,  the promotion  of private property  and the 
creation of  conditions  of  social  stability,  unity  and national  cohesion are at 
the heart  of these  transformations  now taking place  in our  country. 
However,  experience  has  shown  that  the  attainment  of  democratic 
objectives  in African  countries  is necessarily  accompanied  by  some degree of 
problems  and of questioning.  The  determination  to democratize  is 
unfortunately  facing  difficulties  that  stem  from  the  implementation  of 
structural  adjustment  policies, which,  it  should  be  stressed,  do not have the 
expected  donor  support.  This  situation worsens  the  state  of  impoverishment 
and  the  feeling  of  frustration  of our  peoples.  The  dependence  of 
Guinea-Bissau,  in particular,  and of African  States,  in general, on 
international  agencies  and bilateral  partners  is thereby  strengthened. 
There  can be no doubt  that we  are at  a uniquely  decisive  and historic 
stage  in which  all efforts must  converge  to  strengthen  the positive  trends 
that we have  observed  and  to make  them  irreversible  and give  a new dimension 
to the  relations between parties  and  States.  This  new trend which  today 
characterizes  international  relations bears  the hope  of  stability  and has 
opened  up prospects  of peace  and  understanding. 
Guinea-Bissau  has, in every  instance, endeavoured  to work  in its foreign 
relations  towards  a policy based  on confidence,  dialogue  and  harmony. 
A/47/PV.24 
61 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
The process  of  democratic  openness  begun  in Guinea-Bissau  and  the 
resulting economic  liberalization  require  the constant  support  of  the 
international  community.  This  democratic  process  deserves  to be  supported, 
because there  can be  no  real  democracy without  development.  It  is  therefore 
clear  that  a democracy which  is not  founded  on a solid  economic  base  is but  an 
illusion. 
It is virtually  impossible  today  to discuss  international  relations 
without  recalling,  with  sadness, the  seriousness  of  the  economic  crisis  of  the 
developing  countries  in general  and  of  the African  countries  in particular. 
The decline  in export  earnings,  foreign debt  and  the  inadeguacy  of  resources 
for development,  compounded  by natural  disasters, have  served  to  further 
deteriorate  socio-economic  conditions  in many  countries. 
The United  Nations  has become  aware  of  this  situation  and has  adopted  the 
Programme  of Action  for African  Economic  Recovery  and Development  for  our 
benefit.  None  the  less, the  objectives  sought have not been  attained.  The 
response of  the developed  countries  and  of  international  economic  and 
financial  institutions  has  not been  commensurate  with  their  commitments, 
though most  of  the African  countries  have  agreed  to carry out  the  reforms 
imposed  upon  them. 
Africa  remains  ready, however,  to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to apply  the 
necessary  tranformation  policies,  as evidenced,  inter  alia, by the adoption of 
the African  Charter  for  Popular  Participation  in Development  and 
Transformation,  and  the proposals made  as a result  of  the  final  assessment  of 
the Programme.  The  new  framework  for  cooperation  must  ensure  sufficient 
resources; debt  reduction  and  cancellation;  and  the  adoption  of  lasting 
solutions  to  commodities  problems,  in the hope  that  the  agreement  thus  reached 
will receive  the  full  support  of Africa's  partners. 
A/47/PV.24 
62 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
In spite of  the  truly  commendable  efforts made by  the African  Governments 
in the  framework  of  implementing  programmes  of  structural  adjustment,  our 
economic  situation  and  living  conditions  are becoming  increasingly  difficult. 
The  Programme  of Action  for African Economic  Recovery  and  Development, 
1986  to  1990, which had given  rise  to  such hopes, unfortunately  has not 
responded  to the  legitimate  concerns  of  the African peoples  and  leaders for 
growth  and  for viable  economic  and  social  development. 
The  approaches  taken  thus  far  to  finding  a solution  to the  serious 
problem  of  debt, while  encouraging  in certain  respects,  are  far  from 
responding  to the  real economic  concerns  of  the developing  countries.  The 
search  for  a solution  to the  foreign-debt  problem  of  the  developing  countries 
must  not  only  involve  a further  strengthening  of  solidarity  in the 
international  community  and  shared  responsibility  between  creditors  and 
debtors, but must  also  take into  account  the growth objective  of  the 
developing  countries. 
As we noted  earlier,  the world  is experiencing  extraordinary  change. 
Everywhere,  the  trend  towards greater  democratization  and  towards  respect for 
fundamental  human  rights  is in evidence.  But we  know  that  these  demands will 
go unheeded  if  they  are not  accompanied  by an equally  vital  drive  towards 
well-being  and  prosperity. 
Furthermore,  the  international  community  must  give  special  attention to 
the  implementation  of  the Declaration  and Programme  of Action  for  the Least 
Developed  Countries  for  the  1990s, adopted  at  the Paris  Conference, which 
remains  a charter  for us  all. 
We make  a pressing  appeal  to  the  international  community  that  urgent and 
appropriate  action be  taken with  a view  to the  adoption  of  a  consistent 
A/47/PV.24 
63 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
programme  of  cooperation  for  the development  of  the developing  countries,  and 
above all, of Africa,  an almost  forgotten  continent. 
In this  respect, my  delegation welcomes  the  initiative  of  the  Japanese 
Government  to  convene  once  again  in 1993  a summit  conference  on  the 
development  of Africa,  as well  as the  French proposal, made by  President 
Francois Mitterrand,  to convene  a high-level  meeting  on  social  development. 
The course  charted  by  our  countries  towards greater  freedom  and  democracy 
supports the  concept  expressed  in the  "Human Development  Report"  recently 
published by  the United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP), which  recommends 
"a participative  form  of development  in which  the human being  is placed  at the 
center of  the  decision-making  process". 
In this  context, we  are gratified  by and we unreservedly  support  the 
decision to  convene  a World  Conference  on Human Rights  as planned  for  1993  in 
Vienna. 
Along  these  same  lines, women  in Guinea-Bissau participated  equally  with 
men in the  liberation  struggle  in our  country.  At  the  same  time, they  fought 
to win their  freedom  and  emancipation. 
It is for  all  these  reasons  that my Government  unreservedly  supports  the 
World Conference  on Women,  to be held  in 1995.  This  long-awaited  Conference 
wil provide  an opportunity  to  review at  a very high  level  the problems  of 
women in the  world. 
Sustainable  and  lasting  economic  and  social  development  can only  be 
achieved  in the  context  of  a healthy  environment.  In our  opinion,  the  Rio 
Conference was  a success, but  the  implementation  of  the decisions  reached  in 
that important  and high-level  forum will be even more  decisive.  After  the 
holding of  the United  Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development,  we 
A/47/PV.24 
64-65 
(Mr. Toure. Guinea-Bissani 
focus  our hopes  today  on the Commission  on  Sustainable  Development, which is 
to meet  at  the ministerial  level, and whose  task  it will  be  to  follow up the 
implementation  of  the programmes  contained  in Agenda  21 and  to  see to it that 
they  are  implemented  in an  integrated  manner. 
In that  connection, may  I, on behalf  of my  delegation,  extend  our warmest 
congratulations  and  sincerest  thanks  to Mr. Maurice  Strong  for the  remarkable 
work  that he  accomplished  at  the head  of  a team whose dynamism,  expertise and 
effectiveness  are  today  recognized  by all delegations.  Mr. Strong's tireless 
efforts  throughout  the preparatory process  as well  as his personal  commitment 
to the noble  task  assigned  to him by  the  international  community  were the best 
guarantee  of  the historic  success of  the Rio  de Janeiro  Conference.  It is our 
hope  and  our belief  that he  is among  the best-qualified  people,  if not the 
best-qualified  person,  to guide  the  initial  steps  of  the  secretariat  of that 
Commission.  This  is certainly  vital  to ensure  the effective  implementation 
and prompt  follow-up  of the commitments  reached  in Rio. 
In this  connection,  the secretariat  of  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  will  necessarily  require  an  identifiable  structure.  Its staff 
must  be highly  gualified  and conform  to an equitable  geographical 
distribution,  and  it must base  itself  on the experience  acquired  in the United 
Nations  Conference  on Environment  and Development  preparatory  process.* 
The  President  returned  to  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.24 
66 
(Mr. Toure.  Guinea-Bissau) 
The  idea of  rapidly  establishing  a structure  and  staff  for  the 
implementation of  the  recommendations  and decisions  of  the Rio  Conference 
prompts us to consider  that  solutions  to environmental  problems  must 
necessarily  take  into  account  development  in all  its dimensions, particularly 
in its regional  socio-economic  dimensions. 
Part of Guinea-Bissau, a member  of  the Permanent  Inter-State  Committee  on 
Drought Control  in the Sahel  (CILSS),  is  in a region afflicted  by drought.  We 
call urgently  for  the  rapid  establishment  of  an intergovernmental  committee 
that will be entrusted with  the development  of  an international  convention  to 
fight drought  and desertification.  The  Republic  of Guinea-Bissau  reaffirms 
once again its support of  the Bamako  Convention, which prohibits  the  importing 
of waste to Africa, and  the Bamako  Commitment  of  the African  countries 
regarding their priorities  in the  field of the environment. 
The World  Summit  for Children, held  in 1990, broke new ground  for  the 
improvement of  living  conditions  of  children  the world over. 
We have  adhered 
to and implemented  the decisions  and  recommendations  that came  out of  that 
Summit.  As our  immortal  leader  Amilcar  Cabral  said,  "Children  are the  flowers 
of our struggle  and  the  reason  for our  fight." 
The Organization of African Unity  (OAU) Conference  on the African  Child, 
which will be held next November  in Dakar, Senegal, will be an opportunity  to 
show our active  solidarity with  children, who, unfortunately,  suffer  from  so 
many problems  and  also  to show  that the  international  community  is  in 
solidarity with  all African  youth. 
Now that  tensions between  East  and West have been  resolved  and 
ideological  antagonism  has  ended,  it remains  for us to pay  attention  to  the 
A/47/PV.24 
67 
(Mr. Toure. Guinea-Biscay) 
developmental  problems  of the poor  countries  and  thus  to ensure  international 
peace  and  security. 
In this very Assembly,  for years  on end, high-ranking  personages have 
from  this  rostrum  drawn our  attention  to the decisive  role of disarmament in 
the evolution  of  the developing  countries.  This  is a dimension  that we must 
never  forget  in our work. 
That  is why  the Government  of Guinea-Bissau  supports  the establishment of 
a moral  and political  climate  that encourages  the  total  elimination of all 
arms of destruction, because  reductions  in military  budgets  and  expenditures 
will  benefit economic  and social  development  in many parts  of the world at 
large  and  in Africa  in particular. 
Like  the environment, other problems  suffered  by Africa 
AIDS, 
tuberculosis, yellow  fever, drugs  and more 
could be  faced  up  to with the 
support  and effective  assistance  provided  by  the colossal  sums of money that 
would be  freed  up through  complete  and  total disarmament. 
But at this point we  should  like to commend  the United Nations  system, 
the  funding bodies  and  the international  organizations 
both governmental and 
non-governmental 
such as the World Health Organization  (WHO) for their 
efforts  and  support  thus  far  in helping  us face  the  scourges  that  ravage our 
continent. 
In spite of  the uncertainties  hanging  over  the global  economy  and 
international  relations  in general  and  above  all  the  risk  of  marginalization 
for  the African  continent,  it is unthinkable  that  the peoples, countries and 
Governments  affected by crisis might yield  to disarray  or  discouragement. 
A/47/PV.24 
68 
Mr.  GYAW  (Myanmar):  May  I begin by extending  to you. Sir, on  behalf 
of my delegation  and on my  own behalf, warmest  congratulations  on your 
well-deserved  election  to  the presidency  of  the United Nations  General 
Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh  session.  We  are  confident  that  under  your 
leadership our  deliberations  will  be  fruitful. 
Allow me  also  to express  our  admiration  for  the very  able  and  dynamic 
manner  in which  your  predecessor, Mr.  Samir  Shihabi, guided  the work  of  the 
last session.  His  stewardship  of  the Assembly  at  a most  crucial  juncture  in 
mankind's history  has  left  an  indelible mark  on  the  institution  of  the 
presidency. 
The delegation  of Myanmar  notes with  appreciation  the  remarkable 
achievements  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the United Nations  in the  brief 
period since his  assumption  of his high office.  This world  Organization  is 
fortunate  to have  at  its helm  a statesman of his  stature  and  experience  at 
this moment  in history.  He heads  our Organization  at a time when  it  is not 
only seized of momentous  peace-keeping  operations  but  also  challenged  by 
uncertainties  in several  parts  of  the world.  May  I assure  him  of  the  full 
support of  the delegation  of Myanmar. 
I should  also  like  to  take  this opportunity  to express  our  deep 
appreciation  to Mr. Javier  Perez  de Cuellar,  the  former  Secretary-General,  for 
the wise and  skilful manner  in which he  led our Organization  through  difficult 
and trying times. 
Within  a short  span  of  10 months  our Organization  has grown  rapidly  with 
the addition  of  13 new Members.  The  delegation  of Myanmar  warmly  welcomes 
them to our  midst. 
A/47/PV.24 
69-70 
(Mr. Gvaw. Myanmar) 
The admittance of those new Members to the United Nations reflects the 
significant changes taking place in contemporary international life and has 
brought the United Nations closer to achieving universality of membership. We 
feel sure that the new Members will have positive contributions to make to our 
Organization. 
This session of the General Assembly takes place in an international 
environment that is markedly different from that which existed even a year 
ago.  Although the end of the cold war has effectively ended ideological 
posturing and has led to renewed confidence in the United Nations, it has, 
unfortunately, not eliminated all sources of strife and conflict.  The 
recourse to arms in the Balkans, the Horn of Africa and other parts of the 
world serve to remind us of the fragility of peace in our contemporary world. 
Against that backdrop, the delegation of Myanmar is pleased to note that 
steps have been initiated to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations to 
meet the twin challenges of maintaining international peace and security and 
of dealing with global problems.  The summit meeting of the Security Council 
on 31 January 1992 provided an historic opportunity for taking stock of the 
situation and exploring ways and means of strengthening cooperation, 
particularly in the field of maintaining international peace and security. 
A/47/PV.24 
71 
(Mr. Gyaw.  Myanmar) 
The  fresh  look  contained  in the  Secretary-General's  report,  "An Agenda 
for Peace",  is  indeed  timely,  as  the Organization,  now more  than 45 years  old, 
needs to adapt  to the  rapidly  changing world.  In this process, however,  care 
needs to be  taken  to ensure  consistent  adherence  to  the principles  articulated 
in the Charter.  Most  important,  caution must  be  exercised  to guarantee  that 
the sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and political  independence  of  States 
within the established  international  system  are not  allowed  to be  eroded. 
To be truly  effective  the United Nations must  by  its  own  actions  inspire 
and command  the  confidence  of  all Member  countries.  Its actions must  be 
governed by a sense  of  justice  and guided  by  the principles  of  the Charter. 
The decisions  of  the Organization must  reflect  that  collective will  and  not 
the narrow  interests  or predilections  of  a nation or  a group  of nations.  Any 
departure  from  those principles  is bound  to be divisive  and  to detract  from 
our efforts  to construct  a fair  and  equitable  international  order.  The  time 
is ripe to examine whether  the constitutional  balance  between  the  principal 
bodies of the Organization,  particularly  between  the General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council,  is being  consistently maintained  as envisaged  in the Charter. 
If attempts  at  reform  are  to  succeed,  trust must  prevail; and  trust,  as 
the Secretary-General  states  in his  report,  "reguires  o sense  of  confidence 
that the world  Organization will  react  swiftly,  surely  and  impartially  and 
that it will  not be debilitated  by political  opportunism  or by  administrative 
or financial  inadequacy".  (A/47/277, para.  83) 
Transformations  and  uncertainties  prevailing  in the present  international 
environment  underscore  the  need  for  countries  of  the world  to work  together  to 
remove the root  causes  of  strife  and  conflict.  The Non-Aligned  Movement, 
whose membership  encompasses  close  to 110 developing  countries  from  around  the 
A/47/PV.24 
72 
(Mr. Gvaw.  Myanmar) 
globe,  stands  out  as an organization  that  can not  only  safeguard  the 
political,  economic  and  social  independence  of  its member  States but also play 
a constructive  role  in charting  a course  to  a new global  order  that  is just, 
peaceful  and  secure.  Although  the world  has witnessed  unprecedented  changes 
in recent  years,  the principles  on which  the Movement  is  firmly  anchored 
remain  as valid  today  as they were  four  decades  ago.  So  long  as the world is 
faced with  adverse  situations,  and  the  freedom  and  independence  of nations are 
challenged,  and  so long  as the  strong  exploit  the weak,  the Non-Aligned 
Movement,  under whatever  name, will  continue  to be  relevant.  In the light of 
the evolving world  situation  the Movement  can  and must  play  an  increasingly 
active  role  in  international  affairs  to bring  about  a new world  order of 
justice, peace  and  security.  For  this  reason, Myanmar  resumed  participation 
at the Tenth  Conference  of  the Non-Aligned Movement,  held  last month in 
Jakarta.  As a founding member  we  have  always  cherished  and  adhered  to the 
principles  of  the Movement  and  are  confident  that we will  be  able to 
contribute  positively  to the  long-term  interests  of  the Movement. 
One  field of human  endeavour which has benefited  from  the winds of change 
sweeping  our world  is disarmament.  Within  the  short  span of  a few years, 
there has been  a significant  number  of  agreements  on disarmament  that together 
have  effectively  diminished  the possibility  of  a nuclear  conflict  between 
nuclear-weapon  States.  For  this positive  trend  to continue,  it  is imperative 
that  the momentum  generated  by  the Treaty  on  the  Elimination  of 
Intermediate-Range  and  Shorter-Range Missiles  (INF Treaty),  the Treaty on 
Conventional  Armed  Forces  in Europe  (CFE),  and  the  Strategic  Arms Reductions 
Talks  (START) be  carried  forward.  The  agreement  of  16 June  1992 between 
Presidents  Bush  and Yeltsin  on  further  cuts  in nuclear-weapon  arsenals is 
A/47/PV.24 
73 
(Mr. Gyaw. Myanmar) 
therefore encouraging.  Noteworthy  also  is  the unilateral  decision  of  the 
United Kingdom,  announced  on  15 June  1992, to  reduce  and  in some  instances 
even eliminate naval  and maritime  air  tactical  nuclear weapons.  While  the 
Union of Myanmar  is encouraged by  these  recent measures, we believe  that  even 
more significant  cuts  in nuclear  arsenals by  all  the nuclear-weapon  States  are 
called for, so as to  remove  the  sword  of Damocles  that hangs  over our heads. 
In the wake of  the Gulf war  and  the ongoing  conflicts  in parts of  Europe 
which are in the  throes  of  transition,  there  is a heightened  sensitivity  to 
the proliferation  of nuclear  and other weapons  of mass  destruction.  My 
delegation feels that  recent  accession by  the People's  Republic  of China and 
France to the Treaty  on  the Non-Proliferation  of Nuclear Weapons  (NPT) is a 
positive step that will buttress  the existing  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime.  All  five nuclear  Powers with permanent  seats on  the Security  Council 
are now States parties  to this  important multilateral  instrument.  This  augurs 
well for the future of NPT, the  review conference  for which  is  less  than three 
years away. 
Since the twentieth  session of  the General Assembly, when Myanmar  joined 
other countries  in proposing  a nuclear  non-proliferation  treaty, we  have 
sought an acceptable  balance  of mutual  responsibilities  and  obligations 
between nuclear  and non-nuclear-weapon  States.  It was  only because  these 
responsibilities  and obligations were  unfulfilled  that Myanmar  did not  become 
a signatory.  Now  that the principal  nuclear-weapon  States have  initiated 
measures in the direction  of  effective  nuclear  disarmament  in keeping with  the 
declaration made  in the Treaty  and  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly, the Myanmar  Government  has  decided  to accede  to  the NPT. 
A/47/PV.24 
74-75 
(Mr. Gyaw.  Myanmar) 
Arrangements  are  in hand  to deposit  the  instruments  of  accession  in London, 
Moscow  and  Washington. 
In the  light  of  the momentous  changes  in the world,  the  time has arrived 
for  the nuclear  Powers  to  reassess  their  need  for nuclear  testing.  We 
continue  to believe  that  a comprehensive  test ban  is an  indispensable  step 
towards  a nuclear-weapon-free  world.  We  are  therefore  encouraged  by the 
decision  of  France  and  Russia  to  suspend  nuclear  tests  for  1992, and hope that 
others will  follow  their  good  example. 
This year  is a  landmark  year  for chemical-weapon  disarmament.  The 
successful  conclusion  of  a convention  on chemical weapons  is the  culmination 
of years  of hard work.  For  several  years  now,  there has been  complete 
unanimity  in the  international  community  on  the urgent  need  to conclude such a 
convention.  It was  only because  of  the complexity  of  the  issues  involved 
such as on-site  verification  activity  and  national  rights  to economic and 
technological  developments  to be guaranteed  as nations  implement  their 
obligations  under  the  agreement 
that  the  convention  took  years  in the 
making.  The  convention  is one of  the most  important  achievements  in the 
history  of multilateral  disarmament  negotiations,  and  the delegation of 
Myanmar  would  like  to pay  tribute  to Ambassador  Adolf  Ritter  von Wagner, 
Chairman  of  the Ad Hoc  Committee  on Chemical Weapons,  for his  unremitting 
efforts  and  to all  delegations  that have  contributed  towards  the  achievement 
of  the  consensus  text.  Myanmar  has  consistently  sought  a total ban on 
chemical weapons 
one  that  is comprehensive,  universal  and  effectively 
verifiable.  As  a country  that  neither  possesses  nor manufactures  those 
weapons  of mass  destruction,  nor  has  any  intention  of  acquiring  them  in the 
future, we welcome  the  convention  and  intend  to become  an original  signatory. 
A/47/PV.24 
76 
(Mr. Gyaw.  Myanmar) 
The peace  Agreement  signed  on  23 October  1991 provided  a  comprehensive 
framework  for ending  12 years  of  conflict  in Cambodia.  Myanmar,  as a  friend 
and neighbour,  rejoiced  at  the positive  development  and  looked  forward  to the 
early implementation  of  the Agreement.  But  today Cambodia  is faced with a 
complex of problems.  If  these  problems  are not  addressed  expeditiously,  both 
the peace  and  the economic  development  that  all parties  concerned  are  looking 
for will  remain  elusive. 
The United Nations  has  embarked  on one of  the most  ambitious  missions  in 
its history  to restore peace with  the  establishment  of  a United  Nations 
Transitional Authority  in Cambodia  (UNTAC).  That  organization  is doing  a 
commendable  job  in administering  the  country  in the  run-up  to the elections. 
But to succeed  it needs  the  support  of  the  international  community  as well  as 
the Cambodian  parties  concerned.  We  urge  all parties  to the  conflict  to 
cooperate fully with UNTAC  in keeping with  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
agreement to ensure  a smooth path  to  the elections. 
The Middle  East  question  continues  to be of  concern  to the  international 
community.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the peace process has been  kept 
alive by the ongoing  talks  in Washington,  the question  still  remains 
unresolved.  A  change  of  attitude  is essential  to the  resolution of 
outstanding  issues.  My  delegation  is encouraged  to discern  some  flexibility 
now being displayed  by  the parties  directly  concerned.  We  continue  to  believe 
that a just,  comprehensive  and  lasting peace  in the  region  can be  achieved 
only through  the  faithful  application  of  Security  Council  resolutions 
242 (1967) and  338  (1973) in their  entirety. 
In South Africa,  a democratic  reform  process  initiated  last March was 
hailed as a major  step  towards  the dismantling  of  apartheid,  and  the  creation 
of ;.  
. - 
  
 
- -- - nad  hoped  that  the measure would  provide 
A/47/PV.24 
77 
(Mr. Gvaw. Myanmar) 
a  fresh  and compelling  impetus  to the negotiations  taking place within the 
framework  of  the Convention  for  a Democratic  South Africa  launched  in 
December  1991.  Unfortunately  the political  process was  interrupted  by the 
violence  sparked by  the  17 June  Boipatong massacre. 
We welcome  the  recent agreement between President De Klerk  and 
Mr. Nelson Mandela  to  resume  the dialogue.  It is our hope  that  common ground 
can be  found  to bridge  the gap between  the principal  political  players so that 
the communal  violence  that has  rent  the  fabric of  the  South African  society 
can be avoided  and the political  process  resumed  to achieve  the goal of a 
peaceful  transition  to a democratic, non-racial  and united  South Africa. 
The global  economy  remains  sluggish,  and the prospects  for  its recovery 
are dim, particularly  in the  immediate  future.  The uncertain  and unfavourable 
economic  environment  is having  a negative  impact on all  countries, both 
developed  and developing, but more  so on the developing  ones.  Now  is the time 
for the global  community  to make  an all-out  effort  for  the  revitalization of 
growth.  Only  a more dynamic world  economy  can bring  about world  prosperity 
and  stability. 
The developing  countries  are  faced with  the very difficult  task of 
cushioning  their  economies  against  the world  economic  slowdown.  As 
commodity-dependent  economies, they  are adversely  affected  by  falling demand 
for  their  exports  and declining world  commodity  prices.  Commodity prices are 
at  record  low levels  and  are not expected  to  recover  substantially.  These 
difficulties  are compounded  by continuing  protectionist  trends, moves towards 
unilateralism,  and managed  trade.  That  is why Myanmar  places  great  importance 
on a strong multilateral  trading  system  and  special  significance  on the 
successful  conclusion  of  the Uruguay  Round, which  is expected  to usher in a 
more  open  international  trade  regime. 
A/47/PV. 24 
78 
(Mr. Gyaw.  Myanmar) 
There were, however,  a few encouraging  signs  in  1991.  Net  transfer 
through direct  investment  showed  an upward  trend.  Also,  for  the  first  time 
since the debt  crisis  in 1982, there was  a positive  net  transfer  of  financial 
resources  to capital-importing  developing  countries.  On  the other hand,  the 
flow of official  development  assistance  to developing  countries  stagnated. 
Interest rates  retained  their  historical  highs, and payment  for debt  service, 
bilaterally and multilaterally,  continued  to  rise.  There was  also  a  further 
increase in the  total  external  debt  of  the developing  countries.  Consequently 
the external  debt problem  of  the developing  countries  remains  far  from  being 
resolved, and an equitable  and  lasting  solution  to the debt  crisis  is  urgently 
required.  Moreover,  to halt  the economic  slowdown  and bring  about  renewed 
impetus to recovery,  a determined  and  concerted  effort  by  the  global 
community, particularly  by  those  developed  countries whose policies have a 
direct bearing on  the present  state  of  the world  economy,  is a prime  requisite. 
In the emerging  new global  order,  the United Nations will  be  called  upon 
to play an increasingly  active  role.  The magnitude  of  the task  ahead will 
require all the energy  and  attention  the world  Organization  can bring  to bear 
on them.  The  success  of  the Organization will  depend  on the collective  will 
of the membership  to work  together  to achieve  the objectives  of  the Charter. 
The Union of Myanmar,  on  its part, will  continue,  as  in the past,  to 
co-operate fully with  the  Organization. 
Myanmar's manifest  desire  to do  so is demonstrated  by  its actions  in such 
areas of global  concern  as  the  environment,  narcotic  drugs  abuse  control,  and 
human rights. 
Some four months  ago nations  of  the world  gathered  in Rio  for  the 
historic Conference  on Environment  and Development;.  It  is now  for  this 
Assembly to take  the necessary  follow-up measures  to  consolidate  and  build 
A/47/PV.24 
79 
(Mr. Gyaw. Myanmar) 
on  the achievements  attained  in Rio.  The  three documents  adopted by the 
Conference  and  sent to the Assembly  for endorsement  provide  the broad 
framework  for  a new global partnership  in our  common quest  for  sustainable 
development.  A  firm  commitment  to provide  the developing  countries with new, 
adequate  additional  financial  resources  on a predictable  basis  is of utmost 
importance  if we  are  implement  the proposed  plan of  action  to protect and 
preserve planet Earth.  It is hopes  that during  the  course of  the present 
session of  the Assembly  concrete  steps will be  taken  to achieve  this objective. 
Another  important  task  for  all of  us is to determine  the  specific 
procedures  and organizational modalities  of  the Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development  and give  shape  to  it.  This being  the primary  intergovernmental 
mechanism  recommended  by  the Conference  for  follow-up  and  implementation of 
its decisions, the  importance  of  the commission  cannot be overemphasized.  In 
our view  the proposed  commission will  not only prove  indispensable  to affect 
the  integration  of environment  and development  envisaged  in Agenda  21 but will 
also contribute  to enhancing  the  role of  this very  Organization. 
Much has been achieved  at Rio.  But much more  needs  to be done  if we are 
to achieve  sustainable  development  for  the common good  at the national, 
regional  and  international  levels.  Myanmar  is  firmly  committed  to the cause 
of  the environment  and  sustainable  development, and  in keeping with the spirit 
of Rio  stands  ready  to shoulder  its responsibilities.  Having  signed the 
Biodiversity  Convention  and the Climate  Change  Convention, we  are now taking 
the necessary measures  in accordance with  our  domestic  procedures  to ratify 
them  at an early  date.  Since Rio we  have  redoubled  our  efforts  at 
afforestation.  We  are also engaging  in a nation-wide  public  awareness 
A/47/PV.24 
80 
(Mr. Gyaw.  Myanmar) 
campaign  stressing  the need  to preserve  and protect  the environment.  We 
realize that  the  road  from  Rio  is even more  challenging  than  the one  that  led 
to it.  We  know  that  there  is no  room  for  complacency. 
A/47/PV.24 
81 
(Mr. Gvaw.  Mvanmar) 
Myanmar's  commitment  to  the eradication  of  narcotic  drugs  remains 
steadfast.  Significant  achievements  have been made  in  suppressing  narcotic 
drugs  through  the  relentless  efforts  of  law enforcement  personnel.  As in 
previous  years, the destruction  of narcotic  drug  and opium  refineries 
continues.  Such an event  held  in Shan  State  on  5 June  1992 was witnessed by 
ambassadors, military  attaches  and  representatives  of  the United  Nations 
agencies  in Myanmar.  Activities  in the  field  of medical  treatment, 
rehabilitation  and mass media  information  have been  intensified. 
The  problem  of narcotic  drugs  is multifaceted  and  requires  a 
comprehensive  approach.  While Myanmar  has  taken  an  integrated  approach, 
utilizing  sustantial  national  resources,  it  firmly  believes  that  these efforts 
should  be complemented  by cooperation  at  the  subregional,  regional  and global 
levels.  In June  of  this year, Myanmar  took  a significant  step by  signing a 
subregional  cooperative  agreement with  the People's  Republic  of China and the 
United Nations  International  Drug Control  Programme  (UNIDCP).  A  similar 
agreement  was  also  signed with Thailand  and  the UNIDCP.  These  agreements are 
aimed  at eliminating  opium  poppy  cultivation  and  reducing  trafficking  in 
narcotic  drugs  and  chemicals  used  in the  refining  of  heroin  in  the 
Myanmar-China  and Myanmar-Thai  border  areas.  Talks  have  also been  initiated 
between Myanmar  and  Laos  on bilateral  cooperation  in  the  control  of drug 
abuse.  It  is also  our  intention  to  initiate  discussions  with  our  other two 
neighbours,  India and  Bangladesh, with  a view  to  setting  up  similar 
cooperative  arrangements.  We  are  confident  that  these  subregional  cooperative 
arrangements  will  succeed  and promote  global  cooperation  to  rid our world of 
the  scourge  of  narcotic  drugs. 
A/47/PV.24 
82 
(Mr. Gyaw.  Myanmar) 
In the realm  of human  rights, Myanmar  has  been  subjected  to undue  and 
unwarranted  criticism  from  some quarters.  Critics  have  unjustifiably 
portrayed Myanmar  as  a land where  gross violations  of human  rights have  been 
perpetrated 
this, despite  the  full  cooperation  we have  extended,  and  are 
continuing to extend,  to  the United Nations  bodies  concerned with  the  question 
of human rights, providing  clarification  or  information  requested  of  us.  We 
have also furnished  information  sought  by  the Commission  on Human  Rights  and 
by the Sub-Commission  on  the Prevention  of Discrimination  and  Protection  of 
Minorities.  As  a gesture  of  cooperation we  received  the  two  independent 
experts appointed  by  the Commission  on Human  Rights  in  1990 and  1991 
respectively. 
I should  like  to  inform  the Assembly  that  although we  dissociated 
ourselves  from  the decision  taken  at  the  forty-eighth  session  of  the 
Commission  on Human  Rights, we will  be  receiving  the  Special  Rapporteur 
appointed by  the Commission,  in deference  to  the United Nations  and  to 
demonstrate our  good will  and  cooperation.  We  are  confident  that his  visit 
will be worthwhile.  He will  have  the  opportunity  to observe  at  first hand  the 
true situation  obtaining  in the  country. 
I am pleased  to  inform  the Assembly  that on  24 August  1992  the Union of 
Myanmar acceded  to  the  1949  Fourth Geneva  Convention,  thus  affirming  our 
international  commitment  to humanitarian  principles.  The  principles 
enshrined in the Conventions  are not  new  to us.  They have been part  of  the 
educational and  training  process  of  the Myanmar  armed  forces  and  of  the values 
cherished by our  people. 
This year has witnessed  many  significant  developments  in our  country's 
march towards  a multiparty  democratic  State.  These  developments  attest  to  the 
inb 
r Restoration  Council  in upholding  its 
A/47/PV.24 
83 
(Mr. Gyaw. Myanmar) 
assurances  to  fulfil  its declared  commitment  to meet  the  aspirations  of the 
people of Myanmar.  In accordance with  the programme  of  action  spelled out in 
its Declaration  1/90  of  27 July  1990, the Government  issued  a  follow-up 
Declaration  on  24 April  1992 which maps out  the programme  to be  implemented in 
a  specific  time-frame  in respect of  the national  convention  that will  set out 
the basic  principles  for  a new  constitution.  Our  past  and  sometimes bitter 
experiences  have  shown  that only  a firm  constitution  can guarantee  a strong 
government which will  assure  the peace, tranquillity  and prosperity  of the 
nation. 
In accordance with  the programme  of  implementation,  a 15-member Steering 
Committee was  established  on 28 May  1992.  The Steering Committee met with 
leaders  of  the elected  representatives  of political  parties  and with elected 
independent  representatives  in June  and July  to discuss  and  cooordinate the 
category  and number  of delegates  to be  invited  to the national  convention. 
Following  a free and  frank  exchange  of views  among  the participants, there was 
general  agreement  that elected  representatives, representatives  of the 
political  parties, the national  races, peasants, workers, the  intelligentsia 
and  technocrats, service personnel  and  specially  invited persons  are to be 
included  in the national  convention.  Terrorist groups which  renounce the path 
of  armed  struggle  and  return  to the  legal  fold will  also have  an opportunity 
to participate.  There  is a complete  convergence  of view  to  the effect that 
the  constitution  to be drafted  should  uphold  and  safeguard  the  three main 
national  causes, namely:  non-disintegration  of  the Union;  non-disintegration 
of national  solidarity;  and perpetuation of national  sovereignty. 
A/47/PV.24 
84 
(Mr. Gyaw. Myanmar) 
With  the successful  conclusion  of  the  coordination meeting,  the  country 
has crossed  a threshold,  and  an important political  process has been  set in 
motion.  The national  convention  is expected  to be  convened  at the end of  the 
year or by  the beginning  of  next year  at the latest.  To this end, a 
commission has  already  been  constituted  and  is now actively making  the 
necessary preparations  for  the holding  of  the national  convention.  Delegates 
representing  a broad  spectrum  of  the entire Myanmar population will  identify 
and lay down basic  principles  for  the drafting  of a firm  and  stable 
constitution.  The  actual  task  of drafting  the constitution will be  entrusted 
to the elected  representatives. 
In parallel with  the preparations  being made  for  the convening  of  the 
national convention,  the Government has  undertaken various measures  designed 
to create an atmosphere  and conditions  conducive  to the establishment  of a 
democratic system  in Myanmar.  These  include:  the  suspension  of all  offensive 
operations in Kayin  State  and other  parts  of  the country  to  consolidate 
national solidarity  and unity; the  release  from detention of  individuals 
against whom  action had been  taken under  existing  laws  and who  no longer  pose 
a threat to the  security  of  the country  and the  lifting of  restrictions  on 
them; the reopening  of  universities, colleges  and other  institutes  of higher 
learning that had been  temporarily  closed;  the rescinding  of  the curfew  order 
throughout the whole  country;  the  revocation of martial  law orders  that had 
been in force since July  1989; the  reconstitution  of  township-level  Law  and 
Order Restoration Councils  that  are  responsible  for  local  administration  with 
civilian service personnel  in anticipation of  the future  democratic 
administrative  structure  and the  creation of  a separate Ministry  of 
Development of Border  Areas  and National  Races  in order  to  implement  more 
A/47/PV.24 
85 
(Mr. Gyaw. Myanmar) 
effectively measures  for  the  welfare  of  the national  races  living  in the 
remote  regions  of  the  country. 
The Government  of  the Union of Myanmar  is undertaking  these measures 
with  conviction  and  dedication.  It is fully  aware  of  the dangers  and pitfalls 
faced by nations  in transition  from  one political  and economic  system to 
another.  The  Government  and  the people of Myanmar  are determined  to carry out 
their  tasks  at a sure  and  steady pace  to ensure  that  the aspirations of the 
people  for  a democratic Myanmar  are  realized. 
A/47/PV.24 
86 
TENTATIVE PROGRAMME  OF  WORK 
The  PRESIDENT:  Following  consultations  carried  out  on my  behalf, I 
have prepared  a tentative  programme  of work  and  schedule  for  the  General 
Assembly  for  the  remainder  of  October. 
On Friday,  9 October,  in the morning,  the Assembly  will  consider  agenda 
item 10, "Report  of  the Secretary-General  on the work  of  the  Organization", 
including the  report  of  the Secretary-General  entitled  "An Agenda  for  Peace 
preventive diplomacy,  peacemaking  and peace-keeping".  Additional  meetings 
will be scheduled  as  necessary.  I should  like  to propose  that  the  list of 
speakers for  the debate  on  this  item  be  closed  on Friday,  9 October,  at  6 p.m. 
It was  so  decided. 
The PRESIDENT:  I therefore  reguest  those  repesentatives  wishing  to 
participate  in the debate  on agenda  item  10 to  inscribe  their  names  on the 
list of speakers  as  soon  as possible. 
On Monday,  12 October,  and Tuesday,  13 October,  the General  Assembly 
will, under agenda  item  93  (a), "Questions  relating  to  the world  social 
situation and  to youth,  ageing,  disabled  persons  and  the  family",  observe  the 
conclusion of  the United Nations  Decade  of Disabled  Persons. 
On Thursday,  15 October,  and  Friday,  16 October,  the General  Assembly 
will, also under  agenda  item  93  (a), commemorate  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of  the  International  Plan  of Action on  Ageing. 
On Friday,  16 October,  immediately  after  the  commemoration,  the  Assembly 
will take up agenda  item  138,  "Observer  status  for  the  International 
Organization  for Migration  in  the General  Assembly". 
On Wednesday,  21 October,  in the morning,  the Assembly  will  take up 
agenda item 7,  "Notification  by  the  Secretary-General  under Article  12, 
paragraph 2, of  the Charter  of  the United Nations";  agenda  item  13  "Report  of 
A/47/PV.24 
87 
(The President) 
the International Court of Justice"; agenda item 20 "Cooperation between the 
United Nations and the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committtee"; agenda 
item 16 (a) "Election of twelve members of the World Food Council"; and agenda 
item 16 (b), "Election of seven members of the Committee for Programme and 
Coordination". 
On Wednesday, 21 October, in the afternoon, the Assembly will begin its 
consideration of agenda item 14, "Report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency". 
On Tuesday, 27 October, in the afternoon, the Assembly will take up 
agenda item 23, "Question of the Comorian island of Mayotte"; and agenda 
item 15 (a), "Election of five non-permanent members of the Security Council". 
On Wednesday, 28 October, in the morning, the Assembly will take up 
agenda item 140, "Coordination of the activities of the United Nations and the 
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe"; and agenda item 15 (b), 
"Election of eighteen members of the Economic and Social Council". 
On Thursday, 29 October, in the morning, the Assembly will take up agenda 
item 21, "Cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of 
American States"; agenda item 24, "Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Latin American Economic System"; agenda item 25, "Cooperation between the 
United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic Conference"; agenda 
item 27, "Cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of 
African Unity".; and agenda item 29, "Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the League of Arab States". 
I should like to remind members that, while the Assembly fixed Monday, 
20 September 1993, as the date for closure of the forty-seventh session, it 
also fixed Friday, 18 December 1992, as the date on which the Assembly will 
recess until next year. 
A/47/PV.24 
88 
(The  President) 
I hope  to keep  as close  as possible  to this  schedule  so that the  Assembly 
can discharge  its  responsibilities  in an orderly  fashion.  I therefore  appeal 
to those representatives  submitting  draft  resolutions  to do so  sufficiently  in 
advance of the dates  fixed  for  consideration  of  items  in order  to give members 
adequate time  to examine  them. 
I should  also  like  to remind  representatives  that  at its  3rd plenary 
meeting the General Assembly  took  note  of  the  fact  that, depending  on the  type 
and complexity  of proposals  involving  changes  in the work  programme  and 
additional expenditures, the preparation  of  a statement  of  programme-budget 
implications by  the  Secretary-General  could  take  a few days and  that, in 
addition, the Advisory  Committee  on Administrative  and Budgetary Questions  and 
the Fifth Committee would  need  adequate  time  to  review  the  programme-budget 
implications of  a draft  resolution before  the  latter  could be  acted on by  the 
Assembly. 
Further, the Assembly  took  note of  the  fact  that  it was  therefore 
desirable that Member  States  submit proposals  involving  statements  of 
programme-budget  implications  in sufficient  time  to avoid  cancellation  of 
meetings and postponement  of  the  consideration  of items. 
The tentative  schedule  that  I have  just  announced will  appear  in the 
verbatim  record  of  this meeting, as well  as  in the Journal  summary.  I shall 
keep the Assembly  informed  of  any  additions  or changes. 
The lists of  speakers  for  all  these  items  are now open. 
The meeting  rose  at- 1.20  p.m. 
