41TED 
MIONS 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.32 
23 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  32nd MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Friday,  9 October  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
Mr. GANEV 
(President) 
(Bulgaria) 
Report  of  the Secretary-General  on the work of  the  organization: 
reports  of  the Secretary-General  [10]  (continued) 
This record  contains  the original  text of  speeches delivered  in English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text  will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
one week, to the Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United  Nations  Plaza, and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61400  1759V  (E) 
A/47/PV.32 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 3.20  p.m. 
AGENDA  ITEM  10  (continued) 
REPORT  OF THE  SECRETARY-GENERAL  ON THE WORK  OF THE ORGANIZATION:  REPORTS OF 
THE  SECRETARY  GENERAL  (A/47/1, A/47/277) 
Mrs.  FRECHETTE  (Canada)  (interpretation  from  French):  Allow me to 
begin by  congratulating  you. Sir, on your election  as President  of  the 
forty-seventh  session of  the General Assembly.  You  are assuming  this 
important  position  at a pivotal moment  in the history  of  the United  Nations 
and  its Member  States.  You may  rely on my  delegation's  continued  cooperation 
as the  session progresses. 
The  general  debate  of  recent weeks  demonstrates  that  there  is now an 
international  consensus  that, while  the opportunities  for  cooperation  and 
peace have never been greater,  there have  never  been  so many  challenges  to the 
international  community  posed by  regional  conflicts, humanitarian  crises and 
the difficult,  though exhilarating,  process  of  democratization. 
The  Organization  is fortunate  to have  at  its helm  at this  time of both 
opportunity  and  challenge  a man of vision  and  leadership.  Since  becoming 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali  has  sought  to encourage  the Members of 
the United  Nations  to rethink  their  approaches  not  only  to  the great problems 
we  need  to resolve, but  to the  structures  and mandates  of  the bodies  in which 
we work.  Canada  commends  his  commitment  and  the achievements  he has already 
realized. 
The  Secretary-General  advocates  an  integrated  approach  to political, 
economic  and  social  issues, and Canada  strongly  supports  him  in this.  There 
is no doubt  that  economic  and  social  development  are prerequisites  for 
A/47/PV.32 
3 
(Mrs. Frechette.  Canada) 
international  peace  and  security.  There  is also no doubt  that we  shall  never 
have lasting world  peace  as  long  as a large part of humanity  lives  in misery 
and despair. 
I reaffirm  that  Canada  supports  the United Nations  playing  a leading  role 
in the economic, developmental  and  social  fields. 
We  thank the  Secretary-General  for submitting  to the General  Assembly  a 
full and clear  report  on  the worth of  the Organization,  which  takes up  the 
main themes of his  report entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace", called  for by  the 
Security Council  at  its Summit  Meeting  last January.  We  are glad  to have  the 
opportunity  today  to comment  on the proposals made by the  Secretary-General 
with regard to peace  and  security. 
As the Secretary-General  says  in his  report,  in order  for the United 
Nations to realize  its full potential, there must be  a firm will  to give  the 
Organization  adequate means  to do what we expect  of  the system.  The 
,j expectations  of  it are now  considerable. 
, 
It is up  to Member  States  to ensure  that  the Secretary-General  has 
.available to him  the  resources  that we have  all committed  ourselves  to pay 
.into the regular  budget,  as well  as into  the budget  for  peace-keeping 
.operations.  We must  foster  in the United  Nations  a new culture of  financial 
ii 
.responsibility,  which  requires  that  Member  States  pay  t h e ir  assessed 
contributions  f u l ly  and  on  time,  and  that  the  Secretary-General  r e s o l u t e ly 
pursue  the  reforms  he  has 
iili 
(BPOke in English) 
i n i t i a t e d. 
The United Nations  system  today  faces  the unique  challenge  of building  a 
U 
stronger system  of  collective  security  at  a time when ethnic  tensions  are  on 
:he rise in many parts  of  the world. 
A/47/PV.32 
4 
(Mrs. Frechette.  Canada) 
The United  Nations will  increasingly  face  situations  in which  the 
principle  of non-intervention  and  the  right of  sovereign  States  to manage 
their  international  affairs  is confronted  by the need  for  collective  action to 
provide humanitarian  assistance.  Prime Minister Mulroney  reiterated  Canada's 
own approach during  the visit  of  the  Secretary-General  to Montreal  last May, 
when he  said: 
"The  interests  of nation States and the  imperatives  of geopolitics must 
be  subordinated  to the  interests  and well-being  of people." 
We  commend  "An Agenda  for Peace", which contains  forward-looking 
proposals  for a world  in which  the very nature  of  conflict  has  changed  and 
which  therefore  has outgrown  some of  the traditional  means  of  conflict 
management. 
Canada  supports  the  Secretary-General  in his quest  to develop  relevant 
instruments  enabling  the United Nations  to discharge  its ever-growing  global 
responsibilities  to prevent  and  resolve  conflicts.  It  is the  objective  of my 
delegation  during  this  session of the General  Assembly  to explore more  fully 
with other Member  States the  ideas  advanced  in  "An Agenda  for  Peace".  United 
Nations bodies  responsible  for  specific  aspects  of  the  Secretary-General's 
proposals must  follow up  swiftly  in the  light  of our  debate here  today  and our 
work  in the weeks  ahead. 
We  commend  the Secretary-General's  emphasis  on preventive  diplomacy and 
peacemaking,  and  encourage  him  to make  full  use of his powers  under  Article 99 
of  the Charter  to draw  to the attention  of  the  Security  Council  any matter 
which  in his opinion may  threaten  international  peace  and  security.  We note 
that  the Secretary-General  is already making greater  use  of  fact-finding 
missions, which  is a trend  that we  encourage.  In Kosovo,  for  example,  the 
A/47/PV.32 
5 
(Mrs. Frechette.  Canada) 
Secretary-General  may wish  to complement  the efforts made by  the Conference  on 
Security  and Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE) to avoid  the  spillover  of  the 
conflict  in the  former  Yugoslavia. 
We  strongly  support  preventive  deployment,  and would  urge  the  Security 
Council  to adopt  this  option when confrontation  can be  averted,  democracy 
stabilized  and, ultimately,  lives  saved.  We particularly  agree with  the 
creation of demilitarized  zones. 
However, preventive  diplomacy  cannot become  an effective  tool of  the 
Organization without  a strengthened  capacity within  the United Nations  to 
encourage  and  assist  parties  to  resolve  their  differences.  We must  enhance 
the ability of  the United Nations  to  receive  and  analyse early  signals of 
potentially  significant  disputes.  The  Secretary-General  has drawn  our 
attention  to the need  for more  sophisticated  early-warning  mechanisms  within 
the Secretariat.  Canada  strongly  encourages him  to adopt  all  practical 
measures, including  the establishment  of  an early warning  centre  and  a 24-hour 
situation room  to  facilitate  his  task,  and  that of Member  States, to provide  a 
more timely  response  to breaking developments  around  the world.  Canada  stands 
ready to share  its experience  and  expertise with  the Secretariat  in this  area. 
Beyond early warning,  it  is clear  that  the growing  demands  on United 
Nations services  are  straining  the human  resources  of  the Secretariat  to  its 
limit.  With  so many  staff members  assigned  to ever-increasing  numbers  of 
temporary missions  away  from Headquarters,  remaining  personnel  in several  key 
units are subjected  to punishing workloads, which  can only,  over  time, 
& 
W 
undermine efficiency  and effectiveness.  Canada would  favour  the  creation of a 
li f 
permanent pool of  experts  on which the  Secretary-General  could  draw  in making 
iH 
available his good  offices.  These  experts  could gather,  receive  and  analyse 
A/47/PV.32 
5(a) 
(Mrs. Frechette.  Canada) 
relevant  facts.  They  could  also provide  information  about  the  concerns  and 
interests  of  the parties  to a dispute  in order  to mediate, as appropriate, on 
the Secretary-General's  behalf.  Finally,  they  could prepare  recommendations 
to the Secretary-General  on possible United Nations  action.  We  stand  prepared 
to  recommend  distinguished  Canadians  and others  to the  Secretariat  for  such 
duties. 
Canada  is no  stranger  to the process  of bringing  the peace  to,  and 
keeping  the peace  in, all  regions of  the world.  Of  the  53,000  peace-keepers 
soon to be  serving under  the United Nations  flag, over  8 per  cent will be 
Canadian.  We believe burden-sharing  is essential with  regard  to  peace-keeping. 
Canada has  for years maintained  significant  numbers  of  forces  on  stand-by 
for United  Nations  tasks, including  an  infantry battalion,  air  transport 
resources  and  a communications  element.  Minister McDougall  announced  here on 
24 September  that we  are prepared  to confirm  Canadian  arrangements  through an 
exchange  of  letters with  the Secretariat,  as  suggested  in  "An Agenda  for 
Peace". 
As  the business  of peace-keeping  becomes more  complex  and more dangerous, 
as the very nature of peace-keeping  continues  to evolve,  troop-contributors 
have  a growing  stake  in Security  Council  decisions  and  the  Secretariat 
recommendations  on which  they  are  so frequently  based.  We  encourage  the 
Secretariat  more  systematically  to  involve  troop-contributing  countries  in its 
planning processes.  The  Security  Council  also  needs  to consider more  fully 
the perspectives  of  those  countries  called  upon  to  implement  decisions  adopted 
by  the Council  through  the provision  of personnel, equipment  and  supplies. 
A/47/PV.32 
5(b-z) 
(Mrs. Frechette.  Canada) 
We  support  the  Secretary-General's  call  for Member  States  to make 
available, as  required,  human-rights monitors, electoral  officials,  refugee 
and humanitarian  specialists  and police.  Canada has provided personnel  to the 
United Nations  under  all of  these headings  in recent years. 
A/47/PV.32 
6 
(Mrs. Frechette.  Canada) 
We believe  the expertise  of Member  States  in addressing  the  peace-keeping 
needs  of the United  Nations  should  be  further  elaborated.  We  invite  the 
Secretariat  to consider,  for  instance,  initiating  consultations  with  Member 
States on possible modalities  for the pre-positioning  of  equipment, 
harmonization  of peace-keeping  training  and other  contingency  planning. 
As Minister McDougall  stated here  on 24 September,  Canada believes  that 
enforcement  action  should be  considered  only  as  the very  last  resort,  once all 
other  avenues  for diplomacy,  humanitarian  assistance,  peace-keeping  and 
peacemaking  have been exhausted.  However,  recent  events  unfortunately 
demonstrate  that  the use of  force  needs  to be  one of  the  tools  at  the disposal 
of  the United Nations  and must be  considered  as an option when  all  other 
avenues have been  foreclosed. 
The  Secretary-General  has  advanced  an  interesting  proposal  involving the 
creation of peace-enforcement  units  for use  in  situations  where  an  existing 
cease-fire  arrangement  has broken down due  to the  actions  of  one  or more 
parties.  We believe  the United Nations  needs  the  ability  to conduct  such 
operations  under United  Nations  command.  Thus, the  idea of  peace-enforcement 
units  strikes us as a sound one on which  the Secretariat's  thinking  needs to 
be elaborated  urgently  for discussion  among Member  States.  Canada  for one is 
eager  to discuss  in greater  detail when  and how  such units would be  utilized 
and  the practical  implication  of  such  forces  for personnel,  training, 
equipment  and other  resource  requirements,  and  for the  traditional  United 
Nations  rules  of engagement.  Obviously,  troop-contributing  countries must be 
centrally  involved  in such consultations  in weeks  ahead. 
The  suggestion  of earmarking  troops  for  full  enforcement  under  Article 43 
raises very  difficult  issues, including  that of  the consent  of  States  for the 
use of  their  troops,  their  ability  to participate  in the  decision-making 
A/47/PV.32 
7 
(Mrs. Frechette.  Canada) 
process,  the  role of  the Military  Staff  Committee  and  the  capacity  of  the 
United Nations  actually  to command  and  control  such operations. 
We  agree with  the Secretary-General  that  such  forces  are not  likely  to be 
available  to  the United  Nations  for  some  time  to come.  Accordingly,  for  the 
present we might  better  focus most  of our  energies  on more  immediate  prospects 
for enhancing United  Nations  conflict management  and prevention  capabilities. 
We encourage  the United  Nations  to  involve  actively  in its  peace-building 
planning  those  international  organizations  which  can contribute  the most  to 
the reconstruction  of devastated  societies, notably  the  international 
financial  institutions  and  the  regional  development  banks,  as well  as United 
Nations  development  agencies.  We  increasingly  need  to think of  peace-building 
as a process  in which the United Nations  allows  for, and  indeed  plans, the 
involvement  of  relevant  financial  and development  institutions  and  donor 
countries 
through  such mechanisms  as the consultative  groups  so  successfully 
associated with World  Bank  leadership 
as  soon as peace-building  can be 
envisaged.  Such planning would parallel  the continuum  we have  endorsed  in the 
field of humanitarian  assistance where prevention  and  assistance  need  to yield 
to reconstruction  and  development. 
We  invite  the Secretariat  to  look more  closely  at  tangible ways  to  forge 
.  . 
t 
i 
links with  regional  organizations.  Joint  training  of  crisis-management  and 
peacemaking  staffs  could be one promising  approach.  Regular  secondment  of 
'  staff members  between  regional  organizations  and  the United  Nations  could  be 
"'  another.  It  is essential  to develop  a sense  of  shared  commitment  to global 
peace, security  and  development  as between  the United  Nations  and  regional 
;"'! organizations.  This  is more  likely  to be  achieved  if the  staffs of  these 
fit  bodies know each  other,  and  their  respective  strengths, well. 
J) 
A/47/PV.32 
8 
(Mrs. Frechette. Canada) 
While we expect that in future regional organizations increasingly will 
be mandated to carry out, and capable of carrying out, peace-keeping 
operations of their own, it is our view that the role of the United Nations 
for peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building will remain central to 
international relations, reflecting the universal interest of mankind in peace 
and security world wide. 
Should we allow the current financial plight of the United Nations to 
persist, pernicious practices of financing a la carte certain United Nations 
operations by a small number of Members will spread.  My country's unhappiness 
with the financial arrangements in place to support the United Nations 
Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) these past 28 years, relying on 
voluntary contributions, is well known.  The decision that participating 
countries should cover their own expenses incurred in the expansion of the 
United Nations force in the former Yugoslavia is a dangerous echo of our 
earlier mistake on the financing of UNFICYP.  Canada insists that if 
activities mandated by the United Nations are worth while on their own merits, 
they deserve to be supported financially by all Members through assessed 
contributions. 
In the report on the work of the Organization the Secretary-General 
outlines a series of financial proposals to address chronic shortages.  It is 
both within the jurisdiction and among the responsibilities of the General 
Assembly to address immediately the funding problems facing the Organization. 
My delegation believes the General Assembly should at this forty-seventh 
session undertake to provide swift and concrete follow-up to these proposals. 
We have already signalled Canada's support for the Secretary-General's 
proposal of a dedicated peace-keeping start-up fund.  We are also open to 
other, complementary proposals. 
A/47/PV.32 
9 
(Mrs. Frechette.  Canada) 
I have  outlined  in  some detail  Canada's  views with  respect  to  the 
Secretary-General's  report  to  the Assembly  and  "An Agenda  for Peace" because 
my country believes  both  these  documents  to be of  the greatest  importance.  I 
should  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  the need  for  the Assembly  to  undertake 
constructive  discussions  to address  the  specific  proposals  raised  by  the 
Secretary-General. 
Mr. ERDOS  (Hungary)  (interpretation  from  French):  We note  with 
satisfaction  that, with  the discussions  on the Secretary-General's  report  "An 
Agenda for Peace" held  during  the general  debate  and with  the  present 
discussion,  we have  started work  designed  to prepare  the United Nations  for 
the challenges  awaiting  it  in the decades  to come.  As we  stated  from  this 
rostrum  during  the general  debate, we  appreciate  the great value  of  the  report 
submitted by the  Secretary-General  and believe  that  it makes  a very  important 
contribution  to  improving  United  Nations  activities. 
The  recommendations  in the  report  and  the  spirit  in which  they have  been 
formulated  envisage  a more  effective  role  for  the United  Nations  in  crisis 
prevention  and  the  restoration  and maintenance  of peace  on the basis  of  the 
possibilities  inherent  in the  Charter. 
I shall  not  try  to draw up  a complete  list of  the  recommendations  made  by 
the Secretary-General, which,  already  at this  stage, we  find  encouraging,  but 
I wish to draw  attention  to some of  them.  We believe  that  if  these 
recommendations  are  to be put  into effect we must  find means  to guarantee  a 
reasonable balance between,  on the one hand,  respact  for the  sovereignty  of 
States and,  on the other,  their  commitment  to implementing  decisions  taken by 
the international  community.  This  is  a  sine oua non  for  the  implementation  of 
one of the most  essential  chapters  of  the Secretary-General's  recommendations, 
that is, preventive  diplomacy.  We  cannot hope  to make preventive  diplomacy  a 
A/47/PV.32 
10 
(Mr. Erdos.  Hungary) 
reality unless Member  States  regard  the use of the machinery  offered  them  in 
this  context  as action  that does  not  impair  their  sovereignty  in any way. 
Another  very  timely consideration with  regard  to the  restoration  and 
maintenance  of peace  is how much  freedom  of  action  the  international  community 
wishes  to have  in order  to oppose  attempts  at blackmail  made  against  the 
family of nations  by die-hard  elements  ready  to risk  the  lives  not  only of 
servicemen but  also of  innocent  civilians, to sow mindless  terror  and  cause 
irrational,  irreparable  material  destruction. 
A/47/PV.32 
11 
(Mr.Erdos. Hungary) 
It is clear  that  their  aim  is thus  to try to paralyse  the  effectiveness 
of  international  and  regional  organizations  which  are  rightly devoted  to  the 
value  of each human  life.  And  it  is precisely  because  the  life of each of our 
fellow  citizens  of  the planet  is priceless  that we  support  the  idea of 
collective  action  against  all  those who would  attack United  Nations  personnel 
or thwart  the  objectives  of  an operation  decided  on by the United  Nations.  On 
the other hand,  diatribes  and  threats  should  not prevent  us  from  initiating 
peace-keeping  action or  launching  specific  operations pursuant  to the goals of 
the United  Nations  to protect  the  lives  of tens of thousands  of  defenceless 
people. 
We  support  the Secretary-General's  proposals  seeking  to  strengthen  the 
role of the  regional  organizations  and  to enhance  their  cooperation with  the 
United Nations.  In this  context,  it would  also be  a good  idea  to take up the 
question of  coordination  between the United Nations  and  the  competent  regional 
organizations with  respect  to joint,  simultaneous  action,  to make  sure  that 
these combined  efforts  are  as effective  as possible  and  are  complementary. 
We also  regard  as promising  the Secretary-General's  suggestion  to deploy 
international  observers  on the territory  of a country  involved  in a crisis or 
conflict  on the basis  of  a unilateral  request by the authorities  of  the 
country  in question.  Such measures may ease tension  and promote  the 
settlement  of  conflicts.  Accordingly, we  see  interesting  examples  in measures 
taken with  regard  to  the  crisis  in the  former Yugoslavia  by  regional 
organizations  and  arrangements,  such as the Conference  on  Security  and 
Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE) and  the European  Community,  on  the  territory  of 
A/47/PV.32 
12 
(Mr. Erdos. Hungary) 
neighbouring  countries.  We  also  support  the  Secretary-General's 
recommendation  to  set up  stand-by peace-enforcement  units, to be  supplied by 
Member  States. 
Generally  speaking, we believe  that  a study  of  the practices  of various 
States  in the area of human  rights, and possible  violations  of  them,  should be 
incorporated  more harmoniously  into the usual work  of  the United  Nations and 
regional  organizations.  In this  context, we  attach great  importance  to recent 
decisions  by  the  Security  Council  condemning  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law  in Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and establishing  a  Commission of 
Experts  to gather  information  about  such violations. 
We  also  note  that  the Secretary-General's  report  advocates  a more  active 
role  for  the highly  esteemed  International  Court  of Justice,  and we  can only 
welcome  the  recommendation  that  all Member  States  accept  the  general 
jurisdiction  of  the Court, without  any  reservation,  before  the end  of the 
century.  Hungary  has  recently done  so, as our  Foreign Minister  announced a 
few days  ago  from  this very  rostrum. 
We  are aware, even  after  the  first  of  these very positive  exchanges of 
views,  that we will have  to make  serious efforts  to  realize  the  possibilities 
offered  by  the  Secretary-General's  report.  With  the presentation  of the 
report,  he has  discharged  the mandate given  to him  by  the  Security  Council's 
Summit  Meeting.  What must  be done now  is to continue  the work within  the 
General Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  other  relevant  United  Nations 
bodies  until  it is brought  to  its  logical  conclusion. 
We  conceive  ongoing  study of  these questions  as  taking place within the 
framework  of  a process which  should be both dynamic  and  regular,  focusing on 
ideas  and  recommendations  that  appear  to be  ripe  for  in-depth  study, which, on 
A/47/PV.32 
13 
(Mr. Erdos. Hungary) 
the basis of  consensus, would  lead  to tangible  results  and  success within  a 
reasonable period  of  time.  Therefore, dynamism,  regularity,  feasibility, 
consensus, tangible  results, reasonable  deadlines 
this  is how  I would  sum up 
our own philosophy  in this  field. 
Within  the  framework of  this process, which  in fact has already  been 
launched at  this  session of  the General  Assembly,  the various United  Nations 
bodies  should  deal with questions  that  are within  their own competence  and 
should  formulate  appropriate  positions  on various  aspects of  these problems. 
This work  should proceed  as a whole  in a coherent,  integrated  and  coordinated 
manner,  so that  at the end  of  the process  a proper practical  response  can be 
made to suggestions  giving prospects  of  action. 
We must  do our  utmost  to  avoid  any disputes  about  competence.  We  believe 
that we need  a very  informal working  context, open  to all, which will  allow an 
input from  the various  competent  bodies, to be  incorporated  into a  logical 
whole and channelled  towards  subsequent  action by  the General  Assembly.  In 
this context, we  think  it is particularly  essential  to harmonize  the 
activities of  the General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  and  to build  on 
the work already  done by  an informal  Security  Council working group, which 
sought to identify  and distribute  in a preliminary  way  the various 
recommendations  in  the  Secretary-General's  report.  We  welcome  the  making 
available to delegations  by  the Secretariat  of  a similar  document  to help  us 
in our discussions. 
In conclusion, we  are  convinced  that  the very  substantive  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  offers  us a multitude  of existing  or new  possibilities 
conducive  to enhancing  the  role of  the United Nations  in a new world.  We  are 
confident that  some  steps  could be  taken  at the present  session.  To  that  end 
J 
i 
i-
i» 
I! 
sit 
A/47/PV.32 
14-15 
(Mr. Erdos. Hungary) 
we must  now go beyond mere generalizations  and properly  structure  our  analysis 
of  these  recommendations,  and  in the appropriate  forums,  in a  pragmatic 
spirit,  start  studying  the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General  in order 
to arrive  at practical, positive  conclusions. 
Mr. MROZIEWICZ  (Poland):  With  the end  of  the  cold war  the world is 
taking  leave  of  the old order  and old divisions.  The  entire  fabric  of 
international  relations  is undergoing  profound  transformations.  It  is 
therefore  natural  that we  are witnessing  a  widespread  search  on  all  levels 
national,  regional  and  international  - for new  ideas  on how  to  cope  with 
global  challenges  to the contemporary  world. 
In those  circumstances  there  is also  a need  to  scrutinize  the  structures 
and  functions  of  the United  Nations  in order  to make  it fully  responsive to 
new demands  and tasks. 
The  Secretary-General  undertook  the commendable  task  of  addressing  a 
whole  range  of problems  facing mankind  in all  their  complexity  and  exploring 
the ways  and means by which  the United  Nations  can  contribute  most  effectively 
to  their  solution. 
A/47/PV.32 
16 
(Mr. Mroziewicz.  Poland) 
The  result  of  this arduous  and  ambitious  work  is now contained  in his  two 
reports 
"An Agenda  for Peace" and  the  report  on  the work  of  the 
Organization.  Both  documents  will guide  our  efforts  to establish  a new world 
order which,  in the words  of  the Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  Poland, 
Mr. Krzysztof  Skubiszewski,  should  be 
"free  from nuclear  terror, based  on mutual  respect  among nations, on 
greater  equality  of opportunity  and on effective  cooperative  structures." 
(A/47/PV.7.  p.73) 
The  reports  contain  a very  important  set of proposals,  and both  deserve 
careful examination.  In  fact,  they  are complementary  and both have  the  same 
objective:  the evolution  and  transformation  of  the Organization,  its 
structure  and tasks  in  such a way  that  it may more  efficiently  implement  the 
provisions of  the Charter  and  live up  to the new hopes  and  expectations  of 
Member  States. 
Poland  considers  the Secretary-General's  report  "An Agenda For  Peace" a 
landmark document  setting  the Organization's  goals  for  the years  to come.  Its 
thoroughness  and  thoughtfulness,  combined  with  an effort  to  reach new  layers 
of our Organization,  create  a significant  potential  for  monitoring 
international  peace  and  security.  It  responds  directly  to the new  challenges 
facing the world.  Let me  also  stress  that  its goals  are  in full  accord  with 
Poland's position  on the question  of peace  and  international  security.  We 
welcome  it and  the proposals  it contains, and we  respond  to them with  our 
specific  suggestions, of which  I mention  in particular  the  following. 
A/47/PV.32 
17 
(Mr. Mroziewicz.  Poland) 
First, we believe  that  the  idea of  financing  peace-keeping  operations out 
of  the defence budgets  of States deserves  special  examination.  Therefore, we 
suggest  that  all  States  should  consider  earmarking  half  of  1 per  cent  of their 
annual military  expenditure  for peace-keeping  operations.  In  terms  of 
national budgets  it is not much.  In terms  of our  Organization  it would  create 
a new  situation  - financially  and politically.  It would  help  to overcome  the 
present  budgetary  constraints.  It would  make  the maintenance  of peace  and 
security  a truly  common  responsibility  of  the  international  community.  The 
terms  "common  defence" and  "collective  security" would  acquire  new meanings. 
Secondly,  Poland  stands  ready  to contribute  to the development  of 
international  centres  to prepare peace-keeping  forces.  To  this  end,  we 
propose  to make  available  to the United Nations  one of  the military bases in 
Poland vacated by  the Russian  armed  forces.  It could become  the  first United 
Nations  training  and  logistic  centre. 
Thirdly,  the Government  of Poland has  indicated  its willingness  to assign 
to peace-keeping  operations,  as of  1993, two or  three  self-contained  infantry 
battalions,  in addition  to  logistics  detachments.  This  contingent  could 
eventually be made  available  to the Security  Council  on  a permanent basis. 
Fourthly,  Poland  stands  ready to participate  in consultations  aimed at 
the  implementation  of Article  43 of  the  Charter. 
Further, we  share  the view that Member  States  should make more  use of the 
opportunities  inherent  in Chapter VIII  of  the Charter.  As Mr.  Skubiszewski 
stressed  in the"general  debate: 
"Regional  and  continental  security  structures  should  become  ... part of a 
global  security  architecture."  (A/47/PV.7. p.78) 
A/47/PV. 32 
18 
(Mr. Mroziewicz.  Poland) 
Poland welcomed  the  fact  that  the Conference  on Security  and Cooperation  in 
Europe  (CSCE) declared  itself  a regional  arrangement  in the sense  of 
Chapter VIII  of the Charter,  and Poland  contributed  to this  evolution of  the 
CSCE.  We  suggest  that other  regional  organizations  might  consider  appropriate 
action in their own  spheres.  Constructive  interaction between  the United 
Nations  and  regional  arrangements  may well  constitute  an important  new  element 
making the United Nations more  effective. 
Finally,  the United  Nations  system  of peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
must be made more  effective.  In particular,  a more  active  role could be 
played by  the Security  Council  in this  respect.  Taking  into account  the 
provisions  of Article  36 of  the Charter,  the Security  Council  should  not 
hesitate  to make  recommendations  on  specific  procedures  or methods  of 
adjustment  of  disputes; that  should become normal practice  in cases where 
parties  to a dispute  are unable  to  settle  it according  to their  obligations 
under paragraph  3 of Article  2.  The  Secretary-General  rightly emphasizes  this 
in his  report. 
I should  like to add that  Poland  fully  shares  the opinions  expressed 
today by the  representatives  of  the United Kingdom  and Sweden on  "An Agenda 
for Peace".  In particular, we  endorse  the  idea of the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the United  Kingdom,  Ambassador  David Hannay,  concerning  a 
memorial to all  the members  of  the United Nations  peace-keeping  forces who 
have sacrificed  their  lives  in the  service of peace  and of  the  Organization. 
In conclusion,  the  reports of  the Secretary  General must be  commended  for 
their vision  and complexity.  We believe  that  today's discussion  adds  a new 
dimension to them.  We  also believe  that  these  reports  and our debate  will 
lead us to  specific  decisions  and  recommendations  during  this  session.  My 
delegation is ready  to participate  in their  elaboration. 
A/47/PV.32 
19-20 
Mr. KHALIL-UR-REHMAN  (Pakistan):  The  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace", prepared  at  the  Security 
Council's  request, made  at  its January  1992 meeting  at  the  level  of Heads of 
State  and Government,  comes  at a most  opportune  moment  in the history  of the 
United  Nations.  It  is by  far one of the most  important  documents  elaborated 
for  the  last 40 years.  It fully grasps  the complex  undercurrents  of  the 
present  time  and holds  out  a vision  of the  future.  My  delegation welcomes the 
present  opportunity  to make  some preliminary  comments  on  "An Agenda  for Peace". 
The end of  the cold war has ushered  in  a  new era characterized  by 
dialogue  and  relaxation  of  tension between  States.  It has opened  up  new 
prospects  and vistas  for  the promotion  of  international  peace  and  the 
stability  and prosperity  of  all peoples.  For  the  first  time  since  its 
inception,  the Organization  is presented with  a  unique  opportunity  truly to 
become  an  institution  that  reflects  the  collective  will  of  all  nations. 
A/47/PV.32 
21 
(Mr. Khalil-Ur-Rehman. Pakistan) 
Respect for the inherent dignity of the individual constitutes a sound 
foundation for the promotion of freedom, justice and peace in the world.  In 
seeking to promote the cause of human rights, the international community must 
eschew selectivity while fully respecting the values, beliefs and customs of 
all peoples.  Human-rights standards should be applied without discrimination 
or selectivity. 
The trend towards democracy within nations must also be reflected in the 
democratization of the United Nations.  We share the Secretary-General's view 
that 
"Democracy within the family of nations ... requires the fullest 
consultation, participation and engagement of all States, large and 
small, in the work of the Organization". (A/47/277, para. 82) 
Pakistan also welcomes the general trend towards economic liberalization. 
The growing interdependence of the world economy requires the adoption of 
measures with a view to providing equitable opportunities for all peoples and 
the promotion of their progress and prosperity.  Efforts by individual nations 
towards opening up their economies will not succeed without a favourable 
external economic environment.  Developed countries have a special 
responsibility to help create an environment that would encourage economic 
growth and would nurture sustained development in the developing countries. 
The nexus between international peace and security and the economic 
well-being of all peoples cannot be denied.  Stability will be possible only 
if the international community addresses the underlying socio-economic 
problems and other factors.  In our view, the United Nations can, and must, 
play a central role in overcoming the economic problems confronting developing 
countries.  An equitable resolution of these problems can make a substantial 
contribution to world peace and stability. 
A/47/PV.32 
22 
(Mr, Khali1-Ur-Rehman.  Pakistan) 
The  international  community  must  ensure  respect  for  the  sovereign 
equality  of  all  States, the peaceful  settlement  of disputes  and  strict 
adherence  to the principle  of  non-interference.  At  the  same  time,  it  should 
ensure  respect  for  the  right  to  self-determination  of  all  peoples  under 
colonial  or  alien domination  or  foreign occupation.  The  free  exercise  of this 
basic  right would  effectively  contribute  to the  strengthening  of  international 
peace  and  security by  removing  a major  cause  of  conflict  and  source  of 
instability  in many  regions. 
Pakistan  agrees  in principle with  the  five  aims put  forward  by  the 
Secretary-General  in his  report  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace":  resort  to 
preventive  diplomacy  through  the early  identification  of potential  conflicts; 
engagement  in peacemaking where  conflict  occurs; the preservation  of 
post-conflict  peace  through peace-keeping  and  assistance  in the  implementation 
of  agreements  achieved; post-conflict  peace-building;  and,  finally,  the 
adoption of measures  aimed  at redressing  the deeper  socio-economic  and 
political  causes  of  conflict. 
We  fully  endorse  the  Secretary-General's  view  that 
"The principles  of the Charter must  be applied  consistently,  not 
selectively,  for  if the perception  should  be of  the  latter,  trust will 
wane  and with  it the moral  authority which  is the greatest  and most 
unique quality  of  that  instrument."  (A/47/277, para.  H2) 
This  fundamental  rule  should govern  the deliberations  and  decisions  of  the 
United  Nations  -'in particular,  the  Security  Council.  The  ability  of  the 
United  Nations  to preserve  international  peace  is  dependent  in large  measure 
on the credibility  of  its decisions  and on the degree  of  consistency  in the 
application of  the principles  of  the  Charter. 
A/47/PV.32 
23 
(Mr. Khalil-Ur-Rehman.  Pakistan) 
The  consensus  that  currently  characterizes  the deliberations  of  the 
Security  Council must be maintained  and  further  reinforced.  Measures  aimed  at 
making  the Council's  decision-making  process more  transparent would  greatly 
contribute  towards  fostering  a fruitful  relationship  between  the Council  and 
the general membership  of  the  Organization. 
Article  24 of  the Charter  confers on the  Security  Council  the  primary 
responsibility  for  the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
However,  the  issue  of  international  peace  and  security  needs  to be  approached 
in an integrated  and balanced manner  so that each organ of  the United  Nations 
may play  the due  role  accorded  to it under  the Charter.  Decisions  of  all 
organs of  the United Nations must be  respected. 
Pakistan  favours  the  strengthening  of the capacity  of  the United  Nations 
in the area of preventive  diplomacy  to pre-empt  the outbreak  of  armed 
conflicts.  We  share  the belief  of  the  Secretary-General  in the need  to 
promote measures  to build  confidence between parties  to a conflict  as a means 
of reducing  the  likelihood  of  further  conflict.  In particular,  the proposal 
that the Secretary-General  should  undertake  periodic  consultations  on 
confidence-building  measures  should be  supplemented  by efforts  to promote  the 
peaceful  settlement  of disputes. 
Timely and  accurate  information  on potential  conflict  situations  is 
essential  to preventive  diplomacy.  In keeping with  the provisions  of 
resolution 46/59  on  fact-finding,  the  Security  Council,  the General  Assembly 
or the Secretary-General  should  undertake  such missions.  Member  States  should 
be encouraged  to provide  the  requisite  information.  Where  circumstances 
require, and  if  the  Security  Council  deems  it necessary,  the Council may  meet 
away from Headquarters,  as provided  for  in the Charter,  to  focus  international 
attention on a given  situation. 
A/47/PV.32 
24 
(Mr. Khalil-Ur-Rehman.  Pakistan) 
To  respond  effectively  to developments  threatening  peace,  the  early-
warning  capability  of  the United  Nations  needs  to be  fully developed.  The 
Organization's  capacity  to collect  and  analyze  information  with  a  view  to 
making  recommendations  for preventive  action  should be  strengthened.  Member 
States  should  be actively  involved  in and  informed  of  the process  at  all 
stages.  Regional  organizations  or  agencies  should  also be  consulted,  where 
feasible.  It  is essential  that  the mechanisms  employed  for  this purpose  be 
fully  transparent  and  allow  for an independent  evaluation  and  impartial 
recommendations.  The proposal  for  reporting by  the Economic  and  Social 
Council  to the  Security  Council  at  its  request  under Article  65 should be 
examined  in the light of  the ongoing process  of  revitalizing  and  restructuring 
the Economic  and  Social  Council. 
Pakistan  regards  the  Secretary-General's  proposals  on  preventive 
deployment  and  the establishment  of demilitarized  zones  at  the  request  of the 
countries  concerned,  or  at the  request  of one  country  on  its  side of  the 
border,  as useful mechanisms  to prevent  the outbreak  of  armed  conflict. 
As  regards peace-making,  the United Nations  - in particular,  the  Security 
Council, which has  the primary  responsibility  for the maintenance  of peace and 
security  - should  first  exhaust  all measures  under  Chapter VI  of  the Charter. 
The  transition  from measures  under Chapter VI  to those provided  for  in Chapter 
VII  should be graduated.  Measures  under Chapter  VII  should be  undertaken 
without  any  selectivity  or discrimination.  This process  should  involve 
greater  transparency  and  should be  strictly  in accordance  with  the  provisions 
of  the  Charter. 
Pakistan  calls  for greater  resort  to mediation  and negotiation  undertaken 
under  the  authority  of  the  Security  Council,  the General  Assembly  or  the 
A/47/PV. 32 
25 
(Mr. Khalil-Ur-Rehman.  Pakistan) 
Secretary-General  than has been  the case  so far.  In particular, more  use 
should be made  of  the good  offices  of  the Secretary-General.  For  greater 
effectiveness,  the  relationship  between  the Secretary-General  and  the  Security 
Council  should  be one of  close  cooperation  and  consultation. 
Pakistan has  accepted  the compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International 
Court of  Justice without  any  reservations, except  those permitted  by  the 
Court's  Statute  itself.  We view  favourably  the  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary-General  with  regard  to the greater  use of  the Court by States. 
We welcome  the  Secretary-General's  decision  to have  the  Administrative 
Committee  on Coordination explore methods  by which  the  inter-agency  system  may 
improve  its contribution  to the peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  by  extending 
urgently needed  assistance  in an effective  and  coordinated  manner. 
Pakistan  firmly believes  that  the  issue of  the negative  economic 
implications  for Member  States of  the  imposition  of  sanctions  under Article  41 
of the Charter  by  the Security  Council  should be  adequately  addressed. 
Invoking Article  50 should  lead  to the adoption by the Council  of  a series of 
practical measures  to overcome  the  special  economic  problems  confronted  by 
States. 
A/47/PV.32 
26 
(Mr.  Khalil-Ur-Rehman. 
Pakistan) 
The  use of military  force by  the Security  Council  under  Article  42  should 
be undertaken  as a last  resort  after  all  other  collective  security  measures 
have been  fully exhausted.  The proposal  concerning  stand-by  armed  forces  as 
envisaged  under  Article 43 needs  to be developed  further  and  its  practical 
aspects  examined,  including  such matters  as  financing  and  standardization  of 
equipment  and training,  as well as other  related  issues.  The  concept  of peace 
enforcement  units  as a provisional measure  under Article 40 needs  to be 
elaborated  further  and  its practical  aspects  also  carefully  studied. 
Given  the evolutionary  nature  of peace-keeping  operations,  it may be 
premature  at this  stage  to determine hard  and  fast guidelines  for  such 
operations.  They may have  a restrictive  effect  on  future  peace-keeping 
operations  and  deprive  them of one of their most  crucial  elements,  and  that is 
their  flexibility  to adapt  to circumstances  peculiar  to each operation.  It is 
also desirable  in this  respect  to  follow  a comprehensive  approach  covering all 
aspects  of peace-keeping,  including  its practical  aspects. 
The  Secretary-General  has enumerated  certain principles  and practices of 
peace-keeping.  I should  like to emphasize  here  that  for  the mandate  of any 
peace-keeping  operation  to be clear  and well-defined,  it  is essential  that 
there be no  change  in the  composition, mandate, nature  and duration  of a 
peace-keeping  operation without  an express  decision of  the Security  Council. 
We  agree with  the Secretary-General  that  the parties  concerned  must  cooperate 
in implementing  that mandate.  The  continued  support  of  the Security  Council 
is crucial.  Member  States  should be prepared  to contribute  personnel  as well 
as to ensure  adequate  financial  and  logistic  support.  I should  like  to 
reiterate  here  that  the Government  of Pakistan  is prepared  to  designate 
specific  units of  its  armed  forces  for  such operations  any  time  and  anywhere. 
A/47/PV.32 
27 
(Mr.  Khalil-Ur-Rehman. 
Pakistan) 
Pakistan  shares  the  concern of  the Secretary-General  regarding  the  lag 
between  the  increasing  demands  on the United Nations  for peace-keeping  and  the 
financial  and other  resources made  available  to him.  Pakistan  agrees  in 
particular with  the  Secretary-General's  several proposals  relating  to 
personnel, pre-positioned  stocks of basic peace-keeping  equipment  and  adequate 
financial  resources.  All  these proposals  need  to be given  serious 
consideration. 
We  are of  the view  that  any  realistic  approach  to the apportionment  of 
the costs  of peace-keeping  operations  should  continue  to take  into account  the 
special  responsibilities  of  the permanent members  of  the Security  Council  and 
the fact that  the economically  more-developed  countries  are  in a position  to 
make  relatively  larger  contributions  than the economically  less-developed 
countries.  The  institutionalization  of  such a formula would provide  the 
requisite  financial  security  to the Organization  in the  area of 
peace-keeping.  Member  States  should pay  their peace-keeping  dues  in full  and 
on time.  Simultaneously,  efforts  should made be on a continuous  basis  to make 
such operations more  cost-effective. 
The  lack of  financial  resources has already  severely  handicapped many  of 
the operations  in which  the United Nations  is currently  engaged.  In view of 
the serious  financial  shortfall with which  the United Nations  is now  faced,  it 
may become necessary  for  us to consider various  options  for  obtaining 
resources  to cover  the  current  shortfall. 
The  safety of  the United Nations  personnel  is, to my mind,  of  absolutely 
paramount  importance  and  should be  fully guaranteed  and  respected  by  all 
parties  concerned.  As  suggested by  the Secretary-General,  the  Security 
Council may  consider  adopting  certain measures  against  a defaulting  party  in 
A/47/PV.32 
28 
(Mr.  Khalil-Ur-Rehman. 
Pakistan) 
situations where  a systematic  pattern of exposing United  Nations  personnel to 
physical harm  is clearly  established. 
Regions  of  the world  ravaged  by wars  require urgent measures  aimed  at 
rebuilding  their  social  and economic  structures  or, as the  Secretary-General 
defines  it,  "post-conflict  peace-building".  Without  the  assistance  of  the 
international  community,  these  devastated  societies will  remain  sources of 
instability  and pose  a  threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  Pakistan 
supports,  in principle,  the many measures  proposed by  the Secretary-General as 
part  of post-conflict  peace-building.  The United  Nations  system,  and  in 
particular  its  specialized  agencies,  should  develop  a coordinated  and 
effective  strategy  for extending  the  required  assistance  to  areas urgently in 
need of  such  aid. 
The  Secretary-General  has called  for greater  association  of  regional 
arrangements  or  agencies with  the United  Nations  in matters  relating  to the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  as provided  in Chapter VIII of 
the Charter.  In our view,  such activities  must  be  strictly  in accordance with 
the provisions  of Chapter VIII  and  not detract  in any manner  from  the Security 
Council's primary  responsibility  for  the maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security. 
Pakistan welcomed  the  first meeting  of  the Security  Council  at  the level 
of Heads  of State or Government  in January  1992.  We  favour  the  idea that 
Heads of  State  or Government  of Council members  meet  every  alternate  year and 
whenever  circumstances  require  at the  foreign-minister  level. 
Pakistan  shares  the general  desire  of Member  States  to  complete  the 
reorganization  of  the United Nations  by  1995.  We  consider  this process vital 
so  that  each organ of  the United  Nations  may employ  its  capabilities  in the 
A/47/PV.32 
29 
(Mr.  Khalil-Ur-Rehman. 
Pakistan) 
balanced  and harmonious  fashion  envisaged  in the Charter.  However,  this 
process  should  involve universal  participation  and  should  aim  at  strengthening 
the world  body's  role  in maintaining  international  peace  and  security  and 
promoting global  prosperity.  The  trend  towards  democratization  of  the  United 
Nations  should be  strengthened,  and we  should  avoid  creating  new centres  of 
power  and privilege.  Particular  attention  should be  focused  on preserving  and 
augmenting  the  security  of  small  and vulnerable  States  as well  as  adequately 
addressing  the  social  and economic  dimensions  of global  peace  and  security. 
We are pleased  to note  from  the  report  of  the Secretary-General  on  the work  of 
the Organization  that  in the next phase  of  the  reform process  special 
attention will be paid  to the economic  and  social  activities  of  the United 
Nations. 
The  importance  of  the Secretary-General's  report  "An Agenda  for  Peace" 
cannot be overemphasized.  We need  to act upon  it as early  as possible.  My 
delegation would be very willing  to participate  in any working  group 
established  under  the President's  chairmanship  for  the purpose  of  evaluating 
the document,  establishing  priorities  in terms  of  time and  subject matter  and 
submitting  recommendations  as  soon as  feasible. 
Attaining  and  sustaining  peace has  a very high price politically  and 
financially,  and  therein  lie  the burden  and moral  responsibility  incumbent 
upon all Member  States  to  achieve  this  aim.  The  emergence  of  the  new 
international  environment  presents  a great  challenge  as well  as great 
opportunities  to  the United Nations.  The United Nations  has  to use  its  full 
moral authority  and  increase  its efforts  to  resolve  economic,  trade  and  social 
issues.  Peace  today does not only mean  the absence  of  armed  conflict  but  also 
requires the  removal  of poverty  and misery  around  the world.  Herein  lies  the 
A/47/PV.32 
30 
(Mr.  Khalil-Ur-Rehman. 
Pakistan) 
significance  and the very  spirit of  the Secretary  General's  report  "An Agenda 
for Peace".  Long  live peace! 
Mr. WATSON  (United States of America):  Please  allow me, on behalf 
of  the United  States, to congratulate  you once  again. Sir, on your  election to 
the presidency  of  the United Nations  General  Assembly  at  its  forty-seventh 
session.  We  look  forward  to  a productive  session  under your  stewardship. 
Let me  also  take  this opportunity  to  say how welcome  has been  the 
leadership provided by Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  over  the difficult  and 
tumultuous  months  since he became  our  Secretary-General  in January.  The clear 
vision  and  sound  instinct with which he has  already  faced  numerous  challenges 
is equally  demonstrated  in his  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" which has 
stimulated  so many  thoughtful  and positive  comments  today  and  during  the 
general  debate. 
A/47/PV.32 
31 
(Mr. Watson. United  States) 
As President  Bush emphasized  in his  address  to the General  Assembly  last 
month, profound  changes  arising  from  the end of  the cold war have  enormously 
increased both  the potential  and the need  for preventive  diplomacy, 
peace-making  and peace-keeping.  The President  stressed  the  importance  of 
strengthening  our  ability  to meet  the post-cold-war  challenges  to peace  and 
security,  and he  committed  the United  States  to those efforts. 
The  Secretary-General's  report  is a most  valuable  contribution  to the 
discussion  sparked  by  the peace  and  security  challenges  of  the  post-cold-war 
world.  Indeed,  it offers many useful  proposals  for  strengthening  the United 
Nations  capacity  to deal with  them. 
The  Secretary-General's  report  responds  to «• direct  request by  the 
historic  Summit  Meeting  of  the  Security  Council  at Heads of  State  and 
Government  level  last January.  It directly  engages, both as a whole  and  in 
its many parts, the  subject  of  international  peace and  security,  primary 
responsibility  for which has been entrusted,  under Article  24 of  the Charter, 
to that body by  the Members  of  the United Nations.  For  that  reason we  look 
forward  to the  Security Council's beginning  detailed  consideration  of  the  full 
report later  this month. 
At the same  time, as the Secretary-General  rightly  affirms  in his  report, 
international peace  and  security  is the business  of every Member  State. 
Despite the delegation  of primary  responsibility  to the Security  Council, 
peace and  security  is a subject  on which  the General Assembly  itself  retains 
an important  role. 
Moreover, many  of  the  concrete  recommendations  contained  in  "An Agenda 
for Peace" are of direct  concern  to the mandates  and ongoing work  of  different 
subsidiary organs  of  the General Assembly.  This point  is amply  demonstrated 
A/47/PV.32 
32 
(Mr, Watson. United  Status) 
by  the informal  tabulation  of proposals prepared by  the  Secretariat  at  the 
request  of  the Security Council working group  last month. 
Our  own  review of  the  report,  against  the backdrop  of  the  continuing work 
of  several  General  Assembly  bodies, suggests  a similar  conclusion.  For 
example,  the Fifth Committee  is now deeply engaged  on  the  subject  of  financial 
provisions  for peace-keeping  and  is considering  recommendations  on  that 
subject.  The  important  proposal  on Article  50 is currently  being  discussed in 
the Charter  Committee,  and  is also of  concern  to the Economic  and  Social 
Council  and  the Security  Council.  The  subject  of  fact-finding  has been 
addressed by  the Special  Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations  and  the Charter 
Committee,  and  is of direct  interest  to both  the Security  Council  and the 
General  Assembly.  In the  Special  Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations much 
useful work has been  done on  issues  relating  to peace-keeping  personnel, 
logistic  support  and  training.  And of  course  the  Secretary-General's 
proposals  regarding  the  International  Court  of Justice  are of  direct  interest 
to  the Sixth  Committee. 
This  is not  an exhaustive  list but  it is an  instructive  one.  Within the 
sphere  of  their  existing  competence,  the organs  of  the United  Nations  are 
already  productively  engaged  in the  substance  of many  of  the broad  themes and 
concrete  proposals  contained  in  "An Agenda  for Peace".  Such  an approach holds 
the best  prospect  for promoting  our  common  goal  to give  rapid,  thorough and 
focused  attention  to the Secretary-General's  proposals. 
In keeping with  that  division  of  labour,  the General  Assembly  as a whole 
could  best  apply  its attentions  to that  subset  of  recommendations  broadly 
directed  at the General  Assembly  proper  and of  course  to the  task of  reviewing 
the  individual  reports of  its competent  organs.  When more  than  one  organ has 
A/47/PV.32 
33 
(Mr. Watson. United  States) 
a direct  involvement  in any part  of  the  report,  there  should be no  objection 
to both of  them  carrying  out  their  own  review. 
These  considerations  lead my Government  to question whether  the  creation 
of an open-ended  General  Assembly  working  group would  lead  to the most 
efficient  use of  the General  Assembly's  time and  resources.  Frankly, we  are 
concerned  that by  introducing  a  new,  non-expert  layer of  review,  such a 
working group would  produce  a less  substantive  result  and delay  action  on 
proposals, and  could  risk politicizing  a process  intended  to  strengthen  the 
Organization  in ways we  all desire. 
As the Security  Council  observed when  requesting  this  report, 
"The  international  community  ... faces new challenges  in the  search 
for peace."  (S/PV.3046. p.143) 
In "An Agenda  For  Peace" the Secretary-General  proposes  a number  of  sensible 
as well  as many  imaginative  and  far-reaching proposals  for  responding  to  these 
challenges. 
In the  field of preventive  diplomacy  the United  States  strongly  endorses 
the Secretary-General's  call  for  increased  use of confidence-building  measures 
and closer  coordination with  regional  organizations  and parties  to potential 
disputes.  We  share  the view that  the United Nations  should be better  equipped 
i to analyse  information  provided by Member  States  concerning  potential 
ii international  conflicts. 
; 
In that  regard we believe  that  active monitoring  as well  as  preventive 
peace-keeping  and demilitarized  zones may make  a critical  difference  in 
., volatile regions.  By  the  same  token,  the Secretariat  must  also  have 
,, sufficient personnel  to develop  rapidly  conflict-avoidance  strategies  and, 
j once they are  approved by  the Security  Council,  implement  them  rapidly  and 
if 
A/47/PV.32 
34 
(Mr. Watson. United  States) 
effectively.  Finally,  in all United Nations  efforts  to pursue  preventive 
diplomacy, we  share  fully  the Secretary-General's  emphasis  on  striving 
"to enhance  respect  for human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms". 
(A/47/277, para.  5) 
In the  sphere of peacemaking,  the United  States  supports  the 
Secretary-General's  suggestion  that he undertake more vigorous  action, 
provided  the Security  Council  is closely  consulted  throughout  the process. 
The proposal  that  the  Security  Council  itself pursue  an appropriate  role in 
dispute-settlement  is an appealing  one  in principle.  This  is an area in which 
the Council,  in fact, played  a greater  role  in the past  than  it does  today. 
As  I mentioned  earlier, we believe  the  subject  of Article  50  is an 
important  one, as economic  sanctions play  an increasing  role  in the 
implementation  of  the Charter.  It  is our view, however,  that  arrangements for 
addressing  the concerns  of  countries  disproportionately  affected by  sanctions 
should  closely  reflect  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  each  case  and must be 
addressed  in the overall  context  of  the Council's  primary  responsibility  for 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security. 
The  subject  of peacemaking  also  raises  the  subject  of  arrangements 
concerning  the use of  force.  The discussion  of Article  43  in  "An Agenda For 
Peace" is interesting.  We believe, however,  that  the  agreements  envisioned in 
Article  43  raise  significant military,  organizational  and political  questions 
which would  require  careful  study.  One would  need  to assure,  for  example, 
that  the existence  of  such agreements would  not  adversely  affect  national 
decisions  regarding  the employment  or command  and  control  of  such  forces, or 
the constitutional  processes  of Member  States. 
A/47/PV.32 
35 
(Mr. Watson. United  States) 
We  are  sceptical  of proposals  to  invigorate the Military Staff  Committee,' 
which we believe  is ill-suited  to military planning  and  command.  If  there 
were a role  for  the Military  Staff Committee,  then we believe  it would  not  be 
in the operational  area at  all, but might  involve  the provision  of  military 
information  and  advice  to the  Secretary-General. 
We enthusiastically  support  the general  thinking  in the  report  and most 
of its specific  proposals  on peace-keeping.  Peace-keeping  operations  should 
have a clear mandate  and  sufficient  financial  and  logistic  support.  They 
should be guided  by  a  clear  understanding  of  the  resources  host  Governments 
will provide.  We  strongly  advocate  improved  training  in common  aspects  of 
peace-keeping.  There  is a need  for much closer  integration of  peace-making 
and peace-keeping  at both  the planning  and  implementation  stages. 
We  share  the view  that  action must be taken  to strengthen  the  logistic 
foundation of peace-keeping  operations.  To accomplish  that we would  support 
efforts to enhance  existing United Nations  stockpiles,  and we would  also  urge 
Member  States  themselves  to designate  stockpiles  of  resources  necessary  to 
meet emergencies.  We  join the Secretary-General  in expressing  our  concern  for 
the safety of United Nations  personnel,  and  are willing  to help explore  ways 
better to protect  it. 
In the financial  area, my  country  fully  supports  the creation of  a 
peace-keeping  reserve  fund.  Operating  on a rotating basis, such a fund  could 
help absorb the  steep  initial  costs  of  starting  a peace-keeping  operation  and 
would then be  replenished  from  the  inflow of Member  State  assessments  for  that 
operation.  Although  the  reserve  account  is a preferable means  for  defraying 
the up-front  costs of  an operation, we may  consider  the  idea of  accelerated 
appropriations  on  a case-by-case  basis when  the  reserve  account  is not 
A/47/PV.32 
35(a-z) 
(Mr. Watson, United  States) 
adequate  to meet  the needs.  However, we  cannot  accept  the proposal  that  the 
General  Assembly  appropriate  fully one  third  of  estimated  costs  as  soon  as the 
Security  Council  decides  to establish  an operation.  The United  States 
continues  to question  the desirability  of  the many past  proposals  in  the 
financial  area that were  once  again endorsed  in the  report. 
My  Government  views  discussion  of  the  report,  in addition  to  serving as a 
vehicle  for presenting  the thinking  of  the Secretary-General,  as  an 
opportunity  to explore peace-keeping  and  related matters  about which  Member 
States have  concerns.  In that  spirit  I should  like to expand  on a  few of the 
themes  sounded by President  Bush  in his  address  to  the General  Assembly  at its 
forty-seventh  session.  Those  ideas  combined  proposals  directed  at all Member 
States  to  strengthen United  Nations peace-keeping  and  humanitarian-relief 
operations with concrete  commitments  by  the United  States  and  proposals 
directed  at enhancing  the  structure  and management  of  the  Secretariat  to meet 
the expanding  demands  and  complexity  of  those  operations. 
A/47/PV.32 
36 
(Mr. Watson. United  States) 
. Foremost, among President  Bush's  ideas was his proposal  to consider  • • 
convening a special meeting  of  the Security Council  to develop  concrete  ways 
in which  the  international  community  can help enhance United  Nations 
peace-keeping  and  related  activities  in five key areas. 
The  first  of  these  concerns  force-readiness.  All United Nations  Member 
States could  develop  and  train military  units  for possible  peace-keeping 
operations  and humanitarian  relief.  It is our hope  that  such forces would  be 
made available  on  short  notice, at the  request  of  the Security  Council  and 
with the approval  of  the Governments  providing  them. 
The  second point  is force-development.  We believe  that  multinational 
units should  train  together  and  develop  coordinated  command  and  control, 
standardized  doctrine  and  interoperability  of equipment  and  communications. 
The third point  concerns  force-support.  It is vital  that  adequate 
logistical  support be provided  to United  Nations  peace-keeping  and 
humanitarian operations.  We believe  the United  Nations  own  stockpiling 
capacity  should be  supplemented  by  resources which Member  States  can make 
available  to meet  emergencies. 
Fourthly, planning,  operations  and  intelligence  capabilities  of 
peace-keeping  forces  should be  improved. 
And  finally,  adequate, equitable  financing must be  ensured. 
With  regard  to  the measures  the United  States will  take. President  Bush 
announced  several  far-reaching  steps.  Among  these  are:  the  inclusion  of 
peace-keeping  and humanitarian  relief  among  the missions  for which  United 
States military  units will  be  trained;  establishing  a permanent  peace-keeping 
curriculum  in United  States military  schools; making  available  United  States 
bases and  facilities  for multinational  training,  field  exercises  and 
A/47/PV.32 
37 
(Mr. Watson. United  States) 
simulations; providing  our military expertise  to the United  Nations  to help 
strengthen planning  and operations  for peace-keeping;  and broadening  American 
support  for monitoring,  verification,  reconnaissance  and  other  peace-keeping 
and humanitarian mission  requirements. 
In the United Nations  Secretariat  itself, we believe  the  escalating 
volume  and complexity  of peace-keeping  and  related missions  argues  for  reforms 
in management  and  structure.  I will mention  just  a  few examples.  Perhaps the 
Secretariat  could  develop  a peace-keeping  planning  staff  and  24-hour 
communications  centre.  Effective  operational  integration  of  all  offices 
engaged  in planning  and  implementing  peace-keeping  operations  and  providing 
logistical  and budgetary  support  seems  useful  to us.  In the  field, when a 
broad  range of programmes  and  agencies  are  involved  in a particular  mission, 
steps  should  be taken to rationalize  and  integrate  them. 
In the  financial  sphere, we believe  a variety  of  actions  are  called for: 
first, adjustment  of the  formula  for calculating peace-keeping  assessments to 
reflect more  accurately  the new  interest  of Member  States  in  the  increased 
peace-keeping  activities  of  the United  Nations; secondly,  limitation  of 
assessment  periods  to six months; thirdly, maximum  recourse  to  outside 
contracting;  fourthly, maximum  use of voluntary  assessments  by Member  States 
most  affected by a specific  operation;  and  fifthly,  status-of-forces 
agreements with  receiving  countries  that  require most  favourable  terms  for all 
arrangements. 
In conclusion,  let me  say that my Government  regards  the 
Secretary-General's  report  as an extremely valuable  contribution  to both the 
A/47/PV.32 
38 
(Mr. Watson. United  States) 
consideration  and  the actual  construction  of  the United  Nations  future  role  in 
international  security.  We  look  forward  to working with him  and with  fellow 
Member  States  in those  important  endeavours. 
Mr. O'BRIEN  (New  Zealand):  The General  Assembly  does well  to give 
close attention  to  the Secretary-General's  reports.  They  are  noticeboards, 
not only of  action  completed,  but  of  action planned.  They  tell us a lot  about 
the health of  the Organization  and our way of doing  things. 
There will be other  opportunities  to give our views on many  of  the 
specific  subjects  covered  in the Secretary-General's  annual  report  on the work 
of the Organization,  and  I should  like here  to confine my  remarks  to two or 
three  "framework" issues. 
The  Secretary-General  has pointed  out  that the years between  1992 and  the 
United Nations  50th  anniversary  in 1995 may well determine  the  course  and 
contribution  of  the Organization  for  the next generation  or more.  The 
membership  has  taken  this on board.  We  as Members  and  the  Secretary-General 
as the chief  administrative  officer  are now having  a hard  think  about 
redesigning the  system's  procedures  and mechanisms.  After  47 years of  hard 
wear, some of  them  need  repair,  remodelling  or  replacing.  The machine  needs 
to be in very good  order  for  an action-oriented  United  Nations 
the 
"strongest hope  for  a better  world"  (A/47/1, para. 22). as the 
Secretary-General  calls  it,  and of which  the New  Zealand  Prime Minister  spoke 
from this rostrum  last  month. 
Reading  the annual  report,  one  cannot but be  struck by  the  fact  that 
today there  are peace-keeping  operations  in four  continents  costing  an  annual 
sum of $3 billion.  Increasingly,  these  address  situations  not between  but 
within countries, where  civil  order has broken down.  The  reasons usually  are 
A/47/PV.32 
39 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
complex,  but  are nevertheless  not hard  to find.  Too often one  ingredient  is 
economic  underdevelopment  interlinked with  social  and  structural  inequity. 
One  cannot but be  struck, too, by  the knowledge  that  though  it provides 
an essential  framework  for equitable  development, greater political  freedom 
does not unaided  cure the deep-seated  problems  of  indebtedness,  poverty, 
famine  and  lack of  fair opportunities  to trade.  Democratic  political,  social 
and economic  institutions  have  to be built  from the ground  up.  The 
international  human-rights  instruments  set  standards  that  societies  must 
answer  to.  A  focused  effort  to act on  an agreed  strategy  for  sustainable 
economic  development globally  needs  the political will  to cooperate  for the 
common good.  The goals  set by  the Rio Conference  are  called  ambitious, but if 
they  are not  achieved,  the next generation will pay a price. 
The New Zealand delegation  strongly  supports  the view expressed  by the 
Secretary-General  that  this Organization  should  view 
"its objectives  in respect  of economic  and  social  cooperation  and 
development  with  the same sense of  responsibility  and urgency  as its 
commitments  in the political  and  security  area"  (A/47/1, para.  105 (a)). 
Our  Organization  needs clarity  of objectives  in each of  its principal organs. 
None  can override  the mandates or  functions  of another, but  each makes  an 
essential  contribution  to  the integrated  concept of  security  as we  now 
recognize  it. 
Structurally,  New Zealand  looks  to arrangements  that  ensure value is 
added  at each  level of  input  and  that duplication  of effort  is  eliminated. 
This  assumes  a coherent  relationship  and  interaction between  the whole  and its 
parts.  We need  systems  that  are capable of  responding  to  the  strategic 
messages passed  on to  them  through  the debate  and decisions  of  the  membership 
A/47/PV.32 
40 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
and that  are  responsive  to the  instructions  of  the membership.  We  need 
monitoring  and  assessment  capabilities, both  so that we  can  see how the  system 
performs  and  to enable programmes  to be wound  up when they have  done  their  job 
and allow other, current  needs  to take their place.  This  is a tall order, but 
worth  striving  for.  Well  directed  support  for  the agreed  objectives  is 
axiomatic. 
We note  the  intention  to extend  the process of  internal  reform  of  the 
Secretariat,  renewed  nearly  a year  ago, to the economic  and  social  sectors. 
A/47/PV.32 
41 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
This we  applaud.  We  support  the Secretary-General  in the work  he  is doing. 
We  are pleased,  for  example,  at the effort being made  to  improve  family-wide 
coordination  through  the Administrative  Committee  on Coordination  (ACC),  and 
we  look  forward  to an early  report  on the conclusions  and  recommendations  of 
the  consultants who  are working  on this  project. 
New Zealand  has made  it clear  that we  think  it is vital  that  the United 
Nations  respond  to  situations  that  threaten peace  or  cry out  for global action 
wherever  they occur.  The  second  report  of  the  Secretary-General  that  is 
before  us today,  "An Agenda  for Peace",  spells out, we  think very  effectively, 
the mix  that makes  for  security  in  its totality.  It  raises  the  key  issues 
that  are  likely  to preoccupy  us  for  the  rest  of  the  decade. 
Debate on the  "Agenda  for Peace" is only beginning.  It will  take place 
in many  forums:  here  in the Assembly,  in its committees,  and  in  its 
specialist  bodies  such as the Special  Committee  on the  Charter  and  the Special 
Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations,  as well, of  course,  as  in the  Security 
Council  and  the Military  Staff Committee,  the  specialized  agencies,  the 
Economic  and  Social Council, the ACC  and  indeed  amongst  the  regional 
organizations  that have  a close  interest  in the matter. 
On  issues of  such  importance  the debate  needs  time  for  interaction and 
cross-fertilization  of  ideas, more  so than  I suspect  is possible  at this early 
stage of  our  deliberations.  The New  Zealand  delegation  would  like, for 
instance,  to hear  the views of  the  special  groups  that  are  looking  at 
financing questions  before we embark  on  irreversible  courses  of  action.  I 
hope,  therefore,  that  the Assembly  will  have  an opportunity  to  return  to the 
discussion  of  the  "Agenda  for Peace" later  in the  session  to  assess  the issues 
in their  full breadth  and  to  take  account  of  the expert  advice  of  other 
A/47/PV.32 
42 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
committees  and  forums.  We  should  avoid  seeking  to synthesize  an Assembly  view 
at this  early  stage.  We  are embarking  on what must be  an evolving process. 
Premature  conclusions  could be unnecessarily  restrictive.  The purpose  of 
today's debate,  as we  see  it,  should be to  lay down  some markers which we  can 
add to and  return  to  later. 
At  the  same  time, we  realize  that  some of  the  steps  recommended  in the 
"Agenda for  Peace", where new mandates  are not needed,  are already  being 
effectively  implemented  as our  Organization  and  its Secretary-General  confront 
the new challenges  that  abound  in our  world. 
New  Zealand, which  is a long-standing  contributor  to United  Nations 
peace-keeping  operations,  is acutely  aware of  the changing  character  of 
peace-keeping.  On  the one hand, we have  seen the broadening of  the  "classic" 
operation,  facilitated  by  the end of  the cold war  and by a more  consensual 
approach  in the United  Nations, and  in the Security  Council  in particular.  We 
support  the  inclusion  of new components  and  additional  tasks, including many 
of a non-military  nature.  The delicate  balances  needed  to  restore  and 
maintain conditions  of peace may on occasion  require humanitarian  assistance 
and protection,  the monitoring  of elections, the building  of  democratic 
institutions  and  the observance  of human  rights.  To deny  these  as part  of a 
peace-keeping package  could be to deny  survival  to besieged populations.  The 
role of  the Security  Council  in such  issues  is sensitive.  It must  act with 
care, with  consistency, with  consultation  and with  respect  for  sovereign 
rights and concerns. 
Typically,  the  traditional  peace-keeping  operation  took place  in 
post-conflict  cease-fire  situations.  Increasingly,  this  is no  longer  the 
case.  Whether  peacemaking  and peace-keeping  can operate  simultaneously 
instead of  in  sequence  is now being put  to the  test.  Fact-finding  missions 
A/47/PV.32 
43 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
and  the good  offices  of  the Secretary-General  are being  used more  and more to 
explore possibilities  for  solutions  to problems.  As one  of  the main  sponsors 
of  the Declaration  on Fact-finding  (resolution  46/59) adopted  here  last year. 
New  Zealand welcomes  these  developments.  In addition  to  the  important  role 
such missions  play  in clarifying  the  factual  circumstances  in given 
situations, they  can also help  forestall  or defuse  an escalation  of tensions. 
We  support  a full exploration  of  the parameters  of existing  and  new 
techniques  to prevent  disputes  from  erupting  into violence.  These  include 
confidence-building  measures; exploring  and encouraging  the possibilities for 
negotiated  settlements,  including  through United Nations mediation  if 
appropriate; ways of  containing  violence when  it does occur  by monitoring the 
separation  of  the parties  to the conflict;  and packages  to  assist  in building 
conditions  for peace. 
Amongst  the most  important  instruments  for preventive  diplomacy  and for 
peace-keeping  in its broadest  sense  are the timeliness  and quality  of the 
early-warning  and  follow-up  information  available  to the  Secretary-General. 
What  is required,  in our view,  is an enhanced  and  integrated  capacity within 
the Secretariat  for information-gathering  and  analysis,  including  objective 
reporting  of  the concerns  and  interests  of parties  to  incipient  conflicts. 
Logically,  this would  done by  a dedicated  professional  unit  reporting to 
the Secretary-General  and  the Security  Council  as  issues  arise.  Its prime 
sources  could well  include more  frequent  fact-finding  missions  and  field 
visits.  We  are pleased  that moves have  already been  set  in train  to  improve 
the  information-gathering  in the  Secretariat  on a geographic  basis.  We look 
forward  to further  coordination  of  this  activity.  At  this point  New Zealand 
remains  to be  convinced,  however,  of  the need  to call  for  the  Economic  and 
A/47/PV.32 
44 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
Social  Council  to engage  in additional  reporting  to the Security  Council  on 
social  and economic  developments. 
We  fully  share  the view  that  cooperation between  the United  Nations  and 
relevant  regional  organizations  should be enhanced.  More work  should  be  done 
on the appropriate  divisions  of  labour, bearing  in mind  that  the Council  must 
retain primary  responsibility  for  the maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  The  efforts  of  the Council,  the Assembly  and  regional  organizations 
can complement  one  another. 
As a strong  supporter  of  the  International  Court  of Justice, New  Zealand 
supports proposals  to  reinforce  and enhance  its role  in the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  We  support  calls  for wider  acceptance  of  the  Court's 
compulsory  jurisdiction,  and we  support  the proposal  that  the 
Secretary-General  should  have  the  authority  to request  advisory  opinions  of 
the Court.  In the Decade  of  International  Law we  can hardly  do less. 
Other proposals warrant  further  study  and  reflection.  The  concept of  the 
preventive deployment  of United Nations  forces,  for example,  in disputes 
between States  seems  to us in principle  a helpful  one.  But  issues  such  as 
request or  consent,  how the  trigger-point  is defined,  and  the precise  role of 
such forces  suggest  that  formal guidelines would be  difficult  to develop  and 
that responses would have  to be on a case-by-case basis.  Neither  are we 
altogether  clear  about  the proposed graduation  from peace-keeping  to 
peace-enforcement,  the circumstances  in which enforcement  activity might  be 
undertaken,  or  the  limits on  such a role.  We expect  these  ideas  to be  teased 
out further  in our  debate, with  the opportunity  to come back  to them.  We 
would likewise  expect  further  thinking  to develop on measures  that might  be 
taken in support  of  the Secretary-General  and  the Security  Council  in the very 
A/47/PV.32 
45 
(Mr. O'Brien. New  Zealand) 
important  area of guaranteeing  the  safety of United Nations personnel  in all 
aspects  of peace-keeping  deployments. 
At  the  crux of  the effectiveness  of  the United  Nations  in  the whole area 
of preventive  diplomacy,  peace-keeping,  peacemaking  and peace-building lies, 
of  course,  the  issue of  financing.  New Zealand's  share  of peace-keeping  costs 
in 1991-1992 was  almost  three  times greater  than our  contribution  to the 
regular  budget.  We  remain one  of  the handful  of  countries  that have paid 
their  assessments  in  full  and on time.  It has  not been  easy  for us, and for 
us,  as for most  other Members,  stringent  scrutiny  of  peace-keeping-operation 
budgets will  remain  essential. 
Several  new ways  of  funding operations  are proposed  in the  "Agenda for 
Peace".  We  note  too  that  one Member  State has  signalled  an  intention to put 
forward  a proposal  to establish  a peace-keeping  start-up  fund which would not 
put  new  financial burdens  on Member  States.  We  await with  interest  a full 
elaboration  of  the various proposals  in the appropriate  committee. 
That  said,  the bottom  line must  continue  to be  that  all  States must pay 
their  dues on time  and  in full.  Only  thus  can we  show that we  are prepared to 
carry out  in practice  those  Charter principles  to which we have  all 
subscribed.  New  Zealand's  contribution  to this discussion  will  take this as 
its baseline:  the  remedies  relate  first  and  foremost  to our  responsibilities 
as Members,  rather  than to external  solutions  such  as commercial  borrowing. 
In this  contribution  I have  addressed  only  a few of  the  issues  raised in 
the annual  report  and  the  "Agenda  for Peace".  Good governance  and 
responsibility  are  at the heart  of  those  issues.  As  the debate  continues in 
the months  ahead we  are confident  that  a broad  consensus  can be developed on 
the key  issues.  New Zealand  looks  forward  to being part  of  that  consensus. 
A/47/PV.32 
46 
Mr. SAMHAN  (United  Arab Emirates)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  It 
gives me pleasure, on behalf  of  the delegation  of the United  Arab Emirates, to 
convey to Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  the Secretary-General  of  the United 
Nations, our  appreciation  for his  sincere  efforts  to consolidate  international 
peace and  security.  This  is the ultimate  objective  of  this Organization.  The 
Secretary-General's  wide experience  dealing with various  international 
problems, in all  their  political, economic,  and  social dimensions, has  helped 
to enhance  the  role  and work  of  the United Nations.  The  Secretary-General's 
extensive  experience  and  expertise  are  reflected  also  in his  report  on  the 
Organization's work  and  in the  special  report  on preventative  diplomacy, 
peacemaking,  and peace-keeping,  which bespeak  the positive  orientation he has 
shown since  assuming his high post. 
The  end of  the  cold war has  afforded  us an historic  opportunity  to 
strengthen  the  role of  the United Nations  in the  short  term  as well  as  in the 
long term,  in laying  the  foundations  and  formulating  the  rules of  a new world 
order that  aims  at maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  upholding 
justice and equality between  all countries, dealing with  such  chronic 
questions as underdevelopment,  poverty,  achieving  comprehensive  disarmament 
that would  rid  the world  of  all weapons  of mass destruction,  be they  nuclear, 
chemical, or biological  and  creating  an  international  social and  economic 
environment  of peace  and  respect  for  international  law. 
The Secretary-General  has dealt  in detail with  all  these various  aspects, 
and has highlighted  the new patterns  of  conflict  and dispute  that have  come  to 
characterize  the period  of  transition  on the world  level. 
We in the United  Arab Emirates  agree with his enumeration  of  all  these 
cases, and with his definitions  of  their  types  and  their  characteristics.  We 
A/47/PV.32 
47 
(Mr,  S?mhan.  United  Arab  Emirate^) 
also  support  the  five aims he has  set  for the United  Nations  as the main tools 
for preventing  international  conflicts  and  for maintaining  international  peace 
and  security.  These  are:  first,  to seek  to  identify  at  the  earliest  possible 
stage  situations  that  could produce  conflict  and  to try,  through diplomacy, to 
remove  the  source of  danger before violence  results;  secondly,  to  engage in 
peacemaking  aimed  at  resolving  the  issues  that have  led  to  conflict;  thirdly, 
through peace-keeping,  to work  to preserve  peace, where  fighting  has been 
halted;  fourthly,  to assist  in peace-building  in its differing  contexts; and 
fifthly,  to address  the deepest  causes  of  conflict. 
Although  these  five aims  are  interlaced,  interrelated  and  form  an 
integral whole, the  role of  the  international  Organization plays  in achieving 
any one of  them  differs  from  the others  in  respect  of  the mechanism  chosen to 
address  it,  and  the opportunities  to use  such mechanisms  as well  as  in the 
types of methods  applied  in achieving  the desired  aims.  All  this depends also 
on the concomittant  role the Member  States  are expected  to play,  either 
individually,  or collectively  through  the  regional  organizations  they belong 
to,  in working with  the United  Nations  or within  its  framework,  for  the 
achievement  of  any of  those aims. 
The proposals  of  the Secretary-General  afford  us new and  wider 
opportunities  for discussing  the role of  the United  Nations  in 
confidence-building  between  States, not  to mention  post-conflict 
peace-building.  These  creative  concepts, by  their very  nature,  are  still in a 
state of  flux:  they  tend  to change  rapidly  and  to open up new vistas. 
Therefore, we must  strive  to determine  the  logical  conclusions  of  building 
preventive  peace 
that  is, the prevention  of  the  incidence  of  crises which 
may  arise  from  social  and economic  factors.  In order  for us  to  achieve that 
A/47/PV.32 
48 
(Mr. Samhan. United Arab Emirates) 
aim, we must strengthen the role of the United Nations, not only with regard 
to restoring international peace and security, but also in achieving justice 
as well as social and economic progress. 
We in the United Arab Emirates attach great importance to these proposals 
and recommendations and accord them the attention they deserve.  We study and 
examine them, keeping in mind their special nature, the fact that they have to 
do with stability and peace and that they are timely indeed, having been 
formulated and put forth at a time when the very nature of crises has changed 
and the conventional methods of conflict management have changed as well. 
It is essential, in the light of the changed international scene, to 
consolidate the role of the United Nations Secretary-General in maintaining 
international peace and security.  We must also strengthen the role of the 
General Assembly and its machinery and increase their effectiveness.  We must 
enhance the role of the Economic and Social Council in dealing with the social 
and economic problems that face the countries of the Third World.  We must 
find appropriate solutions to the problems of those countries. 
We believe it is also necessary to coordinate the activities of the 
United Nations system and regional organizations, in view of the commonality 
of objectives and interests.  This would facilitate the work of the 
Secretary-General in particular and of the international Organization in 
general. 
My delegation supports the proposal to establish a working group to study 
the proposals and recommendations in the Secretary-General's report.  In this, 
we must take into consideration the nature of the problems faced by Member 
States and the ways and means of dealing with them within the framework of the 
Charter, particularly in relation to disputes between countries and the 
A/47/PV.32 
49 
(Mr, Samhan. United  Arab Emirate;?! 
resolution  of  such disputes by peaceful means  in order  to achieve  the  supreme 
objective, namely  the maintainance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
As  for the guestion of  financing,  this, no doubt,  is a crucial  problem 
that deserves  special  attention,  since  it so  strongly  affects  the  development 
and enhancement  of  the concepts  contained  in the Secretary-General's  report, 
particularly  the question of maintaining  international  peace  and  security. 
Therefore, we  stress  the need  to deal with  this question within  the 
specialized machinery  of  the United Nations  system. 
The United  Arab Emirates,  like other  States, believes  strongly  in the 
importance  of  respecting  the United Nations  Charter  and enhancing  the 
Organization's  role  in maintaining  international  peace  and  security.  In our 
past  experience, we  found that  some countries  resorted  to  force  as a means of 
solving disputes with  their  neighbours.  Moreover,  there  is the  desire, on the 
part  of  certain  countries,  for hegemony  and expansion.  But we  should  not 
mention only those  cases  that  are known  to all:  there  are  other, 
long-standing  disputes  and hotbeds  of  tension  in various  regions  of  the world 
that  cduld develop  into armed  conflicts  if they are not  dealt with  in a timely 
fashion, by peaceful means. 
Proceeding  from our  desire  to establish  a new world  order  that would be 
based  on the non-use of  force by any State  against  another,  and  in keeping 
with our  national  and  regional  interests, as  a small  State,  in maintaining our 
security  and  stability,  we  find  it necessary  that  the  international  community, 
and  the United Nations  in particular,  should  focus on ensuring  full  respect 
for the principles  of  international  law and  the principal  rules of  the 
Charter.  We  also  find  it necessary  to implement,  fully  and  absolutely, the 
principle  of  settling  regional  disputes by peaceful means  and  the principle of 
A/47/PV.32 
50 
(Mr. Samhan. United  Arab  Emirates) 
the non-admissibility  of  the occupation  of  the  territories  of other  countries 
by  force.  This would  transform  international  relations  in a manner  that must 
lead to the upholding  of  the principle  of  equal  sovereignty. 
A/47/PV.32 
51 
(Mr,  Samhan. United  Arab  Emirates) 
This  requires  the mobilization  of our  energies  and  capabilities  and the 
crystallization  of our  efforts  in a drive  to use preventive  diplomacy with the 
aim of preventing  the eruption of disputes  between  countries  and halting the 
escalation  of  conflicts  so that  they may not  turn  into  regional  or 
international  problems. 
The other method  is peacemaking  through  the promotion  of  reconciliation 
between  disputants  by peaceful means, especially by  the means  set  forth in 
Chapter VI  of  the United  Nations  Charter  and,  in particular,  in  its Article 33. 
With good  intentions,  and  a strong will, we  shall be  able,  if we  can 
resort  to those  two approaches  and use  them  fully, without  favouritism  or 
discrimination,  to create  a world  that would  be  totally  free  from  armed 
conflict.  We  could even dispense with  the costly  operations  of  peace-keeping 
or peacemaking  and channel  the  savings  to economic  and  social  development and 
preservation  of  the  environment. 
We must work  together  and  seize  this historic  opportunity  to achieve the 
main objective  of  those who wrote  the Charter:
a world  of  tolerance, 
coexistence,  peace  and  good-neighbourliness. 
Mr. CAMILLERI  (Malta):  The  consideration  of  the work  of  the United 
Nations  this year has  a special  dimension  through  the  increased  interest in 
the question  of  the  reform  of  our  Organization  in order  to  adapt  it to the 
complex  and  challenging  demands  of  the new  international  situation. 
In undertaking  this  task we  are  fortunate  to have before  us  two very 
thorough  and  thought-provoking  reports by the  Secretary-General:  "An Agenda 
for Peace"  (A/47/277) and  the annual  report  on  the work  of  the  Organization 
(A/47/1). 
A/47/PV. 32 
52 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
Taken  together  these  two  reports  cover  the whole  range  of  issues  that  are 
of most  relevance  to the question  of  the  future  role and  direction  of  the 
United Nations.  They  contain  a wealth  of  ideas  and proposals,  some of  a bold 
and far-reaching  nature, all  of which deserve detailed  and  careful  examination. 
Discussions  on the  changing  role of the United  Nations, and  consequent 
reforms  in its  structures  and methods  of work, have  intensified  in  recent 
years.  That  is  reflected  in the  increasing  number  of  separate  agenda  items 
that deal with different  aspects  of the  subject.  One of  the great merits of 
the reports presented  to us by the  Secretary-General  this year  is the way  in 
which they  focus  attention  on the  interrelated  aspects of  all  the main  issues 
involved. 
In presenting  these  reports  to us the Secretary-General  is at the  same 
time also making  a most welcome  and effective  contribution  to the objective of 
revitalizing  the work of  the General  Assembly  by ensuring  timeliness, 
relevance  and comprehensiveness  in its deliberations. 
I should  like  to make  some brief  observations  on four elements  that 
underlie much of  the  thinking  in the  reports we have before us  - namely,  the 
need to strengthen  the United  Nations  capacity  for preventive  diplomacy  and 
the peaceful  settlement  of disputes,  the relationship  between  security  and 
development,  the  role of  action at the  regional  level  and  the question  of 
adequate  resources  and  financing. 
Over  the  last  few years  the United Nations  role in the maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  has  risen dramatically.  In his  annual 
report, the Secretary-General  tells us  that 
"never before  in its history has  the United  Nations been  so 
action-oriented,  so actively  engaged,  and  so widely expected  to  respond 
to needs both  immediate  and pervasive."  (A/47/1, para.  5) 
A/47/PV.32 
53 
(Mr. Camilleri. Mal^a) 
His  report provides  impressive  details  to substantiate  this  claim. 
A direct  and welcome  result  of  the United  Nations  increased 
responsibilities  in matters  of peace  and  security  is an enlarged  and more 
effective  role  for the Security  Council.  In turn, this may be having  a less 
welcome  effect  on other organs of  the United Nations  system,  particularly by 
marginalizing much of  the work  of  the General  Assembly  and perhaps  in some 
respects  also that of  the  International  Court  of Justice. 
In his  address  to this Assembly  a few days  ago, my  Prime  Minister 
stressed  that a dynamic  relationship  between  the General  Assembly  and the 
Security  Council  remains  the essential prerequisite  for  the  credible  and 
effective  functioning  of  the United Nations  in the  field  of peace  and 
international  security. 
The  Secretary-General  touches upon this point  in his  "An Agenda  for 
Peace", when he  reminds us  that: 
"The General Assembly,  like the Security Council  and  the 
Secretary-General,  also has an  important  role assigned  to  it under the 
Charter  for the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security." 
(A/47/277, para.  36) 
He  finds  it necessary  to underline what  should be  an obvious  point,  namely 
that greater  reliance on the International  Court  of Justice  "would be an 
important  contribution  to United  Nations  peacemaking".  (ibid., para. 38) 
One  risk  in any uneven evolution  of  the  roles of  the major  organs in 
matters  of peace  and  security  could  lie  in a relative weakening  over  the 
longer  term of  the system's  capacity  for preventive  diplomacy  and  the peaceful 
settlement  of disputes. 
A/47/PV.32 
54 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
We have  seen  in recent months  an increasing  tendency  in the  Security 
Council  to move  from peacemaking  to peace-keeping.  This  is largely  a 
reflection of  its new  found vigour  as well  as a response  to  the  exceptional 
situations with which  it has been confronted.  It  is also evident  that  there 
will always be  instances  of  legitimate  differences  of opinion  regarding  the 
point where  the processes  of preventive  diplomacy  and  the peaceful  settlement 
of disputes have broken down,  leaving no alternative  to more  forceful  action. 
It is equally  evident, however,  that within  the General Assembly,  the 
International  Court  of Justice  and  indeed other organs of  the United  Nations 
system  there exists  a vast  and  sometimes  untapped  capacity  for efforts  towards 
the peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  It is in our  collective  interest  to 
ensure that  this  capacity  is fully utilized  in the United  Nations  system's 
approach to matters  of  security.  Recourse  to more  forceful  action,  especially 
enforcement  action under  Chapter VII  of the Charter  should  always  remain a 
measure of  last  resort,  a measure whose ultimate  credibility  and  effectiveness 
lies in inverse proportion  to the  frequency  of  its  application. 
It is for  this  reason  that we  attach  special  importance  to  the 
Secretary-General's  recommendations  regarding  preventive  diplomacy  and  to his 
urging that  the Security  Council 
"take  full  advantage  of  the provisions  of  the Charter  under which  it may 
recommend  appropriate  procedures  or methods  for dispute  settlement". 
(ibid., para.  35) 
In this context we  see  the need  for  the Secretary-General  to be  ready  to make 
full use of his powers  under Article  99 of  the Charter. 
We also welcome  the Secretary-General's  decision  to highlight  a  fourth 
important  concept  in this  area, namely  that of post-conflict  peace-building. 
A/47/PV.32 
55 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
which he describes  as  "the construction  of  a new environment" which  "should be 
viewed  as the  counterpart  of preventive  diplomacy",  (ibidt,  para,  57) 
The  concept of peace-building,  as conceived  in the  Secretary-General's 
report,  is also  linked  to the wider  issues of  social  and  economic 
development.  There  is increasing  realization  that  social  and  economic 
development  constitutes  a means, perhaps  ultimately  the most  effective  and 
lasting means, for ensuring  international  peace  and  security. 
The  Secretary-General  devotes  a significant  part  of his  annual  report to 
the notion of global partnership  for development.  He  rightly  reminds  us that 
"the United Nations  as an  institution  is uniquely placed  to press  for global 
solutions  to global problems  in the economic  field"  (A/47/1, para.  57) and 
that  in this  context  the United Nations  "still has  a continuing obligation to 
put  its weight behind  those who  are most  seriously  underprivileged", 
(ibid., para.  61) 
The  revitalization of  the Economic  and  Social  Council plays  an  important 
part  in the endeavour  to give  the United Nations  the  role  in the promotion of 
economic  and  social development  that was envisaged  in the Charter.  Among the 
many useful  ideas and  suggestions  of  the Secretary-General  on this matter, we 
support  in particular  his views  regarding  the need  for  closer  and  improved 
relationships  between the United Nations  and  the Bretton Woods  institutions. 
We also  support his  recommendation  that  the Security  Council  invite 
"a reinvigorated  and  restructured  Economic  and  Social  Council  to provide 
reports,  in accordance with Article  65 of  the Charter  of  the United 
Nations, on those  economic  and  social  developments  that may,  unless 
mitigated,  threaten  international  peace  and  security."  (ibid., para. 82) 
A/47/PV.32 
56 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
In the  same  line of  thinking, we  also  support  the  suggestion  that ways be 
explored  of empowering  the Secretary-General  and expert human  rights bodies  to 
bring massive violations  of human  rights  to the attention  of  the  Security 
Council, together with  recommendations  for  action. 
Points of  linkage between  the work of  the various  organs, through  their 
respective  fields of  competence,  form,  in our view,  an essential  complement  to 
the notion of  the  interrelationship  of  the  issues of peace, democracy  and 
human rights, and  the  requirements  of development,  that  the  Secretary-General 
consistently  emphasizes  in his  reports. 
Cooperation  at  the  regional  level offers yet  another  useful  dimension  in 
the renewed global  efforts  towards peace and development.  In his  "Agenda  for 
Peace", the Secretary-General  reflects  upon  the evolution of the notion of 
regional arrangements  from  that of  a device  responding  to the dangers of a 
confrontational  global  environment  to that of partnership  in the process  of 
multilateral  cooperation. 
The case of  the Conference  on Security  and Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE) 
provides a most  impressive  instance  of  such an evolution.  In its 
transformation  from  a product  of  the cold war  to a central  forum  for European 
cooperation,  the CSCE brings  a wealth of experience  and well-tested  ideas, 
ranging from  confidence-building  measures  to the  intimate  linkage  between 
issues of peace, development  and human  rights. 
Experience  in other  regions, especially  in the  resolution  of  specific 
regional conflicts,  confirms  the Secretary-General's  conclusion  that 
"regional  action  as a matter  of decentralization,  delegation  and 
cooperation with United Nations  efforts  could not only  lighten  the 
A/47/PV.32 
57 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
burden of  the Council  but  also  contribute  to a deeper  sense  of 
participation,  consensus  and democratization  in international  affairs." 
(A/47/277, para.  64) 
The question  of  the nature  and extent  of  interaction  between  the  regional 
and more global  levels  of multilateral  cooperation  is a subject  that will 
increasingly  require  special  attention  in the  future.  In particular,  the 
different  implications  of  the three  concepts  that  the  Secretary-General 
mentions  in this  connection,  namely,  decentralization,  delegation  and 
cooperation, will have  to be examined  in some detail. 
In the  light  of  the widespread  satisfaction  at  the  improved  prospects for 
international  cooperation,  and  the central  role of  the United Nations  system 
in this process, the  resource  and  financial problems  being  encountered  by our 
Organization  in the accomplishment  of  its task are especially  frustrating. 
The  Secretary-General  has  found  it necessary  to caution  that 
"amid the tumult  of demands placed  upon  it,  the United  Nations  cannot 
afford  to become  a victim  of  its own popularity,  suffering  from a crisis 
of expectations  rather  than, as  in the past,  from  a  lack of  credibility 
to command  consensus."  (A/47/1, para.  44) 
Perhaps  over  the years we have  come to take  too much  for granted  the 
distinctive merits  of  the United Nations  as a working  organization.  It is an 
organization  that by virtue  of  its constitution  invariably  runs  a balanced 
budget  - a budget  that,  in both  absolute  and especially  in  relative  terms, is 
almost  insignificant.  It  is an organization  that  does not possess  any direct 
access  to  significant  reserve  funds, nor does  it have  any  access  to  commercial 
borrowing. 
In  spite of  this, and  in spite of  the very  real problems  that  it has 
faced over  the years, the  system has  remained  sound  in the most  important 
A/47 /PV. 32 
58 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
administrative  and management  aspects.  It has  also,  though with great  and 
increasing difficulties, managed  to rely upon  its own  internal  resources  to 
cope with what  the  Secretary-General  calls  a "deplorable  ...  situation" 
(A/47/1, para. 4 7 ). 
The distinctive  strength of  our  Organization  arises  from  the  intimate  and 
continuous  relationship  that  exists between  its political  and  administrative 
levels.  We believe  that every effort  should be made  to maintain  this 
relationship.  In this context we believe  that  the main  thrust  of  the  efforts 
to remedy  the  financial  situation of  the United Nations  should  lie  in the 
direction of ensuring  that Members  meet  their  obligations  promptly  and  fully. 
We therefore  support  the Secretary-General's  ideas  that go  in this 
direction, notably  the proposal  to charge  interest on arrears, as well  as the 
proposals regarding  the  retention of budgetary  surpluses  and  the  increase  of 
the Working Capital  Fund.  The proposals  concerning  a revolving  Peace-keeping 
l Reserve Fund,  as well  as the establishment  of  a Peace  Endowment  Fund  are  also 
. timely and attractive.  The  successful  experience with  the  recent 
• establishment  of  the Humanitarian  Revolving  Fund encourages  us to believe  that 
this type of proposal  is both  feasible  and practical. 
We would, however,  suggest  caution  as regards  the idea of  authorizing 
commercial borrowing  since  this, in our view, would  tend  to ease  the  pressure 
i on Members  to pay their  dues on time, and might  consequently  contribute  to an 
erosion of the existing  intimate  linkage between  the Members  and  the 
„ Organization. 
til 
We would  like  to  see the present  discussion  as an  important  element  in 
the ongoing  intensive  and comprehensive  exercise  dealing with  the whole  range 
of issues related  to the evolving  role and  structures  of the United Nations. 
The Secretary-General's  reports provide  an excellent  basis  for  focusing  and 
A/47/PV.32 
59 
(Mr. Camilleri. Malta) 
directing  our  thinking  on the  subject.  Ways have  to be  found  of  tying 
together  the various  relevant  discussions  that  are being  conducted  in 
different  forums, some  in the Main Committees  of  the General Assembly  itself, 
others  in the Economic  and  Social  Council,  in the Security  Council  and 
elsewhere. 
Together with the Secretary-General, we wish  to  see  fulfilled  the 
expectation  that  a fundamental  renewal  of  the United  Nations will  be  complete 
by the time  it marks  the  first half-century  of  its  existence. 
Mr. NOBILO  (Croatia):  In a world without  peace,  troubled  with 
post-cold-war  instability  and  regional  crises, what  can be more  important  than 
"An Agenda  for Peace"?  The  Republic  of Croatia, which  is one  of  the 
unfortunate  victims  of the war-troubled  period  that  followed  the collapse of 
communism  and  the historical  transformations  in Middle  and  Eastern Europe, 
firmly  supports  the efforts made by the Secretary-General  aimed  at promoting, 
reshaping  and  implementing  a new global  strategy  for efficient  preventive 
diplomacy,  peacemaking  and  the peace-keeping  process  around  the  world. 
Croatia  is carrying  the burden  of painful  experience  and  first-hand  knowledge 
as to how the absence of  substantive  peacemaking  and peace-keeping  action on 
the part  of  the world  community  can intensify  a crisis  and  aggravate  the 
tragedy  of war  and human  suffering.  At  the  same  time, Croatia  is able to 
appreciate  the  importance  and benefits  of peace-keeping  operations, because 
one of  the biggest  actions  in United  Nations  history  is taking place  on 
Croatian  soil with, we hope, promising  results. 
The political  ice age has  ended,  but  the world  has  still  not  reached the 
goals  of  lasting peace  and prosperity.  On the  contrary,  vicious wars are 
being  fought  in the name of national,  religious  or even  linguistic 
superiority;  the  land  is being  taken  from  those who had  lived  there  for 
A/47/PV.32 
60 
(Mr. Nobilo.  Croatia) 
centuries;  "ethnic  cleansing"  and  annihilation  of other peoples' cultural  and 
social heritage  are  the names  of  a new bloody  game  that  post-communist 
dictators  love to play. 
From  the  fields of  Croatia  to the Black  Sea shores, the people  are  dying, 
unable to  stop  the tragedy with  their  own hands  and  clear  the way  towards 
stability  and  security.  The old  towns  that once were  the  symbols  of  cultural 
might  and  spirit,  on  the eve  of  the  twenty-first  century became  the 
manifestations  of pain,  suffering  and destruction.  If there  is anything  the 
world can  learn  from  the horrifying  examples  of Dubrovnik, Vukovar  and 
Sarajevo, it  is that  the world  community  cannot  stand passively  aside, not 
responding  to blatant  aggression.  The  sooner  the world  responds  to the  calls 
for determined  action,  the  fewer will be the victims  and  the  smaller  the  scale 
of suffering. 
The fact  that  the United Nations has undertaken  13 new  peace-keeping 
operations  since  1988  is clear  evidence  of  the mounting  importance  of  the 
world Organization  in  its  role  as the guardian  and promoter  of peace  all  over 
the world.  Today, when  regional  crises  are  jeopardizing  global  stability. 
United Nations  peace-keeping  and peacemaking  actions, as well  as  preventive 
diplomacy  and post-war  confidence-building,  are emerging  as  a  foundation-stone 
for the prosperous  future  of  the united world.  At  this moment,  almost  50,000 
Blue Helmets  are  stationed  all over  the world  trying  to preserve  peace  and 
prevent new bloodshed.  Their  bravery  deserves  our  admiration.  The  results  of 
their efforts must  not be underestimated,  but, unfortunately,  they have  not 
yet accomplished  all  their  tasks. 
A/47/PV.32 
61 
(Mr. Nobilo.  Croatia) 
There  is no doubt  that  the United Nations  is on  the way  to asserting  its 
authority  in the place of  the old cold-war  balance, which once  froze  all 
potential  regional  crises.  The  sad  reality of  the  1990s  is that  the United 
Nations  cannot  limit  its  role to keeping  and guarding  the peace.  Sometimes 
one has  to  fight  for  it.  United Nations military  enforcement  actions have so 
far been  authorized  on only  two occasions,  in the Korean  and Gulf wars.  The 
results  achieved  in liberating  Kuwait provide  a good  lesson  to the aggressors; 
the tragedy  in the Balkans  shows how high  the price  is when  the  aggressor  is 
not  stopped  instantaneously  and with  all  the might  of  the  joint  world 
community. 
Preventive  diplomacy  and preventive  peace-keeping,  as well  as  consistent 
development  policy  and  support, must be one of  the major  goals  in the work of 
the General  Assembly,  the Security  Council  and  the whole Organization.  The 
best way  to  stop war  and  its harrowing  consequences  is not  to have  one.  But 
there  are crises  and wars  that have  already  exploded  and where  "prevent" is a 
useless word.  Those  crises 
the war  in the Republic  of Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  is the best  example 
have  to be  solved  through  the process of 
peacemaking  in all  its aspects, including  those provided  under  Chapter VII of 
the United Nations  Charter. 
The  threatening war-drums  of  regional  crises  impose  imperatives  for deep 
reforms  in the United Nations peace-keeping  process.  "An Agenda  for Peace", 
wisely  proposed by  the Secretary-General,  is the  right  answer  at  the  right 
time.  Croatia  supports  the proposed  reforms  and  actions, particularly  those 
in the  field of post-conflict  peace-building,  cooperation  with  regional 
arrangements  and organizations,  and  financing.  Croatia would  especially like 
to underline  the  importance  of establishing  peace-enforcement  units, as 
A/47/PV.32 
62 
(Mr. Nobilo.  Croatia) 
proposed  in paragraph  44 of  "Agenda  for Peace".  Furthermore,  Croatia  is  ready 
to participate  actively  in those  forces, which will  be the pillar  of  the new 
world  stability. 
Experience  gained  from  the peace-keeping  operation  in Croatia  should  be 
highly  relevant  and  inspirational  for  future peace-keeping  operations  around 
the world.  All  conflicts  in the post-cold-war  era are  regional  and 
consequences  of  the political  creation of new States or of  regional 
imperialism.  This  experience  can be particularly  relevant  for  the  growing 
peace-keeping  operation  in neighbouring  Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  a country 
exposed  to the  same Serbian  territorial  conquest  as Croatia  and even more 
brutally  subjected  to  "ethnic  cleansing". 
Though we  strongly  appreciate  the efforts  and  results of  the United 
Nations peace-keeping  operation  in Croatia, my Government  is considering  the 
option of not prolonging  the mandate  of  the United Nations  Protection  Force 
(UNPROFOR) in March next year.  This  should  in no way be  seen as an act of 
hostility towards United  Nations peace-keepers.  On the contrary, we  are 
looking for the  successful  fulfilment  of  the UNPROFOR  mandate  in Croatia by 
next spring.  It  is particularly  important  to disarm  Serbian  paramilitary 
units, if necessary  even by  force, since  they were  identified  in the 
Secretary-General's  report  (S/24600) of  28 September  as the main obstacle  to 
the implementation  of  the Vance plan  and  to the return of  the  refugees. 
It is certainly  not  the mandate, nor  is it the intention, of UNPROFOR  to 
freeze existing  situations  in United  Nations  Protected Areas; rather,  it is to 
create conditions  for  a political  settlement.  We have  to implement  principles 
agreed at the Conference  on the  former Yugoslavia  and  approved  by the  Security 
Council and General  Assembly,  especially  in regard  to the  inviolability  of 
existing boundaries  and  the protection  of  the  rights of minorities.  The 
A/47/PV.32 
63 
(Mr, Wnbilo. Croatia) 
Republic of Croatia will continue to work devotedly in creating internal and 
external political conditions for a political resolution of the conflict. 
I have the pleasure to inform the Assembly that the Croatian Parliament 
recently adopted the "Law of Abolition and Amnesty" for all except those who 
had committed war crimes.  We will continue to build confidence among the 
population in the crisis area.  But in order to create conditions for the full 
implementation of minority rights under the "Law on Special Status for the 
Serbian Minority in Croatia", adopted by the Croatian Parliament at the 
beginning of this year, the United Nations Protected Areas have to be fully 
integrated into the Croatian political, economic, and social system. 
Furthermore, we believe that destroyed areas cannot be rebuilt, nor can 
hundreds of thousands of displaced persons be returned to their homes and 
working places, without the full reintegration of these parts of the Republic 
of Croatia into its infrastructure.  Confidence-building among various ethnic 
communities cannot start under the present provisional legal and political 
structures of the former communist system, nor with the implementation of the 
legislation of another State.  This is why we urge the start of a massive 
return of the refugees as the beginning of the process of reconciliation. 
We have also made a big step forward in stimulating regional conditions 
for peace and stability envisaged in the joint statement of the President of 
the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia on 30 September 1992 in Geneva.  It remains to be seen whether this 
agreement means new temporizing by internationally isolated and weakened 
Serbia.  But only the full cessation of military, political and economic 
support by Serbia to radical Serbian nationalists in Croatia and Bosnia and 
Herzegovina can divert the trend of confrontation. 
A/47/PV.32 
64 
(Mr. Nobilo.  Croatia) 
We would  also  like to make  the existing UNPROFOR  mandate  in Croatia a 
success  story  in order  to encourage  similar peace processes  in Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  and  in Serbia  itself.  This would  enable UNPROFOR  to use  financial 
and other  resources  to proceed with  an even more  comprehensive  and  effective 
peace-keeping  operation  in Bosnia  and  Herzegovina. 
We  fully  support  the new concept  of  shared,  increased  responsibility  of 
regional organizations  in promoting  and enforcing peace  in their  regions, 
because  regional  organizations  and Member  States  are better  equipped  and 
motivated  to perform  peace-keeping  and peacemaking  roles  in their  respective 
regions.  But  for  that  task  regional  organizations must  restructure  themselves 
and be prepared  to perform  such important  functions.  Each Member  State  should 
devote part  of  its defence budget  and military  forces to  immediate  use  in 
peace-keeping  or peace-enforcing  operations, upon  the  request  of  regional 
organizations. 
However,  it is quite  clear  that  the Security  Council  should  play the main 
role in authorizing  such action;  the United Nations  should play  the main  role 
in coordinating  the military,  diplomatic  and humanitarian  aspects of  each 
peace operation.  The  Organization  should  also  set  standards  and  guidelines 
for the peace-keeping  and peacemaking  roles of  regional  organizations.  In 
Europe such a responsible  task  in the cause of peace  should be entrusted  to 
the Conference  on  Security  and Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE),  as the widest 
European forum.  But  the CSCE must be  transformed  into  a real  regional 
organization  and provided with  adequate  structures  and political  and  military 
mechanisms  to accomplish  this  task. 
Mr. HATANO  (Japan):  It is indeed  an honour  to address  this very 
important meeting,  which has been  convened  to discuss  the  Secretary-General's 
A/47/PV.32 
65 
(Mr. Hatano.  Japan) 
report  "An Agenda  for Peace".  Since  that  report  raises many  issues of  common 
concern,  not only  to the Security Council, but  to the United Nations  as a 
whole,  it  is appropriate  for the members  of  this Assembly  to have  the 
opportunity  to exchange  views on  it. 
A/47/PV.32 
66 
(Mr. Hatano.  Japan) 
Japan  extends  its warmest  congratulations  to the Secretary-General  for 
the world-wide  echo he  triggered by making  public  his  report  regarding 
preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking,  peace-keeping  and peace-building,  and I 
should  like to pay  a high  tribute  to him  for his  initiative.  We  fully  share 
the view  that  now  that  the  current world  situation  is bringing  ever-greater 
challenges  to the United  Nations, Member  States  are  required  to enhance  their 
efforts  to  support  the Organization with  a  view  to coping effectively  with 
these challenges  and  thus  creating  a more peaceful world.  Japan  further 
believes  that  the  Secretary-General's  efforts  are  also a valuable  contribution 
to strengthening  the  role of  the United  Nations  in the maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  in this  changing  world. 
Indeed, many  of  the concepts  and proposals  raised  in the  report  are 
extremely  interesting.  We have  no doubt  that these  sets of  ideas  deserve  to 
be discussed  thoroughly  and  seriously.  Japan  considers  that  in so  doing 
attention  should  be duly paid  to the  following points. 
First,  since  the  report  covers  a wide  range of  subjects,  discussions 
should be  carried  out  in appropriate  forums of  the United Nations,  including 
the Security  Council  and  the General  Assembly.  Thus  far, my  own  delegation 
has been actively  engaged  in the discussions  of  the Security  Council  and  the 
Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations.  A number  of  items  to be  discussed, 
however, may be handled  in more  than one  forum.  In such cases, the  relevant 
organs should  coordinate with each other, exchanging  views both  intensively 
and on a continuing  basis. 
Secondly,  some  ambitious  and  innovative  ideas  concerning  preventive 
diplomacy and peace-keeping  contained  in the Secretary-General's  report  should 
be discussed  fully,  respecting  the time-tested  principles  and practices  of 
peace-keeping  operations. 
A/47/PV.32 
67 
(Mr. Hatano. Japan) 
In this  respect,  I reiterate  Japan's  position on  the  idea of  "preventive 
deployment"  and  "peace-enforcement  units" which  Foreign Minister  Watanabe 
explained  in his  statement  in the general  debate  at this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Japan would welcome  further  discussion  of  these  issues 
among Member  States, upon whose  support  and  cooperation  the possible  future 
realization  of  this proposal  greatly  depends. 
Thirdly, measures  to secure  a sound  financial  base  are  urgently 
required.  To this end,  Japan  is planning  to put before  this  session of the 
General  Assembly  a draft  resolution  designed  to ensure  that  financial 
requirements  for major peace-keeping  operations  at  the  start-up  stage will be 
met without  imposing  new  financial  burdens  on Member  States.  We  believe 
Japan's proposal  is compatible  with  those put  forward  by  the  Secretary-General 
and hope  that  as many Member  States  as possible will  be  able  to  support this 
initiative. 
Fourthly,  the Secretariat  should be organized  so as to ensure  that the 
United  Nations maximizes  the effectiveness  of  its efforts  to  resolve 
international  problems.  In this  regard,  I heartily welcome  the 
Secretary-General's  decision  to streamline  relevant  components  of 
peace-keeping  operations  by heeding  a proposal  put  forward  by  the Committee on 
Peace-keeping  Operations.  In the  interests  of  efficiency,  it  is important to 
have  a single,  integrated  structure, with  clear  lines of  responsibility and 
accountability. 
Fifthly,  better  communication  among  the various United  Nations  agencies 
is necessary  to ensure  that  limited  resources  are  used  effectively  and that 
the Organization's  full potential  is  realized. 
The  Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations  has  emphasized  the  importance 
of  informal  and  frequent  consultations  between  the  Secretariat  and 
A/47/PV.32 
68 
(Mr. Hatano.  Japan) 
contributing  States.  It would be helpful  if a mechanism were established  for 
consultations  among  the permanent members  of  the Security  Council,  the major 
sources of  financial  support,  the countries  providing  large  contingents  of 
personnel,  and  the  countries  of  the  regions  concerned. 
My delegation  is delighted  to note  that  the Secretary-General's  report 
"An Agenda  for  Peace", which  in my view  aims  at strengthening  the 
effectiveness  of  and  trust  in the Organization,  has evoked  successfully 
wide-ranging  discussions  among Member  States.  With  the aim, however, of 
enhancing effectiveness  of  and trust  in the United Nations, it is  equally 
important  to consider  seriously how the United  Nations  as a whole  should  be 
structured,  including  the  function  and  composition  of  the Security  Council, 
and other  aspects  of  the Council's work.  As our  Foreign Minister  stressed  in 
his statement  in the general  debate  at this  session we  consider  it  necessary 
for the United Nations  itself  to begin  to deal with  this  important  issue. 
Japan, for  its part,  is prepared  to take an active part  in this process, fully 
mindful of  its position  and  responsibility  in the international  community. 
Mr. JACOVIDES  (Cyprus):  My delegation  is particularly  pleased  to 
have this opportunity  of participating  in this debate on the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the work  of  the Organization,  an item which  is 
sufficiently broad  to cover both  the comprehensive  annual  report  (A/47/1) and 
the excellent  document  "An Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277).  It is right  and 
fitting that  this  should  be the  first  item  to be  considered  in the  plenary 
Assembly,  after  the conclusion  of  the general  debate,  in which many heads  of 
delegations had  the occasion  to comment  favourably  on the  imaginative  and 
solid proposals  put  forward  by our esteemed  Secretary-General. 
A/47/PV.32 
69-70 
(Mr.  Jacovides.  Cvnri^) 
Allow me  to recall on this occasion  that  Cyprus  from  the beginning of its 
existence  as an independent  State  and  its admission  to the United Nations in 
September  1960 has  consciously made  the principles  of  the Charter  central to 
its  foreign policy  and has  not hesitated  to  take positions  on  the  issues 
before  the Organization  dictated primarily by  its dedication  to  the 
furtherance  of  the aims of  the United Nations.  It so happened  that  this 
attitude, determined  by  its commitment  to principle,  coincided  with  the 
country's  enlightened  self-interest  as a small  and militarily  weak  State 
depending  for  its security  on the collective  security  system  of  the United 
Nations  and,  as a developing  country,  standing  to gain  from  multilateral 
technical  assistance  and know-how.  In both  the political  and  the economic 
fields the attitude  of Cyprus  towards  the United Nations was  conditioned by 
its understanding  of what was  in the best  interests  of  the United Nations, 
consistent with what was  in the best  interests  of Cyprus  itself.  Similarly, 
in the  international  legal  field Cyprus  has  in  its modest  way  always 
endeavoured  to abide by  the  rules of  international  law, to  participate 
constructively  in major  United Nations  law-making  conferences  and  to make its 
contribution  in  such areas  as developing  compulsory  third-party 
dispute-settlement  procedures  and  the adoption of  such progressive  notions of 
international  law as  ius cogens. 
A/47/PV.32 
71 
(Mr. Jacovides.  Cyprus) 
It  is from  this perspective  that we view  "An Agenda  for Peace" as a 
timely and valuable  contribution by the Secretary-General  to the  ongoing 
debate on the  revitalized  role of  the United Nations  in present  day 
international  affairs.  We particularly welcome  the  fact  that  this  debate  is 
taking place  in the General Assembly,  where  all Member  States, large  and 
small, are equally  represented  as part of  the democratic  process, and  look 
forward  to following  up particular  topics  for detailed  discussion  in other 
appropriate bodies  of  the United Nations, such as the Special  Political 
Committee,  in connection with  the  item on peace-keeping,  the Sixth  Committee, 
in connection with  the Charter  Committee's  report,  the Fifth  Committee,  on the 
issue of  financing,  and  indeed  in the Security  Council,  the  Secretariat, 
non-governmental  organizations,  the press  and  concerned  institutions  and 
individuals.  It  is very much our hope and expectation  that  discussion will be 
followed by decisions  and  actions  to  implement  these decisions. 
My delegation  fully agrees with  the Secretary-General's  observation  that, 
while the foundation  stone of  the United Nations  is and must  remain  the State, 
the time for absolute  and exclusive  sovereignty  in an evermore  interdependent 
world has passed.  It  is equally  true that  if every ethnic,  religious  or 
linguistic group  claimed  statehood  there would be no  limit  to  fragmentation, 
and peace, security  and economic well-being  for  all would  be  evermore 
difficult to achieve.  Indeed,  commitment  to human  rights with  a  special 
sensitivity  to those of minorities, whether  ethnic,  religious  or  linguistic, 
is essential  and  the  increasingly  effective machinery  of  the United  Nations 
dealing with  the protection  of human  rights provides  the appropriate  remedy 
for real or  contrived  grievances  in this  respect.  We  fully endorse  the 
A/47/PV.32 
72 
(Mr. Jacovides. Cyprus) 
Secretary-General's  view  that  in addressing various problems with  regard to 
the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security: 
"The principles  of  the Charter must be  applied  consistently,  not 
selectively,  for if the perception  should be of  the  latter,  trust will 
wane  and with  it the moral  authority which  is the greatest  and most 
unique quality  of  that  instrument."  (A/47/277, para.  82) 
The  conceptual  framework  of  "An Agenda  for  Peace" is  indeed  remarkable in 
the  ramifications  and  linkages  it establishes between peace  and  security, 
international  law, democracy,  human  rights  and  sustainable  development. 
Evidently,  preventive  diplomacy  - as  is the case with  preventive 
medicine 
is more  useful  than attempting  to cure  the  crisis  through peace(cid:173)
keeping or peacemaking  after  it has erupted.  The  Secretary-General  could 
indeed exercise  more  often his  responsibilities  under Article  99 of the 
Charter  for matters which,  in his opinion,  threaten  the maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  and  fully utilize  the  information-gathering 
possibilities  open to the Secretariat  through  fact-finding  missions or 
otherwise.  The Secretary-General's  ideas on preventive  deployment  of troops 
when  so requested  to deter  conflict  between  States  are worthy  of  consideration 
on a case-by-case basis.  The establishment  of demilitarized  zones where 
appropriate  is also  a sound  idea.  Indeed, demilitarization  on a broader 
scale, not only  in the context  of preventing  conflicts  but  also  as part of 
peacemaking,  offers wide possibilities  in appropriate  situations.  And here I 
would draw attention  to our  long-standing  proposal  for  the  complete 
demilitarization  of  the Republic  of Cyprus, as reiterated  by  President 
Vassiliou  in the general  debate on  22 September  this year,  as  an  important 
element  of  the overall  solution  to the Cyprus  problem. 
A/47/PV.32 
73 
(Mr. Jacovides.  Cyprus) 
Under  the  chapter  "Peacemaking"  in  "An Agenda  for Peace" the 
Secretary-General  wisely  proposes  an increased  effort  by utilizing  the  Charter 
provisions  for dispute  settlement.  There has  recently been  intensification  of 
activity  towards  third-party  settlement  of disputes, both at  the United 
Nations and  in such  regional  organizations  as the Conference  on Security  and 
Cooperation  in Europe  (CSCE).  Indeed,  the Security Council  is now  in a 
stronger position  to  recommend  appropriate  procedures  or methods  for  dispute 
settlement.  One  can only hope  that  such methods  of dispute  settlement  as 
mediation and  recourse  to  judicial  settlement will prove  to be more  effective 
under the present  international  climate  than in the past,  as happened  for 
example with  the  report  of  the United Nations mediator, Galo Plaza, whose 
judicious and balanced mediation effort  for the  solution of  the  Cyprus 
problem, under  Security  Council  resolution  186  (1964) lapsed when one of  the 
parties to the dispute 
refused  to accept  it with  the unfortunate  result  that 
the peacemaking  leg of  Security  Council  resolution  186  (1964) fell out of  step 
with peace-keeping  under  the same  resolution when  the Security  Council  proved 
unwilling to ensure  compliance. 
We particularly  note  and welcome  the Secretary-General's  recommendations 
in the international  law  field.  Cyprus, having  accepted without  any 
reservations  the compulsory  jurisdiction  of the  International  Court  of 
Justice, and having been  the  first  State  to have made  a contribution  to the 
Trust Fund established  to  assist  countries  unable  to afford  the cost of 
litigation before  the Court, particularly welcomes  and  supports  the 
recommendation  that  the  Secretary-General  be  authorized,  pursuant  to 
Article 96  (2) of  the Charter,  to take advantage  of  the advisory  competence  of 
the Court  and  that  other United Nations  organs  that  already  enjoy  such 
A/47/PV.32 
74 
(Mr. Jacovides.  Cyprus) 
authorization  turn to the Court more  frequently  for  such  advisory  opinions. 
Indeed, we  noted with  approval  the wise  suggestion  of  the President  of the 
International  Court  of Justice,  Sir Robert  Jennings,  in his  statement  to the 
General  Assembly  last year,  that wider  use be made of  the  advisory 
jurisdiction  by  States on the  legal  aspects  of political  disputes  between them. 
Other  suggestions  of  the Secretary-General  towards more  effective 
peacemaking  by  the United Nations,  including  the use  of military  force under 
Chapter VII  of  the Charter,  also merit  serious  consideration  and  support. 
Peace-keeping  has been one of  the  areas where  the  revitalization  of the 
United Nations  has been most  evident  in recent  years.  In our  own experience, 
the United  Nations  force  in Cyprus provides  an excellent  illustration  of an 
effective  and  successful United Nations operation  in  its proper  role of 
insulating  a crisis  and  filling  a power vacuum, while  the processes  of 
peacemaking  are under way  for the purpose of making  its continued  presence no 
longer necessary.  Those  associated  with  the United Nations  Peace-keeping 
Force  in Cyprus  (UNFICYP),  and  all other United  Nations  peace-keeping 
operations, can  justly  take pride  in the  award of  the Nobel  Peace  Prize to the 
United  Nations  peace-keeping  forces.  While UNFICYP was originally  established 
by  the Security  Council  for a brief period,  it  is still  in operation many 
years  later, and  its presence  is still necessary  in order  to perform  essential 
functions.  The  lesson  to be drawn  from  the Cyprus  peace-keeping  efforts of 
the United  Nations  is that  as  long as one or more of  the parties  concerned is 
unwilling  to comply with  the dictates  of  the  international  community,  as 
spelled  out  in unanimously  adopted  and binding  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council,  and  as  long  as the  international  community,  and more  particularly the 
major  Powers  are not willing  or  able  to act effectively  in order  to  implement 
A/47/PV.32 
75 
(Mr. Jacovides.  Cyprus) 
the resolutions  for which they voted, peacemaking, which  should go hand  in 
hand with peace-keeping,  is lagging behind,  resulting  in the  indefinite 
continuation,  if not  the  actual  perpetuation,  of  the problem.  This  is  an 
evidently unsatisfactory  situation  - unsatisfactory  to the  Government 
concerned, no  less than to the contributing  countries  and  to the United 
Nations - but  the  answer  lies not  in abandoning  the peace-keeping  effort, 
thereby abdicating  responsibility  and  leaving  the weak  at  the mercy  of  the 
strong, but  in pressing  on with effective peacemaking  through  the 
implementation  of  the  relevant  Security Council  resolutions  in all  available 
ways. 
My delegation welcomes  the constructive  suggestions  of the  Secretary-
General for improving  the potential  of United Nations peace-keeping,  including 
the training of personnel  and  the  strengthening  of  the Department  of 
Peace-keeping Operations, as well  as of the Military Adviser's  office, and we 
find meritorious  the  idea of earmarking  appropriate  equipment  on  stand-by  for 
use by the United  Nations. 
A/47/PV.32 
76 
(Mr. Jacovides. Cyprus) 
We  similarly  find worthy  of  serious consideration  and  support  the 
Secretary-General's  ideas on peace-building,  on cooperation with  regional 
organizations,  on  safety  of personnel  and on  financing.  In particular  as 
regards  the  last point,  it  is obvious  that Member  States must meet  their 
financial  responsibilities  and  that  the Secretary-General's  specific 
suggestions,  including  the proposed peace-keeping  reserve  fund, merit  support 
if  the Organization  is to be  able to  respond  effectively  to  the 
ever-increasing  demands  for peace-keeping.  The expenditures  involved, while 
substantial,  are only  a small  fraction of what  is being  spent  on  armaments 
and,  in the new  international  political  and military  climate,  it ought not to 
be  impossible  for  the international  community  to meet  its obligations  in this 
regard. 
In conclusion,  let me  stress  that Cyprus, itself  a case-study  of most of 
the  issues  raised  and discussed  in the  "Agenda  for Peace", warmly welcomes the 
opportunity  afforded by  the debate  for  serious  consideration  of  all  the 
aspects  raised  in the  report.  It is obvious  that peace-keeping,  peacemaking 
and peace-building  are  important  for the world.  As our  recent history has 
sadly demonstrated,  it is particularly  relevant  and  important  for  Cyprus.  It 
is our  sincere hope  that before  long we will  achieve  a just  and  lasting 
solution  to the problem  that has  confronted  us  for too  long.  It will benefit 
all concerned  and will  constitute  a major  success  for  the United  Nations. 
Let us heed  the warnings  and  advice of  the  Secretary-General  and  let us 
all work  together  to transform  this, our  Organization,  not  only  into  a vehicle 
that will  enable  us  to move  through  this painfully  turbulent  period  of 
transition, but  one  that will help us  and our  children  to  traverse 
successfully  the  times  ahead.  Let  it not be  said by  future generations that 
A/47/PV.32 
77 
(Mr. Jacovides.  Cyprus) 
when their  lives  and  future were  in our hands we were  found wanting  because  of 
narrow nationalistic  objectives.  We  should  seize  the moment  and  move 
vigorously  towards  a more  effective, new United Nations. 
Mr. BATIOUK  (Ukraine):  It has been  some  time  since  the  General 
Assembly held  an in-depth  discussion  of  the  item before  us.  We  think  that 
this is o timely  initiative  and  the Ukrainian  delegation would  like  to express 
its appreciation  to the  Secretary-General  for his  comprehensive  reports, which 
made this discussion  possible  and desirable. 
We  share  the basic  ideas  contained  in his  report  on the work  of  the 
Organization  (A/47/1).  In our opinion,  this  report gives  a thorough  analysis 
of the current  international  situation  and  an objective  account  of  the 
changing  role of  the United Nations  at a time when  the world  community  is 
entering  largely  uncharted  territory.  Without  exaggeration  the  report may be 
considered  as the best  annual  report  thus  far, one that provides  States with  a 
clear vision of  the achievements  of  the Organization  as well  as of  the 
challenges which  confront  it. 
At the  same time, although both of  the  reports presented  by  the 
Secretary-General  rightly  concentrate  on peace,  sustainable  development,  the 
environment  and human  rights  as ultimate goals of  the United  Nations, it  seems 
to us that  an  important  subject has been  omitted.  Both  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
(A/47/277) and  the  "agenda  for development"  in the annual  report  (A/47/1, 
chap. Ill C ), should  take  into  consideration  the validity  of  ideas  contained 
in the United  Nations  expressions  "peace  and  security  through  disarmament"  and 
"development  through disarmament".  Hence, we  feel  compelled  to draw  the 
Assembly's  attention  to  the omission  of  the  important  subject  of  disarmament 
in the reports. 
A/47/PV.32 
78 
(Mr. Batiouk. Ukraine) 
Like  other  delegations  that have participated  in this  discussion,  my 
delegation would  like to  focus  its  comments  on one of  the most 
thought-provoking  of  recent United Nations  documents  - "An Agenda  for Peace: 
Preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and peace-keeping".  Its  multifaceted 
approach  to the pressing problems  of  international  peace  and  security  requires 
careful  analysis  and evaluation by various United Nations  bodies.  However, in 
the view of  the Ukrainian  delegation,  opinions  expressed  by  the  General 
Assembly  on this  subject  are of particular  importance  both  to  the 
Secretary-General  and  to the Organization  as  a whole. 
For  several  years now various  bodies  of the General  Assembly  have been 
engaged  in serious discussions  on a wide  range  of  issues  that  are  dealt with 
in the  Secretary-General's  report.  We have managed  to accumulate  a 
substantial  number  of  ideas which  reflect  the degree of  consensus  regarding 
concrete  aspects  of United  Nations peace-keeping  and peacemaking  activities. 
In this  connection,  it might be advisable  for  the General  Assembly  at an 
appropriate  time  to crown  its present  deliberations  with  a  consensus 
resolution  that would  reflect  the preparedness  of  States  to cooperate with the 
Secretary-General  in implementing  his  ideas.  In our  view,  it would  be useful 
to try to  formulate  a common  approach  to the  far-reaching  proposals  of the 
Secretary-General,  and  to draft  a possible  list of priorities. 
We  are  convinced  that  the General  Assembly  will  reiterate  the  fundamental 
theme  of the  report,  namely  that: 
"In these past months  a conviction has grown,  among  nations  large and 
small,  that  an opportunity  has been  regained  to  achieve  the  great 
objectives  of  the Charter 
a United Nations  capable  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  of  securing  justice  and human  rights 
A/47/PV.32 
79-80 
(Mr. Batiouk.  Ukraine) 
and of promoting,  in the words  of  the Charter,  'social progress  and 
better  standards  of  life  in larger  freedom'.  This opportunity must  not 
be  squandered.  The  Organization must  never  again be crippled  as  it was 
in the era that has now passed."  (A/47/277, para.  3) 
Allow me  now to touch upon  some  specific  aspects of  the report,  in 
particular  those  dealing with  the peace-keeping  activities  of  the United 
Nations.  We  attach  special  importance  to those  issues  since  the Ukraine 
became a troop-contributing  country  to the United Nations Protection  Force 
(UNPROFOR),  sector  Sarajevo 
probably  one of the  "hottest"  peace-keeping 
operations ever  carried  out by  the United Nations. 
Our brief  experience  offers  further proof of  the importance  of  focusing 
world-wide  attention  on  the problem  of ensuring  the  safety of United  Nations 
personnel  carrying  out peace-keeping  duties  in areas of  conflict.  The  tragic 
toll speaks  for  itself.  No one can fail to be  impressed  by  the  figure 
provided by  the  Secretary-General  that over  800 military,  police  and  civilian 
personnel  from 43  countries, Ukraine  among them, were  killed  in the  service of 
the Organization  - not  at war.  Something must  definitely be done  about  it. 
We share the views  expressed  in this  regard by  the  representative  of  the 
United Kingdom  on behalf  of  the Twelve at the outset of  our  debate. 
A/47/PV.32 
81 
(Mr. Batiouk. Ukraine) 
We understand  that 
"Duty  in areas of danger  can never be  risk-free; United  Nations  personnel 
must  expect  to go  in harm's way at  times." (A/47/277, para.  67) 
Nevertheless,  it is a direct  responsibility  of  the  international  community to 
react  adequately  to all hostile  action  towards United Nations  personnel, 
especially  such action  as the deliberate  shelling  of United Nations  forces. 
In the view of  the Ukrainian  delegation,  the time has  come  to explore the 
possibility  of drafting  an  international  legal  instrument  to ensure  the safety 
of United Nations  peace-keeping personnel 
an instrument  under  which  a State 
in which  a peace-keeping  force  is deployed,  as well  as the parties  to the 
conflict, would be held duly  responsible  for the use  of  force  against 
peace-keepers.  We  also expect  that the Security  Council,  in discharging its 
responsibilities  in accordance with  the Charter, will, without  further delay, 
adopt  effective measures  to create  the necessary  conditions  for  the  safe 
operation of peace-keeping  forces and  for  an adequate  response  in the case of 
continued  provocative  action against  those forces. 
My delegation would  like now to turn briefly  to chapter  IX of  the 
Secretary-General's  report, which deals with questions  of  financing.  Members 
of the General Assembly  may  recall  the discussion  of  these  issues  during 
debates  in the Fifth Committee  and  the Special  Political  Committee  as well as 
the Committee  on Peace-keeping  Operations.  I refer  to the polemics  regarding 
so-called  alternative  sources of  financing.  The  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  leaves  no doubt  about  the necessity  to  look  for 
supplementary  means of  covering  the Organization's  expenses  in this  area.  It 
A/47 /PV. 32 
82 
(Mr. Batiouk.  Ukraine) 
advances  a whole  range of proposals designed  to strengthen  the  financial  bases 
of peace-keeping.  These  do not  exclude  the possibility  of borrowing  resources 
from private  institutions  or  a certain degree of  commercial  initiative  for  the 
Organization  in this  field.  But,  in this  respect,  the  ideas  I have  mentioned 
are not  the only ones  that deserve  consideration. 
We  share  this  approach, which  accords with  the existing  realities  and  is 
designed  to mitigate  the  financial  difficulties  of  the Organization.  In our 
view, the General  Assembly  should  empower  its relevant organs  to  start working 
on specific means  of utilizing  additional  sources of  finance, paying  due 
regard to the maintenance  of  the  impartial  and objective  character  of 
peace-keeping  operations.  It goes without  saying  that  the principle  of  the 
collective  responsibility  of  States  for the  financing of  these  activities  in 
accordance with Article  17 of  the Charter  of the United Nations  remains  the 
cornerstone of  this  endeavour. 
Of particular  importance  to the delegation of Ukraine  are those parts of 
the report  that  deal with  the measures provided  for  in Chapter VII  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations.  We  agree with  the Secretary-General  that  in 
the current political  circumstances  - circumstances  that exist  for  the  first 
time since  the Charter  was  adopted 
the long-standing  obstacles  to the 
implementation  of Article  43, whereby Member  States undertake  to make  armed 
forces, assistance  and  facilities  available  to the Security  Council,  should  be 
removed.  The  availability  of  armed  forces on call  could,  in itself,  serve as 
a means of deterring breaches  of  the peace,  since  a potential  aggressor  would 
know that  the Council had  at  its disposal  a means  of  response. 
A/47/PV.32 
83 
(Mr. Batiouk. Ukraine) 
We  are convinced  that  full  use by  the  international  community  of  such a 
powerful mechanism  as Chapter VII would  certainly  strengthen  the  authority of 
the United  Nations  and would  allay  the concern of  some  countries  and  certain 
segments  of world public  opinion  about  the  legality  of  Security  Council 
decisions  authorizing  the use of military  force. 
At  the  same time, we  agree with  the Secretary-General  that  such  forces 
are not  likely  to be available  for  some  time  to come.  That  is why Ukraine 
supports  the Secretary-General's  recommendation  concerning  special 
peace-enforcement  units  to be utilized by  the Security  Council  in  clearly 
defined  circumstances  and with  terms of  reference  specified  in advance. 
Ukraine,  for  its part,  is considering  the possibility  of  creating a 
special  stand-by  contingent  of  the Ukrainian  armed  forces  for possible  use by 
the Security  Council  for the purpose  of maintaining  or  restoring  international 
peace  and  security. 
I  should  like, in conclusion,  to express  confidence  that  our 
deliberations will  contribute  to  the  search  for more  reliable United  Nations 
mechanisms  in the  field of preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking,  peace-keeping 
and post-conflict  peace-building. 
Mrs. ZAFRA TURBAY  (Colombia):  As this  is my delegation's  first 
opportunity  to address  the General Assembly,  I should  like  to congratulate you 
most  sincerely, Mr. President,  on your  election.  Our  congratulations  go also 
to the other officers  of  the Assembly.  I am convinced  that  under  your 
leadership. Sir/ the General Assembly will  be  successful  in  its work. 
It is with great pleasure  that my  delegation  refers  to  the  report 
(A/47/277) that  the Secretary-General  prepared  at the  request  of  the Security 
Council.  That  report  contains  recommendations  aimed  at making more efficient 
A/47/PV.32 
84 
(Mrs. Zafra Turbay.  Colombia) 
the capacity  of  the United Nations  in the  spheres of preventive  diplomacy, 
peace-keeping,  peacemaking  and  peace-building. 
As  soon as it became  aware  of  the  report, Colombia  began  to analyse  it 
with keen  attention.  It contains  concepts  that we  share  fully,  as well  as 
concepts which, because  of  their  implications  and  scope, give  us cause  for 
some concern  and demand more  thorough consideration.  As a member  of  the Rio 
Group, Colombia  fully  agrees with  the views expressed by our  coordinator,  the 
representative  of Argentina, who presented  the position of  the  Permanent 
Mechanism  for Consultation  and Concerted  Political Action.  In  addition, 
Colombia deems  it necessary  to emphasize  certain  issues  that we hope will 
constitute  a contribution  to these  discussions. 
The profound  and  rapid  changes  that  the  international  community  has 
experienced  in  recent  times mark  the beginning of  a new era  in  relations 
between States.  The expectations  created by the configuration of  a new  order 
based on  fairness  and  justice,  the establishment  of  democracy  and  fundamental 
freedoms, and cooperation  for  the purpose of  achieving  sustainable  development 
and general well-being  presuppose  that  there will be  a political order  and  an 
international  economic  environment which will help  to ensure  that  the  internal 
measures adopted  by  States produce  the expected  results  and will give  firm 
support to national  institutions  and global  stability. 
In other words, the new  scenario  submitted  to the  community  of  nations 
entails a clear  recognition  of  the  fact that peace  is a multifaceted  concept. 
We are very pleased  about  this, but  the achievement  of peace  is  still 
overshadowed  by uncertainty  and by  certain  trends  that  can be  seen  in the 
manner in which  some decisions  are made,  as well  as  in the  tendency of  some to 
A/47/PV.32 
85 
(Mrs. Zafra Turbav.  Colomhia) 
arrogate  certain powers  to themselves 
something  that merely  increases 
distrust  and  confusion. 
Accordingly, we  agree with  the Secretary-General  when he  refers  to the 
existence  of a new dimension  of  security  that  encompasses  economic  factors 
including  anti-free-trade  protectionist  barriers, poverty,  hunger  and the 
crushing  debt burdens 
and new global problems,  such as  illicit  drug 
trafficking,  deterioration  of the environment  and  the  risks  involved  in the 
flow of displaced persons  and  in the massive migrations  of people within and 
beyond  national borders. 
A/47/PV.32 
86 
(Mrs. Zafra Turbay. Colombia) 
The bodies to deal with these questions must be those recognized as 
competent by the international community and in which States participate 
democratically on the basis of the principle of sovereign equality. 
The new range of elements that could become a threat to international 
peace and security represents  a challenge to all States and to the United 
Nations.  The latter's effectiveness in carrying out this common task of 
preventing and settling conflicts and of keeping the peace will depend, to a 
large extent, on how consistently the principles of the Charter are 
implemented and on the credibility of the Organization's decisions. 
Colombia agrees with the Secretary-General on the need to implement the 
principles of the Charter uniformly, not selectively, if we are to banish 
mistrust and avoid further weakening the United Nations moral authority.  One 
of my country's major concerns with regard to the Agenda for Peace relates to 
the apparent contradiction between the principles of sovereignty, interference 
in the internal affairs of States and economic cooperation. 
Indeed, the Secretary-General's report states: 
"The time of absolute and exclusive sovereignty, however, has passed; its 
theory was never matched by reality."  (A/47/277, para. 17) 
The same document, when referring to internal crisis situations, states that: 
"the sovereignty, territorial integrity and national unity of States must 
be fully respected in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations" 
(Ibid., para. 30). 
Colombia has always advocated and upheld the need to ensure that Member 
States abide strictly by the principles of international law and that such 
principles should not be diluted or sacrificed for the sake of universality or 
the trend to establish blocs.  The very recognition of interdependence and the 
A/47/PV.32 
87 
(Mrs,  Zafra Turbav.  Colombi?) 
existence  of multilateralism  can be understood  only  if construed  as 
recognition  of  the outside  influence  of  a State's  sovereign  acts  and the 
equally  sovereign  response  of  the community  of  nations  to the  conduct  in 
question. 
In that  connection  Colombia was especially pleased  that  the 
Secretary-General,  in addressing  the Tenth  Conference  of Heads  of  State or 
Government  of  the Movement  of Non-Aligned  Countries  held  at Jakarta  in the 
first week of  September,  reaffirmed  the need  to abide by  such basic principles 
as national  sovereignty  and  that  in that  connection he  stated  that: 
"The concept  of  sovereignty  is at the very heart  of  the United Nations 
dialectic,  for nations  cannot be truly united  if they  are not genuinely 
sovereign.  Let us also  remember  that  the Charter  refers  to  sovereign 
equality,  since  sovereignty  embodies  the principle  of  equality." 
Equally  reassuring was his  reference  to non-intervention  and his words to 
the effect  that  the United  Nations will never  intervene  in the  internal 
affairs of  a Member  State, whether  under  the guise of preventive  diplomacy or 
for the sake of performing humanitarian  actions, without  obtaining  the consent 
of  all  the  interested parties. 
Now that  that has been made  clear, we  can  refer  to the  links  that the 
Secretary-General  established  between  the economic  and  social  situation of 
countries  and peace  and  security.  We view  that  relationship  as an invitation 
to strive  for a just  and balanced  economic  and  social  development,  putting 
into that undertaking  the  same degree of  effort  and  intensity  as has been 
devoted  to the maintenance  of peace  in  regions of  conflict.  On earlier 
occasions we have  stated  that  a sound economic  situation  is no guarantee of 
peace,  just  as the absence  of peace  does not mean  that  a region will 
A/47/PV.32 
88 
(Mrs. Zafra Turbay,  Colombia) 
automatically  become  one of  conflict.  Peace, we must  not  forget,  is one of 
the most  important  issues on our  agenda, but  it  is not  the only  one.  The 
Organization must  also  deal with  economic  and  social  issues, as was  stated  in 
the proposal  of  the Rio Group, which we  firmly  support,  and which drew up a 
true Agenda  for  Development. 
In that  connection we must  reverse  the recent  trend  to expand  the powers 
of the Security  Council,  to the detriment  of  the balance  established  by the 
Charter between  the various principal organs of  the United Nations.  If a 
difficult  situation  rooted  in economic  and  social  factors  should  arise,  the 
solution ought  not be provided by  the Security  Council.  It would be more 
appropriate  to have  recourse  to the various  agencies  in the system  and  seek 
international  support  in stabilizing  a given  region through a  development 
programme  and appropriate  strategies.  Development  is a goal  in  itself, one 
designed to achieve higher  standards of well-being  for peoples, and,  just  as 
it can be  a  destabilizing  factor, when properly  directed  it can create  a solid 
foundation for progress. 
In our opinion  there  is one  issue  that  should be added  to the Agenda  for 
Peace:  reform  of  the Security  Council, which  is indispensable  for  the new 
design for peace.  The new tasks  and  responsibilities  in the  field of peace 
imply a reform  of  the Security  Council, a body  that  is still governed  by 
measures adopted  nearly  50 years  ago, in 1945.  Such reform  should  include, 
inter alia-  the question  of  that  body's  composition  and  an analysis  of  the 
question of the  right  to the veto.  The  redefinition of  a peace programme  must 
proceed parallel  to the updating  of  that organ, which bears  the major 
responsibility  for  implementing  the peace  programme. 
A/47/PV.32 
89-90 
(Mrs.  Zafra Turbay.  Colombia) 
Also of particular  interest  to my  country  is the question  of 
peace-keeping  operations.  We  understand  that  this mechanism  has been applied 
to a new  series of  situations.  However,  as a peace-loving  country, we are 
concerned  at the  frequency with which Chapter  VII  of  the Charter  is being 
invoked  and,  consequently,  at the new and expanded  responsibilities  being 
allocated  to the Security  Council  over  and  above  those  set  forth  in the 
Charter.  We  are apprehensive  at the possibility,  albeit  remote,  that United 
Nations peace-keeping  operations might become  an executory  arm  of  the 
decisions  adopted by the Security  Council  in such  areas  as  humanitarian 
assistance,  the protection  of human  rights, illicit  drug  trafficking, 
environmental  deterioration  and others, which,  as I said  earlier,  are issues 
that  should be dealt with  in the General  Assembly,  the Economic  and Social 
Council  and other  appropriate  forums. 
My  country attaches  the utmost  importance  to peace-keeping  operations. 
In the past  40 years Colombia has participated  in peace missions  by providing 
law-enforcement  officers  and military observers.  Our  contribution  and 
cooperation with  the United  Nations  in the maintenance  of  international peace 
and  security began with our  active participation  in the Korean  conflict. 
A/47/PV.32 
91 
(Mrs. Zafra Turbay.  Colombia) 
Our contribution  to United Nations peace-keeping  activities  continues 
today in El  Salvador,  Cambodia, Yugoslavia,  the Sinai  and Angola.  My 
delegation believes  that  in the exercise  of those  activities,  such  fundamental 
principles as universality  and non-discrimination  on the basis of  race, 
language or  culture must  be borne  in mind.  The process  of  selecting 
contingents  from different  countries  should be carried  out equitably  and 
impartially. 
In connection with  the budgetary proposals  contained  in the  report of  the 
Secretary-General  on the work  of  the Organization,  although we  agree with him 
on the need  to  seek  financial mechanisms  that will ensure  the  effective 
implementation  of peace-keeping  operations, my delegation would  supplement 
those proposals, as  follows. 
First, budgetary measures  should be discussed  en bloc  in order  to provide 
Member States with  an overview of  implicit  financial  commitments. 
Secondly,  the discussion  should benefit  from  the initiatives  currently 
taking shape  in various  bodies, including  the expert group  set up by the 
Secretary-General.  It would be  advisable  to set  a deadline  for the  submission 
of proposals  to allow time  for their  thorough  examination. 
Thirdly,  eventual  decisions  should discourage  late payment  of 
contributions  and not destabilize  the United  Nations  regular  budget. 
Fourthly,  thought  should  be given  to establishing  a peace-keeping  reserve 
fund, on the understanding  that  the  search  for  sources  of  financing  in the 
private sector  and  from  individuals  should  not  compromise  the  necessary 
impartiality  and neutrality  of  the  Organization. 
A/47/PV. 32 
92 
(Mrs. Zafra Turbav.  Colomhia) 
Finally, we wish  to underscore what was  said by the Rio  Group.  We do not 
think  it a good  idea at this  juncture  to alter  the  scale of  assessments 
adopted  for peace-keeping  operations.  On the contrary:  institutionalization 
of  the  scale would  enhance  the  reliability  of  commitments  resulting  from the 
Secretary-General's  new  initiatives. 
The Colombian  delegation hopes  these  ideas will  contribute  to  improving 
our Organization's  capacity  for action  in the  face of  the changing  factors of 
peace  and  security.  Thus, we  firmly  support  the establishment  of  a General 
Assembly  working group  that  is able to contribute positive proposals  to the 
analysis  of  the document  that we have been considering  today. 
The meeting  rose at 6.30  p.m. 
