UNITED 
NATIONS 
General Assembly 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.18 
9 October 1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh session 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL VERBATIM RECORD OF THE 18th MEETING 
Held at Headquarters, New York, 
on Wednesday, 30 September 1992, at 10 a.m. 
President: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
Mr.  MOUMIN 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Comoros) 
Address by Mr. Abdou Diouf, President of the Republic of Senegal 
General debate [9] (continued) 
Statements made by 
Mr.  Al-Thani (Qatar) 
Mr.  Sahloul (Sudan) 
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English 
and interpretations of speeches in the other languages.  The final text will 
be printed in the Official Records of the General Assembly. 
Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only.  They should 
be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, within 
one week, to the Chief, Official Records Editing Section, Office of Conference 
Services, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61273  1507V (E) 
A/47/PV.18 
Ka-z) 
Address by Mr. Adrien Sibomana, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Burundi 
# 
Statement made by 
Mr. Ochoa Antich (Venezuela) 
A/47/PV.18 
2 
The meeting was  called  to order  at 10.20  a.m. 
ADDRESS  BY MR. ABDOU  DIOUF, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC  OF  SENEGAL 
The  PRESIDENT:  The Assembly will  now hear  an address by  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of Senegal. 
Mr.  Abdou Diouf, President  of  the Republic  of  Senegal, was  escorted  into 
the General  Assembly  Hall. 
The  PRESIDENT:  On behalf  of  the General  Assembly,  I have  the  honour 
to welcome  to  the United Nations  the President  of  the Republic  of Senegal, 
His Excellency  Mr. Abdou Diouf, and  to invite him  to address  the  Assembly. 
President DIOUF  (interpretation  from  French):  The United  Nations 
would  appear  today  to be  the  ideal  forum  for  seeking  and  identifying  solutions 
to the problems  of  all  kinds  that are  assailing  the world.  It is here  that 
modern history  is being woven  and  it is here  that  ideas  are expressed  that 
plant  the  seeds of  the  future.  That  is both because  the United Nations  brings 
together  almost  every  country  and because  the ideas on which  it is based  and 
the principles  which  guide  it arise  from our most generous  feelings 
the 
sense  that we belong  to the  same humanity  and are duty bound  to preserve  it. 
Thus,  it  is always with hope  that  I speak before  the Assembly.  Today, 
moreover,  I am  speaking  on behalf  of Africa  and  the  Islamic Ummah.  Speaking 
on behalf  of  so many peoples  is a heavy  responsibility  indeed, but one  that  is 
also  full  of  exaltation  because  of  the hopes  that underlie  it. 
I  am even happier  to bear  that  responsibility  because  the  choice  of you, 
Mr. President, to guide  the work  of  the  forty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  a certain guarantee  that  it will  take place  smoothly  and 
succesfully,  for,  in addition  to your  distinguish?d  qualities  as a diplomat, 
you come  from  a country  whose  commitment  to the triumph  of  the common  ideals 
of the nations  gathered  together  here has  never been  in doubt. 
A/47/PV.18 
3 
(President Diouf) 
Therefore, from the bottom of my heart I address my warmest 
congratulations to you.  I wish you to know also, and in particular, that in 
carrying out your important and sensitive mission you can always count on the 
cooperation of the Senegalese delegation and of all those on whose behalf I 
speak at this session. 
To your predecessor, Ambassador Samir Shihabi of the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia, we pay a well-deserved tribute for his outstanding guidance of the 
deliberations of the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly.  For anyone 
who knows the great gualities of his people, there is nothing surprising in 
that. 
As to the Secretary-General, I am pleased to say once again how satisfied 
we are at seeing him occupy this prestigious post.  Our fraternal and friendly 
support will always be with him in his efforts to ensure that the United 
Nations plays the full role given it by the Charter and shoulders all the 
responsibilities that derive from that Charter.  Speaking of the role and 
responsibilities of the United Nations, I cannot fail to emphasize the very 
great hopes that his election has aroused in us Africans.  Like our Arab 
brothers and all the peoples of the countries members of the Organization of 
the Islamic Conference, we viewed his election as concrete proof of the 
universality of the United Nations.  In fact, it constitutes a confirmation, 
following upon the mandates assumed by Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, another 
national of a developing country.  All our best wishes are with the 
Secretary-General. 
A/47/PV.18 
4-5 
(President  Diouf) 
Thanks  to  the  atmosphere  of detente  prevailing  today  in  international 
relations, with  the end of  the  cold war  and of  ideological  tensions, the 
credibility  and  image  of  our  Organization  have been greatly  strengthened.  For 
some  time  now  the United Nations  has been  demonstrating  its effectiveness, in 
particular  through  the  tangible  results  in the area of peace-keeping.  It has 
also made  significant  progress  in the  slowing down of  the  arms  race.  In a 
word, what was  unimaginable  yesterday  is now  a part of everyday  life, and  in 
referring  to  it we  now  speak  of  a  "new world  order".  The expression  is  rather 
explicit, because  for  all of  us it bears  upon the  strengthening  of 
international  security  and  the guarantee  of  stability  of  international 
relations.  But  the  reality  contained within  it must  also mean, for  the 
developing  countries, a greater  awareness of  the aspirations  of  their  peoples 
to well-being. 
A/47/PV.18 
6 
(President Diouf) 
In view of what is going on around us, we are still far from that 
situation.  Indeed, suffering and injustice are still the daily lot of 
millions of men and women in several regions.  What is even worse at this time 
of over-abundance, when one thinks about the milk and grain surpluses, people 
continue to die of hunger because they do not have the very strict minimum 
they need.  Similarly, people are still dying of diseases which medical 
progress has now made it possible to cure. 
Moreover, from recovery plans to adjustment programmes, the economies of 
many countries have lost their structure and become anaemic, and their 
Governments find themselves virtually powerless.  The case of Africa, in this 
regard, is tragically instructive.  Its economic growth rates have remained at 
their lowest in proportion to population growth; investments are rarely seen 
and infrastructure needs are the most significant. 
Here is a continent which is rich in minerals and mining resources but in 
which  paradoxically  most of the poorest countries are to be found. 
These sorry records are explained in part, by the youth of the countries 
that make up Africa.  But they are the result, above all, of its raw materials 
and other products being sold at prices fixed outside the continent and most 
of the time in total disregard of its interests.  This situation is all the 
more worrying because it has persisted  I would even say worsened  despite 
the efforts of African leaders to improve it, especially since the beginning 
of the 1980s. 
Thus, in 1986, when I was Acting President of the Organization of African 
Unity  (OAU), I was mandated to appeal to the United Nations to deal with our 
specific problems in a special way.  Reacting positively, the United Nations 
convened a special session of the General Assembly, which adopted the 
A/47/PV.18 
7 
(President  Diouf) 
United  Nations  Programme  of Action  for African  Economic  Recovery  and 
Development  1986-1990  (UNPAAERD). 
This  document  gave  rise to the greatest  hope because  it was  the  fruit  of 
unprecedented  joint  effort.  It was, theoretically,  a true  solidarity  pact.  I 
say  "pact" because  Africa had  committed  itself  to set up the  necessary 
structures  for  launching  autonomous  long-term  socio- economic  growth  and 
development  programmes.  The  international  community  for  its part  agreed  to 
help Africa  achieve  that goal. 
This  dual  commitment  was expressly  entered  into  in UNPAAERD, which  made 
it clear  in particular  that  the  international  community  would  spare  no  effort 
to provide  sufficient  resources  to  support  and complement  the  development 
efforts of Africa.  That was  clear. 
Unfortunately,  we must  recognize  that, while  the African countries  took 
the measures  agreed  upon,  the  same cannot be  said of  the  international 
community  as  a whole, even  if  some countries  of  the North had  a friendly  and 
understanding  attitude  in our  regard.  Will  the United Nations  New Agenda  for 
the Development  of Africa  in the 1990s  (UN-NADA) be treated  differently,  more 
generously?  Undoubtedly  it will  be, if  it  is applied,  because  its  commitments 
are firm  and precise,  and  follow-up, monitoring  and  assessment  mechanisms  have 
been provided,  thanks  to which  the two parties will be able to work  together 
on a permanent  basis.  Thus, they will be able together  and  at  regular  and 
short  intervals  to ensure  respect  for  the  commitments  agreed  upon.  It  is 
perhaps  these  frequent meetings  which were missing  in the  implementation 
process  of  UNPAAERD. 
I hope  that  that  is the only explanation  for the modest  results  of  that 
document.  But  for  the  time being,  I note  that Africa  is prey  to  the  same 
difficulties,  some of which have  even  worsened. 
A/47/PV.18 
8 
(President  Diouf) 
That  is the  case with  its external  debt,  the  repayment  of which  consumes 
the bulk  of  the meagre  financial  resources  left  to Africa owing  to worsening 
terms  of  trade. 
Since  lending  countries  are  slow  in agreeing  to hold  an  international 
conference  devoted  to  this problem,  we  are making  an urgent  appeal  to all 
States  and  all  international  financial  institutions  so that  together we can 
explore  other ways  to solve  the problem.  Otherwise,  it will be  illusory to 
expect  the African  countries  to give  all due  attention  to problems  of  common 
interest.  Quite  naturally,  they will devote  their  energies, on a priority 
basis,  to the  struggle  for the  survival  of  their peoples.  The persistence of 
the African debt problem  could even have other  negative  and more  immediate 
consequences; population movement  from  the South  to the  countries  of the North 
have  already  shown  that  this  risk exists. 
To  this  already  grim  picture we must  add  the  increasingly  evident 
precariousness  of  the African  environment, which  is illustrated  by  the 
devastating  drought which has hit  the southern part  of  the continent,  after 
having wreaked  on  the Sahel  the damage of which we  are all  aware.  We must 
also  add  to this  the  lightning  spread of  the acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome  (AIDS),  along with other  diseases which have  disappeared  elsewhere, 
and  the number  of hotbeds  of  tension which  already  exist,  not  to mention those 
which may yet  arise. 
In this  respect,  it  is South Africa which  first  comes  to mind.  None the 
less,  one would  have  thought  a few months  ago that  the present  session would 
be  the opportunity  for  the  international  community  to  rejoice  over  the 
irreversible  changes  since  the advent  of  President  Frederick De  Klerk.  But 
what  do we  see  today,  over  and  above  the  formal  abrogation  - I was going to 
say theoretical  abrogation 
of  the apartheid  laws? 
A/47/PV.18 
9 
(President Diouf) 
Blacks still do not have the same rights as the rest of South African 
society, and violence has been omnipresent in recent months, sometimes 
achieving proportions which cast doubt upon the willingness of the South 
African Government to change.  The continuation of such an atmosphere would be 
a serious threat to the progress we have all welcomed. 
That is why at the twenty-eighth regular summit meeting of the OAU, held 
at Dakar, it was felt necessary to take the matter to the Security Council. 
In my capacity as Acting President of that pan-African organization, I should 
like, on behalf of the continent, to express my sincerest thanks to the 
members of this organ of our universal Organization for the diligence and 
sense of solidarity with which they responded to our appeal by adopting 
Security Council resolution 765 (1992), which invites the South African 
authorities to take the appropriate measures to end the violence. 
I also wish to avail myself of this opportunity to repeat our commitment 
to a negotiated solution in South Africa and the hope generated by the recent 
Mandela-De Klerk summit meeting.  We hope that the talks to be resumed within 
the Convention for a Democratic South Africa (CODESA) after that meeting will 
make it possible speedily to harmonize the positions of the parties and make 
irreversible the resolute march of South Africa towards a non-racial, 
democratic and united society. 
The civil war in Liberia is another source of concern for Africa.  It is 
all the more worrying since it has continued even after a framework for a 
peaceful settlement had been drawn up by the countries in the subregion. 
As the Head of State of a country member of the Committee of Five of the 
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) that was set up to resolve 
the crisis, I can testify to the fact that this framework was conceived with 
A/47/PV.18 
10 
(President Diouf) 
the sole concern of helping our Liberian brothers regain peace.  After several 
meetings, we adopted it with the agreement of all of the parties.  But the 
bitter fact remains that the horizon is dark because the Economic Community of 
West African States Monitoring Group (EC0M0G), the centre-piece of the 
agreed-upon arrangement, does not have the means for its peace mission. 
That is why, while thanking those who have already given us their 
support, I should like to ask the United Nations to provide increased 
assistance.  In the absence of such a gesture, we risk seeing the Liberian 
crises continue.  It is already a serious threat to the stability of the West 
African subregion, and in human terms it is a catastrophe with lasting 
consequences. 
I now come to the most absurd  and perhaps most devastating  tragedy 
Africa has known in recent years.  I refer to the civil war in Somalia.  This 
country, once so welcoming, today is a hell on earth.  It is the picture of 
anarchy, of intolerance in all its forms, of violence, and of the failure of 
man before his destiny. 
Senegal, for its part, is doing everything in its power to help end this 
tragedy which, should it persist, would run the risk of sounding the death 
knell of the very existence of Somalia.  It is doing so for humanitarian 
reasons, for reasons of African solidarity and, in brief, for reasons of 
common sense.  It is also doing so in its capacity as a member of the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference  (OIC), the OAU and the United Nations. 
A/47/PV.18 
11 
(President Diouf) 
Let me take this opportunity to note that, together with the Organization 
of the Islamic Conference, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the 
League of Arab States, our organization is already engaged in significant 
efforts for Somalia.  But the situation there is so grave that we must give it 
high priority in the days and weeks ahead if we are not to witness the 
genocide of a people through the death of its children.  I appeal also to 
non-governmental organizations; I encourage them to continue their generous 
activities in Somalia. 
The parties to the conflict must understand that the interest of the 
Somali people lies in the restoration of peace, and that rivalries that 
sacrifice human lives by the thousand can only result in their claims becoming 
pointless. 
What I would truly like to see is an international conference on 
Somalia.  I therefore solemnly propose that such a meeting take place as soon 
as possible in Geneva under the auspices of the United Nations, the OAU, the 
League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the 
European Community.  The goal would be to put a rapid end to the armed 
confrontation and define a framework for a peaceful settlement of the crisis 
acceptable to all parties.  The United Nations would take the initiative here, 
but the modalities of the meeting would be defined among all the organizers, 
who would also jointly agree on the list of participants.  For my part, I 
should be represented there both as current Chairman of the OAU and as 
President of the sixth Islamic summit. 
But I cannot stress too forcefully that while awaiting that conference, 
for which we earnestly wish, the international community must continue to help 
the victims of the confrontations imposed upon the Somali people by armed 
factions.  In particular, it should do everything it can to ensure that the 
A/47/PV.18 
12 
(President  Diouf) 
arms  embargo  imposed  in Security  Council  resolution  733  (1992) of 
23 January  1992  is  strictly  observed,  and  should  take every other  possible 
initiative  to put  an end  to the violence  and  the  suffering.  That wish of the 
OAU  is shared  by  the Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  of which  Somalia 
is a member. 
My  rehearsal  of  tensions  in Africa would be  incomplete  without  a 
reference  to Western  Sahara.  I wholeheartedly  wish  for  a settlement  to that 
matter;  this  could be  reached  quickly within  the  framework  defined by the 
OAU.  Nor  can  I omit  to mention  the  fragile  peace  in Angola  and elsewhere on 
the  continent. 
Speaking  of peace,  I cannot  fail  to reiterate  how much  the peoples I 
represent  here  cherish peace.  In our  societies, everything  boils down to the 
human being; peace  is naturally  one  of the  reference  values.  That was one of 
the observations  of  the  sixth  summit  of  the Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference. 
In Africa,  the Heads  of  State  or Government  of  the  States members  of the 
OAU proved  their  commitment  to peace by deciding  at the most  recent  summit, 
held  at Dakar,  to establish  a mechanism  for preventing,  managing  and  settling 
conflicts.  That mechanism  is intended  to  respond  to Africa's  desire  for the 
means  to prevent  conflicts,  through  an ongoing  analysis  of  situations, putting 
an end  to  those  that persist  in spite  of our  efforts.  Africa  is thus  in step 
with United Nations  concerns  on the maintenance  of peace,  as  set  out by the 
Secretary-General  in his  report  "An Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277). 
That  is because  the Secretary-General's  vision of peace  is  reflected 
today  in the  determination  resolutely  to address  the continent's  political and 
economic  problems.  Without  a doubt,  this  is a manifestation  of  Africa's 
self-confidence,  and proves  that our  continent's  de  facto marginalization  has 
A/47/PV.18 
13 
(President Diouf) 
not paralysed it.  On the contrary, its self-confidence has never been 
disconnected from the spread of multiparty democracy; indeed, without it, the 
current trends would certainly not be so clear. 
Democracy has made great progress in Africa in recent months. 
Authoritarian regimes have yielded to democratically elected Governments; 
everywhere, confrontation is yielding to joint efforts and bullets to ballots. 
Our efforts at integration derive also from our determination to take our 
destiny in our own hands and is an expression of our self-confidence.  The 
same holds true for the way in which we are addressing environmental problems 
and for our determination not to miss the energy revolution that is appearing 
on the horizon.  It is significant that, with respect to our commitment in 
that sphere, we have placed our bets on solar energy.  It is abundant in our 
countries and can reconcile the need for healthy environment with that for 
development. 
If these efforts can be pursued and if their orientation can be 
maintained - and we are determined that they should be  Africa will soon be 
in a position to overcome its present situation.  But again:  to achieve the 
expected effects we must have consistent support from the international 
community.  We have seen this with the United Nations Programme of Action for 
African Economic Recovery and Development. 
We know too that the solution or prevention of conflicts in Africa will 
be possible only if arms supplies to belligerents and other forms of outside 
intervention are halted.  Everyone knows that democracy in Africa can be 
consolidated only if it is followed by progress towards, inter alia, economic 
growth based on a rationalization of development efforts.  This requires 
improved relations within Africa, adequate infrastructure, and the possibility 
A/47/PV.18 
14 
(President Diouf) 
for African countries to ensure that their products can reach northern markets 
at profitable prices. 
Although Africa is certainly the continent most severely affected by 
economic crisis, war and other conflicts, we have no monopoly on these evils: 
other peoples are suffering too, and we stand in solidarity with them.  That 
is why, although I have spoken at some length about Africa, I must not neglect 
the tragedies being played out elsewhere. 
I am far from indifferent to the economic difficulties of Latin America 
like ours, caused in large part by unfair international economic relations 
to the need to consolidate peace in Cambodia through scrupulous respect for 
the Paris agreements, and to the need for Afghanistan to take the path of 
national reconciliation.  We in Africa are also concerned about the situation 
in some of the former Soviet republics and in the former Yugoslavia, as well 
as about the unacceptable state of affairs that continues to be imposed on the 
Palestinian people. 
On Bosnia and Herzegovina, we approve of the initiatives to ease the 
suffering of the population, to halt the violence, and to put an end to what 
appears to be an attempt at "ethnic cleansing".  As President of the sixth 
Islamic summit, I sent a representative ot the recent London Conference on the 
former Yugoslavia.  I shall continue to associate myself with all steps in 
that direction, and I call on the United Nations to continue, even increase, 
its efforts. 
With respect to the question of Palestine, while we welcome the positive 
developments in the way it is being handled in the context of the ongoing 
peace process under the sponsorship of the United States of America and 
Russia, we must observe that the process is far from meeting our 
expectations.  But there is reason to hope that with the new Israeli 
A/47/PV.18 
15 
(President  Diouf) 
Government  significant  progress will be  achieved  and  that  the  heroic 
Palestinian  people  will  soon be  free, under  the  leadership  of  the  Palestine 
Liberation Organization,  to exercise  its  inalenable  rights.  We  call on  the 
Israeli  Government  to  show  realism  and political  courage,  and we urge  all 
parties  to have  a sense  of history.  It  is only  in that way  that peace  can be 
restored  and  that  the Arab world  and  Israel  can draw upon  their  rich  common 
heritage  and  their vast  economic  potential. 
To  face  these  challenges  and  realize  the potential  that  is present 
despite  all  the problems, we  need greater  solidarity,  both  among people  and 
among nations.  I am  thinking  of  a "general  agreement  on solidarity".  As 
distinct  from  the General  Agreement  on Tariffs  and Trade,  this moral  contract 
would make possible  the effective  implementation  of  all  the provisions  of  the 
United Nations  Charter.  This presupposes  awareness  that we  all  share  the  same 
future and  that we  agree  to bear  an equal  interest  in the maintenance  of 
peace, the promotion  of human  rights  and democracy  both nationally  and 
worldwide,  the  struggle  against poverty  and  the protection  of  the 
environment.  There  is no  lack of  opportunity:  let  us begin  at this  session 
of the General  Assembly.  Clearly,  this would be  the best way  to move  towards 
the new world  order  to which we  all  aspire. 
To be  sure, with  respect  to the maintenance  of peace,  the United 
Nations 
to which we pay  an enthusiastic  tribute  - under  the  dynamic 
leadership  of  the  Secretary-General  is making  notable efforts  to  respond  to 
the many  demands  upon  it. 
A/47/PV.18 
16 
(President  Diouf) 
To be  sure,  in the Middle  East,  in the  rest of Asia,  in Africa  and  in 
Europe, United Nations  peace-keeping  forces, in most  of which my  country is 
proud  to participate,  are carrying  out  their missions  courageously,  loyally 
and effectively,  and  for  the most part  to  the great  satisfaction  of  the 
peoples  of  those  regions. 
We must, however,  recognize  that  this universal  Organization  is not 
equally  successful  everywhere  its  intervention  is desired  and  necessary. 
Often  this  is because  of  the Charter  requirement  that  regional  organizations 
play  the primary  role  in the  settlement  of  regional  disputes, but we must 
realize  that  their  effectiveness  is limited  in the case of  armed  confrontation 
because  they do not have  the means  required  for peace-keeping  operations. 
I believe  that  fidelity  to the  spirit  of  the Charter  in this  regard 
requires  the establishment  and  operation of  a system  of  co-operation  between 
the United  Nations  and  the  regional  organizations  so that  they may  benefit 
from  appropriate  technical  and  financial  assistance  and  thus  can become more 
involved  in the management  and  settlement  of  regional  conflicts.  I am happy 
to note  that  this  is the thrust  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
entitled  "Agenda  for peace". 
In any  case, this  is what  should  flow  from our  concern  to preserve our 
collective  security.  That  is clear militarily,  but  it is also  increasingly 
true with  regard  to the other  aspects  of  security.  No one  is unaware  that 
those  aspects  are equally  important.  Thus  the  strong  solidarity  I have been 
advocating,  through  the  "general  agreement  on  solidarity",  presupposes  also 
the  resumption  of  the North-South  dialogue.  More  exactly,  it will  be a 
guestion  of  engagement  in a new dialogue  between  the developed  and  the 
developing  countries.  I say  "new" because  the dialogue  would  be  imbued  with 
A/47/PV.18 
17 
(President  Diouf) 
the spirit  of partnership  and  agreement  to  joint  responsibility  in  facing 
common  challanges:  challanges  involved  in economic  and  trade problems  as well 
as environment  and health.  The General  Assembly  could  ask  the 
Secretary-General  to make  concrete  proposals  along  those  lines  at  its  next 
session. 
I  am among  those who believe  dialogue  would  be easier  if the  solidarity 
we are  seeking  to promote were  indeed  effective  at the regional  level, and  it 
will be  necessary  for  that  to be  taken  into  account  in the efforts under way 
in the  regional  groups. 
That  is one  of  the  reasons why  Senegal has made  the achievement  of 
African  integration,  as advocated  in the Treaty  setting up the  African 
Economic  Community,  one  of  its main priorities  in matters of  foreign  policy. 
That explains  our  commitment  to  the Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference 
(OIC).  But  a reminder  is needed here.  The  OIC  is not  a religious 
organization.  Its objective  is to organize  solidarity  among  its  member 
States, whose  peoples  are united  by  the  same  faith  and have  the  same 
concerns.  It already  is a very good  tool  for political  and  cultural 
co-operation,  and  it  is our  ambition  to make  it an effective  instrument  for 
economic,  commercial  and  technical  co-operation.  The Dakar  Summit  of  last 
December  was  a turning-point  in this  respect.  Of  the groups  that must  have 
our attention  in  the  framework  of  the  rebalancing  of  international  economic 
relations, I must  mention  the Summit  Group  for Consultation  and  the 
South-South  Co-operation  Group,  the  so-called  Group  of  15, whose goal  is to 
make South-South  co-operation  effective  through  the drawing  up  and 
A/47/PV.18 
18 
(President Diouf) 
implementation of specific projects.  But I hasten to make it clear that that 
group is not a closed club; indeed, everything that is discussed there is at 
the disposal of the other developing countries; nor does it claim to be a 
spokesman for the entire South.  However, I am convinced that it does 
constitute a framework for the definition of the common concerns of the 
countries of the South with regard to specific questions, and for the 
expression of their views.  Moreover, it has drawn up and circulated a 
position paper on the new world order. 
Returning to the North-South dialogue  and to the "general agreement on 
solidarity", which should promote the dialogue  while belief in it may be 
unrealistic, and the meetings that have taken place so far have been rather 
disappointing for the most part, the Earth Summit held in Rio de Janeiro last 
June has given us reason for greater optimism.  Indeed, while far from 
perfect, it worked for the taking into account, in the long term, of all the 
concerns and perspectives of the world.  It is not an exaggeration to say that 
after Rio nothing is the same as before in approaching environmental problems 
and their interrelationship with development.  What is even better, the change 
that has taken place thanks to a real awareness of the globalization of 
mankind's problems could be the dawn of the new world order.  The forthcoming 
convening of certain international conferences gives us the opporunity to 
confirm and amplify on that change. 
I believe that the World Conference on Human Rights planned for 1993 and 
the International Conference on Population and Development to take place in 
1994 reflect our common willingness to deal with guestions that no longer know 
any borders.  The same is true of the Fourth World Conference on Women and the 
World Summit on Social Development, both planned for 1995. 
A/47/PV.18 
19-20 
(President  Diouf) 
Is  it not  significant  that  those meetings were programmed  after  the  Rio 
Summit  on Environment  and Development,  as well  as the World  Summit  for 
Children?  In any case, we must hope  that,  like their  two predecessors,  these 
other  conferences  will  not  lose  sight  of  the need  to ensure  the  follow-up  on 
decisions  and  recommendations  that would make  their work  fruitful. 
In this  regard  it  is a pleasure  for me  to announce  on this  day,  which 
coincides with  the  second  anniversary  of  the World  Summit  for Children,  that, 
in the  spirit  of  that historic  meeting,  an  international  conference  on 
assisting  African  children,  organized  by  the Organization  of African  Unity 
with the  support  of UNICEF, will  take place  in Dakar  from 
25 to  27 November  1992.  Our  goal  is to bring  the  international  community  to a 
point where  it  thinks  about  the  special  situation of African  children  and  the 
difficulties  facing  the African  countries with  regard  to ensuring  their 
harmonious  development,  or  indeed  their mere  survival.  This  situation  and 
these problems will  also be  focused  on  in meetings  to be held  soon devoted  to 
children  in French-speaking  countries  and also within  the  framework  of  the OIC. 
While  reflecting  a real  awareness  of  the  interdependence  of  the world,  at 
which we  rejoice, the programme  of  international  meetings  I have  just 
mentioned  shows  that much  remains  to be  done  in this  vast  field  through  joint 
efforts.  In particular  I have  in mind  disarmament  for  the benefit  of 
development,  the  easing  of  the  foreign  debt burden  of  the  developing 
countries, the  removal  of protectionist  tariff barriers,  the  improvement  of 
commodity  prices, and  the  transfer  of  the  technology  and human  resources 
necessary  for  development.  No one  denies  that  today our  collective  survival 
largely depends  upon  adequate  consideration  of  these  questions  and  the 
challenges  of  the environment,  AIDS  and  drugs 
not  to mention  the problem  of 
peace-keeping  operations. 
A/47/PV.18 
21 
(President Diouf) 
Hence, it is urgent to achieve greater solidarity, to which I referred 
earlier.  Moreover, there is a central role that the United Nations must play 
in dealing with these problems.  There is no need to emphasize that such a 
role requires that this universal Organization review its methods of work and 
that Member States reassess the means made available to the United Nations. 
In Africa and within the Islamic Ummah we recognize the importance of the 
restructuring and other work to restore dynamism to our Organization being 
carried out by the Secretary-General and by such organs as the Economic and 
Social Council, which is intended to cope with the new burdens arising from 
world developments.  On their behalf, I welcome the results already achieved 
in this regard, and I encourage a continuation of those efforts until they are 
successful and the goals are reached.  I particularly hope that this new trend 
will duly take account of what are in our view two essential ideas  on the 
one hand, peace and security are precarious without the eradication of poverty 
and misery and without a reduction of the gap separating the North and the 
South; on the other hand, efforts towards effectiveness should not sacrifice 
the democratic spirit by which the uriversality of the United Nations is 
maintained. 
Moreover, the Tenth Conference of the Heads of State or Government of the 
Non-Aligned Movement, which was just held successfully in Jakarta, bore the 
stamp of renewal in continuity and achieved considerable progress in 
reinforcing that trend. 
Given the scores of challenges and the ever stronger commitment of the 
non-governmental organizations working alongside Governments to meet those 
challenges, I would add the need to take into account the recommendations of 
those organizations.  I am thinking even that we could study the possibility. 
A/47/PV.18 
22 
(President Diouf) 
through the efforts of the Secretary-General, of requiring such 
recommendations to be taken into account in specific fields. 
I have had the signal honour to address you on behalf of various peoples 
some of which are separated by thousands of kilometres.  But these peoples 
share with my country  Senegal  the same faith in human solidarity, the same 
hope for a better tomorrow, even the same goals.  United in their diversity, 
these peoples are calling for justice where it is trampled and peace wherever 
it is threatened.  They are calling for the coming of a world in which hunger, 
intolerance and unfairness have disappeared.  These peoples call upon you to 
act together, to innovate and to do so without delay. 
The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank 
the President of the Republic of Senegal for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Abdou Diouf. President of the Republic of Senegal, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued) 
GENERAL DEBATE 
Mr. AL-THANI (Qatar) (interpretation from Arabic):  At the outset, I 
would like to express to you. Sir, my sincere congratulations as you assume 
this high post.  Your election is an expression of the confidence you enjoy. 
It also emphasizes the role your country, Bulgaria, plays at the regional and 
world levels and reflects the relations of friendship and cooperation it has 
maintained with other countries of the world. 
I would like, in this connection, to commend your predecessor in the 
presidency of the General Assembly, Ambassador Samir Shihabi, who conducted 
the work of the previous session of the Assembly with high efficiency. 
A/47/PV.18 
23-25 
(Mr. Al-Thani.  Qatar) 
Our  current  session,  the  first  to be held  since our  present 
Secretary-General,  Ambassador  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  assumed  his high office, 
is convened  at  the threshold  of  a new era of profound  change with which  the 
world  Organization must  come  to grips  in a manner  that would  enhance  its 
effectiveness  and  credibility,  now  that  the old bipolarity  has disappeared  and 
the burdens  faced by  the United  Nations  in every  field have  increased.  There 
is a great  deal  of hope  set by  the peoples  of  the world  on our  Organization. 
In  this  context,  I would  like to pay  tribute  to the  former 
Secretary-General, Mr. Javier  Perez de Cuellar, whose  term  ended with the 
conclusion  of  our  last  session. 
In this hall  179 delegations  are meeting.  Our  Organization  started with 
51 Member  States  in 1945.  This  increase  in membership  reflects  the  success of 
the United  Nations  in eliminating  colonialism,  and  upholding  the  right of 
peoples  to  self-determination  and  independence.  By  so doing,  the United 
Nations  has  achieved  the  aim of universal membership.  This  is an  achievement 
we  should be proud  of  and we  look  forward  to seeing  it become  a launching pad 
from which  the Organization would  proceed  to translate  the noble  principles 
and objectives  of  the Charter  from  the  realm  of  ideas  to the world  of 
reality. 
The  State  of Qatar  shares with  all Member  States  the desire  of 
reactivating  and  developing  the United  Nations  in a manner  that would  be 
compatible  with  the new world  situation  and which would  strengthen  the 
Organization's  role  in maintaining  peace  and  stability  in the  world. 
A/47/PV.18 
26 
(Mr. Al-Thani. Qatar) 
We believe that that desired stability will be achieved only through the 
creation of effective mechanisms for resolving disputes that arise between 
States either by diplomatic means, such as direct dialogue and mediation, or 
by recourse to international law as applied by the International Court of 
Justice. 
Despite the end of the cold war and the bipolarity which were among the 
causes of the arms race, arms limitation continues to be one of the main 
concerns of the United Nations.  It was hoped that the end of the cold war 
would mean a significant and speedy reduction in the magnitude of that arms 
race.  However, this has not been the case.  In 1990, experts estimated that 
15 per cent of the aggregate of all Government budgets in the world is still 
being spent on armaments and military preparedness.  This is a much higher 
percentage than that of expenditure on education or on health care.  The 
burden of military expenditure weighs more heavily on developing countries 
than on industrialized countries because of the discrepancy between the two 
groups of countries in the area of disposable resources. 
If we look carefully into the new developments in nuclear armaments we 
find that the situation is much worse.  For while we go on wasting the 
valuable resources which should be used for development and the building of a 
better future for man, we endanger that very future with nuclear armament. 
Therefore, the problem of arms control will remain one of the central issues 
which the Organization will continue to address in the near future just as it 
used to do in the past. 
We in the Gulf region, because of what we went through during the war of 
liberation of our sister State of Kuwait, have a -pecial interest in 
prohibiting chemical and other weapons of mass destruction and we attach the 
greatest of hopes on the success of the Conference on Disarmament in rapidly 
A/47/PV.18 
27 
(Mr. Al-Thani. Qatar) 
concluding a convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons and preventing 
the spread of research and production techniques in this field in accordance 
with General Assembly resolutions, particularly those adopted in the course of 
its last session. 
In this connection, I should like to point out the necessity of 
compliance by Israel, and by all other States of the Middle East, with this 
convention, both the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and 
with the regime of international inspection.  This should in adherence to the 
principles of equality and justice and the need to ensure the security of all 
States of the region without bias or discrimination.  Failure by any State in 
the region to comply with both agreements, or the accordance of special 
treatment to any of those States would render the whole endeavour void of 
seriousness and effectiveness.  Therefore, we call upon the international 
community to ensure compliance therewith by Israel. 
The guestion of Palestine is one of the questions that have been with the 
United Nations since its inception and still awaits a solution.  My country 
attaches great importance to this question and hopes for rapid progress 
towards its solution in the framework of the ongoing peace process. 
The question of the Palestinian people and the denial by Israel of the 
inalienable rights of that people is the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict and 
once the solution of the guestion of Palestine has been achieved in a manner 
that would be acceptable to the Palestinians, we will also accept it.  If 
Israel wants to live in peace it should withdraw, not only from the West Bank 
and the Gaza Strip, but also from all the occupied Arab territories, including 
East Jerusalem, the Golan and southern Lebanon, in accordance with the United 
A/47/PV.18 
28 
(Mr. Al-Thani. Qatar) 
Nations Charter and relevant resolutions which stipulate the inadmissibility 
of the acquisition or annexation of territories by force, and that it is 
illegal to occupy the territories of others by military force. 
The State of Qatar welcomes the resumption of negotiation between the 
concerned parties in Washington and reaffirms its commitment to support the 
peace effort and expresses its hope that a lasting, equitable and 
comprehensive solution will be reached to the Arab-Israeli conflict and the 
question of Palestine on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) 
and 338 (1973). 
The delegation of my country wishes to voice in this world forum its deep 
concern over the continued suffering of the brotherly people of Somalia and we 
appeal to all Somali factions to put an end to the bloodshed, set aside their 
differences and put the national interest first.  My country commends the 
increasing efforts made by the United Nations at present to alleviate the 
suffering of that people in a bid to move towards restoring stability to that 
afflicted country. 
As for the situation in the Gulf, my country reaffirms its commitment to 
the joint political position of its sister countries, members of the Gulf 
Cooperation Council (GCC) with a view to preserving security and peace in the 
region, which in turn would contribute to achieving the desired peace in the 
world. 
With regard to the island of Abu Mousa, it is regrettable indeed that at 
this historic stage through which our region is passing such a dispute should 
arise between the two neighbours, the State of the United Arab Emirates and 
the Islamic Republic of Iran.  Out of our deep concern for the safety and 
stability of the region, we believe that this dispute should be resolved by 
peaceful means, through dialogue or by recourse to the law. 
A/47/PV.18 
29 
(Mr. Al-Thani. Qatar) 
The  disintegration  of  the  former  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia has  led 
to  serious  consequences  that  have  shaken  the conscience  of humanity.  My 
country  is especially  concerned  over  the  acts  of  aggression  committed  against 
the Republic  of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina  and  characterized  by  extreme  violence, 
particularly  against  the Muslim  population  of  that  Republic, with  the  aim of 
driving  the Muslims  out  of  their homes  and  country  under  the  slogan of  "ethnic 
cleansing". 
It  is the duty of  the  international  community  to stand  up  to this 
aggression  so that  the Republic  of Bosnia  and Herzegovina,  which  is a Member 
State  of  the United  Nations, may preserve  its  right  to freedom  and 
independence. 
In his  statement  made  in December  1991  after  his  election  as 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  cited  the  indebtedness  of 
developing  countries  as one of  the more  complicated  problems which  face the 
world  economy  and which  all  States must  address  effectively  and  decisively. 
The  former  Secretary-General,  also, had often drawn  attention  to this  problem, 
the existence  and gravity  of which  is not hidden  from  experts  and  from  the 
States  that  suffer  from  its worsening burden which weighs  heavily  on the 
developing  countries  and often makes  them  unable  to meet  their  economic 
obligations, with  dire  social  consequences. 
It is  self-evident  that meeting  the burden  of  foreign debt  in every 
debtor  country would  be  at the expense  of  its  social programmes  and  its 
efforts  to  raise  the-standard  of  living of  its people  and  thus  those poor 
countries  become  even poorer.  The problem  of  foreign  debt must  be dealt with 
decisively. 
The United  Nations  has  shown  its great  concern  over  the problems  of the 
environment  by  convening  the Rio de Janeiro  Conference  in mid-1992.  Even if 
A/47/PV.18 
30 
(Mr. Al-Thani. Qatar) 
that  Conference  did not  rise  fully  to  the  level of  the hopes  set on  it, it 
marked,  nevertheless,  a positive beginning  that  could  serve  as a point  of 
departure  for  more effective  efforts  to protect  the environment  without 
unnecessary  shackles  that may  impede  economic  development  in  developing 
countries  in the name  of  the protection  of  the environment  which  no one 
disputes. 
The peoples  of  the world  look  forward  to the  formulation  of  a new world 
order which would  ensure world  peace  and  rest on the  foundations  of 
international  law,  the principles  of  justice  and equality  and of  cooperation 
and brotherhood.  That  new world  order  should  not  inherit  the  negative 
attributes  of  the  old order  that  led to  the creation  of blocs, conflicts  and 
polarization with  all  the  attendant  evils of underdevelopment,  poverty, 
backwardness, hunger,  ignorance  and disease.  The  concept of  the new world 
order  should  be wide  enough  to embrace  international  cooperation  and 
unshackled  trade  and  should  address  the problems  of economic  development,  side 
by side with  the  issues  of disarmament,  indebtedness, environmental  protection 
and social  problems. 
If  the  new world  order  is to govern  the political, economic  and  social 
international  relations  between  States, all  States must  share, on an  equal 
footing,  in  its  formulation  so that  it may become  an equitable  world  order 
that  truly  represents  the  joint will  of  the  international  community  and  thus 
enable  the human  race  to build  a safe  and happy world,  for  the present  and 
future  generations.* 
*  Mr. Moumin  (Comoros), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.18 
31 
Mr. SAHLOUL (Sudan) (interpretation from Arabic):  Allow me, at the 
outset, to congratulate Mr. Ganev, on behalf of my delegation, on his election 
to the presidency of this important session of the General Assembly, and to 
extend to his predecessor, through him, our thanks and appreciation for the 
skilful manner in which he conducted the work of the previous session.  From 
this rostrum, I also extend our sincere congratulations to the States that 
have joined the membership of this Organization since the previous session. 
We welcome them as a new driving force that contributes to the various efforts 
deployed in the international arena with a view to bringing about prosperity, 
development, and stability for the peoples and communities of the world. 
This session, we have before us an important agenda at all political, 
economic, social, humanitarian, and security levels.  All of us must be aware 
that, today, the world faces a new set of international phenomena that were 
not active before the Gulf war and its consequences whose impact is being 
increasingly felt on the international arena from one day to the next. 
For our part, we recognize that new and different international 
circumstances emerge with the dawn of every day.  The barrier of the 
ideologies which, in the past, immersed the world in conflict, confrontation 
and competition for the sake of narrow interests, has collapsed.  The 
improvement in East-West relations has opened up new vistas.  However, the 
period of transition we are living through has spawned new contradictory 
tendencies, the most conspicuous of which is an intense acerbity in the 
relations of the wealthy North and the poor South under the circumstances of 
the so-called new world order.  On the other hand, unipolarity has led the 
world into a new security system controlled by a handful of major Powers in 
the complete absence of active participation on the part of the rest of the 
international community. 
A/47/PV.18 
32 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
The era of international detente we hear so much about nowadays, is no 
more, in our view, than detente between those major Powers with their economic 
and military muscle.  That detente has yet to address the closing of the wide 
gap between North and South, it has yet to reform international economic and 
commercial relations and it has yet to address the issues of overriding 
concern to the South, such as the debt burden, poverty, illiteracy and 
disease.  On top of all that, the States of the developing world are being 
subjected now to the practices of the so-called new international legality 
which means, inter alia, interference and intervention in the internal affairs 
of those States and pursuance of the policies of diktat which deprive them of 
the right of making their own decisions. 
In the tenth summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, which concluded its 
meetings in Jakarta a few weeks ago, the Presidents and Heads of Government of 
the Movement deliberated over the current international situation and the role 
of the Movement therein.  They have voiced their conviction that the 
Non-Aligned Movement, being the representative of the largest grouping of 
States and peoples in the world, has a role to play in the context of the 
unipolarity that reigns in the world today and, therefore, should be included 
in a flexible mechanism that would aim at a new world balance in which the 
developing countries of the world should have an effective role in the 
formulation and setting up of a new world order that must replace the rampant 
international chaos of today, and put an end to the present marginalization of 
international covenants and agreements which must be binding to us all.  The 
Presidents and Heads of Government of the Non-Aligned Movement have set for 
themselves anew the target of ensuring a full presence for the Movement in 
addressing all the international issues on the world's agenda.  They also have 
A/47/PV.18 
33 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
set the target of becoming genuine partners in all decisions to be taken 
particularly within the framework of the United Nations and its Security 
Council. 
The international mechanism governing relations between States should, in 
our opinion, continue to be the United Nations and its agencies.  However, in 
order for this important Organization fully to discharge its duties, the 
following must be achieved. 
Full commitment and adherence to the United Nations Charter, which must 
be developed in a manner that would be compatible with the changes that have 
taken place in the world since it was signed. 
The General Assembly must be enabled to play a full role in the 
maintenance of peace and security.  The General Assembly's role should be as 
important as that of the Security Council's. 
Selectivity and double standards must be abandoned with respect to the 
implementation of the Charter's provisions. 
The Security Council'", activities should be characterized by 
transparency.  The Council should adopt a democratic approach in the area of 
decision-making. 
The United Nations Secretary-General should be able to play his role 
fully,. without diktat from certain States, and should deal with all States on 
an equal footing.  While appreciating the responsibilities of the 
Secretary-General, we are  if  the opinion that he should have the time to meet 
the delegates and representatives of Member States and listen to what they 
have to say on issues of i iportance to their countries and their regions. 
A/47/PV.18 
34 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
The permanent membership of the Security Council and the right of veto 
which is the prerogative of the few should be reviewed.  It is worh mentioning 
in this respect that the veto has been cast 279 times since the inception of 
the Security Council, in relation to issues most of which were of special 
importance to countries of the developing world. 
The new world order being heralded nowadays should not violate the 
sovereignty, territorial integrity, or independence of States nor deprive them 
of their right to make their own decisions.  Preventive diplomacy relating to 
the making and maintenance of peace should proceed from a basic principle 
aimed, first and foremost, at the complete eradication of regional and 
international tension, and at seeking out and uprooting the root causes of 
political, social and economic conflicts so that the countries involved may 
live in peace and enjoy stability and prosperity. 
The type of preventive diplomacy that is accompanied by the use of 
military force must not be used against the smaller States alone.  It is worth 
wondering here how military force can be used against countries which possess 
large or medium military capabilities.  This is a legitimate question and we, 
the smaller States, should look for an answer to it that would meet our urgent 
concerns.  If preventive diplomacy is to proceed initially from the principle 
of fact-finding, such fact-finding should be based on information-gathering 
from original sources and should avoid selectivity and hasty conclusions that 
could become the justification for specific actions which may well be military 
in nature.  We in the developing world have suffered a great deal from the 
unfair communication of facts on issues concerning our countries, either 
A/47/PV.18 
35 
(Mr. Sahloul.  Sudan) 
through mass media  networks  or governmental  and  non-governmental  organizations 
which may be  active  in our  countries.  We hope  that  the United  Nations  and its 
various  agencies,  in all  cases, will  act  impartially  and not  fall prey  to 
narrow political  opportunism. 
A/47/PV.18 
36 
(Mr. Sahloul.  Sudan) 
In  the midst  of  international  changes, we  in the  Sudan  are  striving  to 
spread  the principles  of  Shura 
meaning  consultation  and participation  in 
decision-making  - and democracy,  and  to find  a peaceful  and  lasting  political 
solution  to the problem  of  the  southern Sudan.  We have  so far  achieved 
considerable  progress,  at the Abuja  talks, which  took place  in May  this  year 
under  the  auspices  of  President  Ibrahim  Babangida of  Nigeria. 
We  look  forward with optimism  and hope  to the  forthcoming  second  round of 
the Abuja  talks, which will  soon take place.  We  expect  to  reach, with  the 
rebel movement,  a  final  solution  to  the problem  of the  south, by  the end of 
this year.  It  is our  sincere hope  that the peace  efforts by the  Sudan 
Government  will  attract  the  support  and blessings  of  all  friendly  and 
fraternal  States  and  of  the  international  community  as a whole. 
Allow me  to mention  here  specifically,  an  important  issue  that weighs  a 
lot on many minds  these  days, namely  the  issue of human  rights.  The 
protection  and maintenance  of human  rights  is a sacred  obligation  that  all 
religions  and human  laws  call  for.  The  causes of  instability  and problems  of 
security  and peace  are directly  and organically  linked  to  the maintenance  of 
these  rights,  for  individuals  and  for peoples  alike.  Therefore,  it  is our 
conviction  that human  rights  are  linked  to the right  of  individuals  and 
peoples  to dignity,  physical  and mental health,  the  freedom  to make  their  own 
decisions without  diktat,  the  right  to have  access  to the  fruits of  scientific 
advancement,  namely  progress  and  technology,  the  right  to be  free  from 
poverty,  disease  and hunger  and  the  right  to education  as well  as to material 
and psychological  stability. 
A/47/PV.18 
37 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
However, we notice that the principles of human rights, just like many 
other ideals, are being exploited and misused as a pretext for interference 
and intervention in the internal affairs of smaller States.  Regardless of the 
claims of interference and intervention for the protection of minorities, such 
behaviour is, in essence, no more than using the issue of human rights as a 
weapon against those countries which do not submit to foreign diktat, and as a 
means of shrugging off moral obligations towards the developing countries. 
We also notice that while the lofty ideal of human rights is being 
wielded as weapon, its use is characterized by a double-standard.  The crimes 
and violations by allies are ignored, while accusations of human rights 
violations are trumped up against those countries that do not surrender their 
right to independent decision-making. 
We notice too that certain countries have set themselves up as the 
self-styled protectors of human rights even though they lack any moral grounds 
that may gualify them for such a role.  Such States give themselves the right 
to dictate norms of human rights according to their own cultures, customs and 
social conceptions, and pass judgement on others accordingly. 
The promotion of human rights and basic freedoms will be properly 
achieved, as envisaged by those who wrote the United Nations Charter, only 
through international cooperation and not through confrontation or coercion. 
The upholding and implementation of those rights within national frameworks 
remain within the jurisdiction and responsibility of each Government 
individually so long as that Government properly performs its duties towards 
its citizens.  It is the right of all peoples to freely establish their own 
political and economic systems and institutions on the basis of respect for 
the principles of national sovereignty, self-determination and 
non-interference in the internal affairs of others. 
A/47/PV.18 
38 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
In  this  context,  reference  should  be made  to the  fact  that  the 
fundamental  principles  of human  rights  as  set out  in the Universal  Declaration 
of Human  Rights  embody  two components  that balance out each other:  the  first 
relates  to  the  rights  and basic  freedoms  of  the  individual, while  the  second 
stipulates  duties  of  the  individual  towards  society  and  State. 
This balance  between  rights  and duties  is important,  inasmuch  as  its 
absence  leads  to  the  negation of  the  rights of  society  as a whole  and  to 
instability,  especially  in developing  countries.  We  agree  also with the view 
that  the political,  civil, economic,  social  and cultural  dimensions  of human 
rights  are  indivisible,  and  cannot be  selectively  denied  for  contingent 
political  motives. 
At  the  same  time, we  reject  every attempt  to use  the human  rights  issue 
as a precondition  for  the provision  of economic  and  social  assistance  as this 
leads to the marginalization  of  such rights on the economic,  social  and 
cultural  levels.  We  emphasize  that development  and human  rights  are 
concomitant  and  interdependent.  Hence  the need  for cooperation  and 
multilateral  assistance  in the  implementation  of  social  and  economic 
development  programmes  in  the developing  countries  on the basis of  the  fact 
that  the  right  to development  is a valid,  legitimate  right  that  constitutes  an 
indivisible part  of  fundamental  human  rights.  We hope  that  the World 
Conference  on Human  Rights  that will be held  next year will  deal 
comprehensively  with  the  issue  in all  its aspects. 
Another  important  issue  that  requires  urgent  attention  is the  situation 
in Somalia.  The people  of  this  sister  country  are victims  of  a bitter  civil 
A/47/PV.18 
39 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
They have suffered its ravages.  Since the convening of the minisummit of 
the States of the Horn of Africa on humanitarian issues, those States have 
performed and continue to perform their duty in searching for a peaceful 
solution to the differences between the warring factions in the dispute in 
Somalia. 
We look forward to the support of the international community for that 
role in order for it to achieve the goals spelled out at the Bahr Dar 
meeting.  We had expected the international community to recognize that role 
and develop it, as stability in the region is important, especially to its 
countries and for the welfare of its peoples which cannot be ensured without 
this desired stability. 
However, what happened instead was that a decision to send international 
forces to Somalia was taken, and the numbers of those forces have started to 
increase from one day to the next.  It was our opinion that such forces should 
have been composed of contingents from the countries of the region itself, 
because we are worried that some countries from outside the region may pursue 
their own interests there by supporting one faction or another against the 
others and thereby enabling it to win the war.  Stability in Somalia cannot be 
achieved without comprehensive national reconciliation; one faction cannot 
have sole power, and we hope that the faction of Mr. Ali Mahdi will come to 
realize this fact. 
Several tragic multifaceted situations continue to beset the world such 
as the refugee problems and the plight of displaced and homeless persons. 
These problems are clearly manifest in Africa and the Middle East. 
The Palestinian people continue to struggle and strive for the 
establishment of their own independent State on their own soil at a time when 
bilateral and multilateral negotiations are being obstructed by procedural 
\_ 
A/47/PV.18 
40 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
hurdles that have held back those talks and prevented the negotiators from 
addressing the substance of the conflict.  The nev; Israeli Government has not 
yet proved its serious intent or demonstrated the political will to restore 
the rights of the Palestinian people and consequently restore peace and 
security to this sensitive region of the world.  We consider that the 
convening of an international conference on the Palestinian question under 
full United Nations supervision is the only viable alternative. 
We further believe that the attempts being made with the aim of 
fragmenting the territorial integrity of Iraq are negative acts and examples 
of the unjust improper application of international norms.  Moreover, those 
attempts will eventually jeopardize the balance of power in the region, ensure 
absolute Israeli hegemony and open wide the doors to Israel's belligerent and 
expansionist intentions which aim at ingathering all the Jews of the world in 
a greater Israel. 
Another human tragedy that needs close attention is the question of the 
Muslim people of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are being subjected to genocide 
and liquidation under the very noses of those who call for the preservation of 
human rights and the protection of minorities.  This situation, in our view, 
is the result of ancient and anachronistic ethnic and religious hatreds which 
should have disappeared by now.  All countries agree that the massacres, 
genocide, detentions and summary executions that are taking place there have 
no precedent other than what took place in the days of the Second World War. 
While the changes that swept over the countries of Eastern Europe have 
resulted in the emergence of new republics, we would have hoped that, in due 
course, those republics were going to join the world community of independent 
States and ensure the enjoyment to the full, by a'l their peoples, of 
religious and cultural freedoms. 
A/47/PV.18 
41 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
The appeasement of a belligerent majority is a clear case of bias in 
favour of the creed and cultural affiliations of that majority as opposed to 
the Islamic faith of a considerable number of the peoples of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina.  The actual handling of this issue has been flawed by the 
selectivity of the major Powers, especially the five permanent members of the 
Security Council.  It is definitely short-sighted to deal with the problem 
only from a limited humanitarian perspective.  What the people of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina need above all is the preservation of their identity side by side 
with freedom and protection from acts of displacement and extermination.  We 
therefore consider that the resolutions of the Security Council on this issue 
are inadequate because they do not address the issue in its wider political 
and ethical context.  Proceeding from this view, the Islamic Group has 
condemned Security Council resolution 770 (1992). 
In our opinion, complete military intervention by the United Nations is 
the only viable solution.  If this does not take place, our nagging doubts 
that there is a scheme to erase the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina from 
the map of Europe will only grow.  In addition, the policy of depriving the 
people of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the means to defend their very existence 
while the Serbian aggressors continue to receive arms without any interference 
from the United Nations, will cast strong doubts on the integrity and 
neutrality of the international Organization. 
Recently, a minor crisis has flared up between the two sisterly States of 
Iran and the United, Arab Emirates over certain disputed islands.  We are 
disturbed by the fact that that dispute has been transferred from the 
bilateral context to regional and international forums.  This will only 
exacerbate the conflict.  The parties that are now engaged in promoting the 
A/47/PV.18 
42 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
escalation of that dispute  especially in the mass media, are trying, in fact, 
to aggravate tensions in the Gulf region, which has suffered the unfortunate 
effects of the sad events that have swept over it during the past few years. 
We urge most strongly the containment of this dispute which should be 
addressed at the bilateral level in line with the operation of the old 
mechanism that was agreed upon in 1971 between the two parties. 
The Persian Gulf area has suffered a series of wars that have obstructed 
its development.  The present agonies of the people of Iraq under the 
conditions of an unjust economic blockade and the unending attempts to 
fragment their country's tarritorial integrity have resulted from disputes 
which, in our view, should have been settled by peaceful means within the 
regional framework, in order to prevent foreign interests from infiltrating 
the region and capitalizing on differences and disputes to serve their own 
strategic and economic designs. 
The international economic situation remains static.  Indeed, its 
principal feature continues to be the unending deterioration of the economies 
of the countries of the South and the widening gap between those countries and 
the industrial countries.  The major cause of that deterioration lies in the 
negative and dangerous effects on international trade of the drop in exports 
of the developing countries as a result of the deterioration of prices of 
their primary commodity exports to the industrial countries. 
The horrendous negative effects of the debt crisis have been aggravated 
to the point where they not only threaten the prospects of economic and social 
development of the developing countries but also the very existence of those 
countries. 
It is important at this point to mention the failure of the industrial 
countries to honour their commitments, as embodied in international treaties 
A/47/PV.18 
43 
(Mr. Sahloul, Sudan) 
and strategies pertaining to the flow of development assistance to the 
developing countries, and particularly in implementing the resolutions 
embodied in the the international strategy for the decade of the 1980s, which 
called for allocating 0.7% of their gross national income to official 
assistance to the developing countries.  Instead of implementing those 
resolutions, the developed countries have blocked every attempt to adopt a new 
strategy for the decade of the 1990s.  Furthermore, the industrial countries 
have failed to implement the programme for the 1990s, which was adopted in 
favour of the least developed countries in the 1990 Paris Conference.  This. 
failure has caused a grave setback to the economic and social development of 
the least developed countries. 
Africa, with its feeble infrastructures, is the continent that has been 
most affected by that imbalance in the world economic situation.  It is the 
continent that suffers most, because of the considerably diminished flow of 
economic assistance and investment and the imposition on its countries of 
unjust conditions that are not imposed upon the other groupings of the 
developing world.  Moreover, the attempts to destabilize some regions of the 
continent aim, in our view.- at creating a geopolitical climate that would be 
compatible with the strategies of certain major Powers.  We all know the 
potentials of Africa, a continent with a great wealth of untapped human and 
natural resources. 
The real challenge that now faces the international community is 
narrowing of the ever-widening gap between the wealthy countries of the North 
and the poor countries of the South.  It is that gap which is the real threat 
to world peace and security.  The debt crisis is one of the products of the 
present international economic order.  It is a phenomenon that resulted. 
A/47/PV.18 
44-45 
(Mr. Sahloul. Sudan) 
essentially, from the structural imbalance of that order, and its failure to 
generate an appropriate developmental climate. 
We have an unshakable belief in the necessary collective interdependency 
and the organic interrelatedness of the international economic order, if it is 
to be an order whose aim is to mutually benefit all mankind.  This cannot be 
the case, however, unless comprehensive and integrated solutions are found to 
the existing problems on the basis of equality, justice and interdependency. 
The dialogue required for the achievement of that objective cannot take place 
without the political will, courage, wisdom and far-sightedness of all 
concerned. 
In conclusion, we should like to express our absolute conviction 
regarding the necessity of collective action in the current period of detente 
in international relations.  That means, in our view, developing the 
activities of all the organs of the United Nations and giving those organs the 
required importance.  In order to reach that objective, we need to cooperate 
and work together, hand in hand. 
May Allah lead us to our noble objectives and grant us the vision to see 
them clearly. 
ADDRESS BY MR. ADRIEN SIBOMANA, PRIME MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):  The Assembly will now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Burundi. 
Mr. Adrien Sibomana. ?rime Minister of the Republic of Burundi, was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The PRESIDENT:  I have great pleasure in welcoming the Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Burundi, His Excellency Mr. Adrien Sibomana, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly. 
A/47/PV.18 
46 
Mr. SIBOMANA (Burundi) (interpretation from French):  For me it is a 
great pleasure and an agreeable duty to participate in the work of the General 
Assembly at its forty-seventh session.  For almost half a century the United 
Nations has been working to lead mankind to the more human condition of peace 
and international solidarity. 
Allow me to take this early opportunity to discharge the duty  an honour 
given to me by Major Pierre Buyoya, President of the Republic of Burundi  of 
conveying to Mr. Ganev, the President of the General Assembly at its current 
session, a message of peace and solidarity, in keeping with the fundamental 
purposes set out in the Charter.  Allow me also, on behalf of my delegation, 
my Government and the people of Burundi, to join other representatives in 
congratulating Mr. Ganev on his election to the presidency.  There is no doubt 
that his distinguished qualities, together with his rich experience, will lead 
to the success that everyone expects of our deliberations. 
Our congratulations go also to the members of the General Committee, who, 
I am sure, will spare no effort to support the President in the discharge of 
his responsibilities. 
At the same time I express our very good wishes to Mr. Ganev's eminent 
predecessor as President, who conducted the work of the General Assembly at 
its forth-sixth session with remarkable competence. 
Furthermore, I should like to pay a very well deserved tribute to the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his determination to see 
that peace and security in the world are preserved. 
The Republic of Burunii warmly welcomes the countries that have just 
joined the family of the United Nations. 
Mankind is going throngh a period of contrasts.  Current events are 
characteristic of the transition from one era to another.  Indeed, the world 
A/47/PV.18 
47 
(Mr. Sibomana. Burundi) 
gives the impression that it is seeking a new balance, which, we hope, will 
enable men and women to live together more harmoniously.  Whereas the ending 
of the cold war and the remarkable disarmament efforts have resulted in 
significant progress in the field of international security, bloody conflicts 
continue to tear the planet apart. 
While a series of events, of which everyone is aware, is persuading 
peoples to work together to achieve economic and even political integration, 
nations are being torn apart by very bloody fratricidal conflicts.  One has 
only to consider the extremely worrying situation in Somalia to realize that 
the world is still a theatre for tragedies that one cannot bear to watch. 
In recent years the winds of liberty have been blowing throughout the 
world, and all nations have been rising up in a crusade for human rights and 
the dignity of the human person, yet men and women continue to be deprived of 
elementary rights  the right to life, the right to a homeland and the right 
to development.  This is the case in South Africa, where apartheid, even in 
its death throes, continues to claim victims, and where people, here and 
there, continue to be deprived of a homeland. 
While steady scientific progress is enabling mankind to master natural 
forces and is preparing him to subdue other planets, men and women continue to 
wallow in deprivation.  This is especially true of the African continent, 
where ignorance, hunger and sickness still reign on a grand scale.  The 
picture so eloquently presented by Abdou Diouf in his capacity as President of 
the Organization of African Unity fully conveys the concerns of Africa and of 
Africans, and we agree completely with what he said. 
At the Rio Conference the international community took a major step in 
its awareness of the need to preserve the quality of the environment on Earth, 
which is our common home.  Paradoxically, however, as we seek means of 
A/47/PV.18 
48-50 
(Mr. Sibomana, Burundi) 
subsistence we continue to destroy things that we need to enable us to live 
and breathe.  This becomes more and more evident when we look at the intimate 
relationship between the environment and development  a relationship that the 
Rio Conference very rightly set out for us. 
We are living in an era of paradox.  On one hand, it seems that the world 
has been moving ahead at full speed in terms of peace and security, freedom, 
well-being and progress, but, on the other hand, we are witnessing war, 
poverty, hunger and misery.  In these conditions mankind has no chance of 
making progress.  Thus the objectives set out in the Charter of the United 
Nations are still relevant. 
In this the last decade of the twentieth century we must show that we are 
determined to preserve international peace and security.  We must also 
demonstrate greater solidarity, as an injury to the little finger causes 
suffering to the entire body.  Like the illustrious founders of this 
Organization, we must proclaim our faith in a better world and must turn the 
United Nations into an Organization capable of maintaining international peace 
and security and of ensuring justice and respect for human rights. 
Moreover, the Organization must be able, in accordance with its Charter, 
to promote social progress and better standards of life for all peoples of the 
world.  The Republic of Burundi therefore pays a tribute to all those who are 
striving daily to maintain peace in the world and welcomes the signs of 
solidarity whereby all peoples may be enabled to live life to the full, in 
keeping with the aspirations and values that underlie the United Nations. 
A/47/PV.18 
51 
(Mr. Sibomana, Burundi) 
In that connection, the report "An Agenda for Peace" submitted to the 
General Assembly by the Secretary-General deserves the international 
community's close attention.  For its part, the Republic of Burundi reiterates 
its faith in the United Nations Charter and its commitment to work with the 
international community in achieving the triumph of its ideals. 
The rostrum of the United Nations, which is provided to us each yoar, is 
a special place for dialogue and exchanges of views that enable us better to 
understand one another and share our experiences.  Allow me, therefore, 
briefly to share with representatives the principal paths that my country has 
decided to take in rebuilding and  making its modest contribution to the 
realization of the Organization's goals. 
In the not-too-distant past my country went through some tragic 
experiences caused by continuing divisive conflicts, essentially ethnic.  They 
were followed by tragedies that resulted in loss of human life and a large 
exodus of refugees seeking asylum in neighbouring countries and elsewhere in 
the world.  That situation had a serious effect on social relations.  Rancour, 
mistrust and hatred took root in the hearts of brothers and sisters who should 
have been living together in a single, age-old nation. 
It was in this context  an uneasy one, to say the least  that on 
3 September 1987 the people of Burundi rose up to change the unhappy course of 
their history.  Five years later, I am pleased to announce that Burundi is 
once again a united nation.  Indeed, with the proclamation of the Third 
Republic, Burundi has turmd the page and is now embarked upon the 
construction of a new society of peace, justice and social harmony.  Under the 
dynamic and farsighted leadership of Major Pierre Buyoya, President of the 
A/47/PV.18 
52 
(Mr. Sibomana. Burundi) 
Republic, the people of Burundi are in the process of burying once and for all 
the quarrels and divisions from which they have suffered for so long.  To 
achieve that goal, the Government has based its actions on three fundamental 
factors:  national reconciliation, democratization and development. 
First, the people of Burundi set out to realize internal reconciliation. 
To remove the divisions that had rent the fabric of Burundi society, the 
people determined, with a supreme effort, to pull themselves together and 
experience the forgiveness of national reconciliation.  Witness to this is the 
proclamation of faith contained in the Charter of National Unity, in which 
Burundis, with historic conviction, stated: 
"We are determined to break with the past and to embark upon a new era in 
order to build a more promising future free of hatred and mistrust." 
The national reconciliation now achieved has been the result of a 
complete process.  The first requirement was to engage in an examination of 
conscience, which inspired Burundis to join together and to tell themselves 
the truth.  That process began with the establishment of a National Commission 
made up of citizens of all ethnic groups, all regions and all religious and 
socio-professional sectors.  The Commission's task was to diagnose the disease 
of division and then to propose appropriate cures.  After seven months of 
arduous work the Commissio.i submitted a report setting forth an analysis of 
the situation and proposals for a better future. 
However, as President Buyoya has so pertinently said, the construction 
and deepening of a people's unity cannot be accomplished by the President of 
the Republic alone, nor by his Government.  Therefore, based on the 
Commission's report, a national debate on the important question of national 
unity was organized among ill sectors of society. 
A/47/PV.18 
53 
(Mr. Sibomana. Burundi) 
In making such a thorough examination of a subject so long taboo, the 
people of Burundi has discovered the virtues of dialogue and joint effort, 
elevated into a form of government.  The national debate was crowned with the 
creation of the Charter of National Unity, which was adopted with the support 
of more than 89 per cent of the population in a referendum held on 
5 February 1991. 
Since that time the Charter of National Unity has become the pre-eminent 
point of reference for all of the nation's political life and a pact by which 
all Burundis have sealed an alliance to consolidate their regained unity. 
With the Charter we, the people of Burundi have proclaimed our faith in 
lasting national unity and condemned and forever rejected all divisions of any 
kind.  We have thus committed ourselves to uprooting from our society any 
tendency to violence, physical extermination and vengeance. 
More positively, we have committed ourselves to rigorous respect for the 
ethic of national unity.  This is translated into respect for human life, the 
promotion of justice and the safeguarding and consolidation of peace and 
security. 
In parallel with that process, which was aimed principally at reconciling 
hearts and minds, the process of consolidating national unity has been marked 
by a series of specific measures undertaken with a concern to administer the 
State in keeping with the ethic of national unity. 
In October 1988 the President of the Republic established a new 
Government called the Government of National Unity, whose composition reflects 
the concern of high-level State authorities to bring all elements of society 
into the management of public affairs.  The Government has the political 
mission of stimulating a new spirit in all sectors of national life.  At every 
A/47/PV.18 
54-55 
(Mr. Sibomana, Burundi) 
level of society responsibilities have been entrusted to citizens from all 
walks of life, without any discrimination whatsoever.  In this undertaking the 
Government has given pride of place to other values cherished by the Third 
Republic:  equality of all citizens, the cult of excellence and total 
transparency in the management of public affairs. 
With national unity regained and national reconcliation an accomplished 
fact, we are able give all due attention to grappling with the thorny problem 
of refugees.  Everyone agrees that the fact that there are so many millions of 
refugees throughout the world is a result of internal or inter-State conflicts 
that Governments have been powerless to resolve.  Furthermore, the 
international community owes a big debt to the refugees, inasmuch as its 
inability to manage harmoniously has led to the violation of a basic human 
right, the inalienable right to live somewhere in one's homeland, with no risk 
of having no home. 
Fortified by those convictions, and having laid the foundations for 
domestic peace, the Government of the Republic of Burundi has undertaken a 
vast programme of voluntary repatriation for Burundi refugees.  It feels that 
voluntary repatriation is by far the best lasting solution to the refugee 
question.  Thus, in carrying out this work of national reconciliation our 
country's highest bodies have offered those of our compatriots who have gone 
into exile the opportunity to return freely to their country.  In so doing, 
our ambition is to see that soon no Burundians will be living with the 
degrading label pf refugee. 
A/47/PV.18 
56 
(Mr. Sibomana.  Burundi) 
From  this  rostrum  and before  the entire  international  community,  I should 
like  to  repeat  what Major  Pierre  Buyoya,  President  of  the  Republic,  said,  and 
solemnly  reiterate  my  Government's  appeal  to all  refugees  from Burundi, 
wherever  they may  be,  to  freely  return  to  their homeland.  We  shall  welcome 
them with  open  arms. 
I  am pleased  to note  at this point  that  the  results  already  achieved  in 
this programme  are  extremely  encouraging. 
In  1988,  following  the  unrest  that disrupted  peace  and  security  in two of 
our  communities,  we  succeeded  in  repatriating  approximately  50,000 people  who 
had moved  to neighbouring  countries.  Thanks  to the assistance  of  the 
international  community,  we were  able without  difficulty  to set  them  up  again 
on their  own  land,  to build  new homes  for  them  and  to help  reintegrate  them 
into our  production  networks. 
In that  same  spirit, my  Government  is continuing  to welcome  those  of the 
refugees who  left  their  country  some  20 years  ago that  freely  choose  to  return. 
Even  as we  speak, more  than  25,000  of  them have  already  returned  home, 
and others  continue  to arrive. 
Thanks  to national  and  international  solidarity,  those who were 
repatriated  have  rejoined  society  in complete  dignity.  The  Government  has 
made  an  inventory  of  all  available  lands  that  could  accommodate  them,  and  they 
are being given  assistance  that  allows  them  to meet  their needs  until  they  can 
subsist  on  the  fruits of  their  own  labour.  In collaboration with  local 
administrative  authorities,  they  are  receiving  all  the help necessary  to build 
a decent  home,  and  they  even have health  insurance  so that  they  can  easily 
obtain health  care.  Their  children have  been  integrated  into  the  school 
system,  and  those  among  the  repatriated  who have  some  training  are  receiving 
all the help  needed  to  secure  a position  in the work  force. 
A/47/PV.18 
57 
(Mr..Sibomana. Burundi) 
I take this opportunity to thank the countries and the organizations that 
have supported us in carrying out this programme, and we also appeal to the 
international community to continue to help us in this process, of which my 
people are so proud. 
In sealing this pact of national unity, the people of Burundi placed 
special emphasis on the absolute need to see to it that the management of the 
State is democratically assured.  That is why, in keeping with the 
consolidation of national unity, Burundi has undertaken to democratize our 
institutions. 
I would be remiss not to share with the Assembly information about the 
steps that my country has taken.  This was for us an original move, and we 
have every reason to be satisfied with it.  Indeed, in this process as well as 
in the one that led to national reconciliation, the Government has always been 
careful to involve all segments of the population.  Through frank and sincere 
dialogue with the people, the political class has always been honest and wise 
enough to put itself in the hands of the people, being convinced that no work 
can last unless the citizens are involved, for in the final analysis they are 
the ones who do the work and who benefit from all changes. 
Thus, throughout all of last year the people were closely involved with 
drawing up a new constitution, which was subsequently adopted by referendum on 
9 March 1992 by more than 90 per cent of the population.  The new constitution 
establishes a multiparty system and gives special attention to respect for 
fundamental human rights. 
In this way, Burundi has put an end to 26 years of a single-party system 
and has restored order, serenity and national harmony.  Since that time, the 
Government has worked to implement the guidelines contained in the 
constitution. 
A/47/PV.18 
58 
(Mr. Sibomana. Burundi) 
The process of effectively implementing pluralism was accelerated in such 
a way that today, seven political parties are already on the political scene. 
Appropriate legislation was also passed promptly to promote the right to free 
association and freedom of the press, which are indispensable foundations for 
a vital multiparty system. 
In terms of human rights, independent leagues have been established.  In 
this particular area, which is very dear to us, we have just established a 
centre for the promotion of human rights whose mission is to instil into 
society, through teaching and various means of communication, the values that 
underlie respect for human dignity. 
In Burundi, the democratization of our institutions is therefore 
proceeding in this manner, and the Government is strongly determined to keep 
moving forward.  That is why, in keeping with the guidelines that the 
President has already laid down, the Government is planning to hold general 
elections in the early months of 1993.  Once the constitution has clearly 
defined the institutional structure that is to guide the country and the 
competing partners, that is, the political parties, are on the scene, we 
believe that it would be a reprehensible step backwards to prolong this period 
of transition indefinitely. 
Our intention is to give to a sovereign people the opportunity to speak, 
so that they can democratically elect the leaders of their choice.  We do so 
in what we term the Burundi way, that is to say in complete openness, through 
dialogue and joint efforts. 
I should not like to take advantage of your kind attention. Sir.  None 
the less, I should be remiss if, before ending my statement, I did not mention 
what we consider to be a pillar of unity and democracy  that is, development. 
A/47/PV.18 
59 
(Mr.Sibomana.  Burundi) 
I  should  not  like  to take  advantage of your  kind  attention. Sir.  None 
the  less,  I should be  remiss  if, before  ending my  statement, I did not mention 
what we  consider  to be  a pillar  of unity  and democracy 
that is, 
development.  Speaking  of  national  unity, we  say that unity  and  development 
are  inseparable  realities  and  that  it would be difficult  to achieve  one 
without  the other.  The  same  is true of democracy.  Indeed, without  enjoying 
the public  freedoms  that are  the structure  of  true democracy, people  cannot 
fully express  their  creativity.  Similarly, democratic  freedoms  that are not 
based  on  the  satisfaction  of elementary  human needs would  only be  wishful 
thinking  and would  rapidly  become void  of  any  substance. 
Following  these principles, the Government has undertaken  a series of 
programmes  of  action  for development.  For a country  such  as ours,  development 
is not  a difficult  concept  to define.  Essentially,  it boils  down  to 
satisfying  the basic  needs of  the population,  such as drinking water, health 
services,  schooling  for their  children, decent homes  and also  food  security. 
To  succeed  in this development  enterprise, the authorities  of  the  third 
Republic  initiated  a structural  adjustment programme with  the  support  of the 
World  Bank  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund.  Implementation  of  the 
programme  is intended  to  stabilize  the  finances  of our  country  and  to 
transform  our productive  structures with a view  to achieving  economic  growth. 
This  reform, moreover, is guided by  the principles  of good management  of 
public  affairs  and of  liberalizing  the  economy. 
In  so doing,  important  efforts have been made  to promote  the  private 
sector.  This  new manner  of  conducting  development  emphasizes  the  growing 
disengagement  of  the State  and  the giving of  responsibility  to  individuals  and 
corporations.  In this  framework,  the Government has, since  1991, embarked 
A/47/PV.18 
60 
(Mr,  sihnmana.  Burundi) 
on a major  economic  programme  to privatize public  enterprises.  What  is 
involved  is the partial  or  total  opening  up of public  enterprises  to private 
capital.  It also  involves  restructuring  those  enterprises  that need  it in 
order  to be more  profitable  and  to establish more effective mechanisms  for 
managing  them. 
A/47/PV.18 
61 
(Mr.Sibomana. Burundi) 
The liberalization of Burundi's economy has just entered a new stage with 
the creation of a free trade zone regime.  This reform, intended to promote 
investment in order to bring about the diversification of our exports, grants 
tax and other advantages which some consider to be among the most advantageous 
in the world. 
Investors who so desire can come and work with us.  I can guarantee that 
they will not regret doing so.  The political reforms that have taken place 
within the framework of strengthening national unity and of democratization of 
institutions have created in our country a political and social environment 
which is very favourable to business. 
I have given a thumbnail sketch of the situation in Burundi today.  As I 
indicated at the beginning of my statement, the Government and people of 
Burundi are working to achieve national reconciliation.  The steps we have 
taken allow us to welcome our brothers and sister who were refugees and enable 
them to regain their dignity by returning freely to their homeland.  Thanks to 
the national unity we have regained, the democratization of our institutions 
is also taking place in an atmosphere of peace, order and serenity.  We have 
committed ourselves to ambitious development programmes in order to establish 
an environment and a social infrastructure that can support social peace. 
In this way, in full cooperation with the international community, 
Burundi feels that it is 01 the right path, one which will allow it, moreover, 
to make its contribution t) building a better world of peace, security and 
international solidarity.  This is the best inheritance we could leave to our 
children. 
How could we not in chis United Nations body give some thought to the 
children, who are the future of us all?  This is why we wish especially to 
A/47/PV.18 
62 
(Mr. Sibomana. Burundi) 
recall that today, 30 September 1992, marks the second anniversary of the 
World Summit for Children.  We express to the Secretary-General our 
appreciation for the report (A/47/264) he has just submitted to us on the 
follow-up to the Summit.  It deserves our attention. 
We should also like to take this opportunity to say that we have high 
hopes that the forthcoming conference on this subject, which is to take place 
in Dakar, Senegal, next November will study the issue of the future of 
Africa's children. 
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French):  On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Rwandi 
for the important statement he has just made. 
Mr. Adrien Sibomana. Prime Minister of the Republic of Burundi, was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
Mr. OCHOA ANTICH (Venezuela) (interpretation from Spanish):  On 
behalf of Venezuela, I congratulate our President and the Government and 
people of Bulgaria on his election to preside over this session of the General 
Assembly. 
I welcome the new Member States, whose presence among us makes this 
Organization more universal. 
I also wish to place on record our gratitude to the Permanent 
Representative of Saudi Arabia, Ambassador Samir Shihabi, who presided over 
the work of the forty-sixt'i session with such distinction. 
We are meeting at a time of particular instability and uncertainty.  The 
international system is trying to find a new order and basic principles and 
guidelines to enable us to build a more just and egalitarian world.  We are 
living at a time of rapid historical change.  The most dramatic events and the 
A/47/PV.18 
63 
(Mr. Ochoa Antich. Venezuela) 
most unexpected changes are taking place before a seemingly helpless world 
leadership. 
The end of communism is already a thing of the past; the collapse of the 
Soviet empire is ancient history.  The absolute triumph of the West is 
beginning to be questioned, given the financial and exchange rate problems 
which the industrialized countries are experiencing, together with their 
profound social crisis.  We might be talking about a post-capitalist era in 
which the quest for supposedly free competition has turned into a total 
dehumanization of the economic model, producing a yawning gap between rich and 
poor in world society. 
We are facing not the end of history, but rather a great lack of 
leadership, of confidence  md of enthusiasm for the future.  The 
industrialized countries, bogged down in their economic rivalries, cannot 
coordinate their actions in favour of peace, stability and justice.  Deprived 
of the enemy which used to make them act together, they are now experiencing a 
substantial weakening of the bonds which used to unite them. 
The times in which we live require strong, democratic international 
organizations if the preventive diplomacy the Secretary-General has described 
in his "Agenda for Peace"  which we are studying very carefully  is to take 
root.  We support the more active role he envisages for the Organization, in 
the area not of intervention, but rather of prevention.  To achieve this, the 
United Nations and the specialized agencies must cooperate 
"to address the deepest causes of conflict:  economic despair, social 
injustice and political oppression." (A/47/277, para. 15) 
The Security Council, which should have been the most efficient United 
Nations body, is an anachronism.  It still reflects the interrelationship of 
forces that existed when it was created.  When the United Nations came into 
A/47/PV.18 
64-65 
(Mr. Ochoa Antich. Venezuela) 
being, its keystone was the Council, controlled by its five permanent members, 
which was given predominance to try to eliminate the limitations which had 
made the former League of Nations ineffectual.  The founders of the 
Organization thought that this time the big Powers would be able to exercise 
effective leadership, in keeping with their power; that is, they would have 
the ability to act as world monitors and arbitrators and bring order to the 
world. 
To the frustration of humanity, the two super-Powers proved that they 
alone were enough to lay the foundations of international order.  The Security 
Council, from the day the Organization was established until the end of the 
cold war, was to play second fiddle in the management of world affairs. 
A/47/PV.18 
66 
(Mr. Ochoa Antich. Venezuela) 
After  the  collapse  of  the Soviet  system, the  Security  Council began to 
regain  its original  functions.  But  it is doing  so under  the  aegis of  the 
triumphant values.  Thus  the major  countries  can outline  an  international 
scenario  in accordance with  their  interests.  This  situation  should be 
reconsidered  so that, as the Secretary-General  has  said: 
"Democracy within the  family  of nations means  the  application  of  its 
principles  within  the world  Organization  itself."  (A/47/277, para. 82) 
Before  the General Assembly, the President of Venezuela, 
Carlos Andres  Perez,  clearly  conveyed his  concern over  the need  to make the 
Security  Council more  representative.  He  said: 
"Our own people's  aspiration  to democracy  can also become  a 
permanent  aspiration  of  the United Nations.  The Organization will not be 
strengthened  unless  an agreement  is reached  to eliminate  the right of 
veto exercised  by  the permanent members  of  the Security Council, a right 
that  responded  to circumstances  and  realities  that have  ceased  to exist. 
This mechanism  runs  counter  to the  spirit of  the Charter  of  the United 
Nations  and  limits  its effective  contributions  to collective  security. 
"The  right  to veto Security  Council  resolutions  is a mechanism that 
limits  the achievement  of  consensus  among the Member  States  of  the United 
Nations.  The  Security  Council must be  a representative  body,  and  in no 
way  should  any  of  its members  negate  the majority  view  of  the United 
Nations.  If we want  collective  and democratic  security, we must  aspire 
to universal  egalitarian  law."  (A/46/PV.8. p.  13) 
In our  changing  times, concepts  of  State  sovereignty  and  integrity are 
also being  re-examined.  Paradoxically,  the  "champions  of  freedom",  once 
victorious,  are trying  to  :.mpose a homogeneous  and  intolerant world  order in 
which  an  independent  protagonist would  be  seen as  a destabilizing  and 
A/47/PV.18 
67 
(Mr. Ochoa Antich. Venezuela) 
threatening factor.  This is a matter of serious concern to the States of the 
southern hemisphere.  In the past, we were important to the North in two 
ways:  as the natural scenario for the East-West confrontation and as 
essential suppliers of raw materials. 
The confrontation between East and West is gone and with it the political 
and strategic usefulness of the third world.  Raw materials have become 
marginal in the present world economy.  The slump in the demand for 
commodities becomes more acute with every passing year.  The phrase 
"mobilizing effect" used to mean that any surge in the rich economies would 
carry the developing economies along with it.  When the North was growing, so 
were exports of raw materials.  The situation has completely changed 
traditional export commodities no longer have the same value.  International 
markets can almost do without us. 
The only way to preserve peace is to find balanced links between the 
hemispheres, put an end to relations of confrontation and strengthen 
cooperation between peoples.  I have not come here to point out the mistakes 
made by the North.  The countries in the South also bear heavy 
responsibilities.  We must meet our challenge.  The era of demagogic populism, 
inefficiency and corruption is over.  If we wish to compete in a world of open 
markets we must devote ourselves to productive work and reward creativity. 
Venezuela has realized this and is in a position from which it can look to the 
future with optimism, provided there is compliance with the rules of open 
markets and competitiveness between nations. 
However, we must emphasize that while large regions in the South, 
especially in Latin America, are striving to internationalize their economies 
by opening them up to competition, the North is increasingly locking itself 
into inward-turning blocs.  Ultimately, the free market  one of the triumphant 
A/47/PV.18 
68 
(Mr. Ochoa Antich. Venezuela) 
values  to which  I have  already  referred 
would  seem  to work  in a single 
direction. 
If the  rigid  attitude  of  some  international  financial  institutions 
persists, together  wth the dangerous protectionism  that  is again  emerging 
among  the  industrialized  countries, then the  1990s, which  in Latin America 
began with  severe  economic measures  and hopeful  signs of growth, may  also turn 
out to be  another  lost decade. 
The North  is not making  a contribution  to the establishment  of  the 
necessary economic  links between  the two hemispheres.  The new world  order 
implies  a dual  concept:  on the one hand, the  failure  of  the South  and, on the 
other, the defeat of the  communist East.  The power  logic being  applied  is 
simple  and direct.  There  is no  longer  any question of  the  loss of  any given 
strategic  resource or  strategic  position  falling  into  the hands  of  communism. 
There being no enemies, there  is no  longer  any danger  of  losing  friends; worse 
yet,  there  is no  longer any need  for  friends.  What  is important  now is that 
there be no disorder  and no anarchy.  What matters  now  is the willingness of 
the South  to  submit  to certain global  rules  of  the game  as defined by the 
North  in terms of  its own interests. 
Yet they  fail  to understand  that these  rules of  the game  become 
inoperative  in situations  ->f anarchy  and civil  strife, which  can dismember a 
State  and have  spill-over  effects on those  surrounding  it.  Somalia  is a 
tragic example  of what  the  southern hemisphere  could  become, on a larger 
scale,  in the twenty-first  century.  Some wealthy  States may  feel  that they 
can live  unaffected  by  such  realities.  They  are mistaken.  We must not forget 
that  the South has  its own ability  to make  an  instinctive  response:  the 
migratory  flows  of  its impoverished  masses  to the North.  This  flow, which is 
A/47/PV.18 
69-70 
(Mr. Ochoa Antich. Venezuela) 
always difficult for any Government to control, could come to undermine the 
bases for the democratic and social stability in many developed countries. 
The best proof of this is the resurgence of extreme rightist movements and the 
outbreak of racial violence and xenophobia in many countries. 
These problems and the persistent imbalance between the North and the 
South highlight a series of essential issues that the Assembly should 
consider.  The first is the democratization of the decision-making processes 
in the Security Council.  This implies a new debate on the veto procedure and 
an increase in the number of permanent members so as to allow for the 
representation of the new world realities. 
A/47/PV.18 
71 
The new circumstances  in the world have been conducive  to  solving various 
(Mr. Ochoa Antich. Venezuela) 
regional  problems, such  as those  in Angola, Namibia, Central  America, 
Mozambique  and Cambodia; to a large extent, in other  areas, such as 
Afghanistan, Western  Sahara, South Africa  and  the Middle East, there  are 
signs, because  of  the new circumstances, that warrant hope  for  negotiated 
solutions  to conflicts.  Venezuela  supports measures  designed  to  achieve 
peaceful  solutions  to these problems  and hopes  that the  favourable 
international  climate will help maintain peace. 
We also  supported  the Rio  summit on the environment  and hope  that the 
decisions  adopted  there, particularly  those  related  to the problem  of 
financing  Agenda  21, will be  implemented  as  soon as circumstances  permit.  ' 
Similarly, we give our  full  support  to the Second World  Conference  on Human 
Rights,  to be held  next year, as well  as  to the  forthcoming  conferences on 
population  and on the  status of women  and  to the summit on  social development. 
Despite  the endeavours  of  the United  Nations, the outlook  is not 
encouraging.  None  the  less, when  all  the countries gathered  here  in the 
Assembly  commit  themselves  to working  for  change, for a world where hunger and 
war have vanished, where  the environment  is protected,  and where  realistic 
measures  are adopted  to prevent  conflicts, then we  shall be building  the just 
society  of which we have  always  dreamed. 
Th-i meeting  rose  at  12.45  p.m. 
