IMITED 
IATIONS 
General Assembly 
4M  \ J 8 R ^* 
\ 0 \ ^' 
cpu &&>* 
PROVISIONAL 
A/47/PV.38 
29 October  1992 
ENGLISH 
Forty-seventh  session 
GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 
PROVISIONAL  VERBATIM  RECORD OF THE  38th MEETING 
Held  at Headquarters, New York, 
on Wednesday,  14 October  1992, at 3 p.m. 
President: 
later: 
later: 
later: 
Mr.  GANEV 
Mr.  ELHOUDERI 
(Vice-President) 
Mr.  MOUMIN 
(Vice-President) 
Mr.  ELHOUDERI 
(Vice-President) 
(Bulgaria) 
(Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya) 
(Comoros) 
(Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya) 
Programme  of  work 
Report  of  the  Secretary-General  on the work  of the  Organization: 
reports  of  the Secretary-General  [10]  (continued) 
This  record  contains  the original  text of  speeches  delivered  in  English 
and interpretations  of  speeches  in the other  languages.  The  final  text will 
be printed  in the Official  Records  of  the General  Assembly. 
Corrections  should  be  submitted  to original  speeches  only.  They  should 
be sent under  the  signature  of  a member  of  the delegation  concerned,  within 
One week,  to the  Chief, Official  Records  Editing  Section,  Office of  Conference 
Services, room DC2-750,  2 United  Nations  Plaza,  and  incorporated  in a copy of 
the record. 
92-61472  1918V  (E) 
A/47/PV.38 
2-5 
The meeting was called to order at 3.35 p.m. 
PROGRAMME OF WORK 
The PRESIDENT:  Earlier this month I gave the General Assembly a 
tentative programme of plenary meetings for the remainder of October.  The 
following is a tentative programme regarding some agenda items to be 
considered during November and the first week of December. 
As announced earlier, on Monday, 2 November, and Tuesday, 3 November, the 
General Assembly will hold a debate on agenda item 79, "Report of the United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development". 
On Monday, 16 November, the Assembly will consider agenda item 18, 
"Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples", and reports of the Fourth Committee. 
On Tuesday, 17 November, in the morning the Assembly will take up agenda 
item 22, "The situation of democracy and human rights in Haiti", iK^^tenda 
item 36, "The situation in Central America:  procedures for the 
of a firm and lasting peace and progress in fashioning a region 
freedom, democracy and development" 
On Tuesday afternoon, 17 November, on Wednesday, 18 NovembJ 
Thursday, 19 November, the Assembly will consider agenda it 
apartheid of the Government of South Africa", together with 
"United Nations Educational and Training Programme for Souta 
A/47/PV.38 
6 
(The  President) 
On  Wednesday,  25  November,  in  the  morning,  the  Assembly  will  take  up 
agenda  item  26,  "Zone  of  peace  and  cooperation  of  the  South  Atlantic",  as  well 
as the  reports  of  the  Sixth  Committee. 
The  following  week,  starting  on  Monday,  30  November,  in  the  afternoon, 
the Assembly  will  take  up  agenda  item  30,  "Question  of  Palestine". 
On  Tuesday,  1  December,  in  the  afternoon,  the  Assembly  will  also  take  up 
a report  of  the  Second  Committee  on  agenda  item  12,  "Report  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council". 
On  Wednesday,  2  December,  in  the  afternoon,  the  Assembly  will  take  up 
agenda  item  4 8,  " C o m m e m g z a ^ pn  of  the  f ^ ^ ^ th  anniversary  of  the  United 
ber,  in  the  morning,  the 
bin  the  Middle  East", 
^appear  in  the  verbatim 
shall  keep  the 
rs  for  all 
Cilm# 
Nations  in  19 
On  Th 
As si 
of tries' 
I  shd 
closely  as 
an orderly  fashion? 
draft  resolutions  to 
adequate  time  to  examine 
REPORT OF  THE  SECRETARY-GENER 
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  (A/47/1, 
The  PRESIDENTS 
I  Should' 
afternoon  we  shall  hear  a  number  of  speak" 
A/47/PV.38 
7 
(The  President) 
remaining  speakers will be heard  at  a subsequent meeting  to be held on Monday, 
26 October  in the  afternoon. 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on the Work of  the Organization, and 
in particular  his  report  "An Agenda  for Peace", address  a multitude  of  issues 
and  relate  to many  items on the  agenda of  the General Assembly.  The debate on 
agenda  item  10, which began  last  Friday  and  continues  today,  is  indicative of 
the  importance  Member  States  attach  to issues  raised  therein.  It  is evident 
that  the discussions  to be held  under other  agenda  items will  contribute to 
this debate  and  to  the  further  examination  of  the  Secretary-General's 
proposals  in general  and  specific  terms. 
Given  the  interdisciplinary  nature of  the debate, the proposals  that 
Member  States will  submit  as the outcome of  these  discussions  and 
consultations  must be considered  in coordination with the Main  Committees 
which,  in connection with  the agenda  items  allocated  to them, will  also be 
taking up various  aspects  of  the  issues  raised  in  "An Agenda  for Peace". 
I  shall conduct  informal  consultations  and put  in place  a working 
mechanism. 
Furthermore,  I should  like  to suggest  that  all  items directly  related to 
"An Agenda  for Peace" remain open pending  the conclusion of discussions  among 
Member  States on  the  issues  raised. 
Mr. CHOWDHURY  (Bangladesh):  Allow me  to begin by expressing our 
sincere  felicitations  to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali,  for his 
thought-provoking  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" and  also  for  the  report on the 
work  of  the Organization.  They  represent  a timely  and  essential  contribution 
to  the  reform  and  reorganization  of  the United Nations,  in view of  the recent 
transformations  in  international  relations,  and contain  innovative  ideas and 
concrete  proposals  to make  the United Nations  an effective  and  efficient 
A/47/PV.38 
8-10 
(Mr. Chowdhury.  Bangladesh) 
Organization  responsive  to the needs  and challenges  of  contemporary  times  and 
realities.  Hence  they deserve  our  sincere  and careful  consideration. 
We  are meeting  at  a turning-point  of world history.  The  divisive  era of 
the cold war  is gone, but  a unifying  and  constructive  structure  is yet  to 
emerge  in  its place.  Inter-State  and  intra-State  conflicts  abound  with 
potential  to threaten  international  peace  and  security.  Poverty, hunger  and 
underdevelopment  in many parts  of  the globe provide  ever  new breeding  grounds 
for more  conflicts  and  threaten  inter-State  harmony  and  security.  Unabated 
environmental  degradation  all over  the world  is pushing  us to the brink  of 
disaster.  Fairness,  justice  and equity  in inter-State  relations have  been 
replaced by brute power  politics based  on short-sighted  gains.  Against  this 
backdrop, we need  to think  and work harder  together  and  to  redouble  our 
efforts to bring  about necessary  and  realistic  changes  in our  Organization, 
which stands  as our only hope  in the face of  so many built-in  adversaries  and 
difficult  challenges. 
Legitimate  security  concerns  of  small States  remain  largely  ignored  and, 
what is worse,  ameliorating  operative  actions are hardly  taken  in time.  Small 
States, which constitute  the majority  of the  international  community,  are  the 
most vulnerable  in terms of  security.  The provisions  of  the Charter,  if 
followed and  implemented,  are the best guarantee  of their  sovereignty  and 
security.  The world of  today, which  is free  from  ideological  rivalry,  offers 
a unique opportunity  to the United Nations  to act decisively  and  resolutely  to 
preserve  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  the  small  and weaker 
States. 
I should  now  like briefly  to present my delegation's  comments  on the  key 
proposals of  the  Secretary-General  to  strengthen  the United Nations  in the 
field of maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
A/47/PV.38 
11 
(Mr. Chowdhury.  Bangladesh) 
We  agree with  the prescription  articulated  in the  report  to  employ 
diplomacy  and  all pacific means  to ease  tensions before  they develop  into 
conflicts, on  the basis  of  the age-old golden  rule that prevention  is better 
than cure.  Confidence-building  measures  and  strict  adherence  to the norms of 
good-neighbourliness  are  the very preconditions  to avoid  conflicts  and promote 
peace  and harmony between States.  The Non-Aligned Movement  therefore  attaches 
great  importance  to the principles  of  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity of  States and.non-interference  in each other's  internal 
affairs. 
Resort  to fact-finding missions  and  the growing  emphasis  on  strengthening 
the early warning  systems of  the United Nations  are  - and  indeed  should be 
helpful  tools  to help preventive  diplomacy work.  We do not  therefore have any 
hesitation  in going  for the proposal  of preventive  deployment,  since an 
impartial  and prudent  use of  such a measure may prove  to be  "a stitch  in time" 
that  can save  "nine  stitches" later.  Such  steps, although  they  involve high 
risk, have  the potential  of preventing both  internal  and  inter-State 
conflicts.  Bangladesh hopes  that  the Security Council will provide  due 
leadership  in such  situations. 
It is axiomatic  that  all Member  States would  abide  strictly by the letter 
and  spirit  of  the prescription  for  the pacific  settlement  of disputes  set 
forth  in Chapter VI  of  the Charter  before  taking any peacemaking  measure 
referred  to in Chapter VII  of  the Charter.  There  can be no two opinions about 
the  fact  that  the Charter  provides  a central  role for  the  Security Council in 
the  realm  of making,  keeping  and enforcing peace  in the world.  But the 
current world political  setting  also provides  opportunities  to  the 
A/47/PV.38 
12 
(Mr. Chowdhury.  Bangladesh) 
Secretary-General  to play  an  important  role  in assisting  the Security  Council 
and the General Assembly  in performing  their peacemaking  role. 
The  role of  the General  Assembly  also needs  to be  strengthened  in the 
domain of  the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The  General 
Assembly,  as  the  conscience  of  the world,  can and  should be made  more 
effective  in creating  a world  public  opinion and  legitimizing United  Nations 
actions  against  aggression  and  containing  any situation  that might  threaten 
peace and  stability  in any  region of  the world. 
The  important  and decisive  role of  the  International  Court  of Justice  in 
the United Nations  system  should be utilized  for  the  resolution  of  conflicts 
wherever possible  in the  changed global  context.  Greater  resort  to the  Court, 
which has  so  far been underutilized,  would  surely enhance  contributions  to 
peacemaking  and promote  the  rule of  law in international  relations. 
Although  an innovation  on the Charter,  the United  Nations  peace-keeping 
operations have been  resorted  to on very many occasions  and have been 
successful  in implementing  many peace  settlements.  The  increase  in the  number 
of regional  and ethnic  conflicts  in recent years has without  doubt  imposed 
tremendous demands  on the United Nations peace-keeping  operations.  This  has 
posed problems with  regard  to  logistics, equipment  and personnel  and, most 
importantly,  with  regard  to  finance. 
Bangladesh  is participating  in a number  of United  Nations  peace-keeping 
operations,  such  as  the United  Nations Transitional  Authority  in  Cambodia 
(UNTAC),  the United  Nations  Protection  Force  (UNPROFOR),  the United  Nations 
Iraq-Kuwait  Observation Mission  (UNIKOM),  the United Nations Mission  for  the 
Referendum  in Western  Sahara  (MINURSO) and  the United Nations  Operations  in 
A/47/PV.38 
13 
(Mr. Chowdhury. Bangladesh) 
Somalia (UNOSOM).  And these troops are going through the joys and 
tribulations of maintaining peace.  We stand ready to provide military and 
civilian personnel for deployment in United Nations peace-keeping operations 
in any part of the globe. 
We are, however, deeply concerned at the limited availability of 
resources for peace-keeping operations as this is bound to create problems for 
present and future United Nations operations.  Bangladesh, in this context, 
agrees with the Secretary-General's proposal to establish a peace-keeping 
reserve fund of $50 million to meet the start-up costs of peace-keeping 
operations.  Bangladesh also supports the proposal for the establishment of a 
United Nations peace endowment fund in order to make available a support base 
for future United Nations operations. 
The concept of peace-building is very important and constructive since it 
would make peace durable and reduce the chances of conflicts reoccurring.  We 
fully agree with the Secretary-General's view that measures to consolidate 
peace and instil a sense of confidence in people are essential for peacemaking 
and peace-keeping operations to be truly successful. 
Adequate international support and a conducive environment are essential 
for healing the wounds and restoring the damage caused by conflicts. 
Financial and technical assistance are very important to the rebuilding of the 
battered economies so that people's confidence can be restored.  The promotion 
of regional cooperation is of great significance to the attempts at 
post-conflict peace-building. 
The Secretary-General's proposal to streamline the Secretariat in order 
to make it more efficient and to avoid duplication of work deserves our 
A/47/PV.38 
14 
(Mr. Chowdhury.  Bangladesh) 
attention.  We  think  he  is on the  right track when he considers measures  to 
reform and  revitalize  the Organization by  1995 to ensure  the  fullest 
utilization of  its potential.  Making  the Organization more  democratic, 
transparent  and  responsive  to new realities  is as essential  as ensuring  proper 
coordination between  the various  organs  and agencies of the United Nations. 
There  is a growing  realization  that  international  peace  and security  have 
very important  socio-economic  dimensions.  The  inextricable  link  between 
socio-economic  development  and peace needs to be  recognized.  Widespread 
poverty, hunger, malnutrition, disease, illiteracy,  social backwardness, 
deprivation  and economic  stagnation  constitute potential  sources of conflict. 
It is imperative  that no agenda  for global peace  and  security be  formulated  or 
implemented without giving  due  attention to eradicating poverty  and 
reactivating  the economic growth of developing  countries.  Can any  durable 
peace be achieved when more  than one  fifth of the world's population  lives  in 
absolute poverty? 
The post-cold-war  era has provided  the United Nations with a unique  and 
central role  in international  relations.  The  future of our planet  and  our 
well-being depend  on how best we  can utilize  the potentials  of  the 
Organization and how efficiently  and speedily we  can translate  into  reality 
its objectives  as enshrined  in the Charter. 
The proposals  of  the Secretary-General  are certainly aimed  at making our 
Organization more  efficient  in facing the new challenges  and adapting  to  the 
new realities.  We  strongly  feel  that an open-ended working group  should  be 
established to consider  the  Secretary-General's  valuable proposals.  This 
group could  study  the proposals  in detail  and Member  States would  also be  able 
to contribute  to the efforts  to strengthen  the United Nations. 
A/47/PV.38 
15 
(Mr. Chowdhury, Bangladesh) 
In conclusion, my delegation would like to underscore the importance of 
enhanced cooperation of the States Members of our Organization to make it more 
dynamic and equip it with the necessary tools effectively to maintain peace 
and stability in the world.  I sincerely believe that our concerted efforts in 
this direction will enable us to achieve a better United Nations and build a 
better future for future generations.* 
*  Mr. Elhouderi (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.38 
16 
Mr. AL-HADAn  (Yemen)  (interpretation  from  Arabic):  Allow me, at  the 
outset,  to extend  to the people  and Government  of  the Arab Republic  of  Egypt 
our sincere  condolences  over  the natural  disaster  that befell  that  country, 
and the  resultant  death of hundreds  of people  and much material  damage. 
My  delegation  is grateful  to the Secretary-General  of  the United Nations, 
Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  for preparing  the valuable  report  before us at  the 
request  of  the  Security  Council  at  its summit  on  31 January  1992.  By 
reviewing  a wide  range  of  issues, and by putting  forward  proposals  aimed  at 
enhancing  and  reinforcing  the efficiency  of the United Nations  under  the 
Charter  to enable  it to undertake  the tasks of preventive  diplomacy, 
peace-keeping  and peacemaking,  the Secretary-General  has been  able  to  generate 
among the Members  of  the General  Assembly  a fruitful  discussion  on how  this 
might be  achieved. 
The post-cold-war  era  is characterized  by the  spread of  democracy, 
pluralism  and  support  for human  rights.  All  these principles  have  been 
adopted by  a number  of  countries  at a time of widespread  belief  in their 
validity and  in the need  to ensure  adherence  thereto  in the  interests  of 
international  peace  and  security.  However, we  still believe  the point  of 
departure  in dealing with  such concepts  should be  the  realization  that  they 
are social variables  that  are very difficult  to entrench outside  the  context 
of interaction with national  characteristics,  namely,  the  demographic 
composition,  religious  beliefs  and  cultural  values of  every people. 
Coercion  and  the projection  of  specific  ready-made models  of  democracy 
will create  nothing  but  tensions  and will  lead  to nothing  but  social 
imbalance.  Proceeding  from  this, wisdom  demands  that  the  international 
A/47/PV.38 
17 
(Mr. Al-Hadad.  Yemen) 
community,  while  trying  to enhance  the principles  of  democracy,  should 
encourage  the adoption of democracy  in every country without  imposing  any 
ready-made  models. 
In any  case, we need  to generate  consensus  regarding  the model  that we 
assume would be  applied  in an absolute manner.  However,  this  conclusion does 
not preclude  other  endeavours by  the human mind  to  search  for  alternative 
models  that may be  applicable  to all.  None  the  less, unanimity  can be 
achieved  through  the effective  means of promoting  the concepts  of  democracy 
and human  rights  as being  indispensable  to  shouldering  international 
responsibility  with  regard  to  the  socio-economic-development  process  and as 
being  the pillars  for enhancement  of  the democratic  process. 
In this  context, we must  expand  the concept  of  international  security to 
include  action  to deal with matters  related  to the elimination  of  racism  and 
the dismantling  of  apartheid  as well  as with the dangers  of pollution  of the 
environment.  Most  importantly,  we must  deal with  the  causes of disputes  and 
wars  that  are  still  rampant  in the world.  All of  these matters  should be 
dealt with on the basis of  collective  responsibility  and  through  the promotion 
of equitable  socio-economic  development. 
The  role of  the United  Nations  is growing  in this period  of  transition in 
international  affairs.  While  that  role has been enhanced,  the  importance of 
the Organization's  being  a model  of  democratic  practice would  be  clearly 
demonstrated  by  an approach  of  consultation  and by  the participation  of 
Members  in decision-making,  which would  produce  the balance  that  is necessary 
to  revitalize  the  role of  the General  Assembly  and  the nature  of  its  links 
with  the  Security  Council. 
A/47/PV.38 
18 
(Mr. Al-Hadad.  Yemen) 
With  regard  to  issues  relating  to the maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security,  the  Organization must  demonstrate  its credibility.  The  litmus 
test is the  avoidance  of  duplicity  and double  standards, and  full  compliance 
with the provisions  of  the Charter  when  it comes  to matters  that may be 
regarded  as breaches  or violations  of  international  peace  and  security. 
We do not  know what  course  the transformations  of  the present  era will 
take, and we  do not  deny  the  increasing  interdependence  or  the  common 
interests  of  us all.  However, by entrenching  the  conviction  that  democracy 
must be enhanced  and  that human  rights must be upheld, we  should be  adopting 
as our guide  the principle  of national  sovereignty  and non-interference  in the 
internal affairs  of  other  countries.  This  should be protected  by the  Charter 
of the United  Nations  and by  the  rules of  international  law. 
In this  connection,  the  role  that ought  to be played by  the  United 
Nations  in respect  of  collective  security  and preventive  diplomacy with  a view 
to prevent  disputes  or  to de-escalate  them  and prevent  them  from  deteriorating 
into conflicts,  as well  as  in respect  of all questions  of peace-keeping  and 
peacemaking,  should  not be  allowed  to become  a vehicle  for violation  of  the 
Charter or  for  the  adoption of  resolutions  in a selective  manner. 
In conclusion,  I should  like to  say that my  delegation  agrees with  the 
this comment  by  the  Secretary-General  in the  report  that  is under  discussion: 
"The principles  of  the Charter must be applied  consistently,  not 
selectively,  for  if  the perception  should  be the  latter,  trust will wane 
and with  it  the moral  authority which  is the greatest  and most  unique 
quality  of  that  instrument."  (A/47/277, para.  82) 
A/47/PV.38 
19-20 
Mr• ELARABY (Egypt):  I wish to begin by conveying the appreciation 
and gratitude of my delegation to the President and to all those who have 
expressed kind sentiments of sorrow following the tragedy that struck Cairo 
and other parts of Egypt last Monday. 
Almost 50 years ago the international community collectively decided to 
establish the United Nations as an instrument to maintain peace and to ensure 
a more just, peaceful and humane international order.  Many consider that the 
record of our Organization falls short of the original expectations. 
I do not intend to dwell on the reasons behind the inability of the 
United Nations to fulfil the vision of its founding fathers; what is relevant 
to our deliberations now, and what I wish to emphasize, is that we must seize 
every available opportunity to redirect and rededicate our course towards 
achieving the fundamental objectives of the United Nations.  The international 
climate now is propitious, the political will now seems to exist, and we have 
before us the Secretary-General's report "An Agenda for Peace"  a 
thought-provoking document that focuses attention on the issues that could 
determine the future role of the United Nations. 
A/47/PV.38 
21 
(Mr. Elaraby.  Egypt) 
The United  Nations  by way of  trial  and error was  forced  to undergo  many 
changes  in a pragmatic,  piecemeal  and  sometimes  improvised  manner.  The 
pressure  of  circumstances  dictated  that  the United  Nations  membership  abandon 
some of  the original  Charter  concepts  and  seek ways  and means  to adjust  to the 
future  reguirements  of  the  international  community.  As  long ago  as 1959  the 
late Secretary-General,  Dag Hammarskjold,  recognized  the inevitability  of 
change to cope with  the dilemma  confronting  the United  Nations.  In his  1959 
introduction  to  the  annual  report he wrote  the  following: 
"The  statement  of  objectives  in the Charter  is binding  and  so are  the 
rules  concerning  the various  organs  and  their  competence, but  it  is not 
necessary  to  regard  the working methods  indicated  in the Charter  as 
limitative  in purpose.  Thus, they may be  supplemented  by others  under 
the pressure  of  circumstances  and  in the  light of experience  if  these 
additional  procedures  are not  in conflict with what  is  prescribed." 
(A/4132/Add.l. p.  2) 
I believe what he wrote more  than 30 years  ago  is as valid  today.  The  working 
methods contained  in  the Charter  have  indeed  taken  a turn away  from  the 
original plan. 
The  Secretary-General's  report,  "An Agenda  for Peace",  is a valuable  and 
timely document.  It offers  a genuine  opportunity  for Member  States  to  revisit 
the Charter  and  reflect  on the  adequacy  of  the existing working methods  as 
Dag Hammarskjold  asked  us  to do more  than 30 years  ago.  We  should  launch  an 
in-depth,  comprehensive  study of  "An Agenda  for Peace".  The  scope  of  the 
study should  not  be  confined  only  to the proposals  therein.  We  should  reach 
out and  analyse  all  the dimensions  and  implications  that will  result  from  the 
implementation  of  the various  proposals.  The Charter  is essentially  based  on 
a comprehensive,  multidimensional  concept  of  security.  However,  owing  to 
A/47/PV.38 
22 
(Mr. Elarabv. Egypt) 
cold-war conditions the politico-military aspect of security took precedence 
over all other aspects.  The Secretary-General in his report has succeeded in 
recapturing the original comprehensive concept of security, with its economic, 
political, environmental, humanitarian and military dimensions. 
Egypt supports an increased role for the United Nations in the fields of 
preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building. 
Activities of the United Nations in these areas should be based on the 
Purposes and Principles of the Charter and respect for the sovereignty, the 
territorial integrity and independence of States.  The maintenance of 
international peace and security cannot be achieved if the United Nations role 
is confined to tackling a crisis after its eruption.  Anticipation of 
potential threats and timely action by the United Nations is imperative and 
should be accorded the utmost priority.  Furthermore, the United Nations 
should endeavour to settle international disputes peacefully according to 
Chapter VI taking into consideration Article 36(3) of the Charter, which 
stipulates that legal disputes should, as a general rule, be referred by the 
parties to the International Court of Justice.  The provisions of Chapter VII 
could and should be applied in specific situations when international peace 
and security is threatened and the circumstances warrant recourse to these 
provisions.  In this context it is relevant and timely to point out that 
serious consideration should be devoted to the right of States, confronted 
with special economic problems, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 50, to consult and seek remedial measures from the Security Council. 
Furthermore, the Secretary-General should be encouraged to exercise the 
responsibilities conferred upon him in Article 99 of the Charter.  In 
addition, it is of the utmost importance in our contemporary world that the 
A/47/PV.38 
23 
(Mr. Elaraby.  Egypt) 
Secretary-General,  on his own authority  and as a corollary  to Article  99, 
utilize  fact-finding  missions, dispatch observers,  and use his good  offices  as 
a means  of  strengthening  his  ability  to contribute  positively  in the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  In short,  the  report 
contains many  commendable  proposals.  While we  support  the  thrust  of  these 
proposals,  it  should  be  emphasized  that  they must be  considered  against  the 
backdrop  of  the  changes  that  are taking place  in the  international  system, 
particularly what  seems  to be an increasingly  undefined  line  that 
distinguishes  what  is an internal  or domestic  affair of  a State  and what  is 
not.  I have  in mind  the  tragic  and chaotic  situation  in Somalia  today. 
The  substance  of  the  report  "An Agenda  for Peace", as  it deals  with 
measures designed  to promote  international  cooperation  towards  the  fulfilment 
of the objectives  of  the United  Nations, clearly  falls within  the purview of 
the General  Assembly.  It  is for  this  reason, as well  as  the necessity  of 
upholding  the principles  of  transparency  and democratization  of  international 
relations, that  the General Assembly  should  deliberate  on the report.  It  is 
our considered  opinion  that  it should be addressed  by all Member  States  in an 
integrated,  comprehensive  manner  that will  allow States  to pull  in all 
elements  of  the  security  equation.  Towards  this  end we propose  the 
establishment  of  an open-ended  working group  to consider  the  report,  as well 
as any other  proposals  aimed  at enhancing  the  role of  the United  Nations  in 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security.  As we  are  approaching  the 
fiftieth anniversary  of  the United Nations  the time  factor  cannot be more 
important.  It  is therefore  necessary  that  the working  group  should work  with 
this in mind.  As  a  first  stage  it would be helpful  if the working  group  could 
present  the  results  of  its deliberations  to a resumed  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  to be  convened  early next  spring. 
A/47/PV.38 
24-25 
(Mr. Elaraby.  Egypt) 
An  integrated  approach  to  "An Agenda  for Peace"  is essential  but not 
sufficient;  it needs  to be  complemented  by  a fresh overall  look  at the 
existing  structures  and organizations  of  the United  Nations.  The mode of 
operation  and membership  of  the principal  organs  of  the United Nations must be 
reconsidered  and updated  if we  are  to undertake  a serious  and  determined 
effort  to  realize  comprehensive  peace  and  security. 
The  deliberations  of  the working  group  should  take  into  consideration the 
long-term  objective  of  improving  and  strengthening  the work  of  the United 
Nations.  It  should  deal with  specific proposals  in the  report.  Perhaps new 
proposals will  also  surface  during  these  discussions,  and  it should  either 
take  a decision  regarding  them  or direct  them  to  the  appropriate  forum. 
Ultimately,  these  discussions may  lead  to  the  reconsideration  of  the mandates 
of various  existing  committees  and  subsidiary bodies  of  the General  Assembly. 
Before  concluding  I should  like to support  the proposal made by the 
United  Kingdom  to create  a memorial  for all  those valiant  individuals who lost 
their  lives  and made  the ultimate  sacrifice  to uphold  the Purposes  and 
Principles  enshrined  in the  Charter. 
In conclusion,  allow me  to point  out  that  the United Nations was 
established  in 1945, equipped with  a Charter  embodying  universal  and enduring 
Purposes  and  Principles.  These  Purposes  and  Principles  are  as  relevant  today 
as  they were  in  1945.  What  is needed  is to ensure  that  the  course  the United 
Nations  follows  in the  future will  lead  to the  realization  of  its  fundamental 
objectives.  That  is the  challenge  we  face  today.  We  cannot  allow  this 
historic  opportunity  to be missed.  We must  harness  our  collective will and 
political  determination  to make  our  Organization  an effective  instrument 
towards  establishing  a more  just, peaceful  and humane  world. 
A/47/PV.38 
26 
Mr.  CASTANEDA  (El Salvador)  (interpretation  from  Spanish):  I have 
the honour  to  speak  on behalf  of  the Central  American  countries  - Guatemala, 
Honduras, Nicaragua,  Costa  Rica,  Panama  and El  Salvador. 
First  of  all, may  I express  our  sincerest  condolences  to the  Government 
and people  of  Egypt,  through  its delegation,  on the  tragedy  that  that  country 
had just  suffered.  Central  America has  often  suffered  the  scourge  of  natural 
disasters, and we  therefore  understand  the tragedy  that has occurred  in Egypt 
in all  its  dimensions. 
Our participation  in the debate  on agenda  item  10, concerning  the  report 
of the Secretary-General  on  the work  of the Organization  and  on the  document 
entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace",  is prompted  by  the experience  of our  subregion 
in the application  of  the concepts  of preventive  diplomacy  and  peacemaking, 
peace-keeping  and  peace-building,  which has been  regarded  as a sui  generis 
case in the Organization's  peace-keeping  procedures  and mechanisms.  Central 
America  considers  it to be  timely  and  important  to express  some views on vital 
principles  that must  be upheld  in an  initiative  which, although of  general 
interest  and  deserving  the  support  of the whole  international  community,  must 
be studied  carefully  in order  to adopt  the most  appropriate  procedures  and 
mechanisms, thus  avoiding  any  action  that might not  serve  the  shared  interests 
of the international  community. 
For  several  decades,  as  the  Secretary-General  indicates,  there were 
obstacles  to multilateral  action by  the Organization  aimed  at achieving  its 
purposes 
international  peace  and  security  and  the promotion  of  development. 
These obstacles  resulted  from  the prevailing  conditions  in  international 
relations, characterized  basically  by  confrontation  between  two  different 
ideological, economic  and political  systems, each eager  to make  its  own 
authority  and  its  security  concepts prevail.  These  factors were  compounded  by 
A/47/PV.38 
27 
(Mr. Castaneda. EI Salvador) 
negative structural economic and social conditions in a large majority of 
developing countries, generating instability and conflict and endangering 
international peace and security, a situation that was reflected in the United 
Nations. 
With the cold war at an end, the present decade has begun with an 
encouraging outlook, because of the spirit of cooperation and the 
strengthening of multilateralism.  We welcome the range of ideas and proposals 
contained in the reports of the Secretary-General aimed at improving the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations so that it can respond 
appropriately to old and new challenges that threaten to increase instability 
in the international community, not only for political or security reasons or 
because of the arms race, but also because of new rivalries and the further 
deterioration of the living conditions of many peoples in the developing world. 
We hope that this initiative, aimed at the renewal and revitalization of 
the world Organization so that it can contribute with greater strength to the 
building of peace and of a safer world, will come to fruition with the 
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, because there is an evident 
confidence and commitment on the part of States, particularly the members of 
the Security Council, which declared at their Summit Meeting on 31 January 
this year their commitment to cooperate closely with the Secretary-General in 
the attainment of his objectives, including that of improving the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the United Nations system.  That means 
responding adequately with regard to the financial requirements created by the 
increase in United Nations activities and respect for the principles of 
international law and of the Charter in resolving international disputes. 
A/47/PV.38 
28 
(Mr. Castaneda. El Salvador) 
There can be no doubt that the responsibilities of our Organization have 
increased as they have evolved over time, and we are aware of the scope and 
variety of the complex tasks that it has to carry out today.  That is why its 
institutional restructuring, within a concept of globalization, must be 
accomplished with a sense of responsibility and a shared commitment to 
international cooperation and solidarity, with the full participation of all 
States, based on the principle of sovereign equality recognized in the Charter. 
In this context, we believe that some matters need to be reaffirmed.  The 
first is that institutional restructuring presupposes democratization, which 
means achieving a balance and harmony of responsibilities in the quest for 
peace, both between the General Assembly and the Security Council and between 
them and the Secretariat.  This also applies to other organs of the system, 
including the Economic and Social Council, because of the contributions that 
they can make to the attainment of the objectives. 
Secondly, it should be taken into account that, although there is a 
tendency to form large blocs  a source of concern, because of the possible 
harm to the interests of the developing countries  the State still plays a 
central role in the changes taking place in the world order.  This means that 
respect for sovereignty and for the right of peoples to govern themselves 
freely and democratically, and the principles of territorial integrity and 
non-intervention in internal affairs, remain fully valid as preconditions for 
greater harmony in inter-State relations. 
Thirdly, intergovernmental regional organizations should be more involved 
in the process of seeking peace and development, with coordination based on 
United Nations guidelines.  Non-governmental organizations that already have 
an infrastructure allowing them to shoulder greater responsibilities should 
also be involved. 
A/47/PV.38 
29-30 
(Mr. Castaneda. El  Salvador) 
Fourthly, we  agree with  the Secretary-General  that  the United  Nations 
must  be an  institution  that  inspires  confidence.  As we  see  it,  this means 
that  its  activities  and decisions must  display  transparency,  integrity and 
independence,  so that  its principles  can be applied  uniformly  and 
impartially.  Only  to  the extent  that Member  States  feel  that  the United 
Nations  responds  to  shared  concerns  and  interests will  a consensus be  reached 
to support  explicitly  and unconditionally  the proposed ways  and means of 
achieving  peace.  Failing  this, distrust  will  rule, and  the capacity of the 
United  Nations will  be  weakened. 
Fifthly,  any  activities  undertaken  by  the United Nations  to  restore 
peace 
in particular,  those  involving  economic  sanctions  or  the use of 
military  force  - must be  in strict  compliance  with  the provisions  and 
mechanisms  contained  in the Charter.  The  scope  and objectives  of any 
peace-keeping  operation must be  clearly  and  specifically  established  in order 
to avoid  in every way possible  the Organization's  losing  control  over  its 
activities. 
A/47/PV.38 
31 
(Mr. Castaneda. El  Salvador) 
We might  point  out  that  the globalization  of  situations  and 
interdependence  render  obsolete  and outdated  the era of  unilateral 
problem-solving,  an effort  that was often based  on the use of  force.  On  the 
contrary,  it  is now possible  to develop more  constructive  action based  on 
dialogue, consultation  and harmonization,  since  there  is a consensus  among 
Member  States  that  our Organization  should be  the harmonizing  centre, as  it is 
the only organization with  a universal  dimension  that  can make  it a  collective 
instrument  capable  of  confronting global  problems  in all  their  dimensions. 
In this  respect we  share  the Secretary-General's  view on the  Security 
Council  as expressed  in his  "Agenda  for Peace": 
"A genuine  sense  of  consensus  deriving  from  shared  interests must  govern 
its work,  not  the  threat of  the veto  or  the power  of  any group  of 
nations."  (A/47/277, para.  78) 
The  conflict  in Central America,  in particular  in Nicaragua  and 
El Salvador, was  not  invented  by  anyone;  rather,  it emerged  as a manifestation 
of grave  shortcomings  and errors within our  societies.  However,  once 
unleashed  it  assumed  the characteristics  of an international  conflict,  and 
this caused  it to be prolonged,  with  all  the  results.  This  also  created 
special cases  in which our Organization,  upon the  request  of  the  States 
concerned,  and without  violating  the provisions  and procedures  of  the  Charter, 
adopted  innovative measures  and mechanisms  to respond  appropriately  to each 
specific  situation  on the basis  of, and  following  up on,  the Esquipulas  II 
Agreements  signed  by  the Presidents  of  the  region.  These  are  clear  examples 
that enrich  the  experience  and  the  record  of the United  Nations  in the  sphere 
of peacemaking  and peace-keeping.  But  reality  shows  that  the  structure  of  the 
crisis, shared by  the great majority  of  the developing  countries,  still 
A/47/PV.38 
32 
(Mr. Castaneda. El  Salvador) 
exists.  This  allows  room  for the  application  of preventive  diplomacy  and 
peace-building  measures. 
In this  context,  and  recalling  that  it  is acknowledged  that peace  and 
development  are  closely  related  and  interdependent,  it  is vital  that  the 
solution  to the grave  economic  and  social problems  suffered  by millions  of 
human beings  be given  appropriate  priority  so that  sustainable,  fair  and 
equitable  development  can be  integrated  into  the  agenda  for peace  as a basic 
objective  of preventive  diplomacy,  or of peace-building,  as appropriate,  in 
order  to  avoid  and eliminate  the  roots  of violence  and  the  conflicts  caused by 
extreme  poverty, hunger,  illiteracy  and  so on. 
Consequently,  and given  the  failure  of  tested models  of development,  in 
particular  in the poor  countries,  to overcome  stagnation  and  economic 
backwardness,  as well  as on  the basis  of the mandated  responsibility  of the 
United  Nations, we  share  the opinion of  the  Secretary-General  that 
"In the new  climate  of  international  relations, we must  not miss the 
opportunity  to develop  the necessary  international  consensus  and policy 
instruments 
and  also  to adapt United Nations  structures,  and 
interactions  within  the United  Nations  system  - to promote  this 
integrated  approach"  (A/47/1, para.  68) 
to  development. 
Still  in the context  of preventive  diplomacy,  we  consider  that  the 
International  Court  of Justice  is a mechanism  that  should  increasingly  be used 
by Member  States  to  resolve  disputes  by peaceful  means.  This would  contribute 
to generating  greater  credibility  and  confidence  in the  system  and  logically 
would  strengthen  the objectives  of  the Secretary-General's  "Agenda  for Peace", 
particularly  if  there  exists  the political will  to comply  with  the  rulings of 
the  International  Court.  It  is appropriate  to mention  that  El  Salvador  and 
A/47/PV.38 
33 
(Mr. Castaneda. El  Salvador) 
Honduras placed  their  trust  in the Court  to  resolve  an old border  dispute,  and 
we are now  at  the  stage  of  implementing  the  ruling. 
In conclusion,  we  are pleased  to  see that  there  is a widely  held  view 
that we  are now  in a special  period  that  offers  an opportunity  for  the  renewal 
of multilateralism.  We  agree  that  the  reports of  the  Secretary-General,  in 
particular  the  "Agenda  for Peace",  as we have  already  said,  deserve  further 
thought and more  profound  consideration  in order  to attain  a consensus  on  the 
most appropriate  ways  and means  of  achieving  the objectives  of  international 
peace and  security.  We  reaffirm  the  appropriateness  of  the  suggestion  that 
the General Assembly  establish  an open-ended  working  group  for this purpose, 
but this should  not be  at  any additional  cost  to the  Organization. 
It is our hope  that  the expressions  of  faith  in and  support  of  the United 
Nations will  be  reflected  in concrete  acts  for  the benefit  of  the 
international  community,  in which  the  solution of global  problems  requires  the 
participation  and  full  cooperation  of  all Members. 
Mr. KHARRAZI  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the outset  I express  my 
sincere condolences  and  sympathy  to the people of Egypt  on the  recent 
disastrous  earthquake. 
The winds  of  change  are  sweeping  the world  and gaining  increasing 
momentum  as nations  and  States  try to adjust  themselves,  seize  the  new 
opportunities  and  face  the new  challenges  that  are  simultaneously  being 
presented  in  the post-cold-war  era. 
The  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  on the work  of  the Organization  and 
on "An Agenda  for  Peace"  reflect  the  resolve of  our  new Secretary-General  to 
take stock of  the  opportunities  regained  in the new  international  era, not 
only to revitalize  the United  Nations  system  to correspond  to new demands, but 
A/47/PV.38 
34-35 
(Mr. Kharrazi. Islamir 
Republic  of  Iran) 
also  to be able  to  function  as an efficient,  versatile  and  strong world body 
that  truly  represents  all  nations  and  is capable  of  shaping  the  future  in the 
interests  of  justice, peace  and  the common  prosperity  of mankind.  My 
delegation wishes  to express  its  sincerest  appreciation  to His  Excellency 
Mr. Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  and his  able  staff  in the Secretariat  for  these 
reports. 
We have  noted  with  interest  that  the  Secretary-General  has  indicated in 
these  reports  that  the United  Nations  system  is being  revitalized  to focus on 
the  following  areas:  global  partnership  for development; management  of crisis 
and humanitarian  assistance;  and maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. 
"An Agenda  for Peace" contains  a series of new  ideas  and  innovative 
proposals  aimed  at building  a stronger  and more effective United  Nations in 
various  areas  of  international  peace  and  security.  The  Islamic  Republic of 
Iran  agrees with  the Secretary-General  that political  progress  and  economic 
development  are  inseparable,  equally  fundamental  and mutually  reinforcing, 
which must  be pursued  simultaneously.  Thus, in our  view  the United  Nations 
should  adopt  such an  integrated  approach  if we  are to  seize  the  opportunity 
regained  for  the materializing  of the ultimate  objectives  of  the United 
Nations 
that  is, to employ  international  machinery  for  the promotion of the 
economic  and  social  advancement  of  all peoples  and  to promote  social  progress 
and better  standards  of  life  in larger  freedom. 
A/47/PV.38 
36 
(Mr. Kharrazi.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
As the  representative  of  a developing  country,  one  that  is also  a member 
of the Non-Aligned  Movement,  I wish  to say that my  Government  sees  a  shining 
ray of hope  that  the United Nations will make  a rational  choice  at  this 
juncture and  adopt  a course of  action  for  the  future  that  is marked  by a 
balanced  and  integrated  approach  to  international  security,  on the one  hand, 
and to economic  development  and  social progress  on  the other.  In this 
context, we have  studied  the Secretary-General's  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" 
(A/47/277),  and we  anxiously  await his  report  "An Agenda  for Development".  We 
feel strongly  that  the  international  climate  in which to  address  the 
North-South problem  has never been  as conducive  as it is now.  Therefore,  in 
our view the decision  of  the Rio  Summit  to establish  the Commission  on 
Sustainable Development  constitutes  a substantial  and encouraging  step  in the 
right direction. 
Having  said  this, I should  like to make  some general  observations 
concerning  "An Agenda  for  Peace" and  leave  the detailed  and  in-depth 
deliberation of  the  ideas  and proposals  to an open-ended working group  of the 
General Assembly,  which we hope  the President will  establish. 
"An Agenda  for Peace" elaborates on the  role of  the Security  Council  and 
the Secretary-General  in maintaining  international  peace  and  security  in terms 
of preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking,  peace-keeping,  and  post-conflict 
peace-building.  Each  chapter  includes proposals  that may  require  consensus, 
as well as some  that will need  to be  further  studied,  better  defined  and 
elaborated.  The  General  Assembly,  as a truly universal body whose  conduct  of 
work is most  transparent within  the United Nations, is thus uniquely  qualified 
to identify  and  distinguish between  the two  sets of proposals. 
A/47/PV.38 
37 
(Mr. Kharrazi. Islamir 
Republic  of  Iran) 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran believes  that  the  role of  the  General 
Assembly  in issues pertaining  to  international  peace  and  security  has not yet 
been  fully explored.  We  therefore  welcome  the suggestions  in the  report aimed 
at achieving  a better  balance  among  the principal  organs  of  the United 
Nations.  In our view,  the  role of  the General Assembly,  the  truly  universal 
body of  the Organization,  as the  forum  for deliberation  and decision-making on 
all  issues of  a global  character  including  the maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  should be  strengthened  and given prominence  in the 
follow-up  deliberations  on  "An Agenda  for Peace".  The  strengthening  of the 
Organization  should  take place within  the  functions  and  responsibilities 
assigned  to each of  the principal  organs  and,  in this  context,  the time is 
ripe  for  the General  Assembly  to assume  its major  role, in accordance  with the 
Charter,  in dealing with  issues  concerning  the maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security. 
In this  connection. Dr. Ali Akbar Velayati,  the  Foreign Minister  of the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  speaking  in the general  debate  this year,  emphasized 
that: 
"... the preservation  of  international  peace  and  security  is a 
responsibility  entrusted  to the Security  Council by  the  international 
community.  That being  the  case, the Council,  in accordance with the 
Charter,  is accountable  to that  community,  which  is  represented  by the 
General  Assembly."  (A/47/PV.5. p. 48) 
"An Agenda  for  Peace" elaborates  extensively  on the  role of  the  Security 
Council  with  respect  to  such  innovative  ideas  as the various  types of 
preventive  deployment,  the use of military  force  and peace-enforcement  units. 
We have  already  noted  the unprecedented  expansion  of  the Security  Council's 
A/47/PV.38 
38 
(Mr. Kharrazi.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
activities.  The  quantitative  comparison  of  the workload  of  the  Security 
Council  in the  first  seven months  of  1992 and  all of  1987, as  reflected  in the 
Secretary-General's  report  on the work  of  the Organization,  is both 
mind-boggling  and alarming.  It  is mind-boggling  because  it has  stretched  the 
capacity of  the United Nations  system  to the limit.  It is alarming because  it 
required  a great  deal of  trust  and confidence  on the part  of  the  international 
community  to be placed  in the Security  Council, particularly  on  the  permanent 
members.  And  there  is more.  The  new  international  climate  is perceived  to 
require an even greater  role  for the Security  Council  and  a further  expansion 
of the scope  of  its mandate. 
The prospect  of  such a greater  role and expanded  agenda  for the  Security 
Council would be  frightening  if an equally  energetic  process  for  its 
responsiveness  and  accountability  to the general membership,  and  also  the 
transparency  of  its work, did  not begin  in the Council 
particularly  on  the 
part of the permanent  members. 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran concurs with  the Secretary-General's  view 
that: 
"the principles  of  the Charter must be applied  consistently,  not 
selectively,  for  if the perception  should be of  the  latter, trust  will 
wane  and with  it the moral  authority which  is the greatest  and most 
unigue quality  of  that  instrument."  (A/47/277, para.  82) 
Regrettably,  that has not  always been  the case  in the Security  Council.  My 
Foreign Minister  enumerated  some examples  of  the  selective  approach of  the 
Security Council  in applying  the principles  of  the Charter.  Those  examples 
were by no means  exhaustive,  and  included  the decades-old  aggression  of  the 
Zionist regime  against  the Palestinians  and  the half-hearted  approach  to 
A/47/PV.38 
39 
(Mr. Kharrazi. Islamir 
Republic of Iran) 
Serbia's blatant aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
In our view, the Security Council should strive to gain the trust and 
confidence of the general membership.  To do so, the international community 
in general, and the general membership of the Organization in particular, 
should be reassured, in practice, of the following:  that the Security Council 
will not be the tool for imposing the will of the strong upon the weak; that 
the Security Council will avoid selective and discriminatory approaches to 
international crises, leading to a condition in which world affairs would be 
determined by a small group of powerful States; that the Security Council will 
respect the principle of transparency in its work and will become responsive 
to the views of the general membership of the Organization; and that the 
Security Council will not exceed its mandate. 
In the light of those considerations, I cannot over-emphasize the fact 
that the effectiveness of the United Nations in the prevention of the outbreak 
of conflicts and in their peaceful settlement, as well as in the maintenance 
of international peace and security, is undeniably a function of the 
credibility of its decisions and the degree of consistency with which it 
applies the principles of the Charter. 
In the new international era when, as the Secretary-General rightly 
maintains. States perceive the United Nations as an instrument capable of 
maintaining international peace and security, of advancing justice and human 
rights, of achieving social progress and better standards of life in larger 
freedom, and also in the light of the increased workload of the Security 
Council and the expected expansion of its mandate, it would be a dire mistake 
not to seize the opportunity regained to democratize the Security Council and 
adjust it to the realities of the 1990s  a time in which the general 
A/47/PV.38 
40 
(Mr. Kharrazi.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
membership  has  increased  to  179  States.  Specifically,  there  is an urgent  need 
to address  the  undemocratic  element  of veto power  that has  led  in the past, 
and will  lead  in the  future,  to  influence-peddling  by certain powerful  members 
in the Council.  The United Nations  of  tomorrow  cannot  afford  not  to  abolish 
the anachronistic  veto  power. 
A/47/PV.38 
41 
(Mr. Kharrazi. Islamir 
Republic  of  Iran) 
My delegation  endorses  the Secretary-General's  view on  cooperation 
between  the United Nations  and  regional  organizations.  We believe  such 
cooperation  should  be  strictly  in accordance with  Chapter VIII  of  the Charter, 
preserving,  in all  cases, the primacy  of  the United  Nations.  In cases where 
regional  organizations  are  involved,  in our view  the consent  of  all parties 
concerned  is of  the utmost  importance.  In this  connection,  attention must be 
drawn  to  the  large  discrepancy  that exists  in various  parts of  the world on 
the degree  of  coherence  and development  that  regional  arrangements  and 
organizations  enjoy.  Therefore,  the United  Nations  role  in  peace-building 
should,  in our  opinion,  include  concrete programmes  of  action  to promote 
regional  arrangements  and organizations  where  needed. 
My delegation  also  supports  the  Secretary-General's  proposal  to establish 
a revolving  peace-keeping  reserve  fund of  $50 million,  provided  it has clearly 
defined  purposes  and  is financed  through  contributions  from Member  States, 
whether  on  an assessed  or  a voluntary  basis.  While  the  Islamic  Republic of 
Iran believes  that  a secure  and well-financed  United  Nations  is a prerequisite 
for effective  operation,  it  is of  the view  that  other proposals,  such as the 
imposition  of  interest  on unpaid  contributions, private  funding,  commercial 
borrowing  and  the  levying of  a tax on arms  transfers,  require  further 
consideration. 
Furthermore,  in our  opinion,  it  is essential  to  institutionalize  the 
current  formula  for  calculating  the  scale  of  assessment  for  peace-keeping 
operations. 
In conclusion,  I cannot  but  remind  everyone  that  the end never  justifies 
the means.  Some of  the  ideas  and proposals  in  "An Agenda  for Peace" have the 
potential  of being  construed  in a manner  that,  in the  final  analysis, will be 
A/47/PV.38 
42 
(Mr. Kharrazi.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
detrimental  to developing  countries  under  the pretext  of  collective  security. 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  fully  subscribes  to the  Secretary-General's 
statement  that  the  cornerstone  of the work  of  the United Nations  "is and must 
remain  the  State"  (A/47/277, para. 17).  Respect  for  the  fundamental 
sovereignty  of  States  is critical  in any endeavour  on  the part  of  the United 
Nations. 
My  Government  firmly believes  that  revitalization  of  the United  Nations, 
which has  gained  significant  momentum  with the Secretary-General's  report  "An 
Agenda  for  Peace"  and  the  anticipated  follow-up work  on the  report,  must 
ensure  respect  for  the  following  principles:  sovereign equality  of States, 
non-intervention  and non-interference  in the  internal  affairs  of States, 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes, and the  right  tc self-determination  of 
peoples under  colonial  or  alien domination  or  foreign  occupation. 
Change  is  inevitable  now.  It  is our duty  to make  rational  choices  in the 
interest  of  the majority  of  the people  on this planet.  History will  judge 
both our  actions  and our  intentions.  For our part, however  small, we  are 
ready to work with Members  energetically  and  in a spirit  of  international 
cooperation  to  seize  the  "opportunity  ... regained"  (A/47/277, para. 3 ).  It 
is in this  context  that my  delegation proposes  the establishment  of  an 
open-ended  working  group of  the General Assembly  to study  the  report  and 
determine  the priority  to be given  the proposals:  early  implementation  or 
further  consideration.  This working  group will play  an important  coordination 
role in the  activities  of  the Assembly's  subsidiary  bodies, which have  already 
initiated  discussion  on  some of  the proposals  of  the  report  that  relate  to 
their agendas.  The  General  Assembly  should gain  the  relevance  and  authority 
A/47/PV.38 
43 
(Mr. Kharrazi.  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran) 
that  the Charter  stipulates  it  should have  and  should  collectively  resist 
being marginalized  again. 
Mrs. HEPTULLAH  (India):  The year  1992  represents  an epochal phase 
in the history  of  the United  Nations.  Thirteen more  nations  have  joined the 
Organization,  making  it near-universal.  In keeping with  the  spirit  of the 
times, we have  received  two  reports,  "An Agenda  for Peace"  (A/47/277) and the 
annual  report  of  the Secretary-General  on the work of  the  Organization 
(A/47/1), which,  in large part,  contains  an agenda  for development.  These 
reports  embody  the  Secretary-General's  vision of  an international  society in 
which mankind  lives  in peace  and harmony  and  is able  to devote  its energies 
fully  to  the attainment  of  the goals of peace, economic  and  social growth, and 
development.  I extend my  deep  appreciation  to the Secretary-General  for these 
reports. 
It may be  recalled  that  the Secretary-General's  report  on  preventive 
diplomacy,  peacemaking  and peace-keeping  was prepared pursuant  to the request 
made by  the meeting  of  the Security  Council  at the  summit  level  on 
31 January  1992, and  its purpose  is to strengthen  the  capacity  of  the United 
Nations  in the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security within the 
framework  and provisions  of  the Charter.  It was  the express wish of the 
summit  meeting  of  the Security  Council  that  the  report  should be  submitted to 
all  the Members  of  the United  Nations.  It is therefore  appropriate  that this 
debate  should  take place  in the General  Assembly  concurrently with  the work 
being  done  in the other  relevant bodies  of  the United Nations. 
The  "Agenda  for Peace" contains  several  valuable  and  practical 
recommendations  on preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking,  peace-keeping  and 
post-conflict  peace-building.  Together,  these  and  the proposals  contained in 
A/47/PV.38 
44-45 
(Mrs. Heptullah.  India) 
the annual  report  on development  of  the developing  countries  form  the 
framework  of  a peaceful,  stable  and vibrant  international  system. 
The principles  of  the Charter  provide  the bedrock  foundation  for  the 
functioning  of  the Organization.  These principles  have well  served  the 
international  community  until  now  and must  be  faithfully  adhered  to  in all  the 
future work  of  the Organization.  A basic  criterion  in examining  the  proposals 
contained  in the  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" should be  that  they  are  in  full 
conformity with  the  spirit  of  the Charter.  Given  such a consideration,  my 
delegation believes  that many  of  these  recommendations  can be  implemented 
without much  delay.  These  recommendations  therefore  deserve  immediate  and 
detailed  consideration  by  the  international  community. 
The  report  also  contains  several proposals  for a strengthened  and 
reinvigorated  United Nations  that  can more  effectively  fulfil  its complex  and 
multifaceted  tasks  in establishing  and promoting  international  peace  and 
security.  Such proposals, which  are  in accordance with  the principles  of  the 
Charter,  can contribute  to  the credibility  and  impartiality  of  the United 
Nations  and  the  confidence  of Member  States  in the capabilities  of  the 
Organization.  My  delegation  supports  the Secretary-General  in his  endeavours 
and will  continue  to work  actively with him  in the  achievement  of  these goals. 
A/47/PV.38 
46 
(Mrs. Heptullah.  India) 
The  Secretary-General  has made many  concrete proposals  in the chapter on 
peace-keeping.  These  include  recommendations  to the Member  States  to inform 
the  Secretariat  on the  kind  and number  of  skilled  personnel  they would be able 
to make  available  to the United Nations  as the need  for new  operations 
arises.  The  Secretary-General  has  also  recommended  that  arrangements  be 
reviewed  and  improved  for  training  civilian,  police  or military  peace-keeping 
personnel.  Yet  another  recommendation  by the Secretary-General  calls  for the 
establishment  of  a pre-positioned  stock of basic peace-keeping  equipment so 
that  some vehicles,  communications  equipment,  generators,  and  so on, would be 
immediately  available  at the  start of  an operation.  The  report  also  calls 
upon Governments  to consider  the option of  keeping  some equipment  on  stand-by 
for  immediate  sale or  loan  to the United  Nations when  required.  These 
proposals  will  contribute  to the effective  launching  of  peace-keeping 
operations  as and when  necessary. 
We  agree  that Member  States  should  undertake  to  inform  the  Secretariat 
promptly  on the nature  of personnel  and equipment  they  are prepared  to provide 
at  short  notice.  I am glad  to  state  that  India was one  of  the  few countries, 
referred  to by  the Secretary-General,  to have given  this  information  to the 
Secretariat  when we were  asked  to do  so some  time  ago. 
With  respect  to obtaining  equipment  and  supplies  for  peace-keeping 
operations,  I believe  that  it  is also  necessary  for  the Secretariat  to observe 
the principles  of  transparency  and  cost  effectiveness.  All  efforts  need to be 
made  to ensure  that  supplies  are procured  for United  Nations  peace-keeping 
operations  at the  lowest  cost possible, without  compromising  the  effectiveness 
of  operations. 
India,  in  fulfilment  of  its  responsibilities  as  a Member  of  the United 
Nations, has  always been  active  in contributing  to United  Nations 
A/47/PV.38 
47 
(Mrs. Heptullah.  India) 
peace-keeping  operations.  Our  contributions  to the operations  in the Congo  as 
early  as  1960  are  still well  remembered.  As one of  the  foremost  contributors 
to United Nations  peace-keeping  operations,  India's personnel  have  also 
suffered  a  large  number  of  casualties  in discharging  their  role  in the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  From  this point  of view, we 
are in agreement  with  the Secretary-General  on the need  for devising  measures 
to ensure  the  safety  and  security  of United  Nations peace-keeping  personnel. 
This matter  needs  the urgent  attention of  the United  Nations  so that  the 
abiding  cooperation  of  all Member  nations  in peace-keeping  efforts  is  ensured. 
The  success  of peace-keeping  operations  depends,  in large measure, 
upon an  assured  financial  footing.  Proposals made by the Secretary-General  in 
this  regard  need  exhaustive  and objective  examination by  the entire  membership 
of the United  Nations  to ensure  that  the  financial  difficulties  of  the United 
Nations  are  resolved  without  delay  and without  affecting  its  credibility, 
objectivity  and  impartiality. 
One  of  the proposals made by the Secretary-General  calls  for  the 
establishment  of  a peace-keeping  reserve  fund  to meet  start-up  costs  for 
peace-keeping  operations.  My delegation  supports  this proposal  and  suggests 
that contributions  to the  fund  should be made by States Members  of  the United 
Nations, on  the principle  that  financing  peace-keeping  operations  is the 
collective  responsibility  of  all Member  States.  We also  agree with  the 
observation made  by  the  Secretary-General  that Member  States  should  consider 
the possibility  of making  their  contributions  for peace-keeping  operations 
from their  defence  budgets. 
In the  final  analysis,  the only durable  solution  to the  financial 
problems  of  the United  Nations  is the prompt  and  full payment  by Member  States 
A/47/PV.38 
48 
(Mrs. Heptullah.  India) 
of  their  assessed  contributions  to both  the  regular  budget  and  the 
peace-keeping  expenditures  of  the United  Nations.  This will  also  address the 
long-felt  need  for  the United  Nations  to make  timely payments  to  Member 
nations  for  their  contributions  to peace-keeping  operations. 
We welcome  the proposal made by  the Secretary-General  in paragraph  41 of 
his  report  (A/47/277) which  calls  for devising measures  to  insulate  States 
from difficulties  caused  by economic  sanctions  imposed  under  Chapter VII of 
the  Charter.  Over  the  last  two years, the  international  community  has 
witnessed  increasing  recourse  to the provisions  of  Chapter  VII  to enforce the 
will  of  the  community  vis-a-vis  States guilty  of breaching  international  peace 
and  security  and violating  the principles  of  the Charter.  While  such 
sanctions  are  an  important  mechanism  available  to the  Security  Council  in 
fulfilling  its  role of maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  the 
international  community  has  also become  increasingly  aware  of  the  difficulties 
caused  for  third-party  countries by  sanctions  and  the  immediate  need to 
redress  the difficulties  of unintended  victims.  Measures  under Article  50 of 
the Charter,  as  suggested  by  the  Secretary-General,  should be put  in place so 
that mechanisms  can go  into operation  immediately  and  automatically  as soon as 
sanctions  are  imposed.  As  the  Secretary-General  has  stated,  this would 
encourage  States  to cooperate with  the decisions  of  the Council. 
The proposals  of  the Secretary-General  provide  a comprehensive  framework 
for  the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  not  only by dealing 
with peace-keeping  operations  but  also  through  a greater  vision  of  an overall 
process  of  detecting  threats  to peace, dealing  with  them before  they turn into 
conflicts  and  the process  of  rebuilding  peace  after  such  conflicts  are over. 
We agree  that  the question  of peace  cannot  be dealt with only within  the ambit 
of peace-keeping  operations  and  that  a more  thorough  approach  to  international 
A/47/PV.38 
49 
(Mrs. Heptullah.  India) 
peace has  to be  adopted.  In this  context,  all organs  of  the United  Nations 
have their  defined  role  to play.  For  instance,  the dispatch  of  fact-finding 
missions, peace-keeping  efforts  under  Chapter VI, consultations  and 
negotiations with  the  concerned  parties  and economic  assistance  as a way  to 
ameliorate  circumstances  leading  to conflicts  are within  the mandates  of  the 
General Assembly  and  the Economic  and  Social Council.  These  organs  should  be 
allowed  to play  fully  their  assigned  roles  in such efforts.  This will  lead to 
a greater  efficiency  in the discharge  of  their  responsibilities  and 
transparency  in their  actions. 
We  also  agree with  the  recommendation  of  the Secretary-General  that 
enhanced  cooperation  between  the General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  can 
provide  a more  effective  use  of the capacity  of the United  Nations  in 
resolving  conflicts.  There  are provisions  in the Charter,  such  as Article  15, 
calling  for  special  reporting by  the  Security  Council  to the General  Assembly, 
which can be used  for  this purpose  to achieve greater  coordination  between 
these two most  important  organs of  the United Nations. 
A strengthened  and vigorous United Nations  in maintaining  international 
peace and  security  calls  for  a corresponding  democratization  of United  Nations 
decision-making.  The  Security  Council, as structured  at present,  is  unlikely 
to be able  to  function effectively  to meet  the  increasing  needs of  the 
international  community  in  this most  important  aspect  of United  Nations 
activities.  It  is necessary  that  serious  consideration  be given  immediately 
to the question  of  Security  Council  reforms  to  reflect  changing  realities.  An 
expansion  of  the  Security  Council  will  increase  its moral  authority  and  enable 
it to carry  out  the  enhanced mandate  "An Agenda  for Peace" will  eventually 
give to  the  Council. 
A/47/PV.38 
50 
(Mrs. Heptullah.  India) 
The  Secretary-General  states, 
"The  foundation-stone  of  this work  is and must  remain  the State. 
Respect  for  its  fundamental  sovereignty  and  integrity  are crucial  to any 
common  international  progress."  (A/47/277, para.  17) 
We  fully  support  this  view.  The  sovereignty  of  States  cannot  be  abridged 
whether  on the grounds  of  finding  a balance between globalism  and  nationalism 
or on the grounds  of  self-determination.  The  right  to  self-determination 
should  apply  only  to peoples  under  colonial  domination  and not  to  integral 
parts of  sovereign nations.  The  sovereign equality  of  all  States, the 
inviolability  of  the territorial  integrity  of  any State  and  non-interference 
in  internal  affairs  are  sacrosanct  principles  enshrined  in the  Charter 
itself.  The  principle  of  request  by a Member  State  and  consent by all 
concerned parties  should be adhered  to without  exception, whether  in the case 
of  fact-finding missions  under  the concept  of preventive  diplomacy  or of the 
dispatch of peace-keeping  operations.  Naturally,  enforcement  measures  adopted 
under  Chapter VII  of  the Charter  fall  into  a different  category. 
A/47/PV.38 
51 
(Mrs, Heptullah.  India) 
Military  force  as a means  of maintaining  peace or preventing  conflicts 
should be  used  only  as a matter  of  last  resort.  The very  spirit  of  the United 
Nations  Charter  focuses  on building  a peaceful  and  stable  international 
society  in which  there  is a minimal  role  for  the use of military  force.  It  is 
therefore  necessary  that  all peaceful means  should be  fully exhausted  before 
considering  the use of  force  to prevent  conflicts  or to make peace.  Even 
under  circumstances  when  it becomes  necessary  to use  force,  it  should 
invariably  be  under  the control  and  command  of  the United  Nations.  This will 
enhance  the moral  authority  of the Organization,  its credibility  as an  agent 
of peace  and  the confidence  of  the  international  community  in such  enforcement 
actions. 
As  I have  stated  before,  the proposals  in the Secretary-General's  report 
demand  a thorough  and detailed  consideration by  the overall membership  of  the 
United Nations.  We  suggest  that a working  group of the General  Assembly 
should be  established  at the earliest  opportunity  to examine  the proposals  and 
to suggest possible  courses  of  action  on the  recommendations  contained  in the 
report.  Meetings  of  this working group  should be open-ended  and  led by  the 
President  of  the General  Assembly,  at least  in the  initial  stages, so that  its 
deliberations  can be  conducted meaningfully  and with  the attention  and  gravity 
that  the  report  deserves. 
The maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and  the promotion  of 
the economic  and  social  development  of  the developing  countries  are  two major 
concerns  of  the United  Nations.  The  international  situation has  undergone 
rapid  changes  in the  last  few years, and yet problems  of  the past,  both 
political  and developmental,  increasingly  afflict many  nations.  The  two 
reports by  the  Secretary-General  - the  annual  report  and  "An Agenda  for 
A/47/PV.38 
52 
(Mrs. Heptullah. India) 
Peace" - provide a comprehensive framework for dealing with the question of 
international peace and security and the developmental needs of developing 
countries.  Just as economic assistance can be used to mitigate threats to 
international peace, the development of developing countries, as discussed in 
the "agenda for development" in the annual report, plays an important role in 
the achievement of stable international peace and security. 
There are strong linkages between international peace and security on the 
one hand and the development of developing countries on the other.  As the 
Secretary-General himself said in his annual report, 
"Political progress and economic development are inseparable:  both 
are equally important and must be pursued simultaneously." 
(A/47/1, para. 64) 
Inasmuch as political stability is necessary for implementing effective 
economic policies for development, the pursuance of such policies inevitably 
contributes to the realization of stable international peace and security. 
As a developing nation, India naturally has as its first priority 
improving the living standards of all its people, policies for which can be 
effectively implemented only in the framework of an equitable international 
economic order.  The United Nations, with its universal character, is the most 
important forum for analysis and conceptual formulation of socio-economic 
problems of concern to developing countries.  We agree with the 
Secretary-General that 
"the Organization's responsibilities and commitments in the political and 
security area should not be carried out at the expense of its 
responsibilities in the development field ...  It is essential that they 
be pursued in an integrated, mutually supporting way." (A/47/1, para. 66) 
My delegation would in fact go a step further and suggest that realizing the 
A/47/PV.38 
53 
(Mrs. Heptullah.  India) 
economic  development  of  all developing  countries  is an  important  contribution 
towards  ensuring  stable  international  peace.* 
My  delegation  therefore  supports  the elements  of  an integrated  approach 
as proposed  by  the  Secretary-General  in his  annual  report  regarding  the 
economic  and  social  dimensions  of development;  the  interrelationships  between 
trade,  financial  investment  and  technology;  the needs  of development  and  the 
protection  of  the environment; meeting  immediate  needs  for emergency  and 
humanitarian  assistance;  and  setting  the  conditions  for  long-term 
development.  It  is the hope  of my delegation  that  the  "agenda  for 
development" will  receive  as much  attention  from  the entire membership  of  the 
United Nations  as  the  "Agenda  for Peace", and  that questions  relating  to  free 
trade, international  finances,  resource  availability  and  the transfer  of 
technology, which have  so far hampered  the efforts of  the developing  nations 
to achieve  rapid  economic  growth  and development, will be  resolved  under  the 
overall  leadership  of  the United Nations. 
Mr.  SY  (Senegal)  (interpretation  from  French):  When he  spoke on 
30 September  1992  from  this  rostrum,  which has witnessed  so many  significant 
events  in the evolution  of our  Organization,  President  Abdou Diouf, Head  of 
State of  Senegal, warmly  and  sincerely  congratulated  the President.  He  also 
expressed  the  appreciation  of  the Senegalese  delegation  for the masterly  way 
in which,  since his  election  a year  ago  to head our  Organization,  the 
Secretary-General  has been performing  his  lofty mission with  such  competence, 
selflessness  and  effectiveness. 
In his  address, which  I hope will be  an inspiration  to  the work  of  this 
session. President  Abdou  Diouf  emphasized  and welcomed  the  important  recent 
*  Mr. Moumin  (Comoros), Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. 
A/47/PV.38 
54-55 
(Mr.  Sv.  Senegal) 
qualitative changes in the international arena in the fields of disarmament, 
the defence of human rights and peace-keeping, which are also essential for 
progress in international economic and technological cooperation.  For that 
reason he highlighted the increased confidence being placed in the United 
Nations and the significant role that it will have to play in constructing a 
new world in which its Member States work together in a spirit of mutual 
respect to bring about international relations based on peace and security as 
well as solidarity and mutual trust. 
In the light of those pertinent comments, which I felt it was important 
to recall, it can be readily understood that the Senegalese delegation 
attaches great importance to our consideration of the report of the 
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization, and especially of "An 
Agenda for Peace", the subjects of this debate. 
A careful reading of the documents vividly recalls that historic period 
from 25 April to 26 June 1945 when a number of States, having learned the 
lessons of the appalling consequences of two of the most devastating wars 
humanity has ever experienced, came together in San Francisco to bring into 
being our prestigious Organization. 
Since then, a long road has been travelled and significant progress has 
been made, including the end of the cold war and a greater commitment of 
peoples to their freedom and to their national sovereignty.  The framers of 
the Charter of the United Nations, whose essential concern was to avert the 
risk of tension-and war, surely could not have hoped that in less than half a 
century so many States - 179 in all  would have rallied to their cause and 
that their undertaking would in so short a time have led to such an era of 
detente, albeit one beset by many uncertainties. 
A/47/PV.38 
56 
(Mr. Sy.  Senegal) 
The  framers  of  the United  Nations Charter were  undoubtedly  also  bearers 
of a new vision  of  the world,  a world  in which  there would be  a  stronger 
determination  to  achieve  rapprochement  between  all  States.  This  is more 
necessary  today  than ever before  if the peoples  and  the nations wish  to build 
together  a more  secure  and prosperous  future  for present  and  future 
generations.  The  Secretary-General's  excellent  report  (A/47/1) on the work  of 
the Organization  provides  a striking  illustration  of that vision of  the 
future, which  is the only one  that  can help preserve  collective peace  and 
security. 
I  should  like  to  take  this opportunity  to offer once  again my 
delegation's  congratulations  and encouragement  to the Secretary-General  and to 
pay a tribute  to  the  founders  of our Organization  and  those who drafted  the 
Charter  of  the United Nations  for their visionary  spirit.  It is to  their 
credit  that,  above  all, they  set  forth principles  and established  purposes  for 
our Organization which,  although  they might  at times have  seemed  to be 
illusory  and Utopian,  nevertheless  have made  it possible  for us today to 
respond,  if we  really want  to, to the profound  aspirations  of the peoples  of 
our respective  countries. 
The  line of  conduct which they  traced  for us has enabled  us to  attenuate 
the suffering  caused  the world  by the cold war  and by all  the tensions  and  to 
help in various ways  to promote  respect  for human  rights  and  democratic 
principles.  These  are undoubtedly  actions  that constitute  decisive  steps 
towards  our  ultimate  goal, which  is to create  a more  just  and  equitable  new 
world  order. 
Obviously,  our  task  is far  from  accomplished.  On the contrary,  it has 
only just  started,  because  after having  regained  its credibility  and  aroused 
A/47/PV.38 
57 
(Mr.  Sv.  Senegal) 
so much hope, the United Nations is now more in demand than ever before. 
The resurgence of international and regional conflicts, which are a 
constant source of concern and worry to us, is a good indication of the 
dimensions of this task and the need to give the Organization the means to 
perform it in the most effective way possible. 
It is therefore fortunate that, at the initiative of the Heads of State 
or Government of the members of the Security Council, who met in New York on 
31 January 1992, the Secretary-General first devised "An Agenda for Peace". 
This valuable document contains concrete and pertinent proposals on how to 
strengthen the Organization's capacities in the spheres of preventive 
diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and peace-building, and on the ways and 
means of enhancing its effectiveness in the framework of the relevant 
provisions of the Charter. 
Among the measures proposed in "An Agenda for Peace", those which relate 
to preventive diplomacy, to peacemaking and to cooperation with regional 
arrangements and agencies prove on close analysis to be of particular 
importance.  In this connection the Senegalese delegation believes that 
confidence-building, fact-finding, the setting up of an early warning system, 
preventive deployment and the establishment of demilitarized zones, are an 
excellent basis on which to approach the resolution of crises and the creation 
of the necessary conditions for economic international cooperation that could 
better serve mankind. 
The course to be followed also involves vesting more responsibility in 
the International Court of Justice and resorting to arbitration in the quest 
for peaceful solutions to disputes.  The establishment of a system to mobilize 
adequate resources to make United Nations humanitarian assistance activities 
A/47/PV.38 
58 
(Mr. Sy.  Senegal) 
more  cost-effective  is essential  if we  are to meet  the needs  and  challenges  of 
the present  day. 
The proposals  on peace-keeping  operations  also have  our  full  support 
since their  aim  is to enable  the United Nations  better  to  fulfil  its task  in 
this sphere,  in which  Senegal has  always been  a very  keen and  attentive 
participant. 
With  respect  to peace-building,  the Senegalese  delegation welcomes  the 
initiative  taken by  the  Secretary-General  to  include  this element  in 
"An Agenda  for  Peace".  This  concept  is particularly  attractive  to the 
Senegalese  delegation  since  it  implies  an obligation  on the part  of  the United 
Nations  to  involve  itself more  in the quest  for  solutions  to the  underlying 
causes of  conflicts.  As we  all  know,  these  are generally  connected  with 
economic  and  social  factors, poverty  or  specific  interests.  In other words, 
in our opinion  the  idea of peace-building  has  the additional  advantage  of 
echoing a deeply  felt  concern of President  Abdou Diouf,  for whom  the  other 
cornerstone  of peace  is  development. 
Peacemaking,  peace-keeping  and peace-building  are undoubtedly  our  common 
objective, but  it should  be  amply  supported by our  determination  to  create  the 
necessary  conditions  for  sustainable  development.  In the  implementation  of 
this concept, which was broadly  endorsed  at the historic  United  Nations 
Conference  on Environment  and Development,  held  at Rio de Janeiro  in 
June 1992, the problems  of poverty  and underdevelopment,  which  seriously 
threaten  international  peace  and  security,  in our  opinion  can be  resolved  only 
in a climate  of generalized  growth  taking broad  account  of  the  concerns  of  the 
developing  countries,  and with  increased participation  by  those  countries  in 
the building  of  this new  world. 
A/47/PV.38 
59 
(Mr. Sv.  Senegal) 
This  shared  responsibility  in the management  of  international  affairs 
should  therefore,  in our  view, be brought  fully  into play  in the  framework of 
the peace-keeping  operations, by  strengthening,  as proposed  in the 
Secretary-General's  report,  cooperation between  the United  Nations  and  the 
regional  organizations.  Naturally,  the  Senegalese  delegation  cannot  but 
welcome  such  a recommendation  because  it  is dictated  not only by  a  laudable 
desire  to make  rational  use of the already  too  limited  resources  of  the United 
Nations  but  also,  and  above  all, by a concern  to  respect  the  letter  and  spirit 
of  the Charter  of  the United  Nations, particularly  Articles  52, 53 and  54 of 
Chapter VIII.  It  should be  recalled  that  this  Chapter  advocates  cooperation 
between  the United  Nations  and  the  regional  arrangements  and  agencies  in 
managing  and  resolving crises. 
In this  spirit. President  Abdou  Diouf,  on 30  September  1992, in this very 
Hall,  in his dual  capacity  as current Chairman of  the Organization  of African 
Unity  (OAU) and President  of  the Sixth  Summit  Conference  of  the  Organization 
of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC), proposed  the  convening  of  an  international 
conference  on Somalia,  under  the auspices  of  the United Nations  and in 
cooperation with  the OAU,  the OIC and  the League  of Arab  States.  This kind of 
cooperation  is particularly  necessary  in the  light  of  the  statement  in the 
Secretary-General's  report  that  from  1945  to 1987  the United  Nations,  albeit 
with difficulty  but  certainly  effectively,  conducted  13  peace-keeping 
operations,  and  since  then  it has  conducted  13 others. 
One  of  the  consequences  of  this  situation has been  that  the United 
Nations  has had  to place greater  emphasis  on peace-keeping,  which  is 
undoubtedly  a noble  task but which has  the drawback  of  sacrificing  to a 
certain  extent  the  achievement  of  the economic,  cultural  and  social  objectives 
set  forth  in Chapter  IX of  the  Charter. 
A/47/PV.38 
60 
(Mr. Sy.  Senegal) 
It  is precisely  because Africa  is aware  that on its own the United 
Nations  cannot  ensure  the defence  of the world  and  at the  same time  promote 
genuine  international  economic  cooperation  that Africa  took  the  important 
initiative, of which members  were  reminded  here by President  Abdou  Diouf, of 
setting up machinery  to prevent,  to manage  and  to settle African  conflicts. 
By means of  this  initiative,  taken  at the twenty-eighth  Summit  Conference  of 
the Heads  of  State  or Government  of  the Organization  of African Unity,  held 
from 29 June  to  1 July  1992  in the Senegalese  capital, Dakar, Africa's  aim 
was, with  the  international  community's  assistance,  to restate  its resolve  to 
take its destiny  into  its own hands.  Africa  is equally  convinced  that  the 
aspirations of  the developing  countries  to  justice,  equity,  democracy  and 
peace cannot  be  effectively met  if  the  specific  characteristics  of  the  various 
societies  concerned  are not  taken  into account  and  if they do not  participate 
effectively. 
For all  those  reasons, we believe  that  the  recommendations  made  in  "An 
Agenda for Peace" are  consonant  with our own concerns  and deserve our  closest 
attention. 
A/47/PV.38 
61 
(Mr.  Sy.  Senegal) 
Like  the  Secretary-General,  the delegation  of  Senegal  is convinced  that 
all  the proposals  contained  in this  document  stem  essentially  from  the 
pertinent  provisions  of  the Charter  and  can help  to prevent  any  trend  towards 
unilateralism,  as well  as  to  strengthen  international  confidence  and 
solidarity.  The  need  to promote  confidence  and  solidarity  fully warrants the 
proposal  concerning  the  creation of  a general  agreement  on  solidarity  (GAS) 
an  idea mooted by  President  Abdou  Diouf  for our  consideration. 
This  need  also  constitutes  a strong  argument  in favour  of  a  renewed 
North-South  dialogue, based  on a spirit  of partnership  and  shared 
responsibility,  in the  true  interests  of both parties.  We  find  this  approach 
particularly  interesting  because  any conflict  of  interests  between  the North 
and  the  South  cannot  be of benefit  to either  side.  The world  of peace and 
prosperity  to which we  all  aspire  can be built  only  if  all  States  work 
together  for the benefit  of  their  populations. 
We must  never  tire of  repeating  that  the North  and  the South  are 
interdependent  and,  therefore,  condemned  to  live  together.  .Their  chances of 
achieving  harmonious  economic  and  social development  hinge  essentially  on 
their  capacity  to pool  their  strengths  and  their means, as well  as the 
creative  talents  of  their peoples,  in a genuine  spirit  of  solidarity.  Their 
chances  of  establishing  lasting global peace  and  security  are  especially 
dependent  on their  determination,  through peaceful  coexistence  and  joint 
endeavours  in the  service  of  development,  to  set  aside  any  threat  of mutual 
destruction. 
That  is why  the delegation  of  Senegal  is profoundly  committed  to the 
achievement  of  a general  agreement  on  solidarity  (GAS),  which we believe would 
be  the best  possible  means  of meeting  the  target  set  in  "An Agenda  for 
Peace"  - to make  available  to  the United  Nations  the  resources  not  only to 
A/47/PV.38 
62 
(Mr. Sy.  Senegal) 
forestall  conflicts  and  to keep, build  and  strengthen  international  peace  and 
security but  also  to give  fresh hope  and  confidence  in the  future  to the 
majority  of  those  peoples  suffering  from  the detrimental  effects  of  poverty 
and squalor. 
I  cannot  conclude  this  statement without  sharing with other Members  a 
very wise  and very  appropriate  thought  voiced by  a prominent  figure  of  this 
century. Chancellor  Willy  Brandt 
may he  rest  in peace 
who,  as a part  of 
what he did  throughout  his  life  in the  service  of good  causes, emhpasized  that 
the loss of  a human  life  in wartime was  as morally  reprehensible  as 
indifference  to  someone  condemned  to die of hunger, thirst,  disease  or  poverty. 
Hence  it will  not be  sufficient  for us to silence  the cannons  and halt 
the tanks  and  then  consider  that we have  completed  our mission.  A great  deal 
more needs  to be done, because peace  is not merely  the absence of war.  The 
reality is that we  shall have  to convert  these  frightful machines  for  the 
destruction  of  the human  race and  its environment  into  tools  of production  and 
instruments  that will  help  to safeguard  the balance of ecosystems.  We  shall 
have finally  to vanquish war, disease, hunger  and  illiteracy. 
In this way we  shall help  to alleviate  the plight  of  the  disadvantaged 
and to avoid  despair, which  leads  to behaviour  that  is prejudicial  to our 
endeavours  to preserve  peace  and  security  throughout  the world.  In fact, we 
really have  no choice.  While  it is true that  there will never be  development 
without peace,  it  is equally  true that peace  and  security without  development 
are doomed  to  remain  a pious wish  or merely  an illusory  and  fragile  dream. 
I  should  like  to  thank  representatives  for their  kind  attention  and  to 
take this  opportunity  to  reiterate  to the delegation  of Egypt  our  deep 
condolences  and  sadness, as well  as our  sympathy  and  solidarity,  in the wake 
A/47/PV.38 
63 
(Mr. Sv.  Senegal) 
of  the  recent  natural  disaster  that has  so  sorely  tried  its  friendly  and 
fraternal  people. 
Mr. ELHOUDERI  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (interpretation  from 
Arabic):  Among  the objectives  and purposes  of  the United  Nations  is the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  To  this  end,  the 
international  community  has encouraged  initiatives  to enhance  the  role of the 
Organization  in this  field.  Accordingly,  the delegation  of my  country 
welcomes  the  report  of  the Secretary-General  entitled  "An Agenda  for Peace", 
which  is contained  in document  A/47/277, as a valuable  contribution  to the 
international  Organization's  efforts  to  realize  its purposes  and objectives. 
It  is a timely  contribution  as  it coincides with  joint  international  efforts 
to overcome  the  negative  consequences  of  the  cold war  and  to  formulate  new 
approaches  for  a secure  and  stable  world. 
In his  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" the  Secretary-General  touches  upon 
points  that would  enhance  the  role of  the United  Nation  in the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security  and  includes  in his  report  several  important 
proposals  and  recommendations,  concerning which my delegation would  like to 
make  some  comments. 
My  country  supports  all efforts  aimed  at enhancing  the capability  of the 
United  Nations  in the  fields  of preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and 
peace-keeping  in accordance with  the goals  and  aims of  the United  Nations 
Charter.  We  emphasize  that  respect  for national  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity,  as defined  in the Charter,  should  be  the  fundamental  basis of 
international  relations  and  of  any measures  adopted  by  the United  Nations in 
that  regard. 
A/47/PV.38 
64-65 
(Mr. Elhouderi.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
My  country  also  supports  the call  for all United  Nations  organs  to 
discharge  their mandates  under  the Charter.  In this context,  the  General 
Assembly  should  play  an effective  and practical  role  in the maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  Also  in this  regard, we  should  like  to 
reaffirm  the  importance  of  coordinating  the  relationship  between  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  The General Assembly,  like the  Security 
Council  and  the  Secretary-General,  should play  the role defined  for  it by  the 
Charter  and  should  take  the necessary measures  to guarantee  the  implementation 
of its resolutions  and  see  to it that  all United Nations  organs  scrupulously 
abide by provisions  of  the Charter without  discrimination  or  disregard. 
A/47/PV.38 
66 
(Mr. Elhouderi. Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya) 
Proceeding from the fact that a well-balanced and integrated approach 
that would enable all United Nations organs to perform their allocated roles 
in maintaining peace and security is the best way to observe the letter and 
spirit of the Charter, we support the call for greater reliance on the 
International Court of Justice and recommend that all international disputes 
of a legal nature should be referred to this Court.  We should also make sure 
that other organs within the United Nations do not encroach the functions of 
the Court by interfering in the settlement of disputes that fall essentially 
within the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. 
We also support the call for the Secretary-General to be authorized to 
take advantage of the advisory competence of the Court in accordance with 
relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. 
The Charter has called for regional arrangements in dealing with issues 
relating to the maintenance of international peace and security.  Therefore, 
my country supports the call to enhance cooperation between the United Nations 
and regional organizations on such issues provided that that is done in 
accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter and that the primacy of the United 
Nations should be ensured in maintaining international peace and security. 
There should also be agreement by the concerned parties in cases where 
regional arrangements and organizations are involved. 
The maintenance of international peace and security cannot be achieved 
without solving economic, social, humanitarian and environmental problems. 
That is why we support the call for the Economic and Social Council and other 
related agencies to perform the roles entrusted to them by the Charter by 
preparing studies and reports on economic and social developments that may 
endanger international peace and security.  In our opinion, international 
A/47/PV.38 
67 
(Mr. Elhouderi.  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya) 
peace does  not  consist  solely of  the absence  of  armed  conflict  but  requires 
the promotion  of development,  the upholding  of human  rights  and  the 
eradication  of hunger  and poverty  in all parts of the world. 
Regarding  post-conflict  peace-building,  the  Secretary-General  submitted 
valid  recommendations,  including his  reference  to war  remnants  as  an 
impediment  to  reconstruction.  My delegation  expresses  its gratitude  to the 
Secretary-General  for  raising  this question because we, in Libya, have  greatly 
suffered  from  the  remnants  of war, especially  the mines  that were planted  in 
Libyan  territory  during  the  Second World War.  In addition  to the  prohibitive 
human and material  price  the Libyan people have  already paid,  these mines  are 
still causing  death  and  injury  to many people  as well  as damage  to much 
property.  These mines  are  a great hindrance  to our  efforts  to  combat 
desertification  and  conserve  the  environment. 
Easing  the  financial  situation of  the United Nations  and  safeguarding  the 
rapid and effective  implementation  of peace-keeping  operations  require 
providing  the United  Nations with  a solid base, namely the availability  of 
sufficient  funds.  The United Nations  cannot perform  the  role entrusted  to it 
without  adequate  financial  resources.  In his  report  "An Agenda  for Peace" and 
in his  report  on  the work  of  the Organization,  the Secretary-General  referred 
to old proposals  and  submitted  new ones.  In order  to create  a sound  and 
stable  financial  base  for  the Organization,  my  country deems  it necessary  to 
prepare a detailed  study  of  these proposals. 
The  Secretary-General  has  stressed  that, when  confronting  various 
problems  related  to the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  the 
principles  of  the Charter  should  be applied  in a consistent,  non-selective 
manner.  We  deem  it  important  that  this  rule  should govern  all  the 
A/47/PV.38 
68 
(Mr. Elhouderi. Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya) 
deliberations of the United Nations and especially the Security Council, which 
is the body primarily entrusted with the maintenance of international peace 
and security.  This means that the Council should steer away from applying the 
provisions of the Charter in accordance with the whims and interests of some 
major Powers, particularly when it comes to the use of Chapter VII.  The 
Security Council should also make it possible to conduct wider consultations 
on its draft resolutions.  Moreover, the resolutions should be clear and must 
be implemented in a manner free from discrimination and double standards. 
This would serve to maintain the credibility and moral authority of the 
Security Council while ensuring respect for, and implementation of its 
resolutions by Member States, without hesitation or questioning. 
The delegation of my country wishes to refer to the fact that at the 
Security Council Summit last January, certain delegations stressed in their 
statements that a collective security system could not be dependable in a 
situation in which some States enjoy a veto power in the Security Council. My 
country, together with many other countries, has often drawn attention to the 
fact that the right of veto constitutes an impediment to the enhancement of 
the role of the United Nations in realizing and maintaining international 
peace and security.  We are pleased that new international developments have 
enhanced the tendency whereby many Security Council resolutions are adopted by 
consensus.  However, we are not convinced that this trend will guarantee that 
the veto power will not be used again, especially in disputes in which one of 
the parties concerned is a permanent member of the Council.  In our opinion, 
the radical solution lies in abolishing the veto right. 
A/47/PV.38 
69-70 
(Mr. Elhouderi. Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya) 
In conclusion, the delegation of the People's Socialist Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya looks forward to participating in any action related to the 
Secretary-General's report "An Agenda for Peace".  That is why we support the 
proposal for the establishment, by the General Assembly, of an open-ended 
working group to assess the recommendations and proposals contained in the 
report and to recommend the ways and means properly to deal with them. 
A/47/PV.38 
71 
Mr. ARCILLA (Philippines):  Allow me, at the outset. Sir, to 
express, on behalf of the Government and people of the Philippines, our 
sincere sympathy to the Government and people of Egypt for the hundreds of 
lives lost and property destroyed during the earthquake that struck Cairo and 
its environs.  As frequent victims of natural disasters, we can well 
appreciate the agonizing experience that our Egyptian brothers are going 
through. 
The Philippines, as a Founding Member of the United Nations, is committed 
to the Organization's central role in shaping and maintaining a framework 
through which relations among sovereign nations can be geared towards global 
peace, stability and prosperity.  It is thus with much satisfaction that we 
welcome the reports of the Secretary-General under agenda item 10.  We 
congratulate the Secretary-General on his first annual report on the work of 
the Organization and on his report entitled "An Agenda for Peace". 
My Government accords both reports the serious study they deserve.  We 
agree with their basic premise that the time is ripe for all States  the 
State being the bedrock upon which the United Nations stands  to buckle up 
for the task of undertaking a fundamental renewal of the Organization.  Now is 
the time to strengthen and make more efficient the Organization's capacity for 
preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping, and, in the words of the 
Secretary-General, for 
"dealing comprehensively with the economic, social, environmental and 
political dimensions of human development." (A/47/1, para. 9) 
As we do so, it is useful to bear in mind, however, what the representative of 
Indonesia, speaking on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, said earlier in the 
debate: 
A/47/PV.38 
72 
(Mr. Arcilla. Philippines) 
"The international community must ensure strict adherence to the 
immutable principles of sovereignty and non-interference, which should 
not be diluted or abridged under any pretext." (A/47/PV.37. p. 33) 
As there will be other opportunities during this session to give our 
views on the specific topics covered in the Secretary-General's first annual 
report, I will limit my present intervention to his path-breaking document, 
"An Agenda for Peace". 
The Philippines agrees that the easing of tensions and the early 
containment of conflict situations are the most efficient means of maintaining 
international peace and security.  Effective preventive diplomacy, however, 
requires that an efficient monitoring mechanism is complemented by a 
rapid-response capability.  In this light, the creation of 
geographically-based divisions within the Department of Political Affairs 
appears to us to be a step in the right direction.  If supported by 
appropriately skilled staff and provided with adequate infrastructure, 
including access to data and risk-assessments in the hands of specialized 
agencies and functional offices of the United Nations, particularly those in 
the field, those divisions could provide valuable early-warning capability. 
We view favourably the Australian proposal that to enhance this capability 
Member States should consider the secondment of their experts for the purposes 
of creating a rapid-response information network, developing creative 
proposals for specific disputes and training middle-level staff in political 
analysis and dispute resolution. 
Confidence-building measures, including systematic exchanges of military 
missions, formation of regional risk-reduction centres and monitoring of arms 
agreements must, in our view, be more widely and routinely employed. 
Intra-regional seminars on security issues, such as the two already held in 
A/47/PV.38 
73 
(Mr. Arcilla. Philippines) 
Manila and Bangkok, could provide valuable insights and impetus for further 
joint action and consensus.* 
Wider use of fact-finding and good-offices missions, carried out in full 
accord with the Declaration on Fact-finding by the United Nations in the Field 
of the Maintenance of International Peace and Security and the Manila 
Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes, has the 
unequivocal support of my Government. 
The Philippines agrees with the Secretary-General that preventive 
deployment and the establishment of demilitarized zones could, in certain 
instances, prove useful in preventing the outbreak of armed conflicts. 
My Government fully supports the Secretary-General's call for greater 
utilization of the means included in the various declarations on peaceful 
settlement of disputes.  In this regard, the Organization should further 
develop a capability to undertake "quiet" diplomacy of the sort that enhances 
trust, ensures fairness and avoids unnecessary "internationalization" of 
disputes.  Also, the General Assembly should be more involved in peacemaking 
in cases where the weight of the moral authority of the international 
community could make a difference. 
The Philippines supports the granting of authority to the 
Secretary-General, pursuant to Article 96, paragraph 2, of the Charter to 
avail himself of the advisory competence of the International Court of 
Justice.  We agree that the World Court has important contributions to make to 
peacemaking, of which Member States should avail themselves. 
Having itself been gravely confronted by special economic problems 
arising from the application of sanctions under Article 41, the Philippines 
*  Mr. Elhouderi (Libya Arab Jamahiriya), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
A/47/PV.38 
74 
(Mr. Arcilla.  Philippines) 
supports  the  recommendation  of  the Secretary-General  that  the Security  Council 
should urgently  devise  a set of measures  involving  financial  institutions  and 
other  components  of  the United  Nations  system  to cushion  affected  States  from 
the impact  of  such  sanctions.  We  also  support  the proposal made by  the Nordic 
countries  that  the  Security  Council  consider  initiating  a study on  the 
effectiveness  and management  of  different  types  of  sanctions. 
Chapter  VII measures, by  their very nature,  always produce  grave 
consequences  and must  therefore  be employed  only  after  other means,  including 
those in Chapter VI, have  failed.  It would be most  desirable  that  a mechanism 
for speedy  but  thorough  consultations  between  the Security  Council  and  the 
general membership  of  the United Nations  be put  in place  to take up  proposals 
involving Chapter VII measures. 
The  Secretary-General  has  called members' attention  to the  special 
arrangements  foreseen  in Article  43 of the Charter.  He also  introduced  the 
concept of peace-enforcement  units.  My  Government  is prepared  to participate 
in discussions  to  achieve broader  understanding  on these matters. 
The  Philippines  supports  the greater  involvement  by the United Nations  in 
peace-keeping  operations  and  commends  the deepening  cooperation between  the 
United Nations  Secretariat  and Member  States  in this most  important  work  of 
the Organization.  We have participated,  and  continue  to participate,  in some 
of those  operations.  We  too have  responded  to the  Secretary-General's 
questionnaire  on  forces  that  could  be employed  in such operations,  and we 
continue  to  reassess  our  capabilities, particularly  in regard  to  the 
identification  of  a pool  of potential  civilian political  officers, 
human-rights monitors, electoral  officials,  refugee- and  humanitarian-aid 
specialists  and police,  in order  to determine  what  other  reources we  could 
make available  upon  request. 
A/47/PV.38 
75 
(Mr. Arcilla. Philippines) 
The Philippines shares the concern of the Secretary-General relating to 
the gap between the growing demands for peace-keeping and the wherewithal to 
meet those demands.  We are exerting our best efforts, given our own economic 
difficulties, to meet our obligations.  We await with keen interest the 
proposal by Japan aimed at ensuring availability of start-up resources for 
major peace-keeping operations without imposing new financial burdens on 
Member States. 
A/47/PV.38 
76 
(Mr. Arcilla.  Philippines) 
My  Government  considers  the Secretary-General's  addition of  the  topic  of 
post-conflict  peace-building  to his  report  to be most  thoughtful,  for,  after 
all, peace  takes  its nourishment  from  the  flow of decency,  civility  and 
well-being  of  all mankind.  To paraphrase  a passage  in the  presidential 
statement  at  the  first  Security  Council  Summit,  peace  and prosperity  are  the 
two faces  of  the one  currency  of  humankind. 
The  Philippines  concurs with  the Secretary-General's  ideas on  fostering 
peace after  conflicts  have been  resolved.  The United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  agencies  should  develop greater  coordination  in providing 
assistance where  reguired.  We  are pleased  to note that  the  Secretary-General 
has been exerting  his utmost  efforts  to achieve more efficient  coordination 
within the United  Nations  system  through the Administrative  Coordination 
Committee. 
The  Secretary-General  has  also  called  for greater  cooperation between  the 
United Nations  and  regional  arrangements  or organizations  in the  field of the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We  agree  that  more 
substantive  consultations  between  them  could do much  to achieve  international 
consensus  on  the nature  of  a problem  and  the measures  required  to address  it. 
None the  less, such  cooperative  activities must  remain  in full  accord  with 
Chapter VIII  of  the Charter:  the primary  responsibility  for the  maintenance 
of international  peace  and  security  should  remain with  the Security  Council. 
My delegation  considers  this debate  to be the mere beginning  of  an 
important process  of  consultations  and consensus-building  to achieve  the goals 
set forth in  the  Secretary-General's  "Agenda  for Peace", and we  are  heartened 
to note that  this may  later  be  joined  by  a companion  agenda  for  development, 
already outlined  in  the Secretary-General's  first  annual  report, which will 
extend the  reform  process  to  the economic  and  social  activities  of  the 
A/47/PV.38 
77 
(Mr. Arcilla.  Philippines) 
Organization.  We  support  the proposal  of  our  non-aligned  colleagues  that a 
working  group  be  established  to undertake  in-depth  studies  of  the 
Secretary-General's  recommendations. 
My  delegation  is prepared  to work with  all other  representatives  in this 
body on the ways  of  transforming  this  our United Nations  into  a universal 
organization  true  and  faithful  to the trust we have  all  reposed  in it. 
Mr.  GHAFOORZAI  (Afghanistan):  The  initiative  of  the  Security 
Council  Summit  of  31 January  1992 will  undoubtedly  be marked  as a milestone in 
the  coordination  of  the United Nations  efforts  towards  bringing more peace and 
prosperity  to the present  changing  and  turbulent  world  situation. 
My  delegation  congratulates  the  Secretary-General  for  submitting  a useful 
and  comprehensive  report  entitled  "An agenda  for peace:  Preventive  diplomacy, 
peacemaking  and  peace-keeping". 
The  delegation  of  the  Islamic  State of Afghanistan  has  studied with 
particular  attention  and  interest  the  report of  the  Secretary-General  on 
agenda  item  10 and would  like  to make  the  following  contribution  to the debate. 
The United  Nations  has  always been  a source  of expectation  for millions 
of our world  population,  especially where poverty,  illiteracy  and 
under-development,  as well  as  scarcity  of  natural  resources,  continue  to 
threaten  their  economic  development,  prosperity  and  security. 
The  recent  substantial  positive  changes  in  international  relations 
towards  the  creation  of  a world  more  responsive  to the needs of  the needy and 
the  safer  and  favourable  international  climate  emanating  from  the collapse of 
communism,  the end  of  the  cold-war  era  and world-power  polarization  have 
increased  that  expectation. 
A/47/PV.38 
78 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai.  Afghanistan) 
Therefore  the present  favourable  atmosphere  of peace, understanding  and 
cooperation,  as well  as a more  responsive  attitude  towards  respect  for  human 
rights and  the  dignity  of man,  should be utilized  for  the purpose  of  maximum 
strenthening  of  the  effectiveness  and usefulness  of our  Organization, 
particularly where  it can prevent  conflicts, end conflicts,  and  remove  threats 
of conflicts  by  the  early detection  of  their  sources. 
In line with  the views  and position of  the Non-Aligned  Movement  on  the 
matter, it  is our  conviction  that, taking  into account  the profound  political 
changes  in the  international  arena, the necessary  substantive  change  and 
reforms  in the  international  economic  system,  as a result  of which  the 
developing  countries  can have  a fair  chance  of  achieving  social  and  economic 
progress  for  their peoples, will  also have  a positive  impact  on ensuring  real 
peace and development  throughout  the world. 
My delegation  attaches  priority  to preventive  diplomacy,  which  is the 
first step  towards  avoiding  conflicts, and  also  the  first  step  towards 
avoiding the disruption  of peace  and  stability.  The  identification  of 
situations, peacemaking,  peace-keeping  and peace-building  efforts,  especially 
reference to  the deepest  causes  of  conflicts, as referred  to in paragraph  15 
of the Secretary-General's  report,  are of  considerable  importance.  However, 
in the view of my  delegation  the  "Agenda  for Peace" beyond  the current  General 
Assembly should  include  the  identification  of  risk  areas  for  stability  on the 
basis of  the  following  criteria:  first,  the  areas where  the principle  of 
non-interference  in the  internal  affairs  of  States  is hardly  breathing; 
secondly, where people  are  about  to  see their  right  to self-determination  and 
aspirations  to democracy  strained  due  to violation  of the basic principles  of 
sovereignty  and political  independence;  thirdly,  as a complementary  measure 
A/47/PV.38 
79-80 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai.  Afghanistan) 
for  strengthening  the peaceful  efforts  of  the Organization,  conciliation 
should  enforce preventive  diplomacy. 
Appropriate  conciliation machinery  seems  to be  lacking  in the United 
Nations  system.  Today's  circumstances  and  situations may  call  for  serious 
consideration  to be given  to  the  idea of  creating  conciliation  machinery, 
perhaps  under  the  Security  Council  or  the General  Assembly,  which would 
greatly  contribute  towards  enhancement  of  the  cause  of human  security. 
Furthermore,  the manner  in which  appropriate  provisions  are  foreseen  in the 
United  Nations  Charter,  and  the particular  procedure  and methods  for  dispute 
settlement  through,  inter  alia,  conciliation,  should  be  taken  full  advantage 
of,  and we hope  that  at  the end  of  the debate  the General  Assembly  will make 
specific  recommendations  to  this  end. 
Fourthly,  the principles  of  national  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  should  continue  to constitute  the basis  for  the  conduct  of 
international  relations.  The  undertaking  by  the Secretary-General  of periodic 
consultations  on confidence-building  measures with parties  to potential, 
current  or past  disputes, with  regional  organizations,  as promised  in 
paragraph  24 of  the Secretary-General's  report,  can play  an  important  role in 
reducing  the  likelihood  of  conflicts between  States. 
A/47/PV.38 
81 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai.  Afghanistan) 
Conflicts  of political  origin  in the developing  countries  are  always 
characterized  by  complexities  based  on their  own characteristics  and  political 
tendencies.  The  vulnerability  of  some of  the developing  countries  to the  risk 
that conflicts may proliferate  beyond  their  natural  boundaries may make  it 
necessary  for  the United  Nations  to undertake  an objective  and  cautious 
approach  in dealing with  such complex  cases. 
In some  cases, conflicts, because  they  involve  factors beyond  a  country's 
natural boundaries,  cannot be  dealt with directly  by a concerned  party.  It 
may be necessary,  therefore,  for  the United Nations, in cooperation with 
regional  arrangements  and organizations,  to conduct  its peace mission  through 
the use of preventive  diplomacy,  conciliation,  peacemaking  and  peace-keeping 
endeavours. 
Regional  arrangements  can be useful  not only  in providing  early  warning 
but also  in resolving  or preventing  conflicts  from  spreading. 
The establishment  of  joint  cooperative  projects  among  States  that  bring 
them together  through  the development  of many beneficial  joint  programmes,  as 
explained  in  section VI  of  the Secretary-General's  report  "An Agenda  for 
Peace",  in the majority  of  cases deserves  support.  Though greater  attention 
needs to be paid  to the political  considerations  that  continue  to  represent 
potential  causes  of  instability,  it is the  resolution  of political  problems 
that prepares  the ground  for  the  consolidation  of projects  that  brings  nations 
closer and builds  more viable guarantees  for peace  and  stability. 
It  is equally  important  to  refer  to paragraph  58 of  the 
Secretary-General's  report, which  stresses  the  importance  of  addressing  the 
problem  of  land mines, tens of millions  of which  are  scattered  throughout 
current or  former  combat  zones. 
A/47/PV.38 
82 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai. Afghanistan) 
Afghanistan, a country in which 14 years of imposed war left behind more 
than 10 million land mines, believes that there can be no complete peace in a 
land where the population cannot walk freely on its own soil. 
We take this opportunity to draw the attention of the General Assembly to 
the gravity of that problem in Afghanistan.  The inadequacy of financial 
resources is seriously hampering the de-mining efforts currently being carried 
out by organizations in my country.  At a time when almost 5 million refugees 
are repatriating, hundreds of returnees are being killed or injured by the 
numerous mines that are scattered on the way to their towns and villages. 
Agricultural activity, of course, has been seriously affected by the fear of 
land mines. 
The creation of a working group, as suggested by the delegation of 
Argentina, would be a positive step towards undertaking a detailed 
deliberation of, and thoroughly analysing, the different specific 
recommendations contained in "An Agenda for Peace" in the light of the 
provisions of the Charter and of the relevant resolutions of the General 
Assembly. 
As to the financing of United Nations peacemaking and peace-keeping 
operations, we continue to believe that the scale of assessments for the 
financing of such operations should objectively reflect the capacity to pay of 
the developing countries, particularly of the least developed and 
geographically disadvantaged developing countries. 
Two important aspects of the report of the Secretary-General on the item 
under consideration, in the view of my delegation, are cooperation with 
regional arrangements and the role of the General Assembly in securing peace 
and stability. 
A/47/PV.38 
83 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai.  Afghanistan) 
The  Islamic  State  of Afghanistan  believes  that  the United  Nations  Charter 
not only does  not  exclude  the possibility  of  a group  of  States undertaking  to 
deal with  a matter  that  lends  itself  to  regional  action  conducive  to  the 
maintenance  of  regional  and  international  peace  and  security, but  actually 
encourages  such  joint,  cooperative  efforts. 
It would  be  timely  at  this point  to mention  the usefulness  of  regional 
gatherings  and  conferences  held  under  the auspices  of  the United  Nations  as a 
temporary means  of  reducing  tensions  and  containing  the  spread  of  instability, 
particularly  in Asia, where  its Members  do not enjoy  the  regional  arrangements 
that are  in place  in Africa  and Latin America.  This  is without  prejudice  to 
the peaceful  role  of  the Association  of  South-East  Asian Nations, which will 
continue to  act  as a  subregional  organization. 
Owing  to  its historic  strategic  importance  and  to the  substantial 
geopolitical  changes  that have  recently  occurred  around  it as  a result of  the 
collapse of  communism  and the  subsequent  emergence  of  independent  States 
with many  of which we  enjoy  religious,  cultural,  linguistic,  ethnic  and 
historic  relations  - Afghanistan  believes  that  its peace  and  security have  a 
direct, positive  influence  on the  security  and  stability  of  those  countries 
and on that  of  the  region  as  a whole.  Continued  insecurity  in Afghanistan  and 
in the region  could  seriously  affect  international  peace  and  stability. 
As Iqbal,  the great  poet  of  the  subcontinent,  said: 
"The essence  of Asia  is  a moving mixture. 
Of  that  blend,  the Afghan  nation  is the core. 
Her  tranquillity  is Asia's  peace, 
Her disturbance  is Asia's  turbulence." 
My delegation  is anxious  for the United Nations  to  remain  seized  of  its 
A/47/PV.38 
84-85 
(Mr. Ghafoorzai.  Afghanistan) 
responsibility  to  see  to  it that  effective measures  are  taken  to ensure a 
peaceful  and  stable  Asia. 
According  to the Charter  of  our  Organization,  the General  Assembly,  as a 
universal  forum,  has great  potential  for  settling  regional  disputes  and 
consolidating  regional  political  stability,  which  can have  direct  consequences 
on the maintenance  of  international  peace  and  stability.  This potential has 
yet  to be  utilized. 
We  agree with  the conclusion  in paragraph  36 of  the  Secretary-General's 
report  "An Agenda  for Peace" that  it  is essential  to promote  the  General 
Assembly's  utilization  by  all Member  States  so as to bring greater  influence 
to bear  in pre-empting  or  containing  situations  that  are  likely  to  threaten 
international  peace  and  security.  However, we believe  that  the  General 
Assembly  should  take  the  lead  in initiating  specific  peace  and  stability 
missions  in turbulent  situations,  and that  the membership  should  support such 
initiatives. 
My  delegation hopes  that  the  forty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  under  the presidency  of Mr. Stoyan Ganev, will  take  such a lead in 
initiating  decisive  and  specific  actions  so as to make  full  use of  the role 
that  the General  Assembly was  assigned  under  the Charter,  for  the good of the 
millions  of  innocent  people  throughout  the world  who  live  in regions where 
peace  and  tranquillity  have yet  to be achieved,  and  so  that  areas of  conflict 
that might  lead  to  regional  instability  can be  contained. 
In conclusion,  my  delegation would be pleased  to take part  in any action 
by  the General  Assembly  towards  raising  further  hopes  for  the  safety, 
prosperity  and  security  of  troubled  areas of  the world,  areas where  currently 
there  is no hope  for  a better  tomorrow,  for a safer  and more  peaceful 
environment  or  for  future generations  to  live  in peace  and  prosperity. 
A/47/PV.38 
86 
Mr. VOHOR  (Vanuatu):  The Charter  of  the United Nations begins  with 
the oft-quoted  words, "We the peoples  of  the United Nations".  However,  while 
deeply concerned  with  the peoples,  their  lives and their  aspirations,  the 
Charter  in Article  2 explicitly  states: 
"Nothing  contained  in the present Charter  shall  authorize  the United 
Nations  to intervene  in matters which  are essentially within the  domestic 
jurisdiction  of  any  state  ..." 
Thus the Charter  primarily  addresses  the  interaction  of nation  States. 
Today  a changed  and  still  rapidly changing world  in the economic  and 
social sphere,  the environmental  sphere  and  the sphere  of  international  peace 
and security demands  a new and  fresh  look at the Charter  and  the ways  in which 
the United  Nations  functions  and  responds.  Accordingly, we, like others, 
greet the Secretary-General's  important  report  entitled  "An Agenda For  Peace" 
with considerable  interest  and  appreciation  of  the vision  and  foresight  it 
exhibits. 
The  representative  of  Indonesia, when he  spoke on behalf  of  the 
non-aligned  countries,  succinctly  expressed  some views  of my  own country.  We 
now take this  opportunity  to expand on a  few of  our  own specific  views on  this 
very important  report  and  its far-reaching  proposals. 
Several  issues  raised  in the  report  require  careful  thought  and 
consideration,  particularly  in the  light of  the very delicate balance  between 
the rights of people  on  the one hand  and  the rights, duties  and obligations  of 
nation States  on  the  other. 
Democracy within, between  and  among nations  is a sound  foundation  for  the 
development  and promotion  of peace  and  social progress  in the world.  We  have 
all borne witness  to the wave of democracy  sweeping over  the globe.  However, 
that wave  of  democracy may prove  to be deceptive  if the  current  relations 
A/47/PV.38 
87 
(Mr. Vohor. Vanuatu) 
between nations  are not  also  democratized  and do not  reflect  the  sovereign 
equality  envisaged  in the Charter. 
Every  country has  an  interest  in  international  peace  and  security, and 
every  country  has  the  responsibility  to help  foster  and uphold  international 
peace  and  security.  This  is true, no matter  how  large  and wealthy  or how 
small  and economically  less well  situated  a country may be.  We  are one of 
those  countries  that believe  it  is not healthy  for  international  democracy for 
a  small group  of  countries  to make  all  the major  decisions  involving peace and 
security  for  the entire  international  community.  How  can  such decisions be 
made,  and  then  supported by  all  of us, without  the benefit  of  the thoughts and 
other possible  contributions  of  all members  of  the  international  community? 
All of  us have  ideas  to offer.  All of  us have  abilities which could and 
should be  utilized  on behalf  of  the effort  to develop  international  peace and 
security.  All of  us have  values, perspectives  and points  of view  that should 
be  considered  when decisions  involving  international  peace  and  security are 
about  to be made.  We  thus concur with  the very  relevant  observation by the 
Secretary-General  that  democracy within  the  family of  nations would  require 
"... the  fullest  consultation,  participation  and engagement  of all 
States,  large  and  small, in the work  of  the Organization."  (A/47/277. 
para.  82) 
A very  critical  issue  for my  country  is respect  for  the human rights, 
dignity  and  equality  of  all human beings.  For  us, human  rights,  including 
their very  important  civil, political, economic,  social  and  cultural 
components,  are  indivisible  and  interdependent.  We  see  the  right  to economic 
and  social  development  as an essential  element  of human  rights.  Thus it 
saddens  us  to  see human  rights  addressed  selectively  at  the expense of the 
legitimate  economic,  social  and  cultural  concerns  of  developing  countries.  We 
A/47/PV.38 
88 
(Mr. Vohor.  Vanuatu) 
would wish  to proceed with great  caution  in endorsing  proposals  that  would 
allow overt  intervention by developed  countries  in the affairs of  developing 
countries  for  the  selective  promotion  of  certain  aspects of human rights. 
After all, what  country,  either  developed  or developing,  can claim  to have a 
spotless  record giving  it immunity  from the  scrutiny  and even  the criticism  of 
others when  it comes  to every dimension  of human  rights? 
We certainly  agree  that  the  international  community  should  not  sit  idly 
by and witness widespread  patterns  of human-rights  abuse.  We do not want  to 
see innocent  people  victimized  and  in some  instances  even have  their 
identities erased.  However, we must  respect  the  rule of  law even  in 
developing  and  fostering  international  human-rights  law; we  cannot  take part 
in a selective  infringement  of  the  sovereignty  of certain States while  leaving 
the sovereignty  of others  untouched.  Many of  the proposals made  in this  area 
have merits.  However,  they  can gain broad  international  acceptance  only  if 
they are general  in nature  and non-discriminatory,  and  if their provisions  can 
be objectively  applied  in all  instances. 
Every nation  represented  here  is very well  aware of  the historic  reason 
why developing  countries, particularly  those  that have only  recently  emerged 
from colonialism,  are  cautious when  it comes  to proposals  that might be  seen 
as affecting  their  national  sovereignty.  Some have  now begun  to speak  of 
certain limits  to national  sovereignty  as a natural  progression  in mankind's 
political and  social  evolution.  For  those  of  us who have had  to  struggle  to 
reclaim our  legal, political  and  cultural  identities  it may be  somewhat 
premature  to propose  potential  limits  to our deeply  cherished  national 
sovereignty.  This  is especially  true when  so many  of  the historic  grievances 
of developing  countries  are not  even addressed,  let  alone  resolved. 
A/47/PV.38 
89-90 
(Mr. Vohor. Vanuatu) 
On balance, we  support  "An Agenda  for Peace".  However, we  feel  that 
everyone's  views must be  carefully  solicited  and  that we must  carefully 
analyse  and weigh  the potential  impact  of provisions which  could be  seen as 
potentially  restricting  national  sovereignty. 
A/47/PV.38 
91 
(Mr. Vohor.  Vanuatu) 
Therefore, we  join with others  in proposing  the establishment  of  a 
working group  to  study  the  report.  We believe  it to be appropriate  to  assign 
detailed  consideration  to a working group given that  specific mandate.  This 
will accord  the matter  the  importance  it merits. 
In conclusion, we  consider  "An Agenda  for Peace" to be  a very  valuable 
contribution.  We  look  forward  to making  our  own contribution  to the  process 
which will  see  the  ideas  contained  in the report  evolve  into useful  tools  for 
the future growth  and development  of  international  peace  and  security  for  all 
countries  and  all peoples. 
The meeting  rose at  6.30  p.m. 
