United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
44th
PLENARY MEETING
Friday, 29 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
Ballot papers containing the name of a State other than
Guinea-Bissau or Nigeria, or containing the name of more
than one State, will be declared invalid.
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
I recognize the delegation of Guinea-Bissau.
AGENDA ITEM 15 (continued)
ELECTIONS TO FILL VACANCIES IN PRINCIPAL
ORGANS:
(a) ELECTION OF
FIVE NON-PERMANENT
MEMBERS OF THE SECURITY COUNCIL
Mr. TOURÉ (Guinea-Bissau)
(interpretation from
French): The General Assembly, after three rounds of
balloting, has not been able to take a decision on the last
vacancy for Africa. After three rounds of balloting, the
General Assembly has not been able to decide between the
two candidate countries, given that neither of those two
countries was able to obtain the necessary two-thirds
majority.
This afternoon,
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly will
five
non-permanent members of the Security Council to replace
those members whose term of office expires on 31
December 1993.
continue with the
election of
Since the second restricted ballot held this morning has
been inconclusive and one seat still remains to be filled from
among the African and Asian States, we shall now proceed
to the third restricted ballot.
This fourth round of balloting shall be restricted to
those two States from among the African and Asian States
which were not elected but obtained the largest number of
votes in the previous ballot - namely Guinea-Bissau and
Nigeria. This is in accordance with rule 94 of the rules of
procedure.
The ballot papers will now be distributed.
May I ask representatives to write on the ballot papers
the name of the State for which they want to vote.
That situation is the result of not
following the
recommendation made by the Group of African States in
New York with regard to the African candidacy. The
General Assembly
the
recommendations of
regional groups with regard to
candidates.
If it has been otherwise this year, it is because
the information made available to Member States has been
incorrect.
respected
always
has
In point of fact - and contrary to the allegation made
this morning - Rwanda and Guinea-Bissau are and remain
the only two valid candidates put forward by the Group of
African States. The results of the first three ballots amply
demonstrate that the African Group has held to its decision
and are eloquent testimony to the sense of discipline and
cohesion on which the Group has always prided itself.
This morning’s meeting demonstrated that the African
States cannot and should not act in a disparate fashion if
they wish to uphold their vital collective interests.
Guinea-Bissau submitted its candidacy for the Security
Council on the recommendation of the Group of African
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87018 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.44
22 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
States because of its desire to serve the interests of that
Group and to work with the rest of the international
community in promoting peace and security in the world.
The interests of States both large and small,
taken
take precedence over collective
individually, should not
interests, and it has never been the intention of the Assembly
to endorse such precedence.
It
is with that understanding and in a spirit of
preserving the repute and higher interests of Africa that my
delegation has decided to withdraw the candidacy of
Guinea-Bissau. On behalf of my country I should like to
thank all the delegations that supported and continue to
support us and that have given us their encouragement.
The PRESIDENT:
I thank the representative of
Guinea-Bissau for his cooperation.
In accordance with the rules of procedure, we shall now
proceed to the third restricted ballot, taking into account the
statement just made by the representative of Guinea-Bissau.
We are in the process of voting, and I understand that
the representative of Nigeria wishes to make a statement. I
call upon that representative, on the understanding that his
statement relates to the process under way.
Mr. GAMBARI (Nigeria):
to thank the
representative of Guinea-Bissau, a sister African country, for
the conclusion of his statement. Nigeria has always acted in
the best spirit of Africa unity, but, to put the record straight,
I wish to say this:
I want
There were indeed differences of opinion with regard to
the recommendation of the candidatures committee within
the Group of African States. In any event, the Organization
of African Unity (OAU), which is the highest political body
of the African States, had indicated in the decision taken at
the last meeting of the OAU Council of Ministers and the
it had decided to recognize both
Summit Meeting that
Nigeria
the
non-permanent seat on the Security Council to be vacated by
Cape Verde.
and Guinea-Bissau
for
as
candidates
I just wanted to set the record straight and to thank my
colleague from Guinea-Bissau.
The PRESIDENT:
In accordance with the rules of
procedure we shall now proceed to the third restricted ballot,
taking into account the statement made by the representative
of Guinea-Bissau.
This round of balloting shall be restricted to those two
States from among the African and Asian States which were
not elected but obtained the largest number of votes in the
previous ballot, namely, Guinea-Bissau and Nigeria. This is
in accordance with rule 94 of the rules of procedure.
I understand that
the ballot papers have been
distributed. May I ask representatives to write on the ballot
papers the name of the State for which they want to vote.
Ballot papers will be declared invalid if they contain the
name of a State other than Guinea-Bissau or Nigeria and if
they contain the name of more than one State.
At
the invitation of the President, Mr. Suziedelis
(Lithuania), Ms. Jonsvik (Norway) and Mr. Berguido
(Panama) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 3.45 p.m. and resumed
at 4 p.m.
The PRESIDENT: The result of the voting for one
is as
the Security Council
non-permanent member of
follows:
Group A - African and Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting
Required two-thirds majority
Number of votes obtained:
Nigeria
Guinea-Bissau
162
2
160
8
152
102
119
33
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority,
Nigeria was elected a non-permanent member of the
Security Council for a two-year period beginning on
1 January 1994.
The PRESIDENT: I congratulate the State which has
been elected a member of the Security Council, and I thank
the tellers for their assistance in this election.
The following five States have been elected members
of the Security Council for a two-year term beginning on 1
January 1994: Argentina, the Czech Republic, Nigeria,
Oman and Rwanda.
This concludes our consideration of sub-item (a) of
agenda item 15.
The meeting rose at 4.05 p.m.
