United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 3 (continued)
CREDENTIALS OF REPRESENTATIVES TO THE
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL
ASSEMBLY
(b) FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS
COMMITTEE (A/48/512)
The PRESIDENT: The draft resolution recommended
by the Credentials Committee in paragraph 12 of its first
report (A/48/512) reads as follows:
"The General Assembly,
"Having considered the
first
Credentials Committee
contained therein,
and the
the
report of
recommendation
"Approves the first
report of
the Credentials
Committee."
We shall now proceed to consider the draft resolution
recommended by the Credentials Committee in its first
report.
Before I call on the first speaker in explanation of vote
on the recommendation of the Credentials Committee, may
I remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited to
10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
43rd
PLENARY MEETING
Friday, 29 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
Mr. SHAHREZA (Islamic Republic of Iran): My
delegation wishes to express its reservations regarding
paragraph 4 of the first report of the Credentials Committee,
document A/48/512, on the credentials of Israel. For this
reason, and in line with the position of the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran on the issue, my delegation
wishes to dissociate itself from the parts of the said report
referring to the approval of the credentials of Israel.
report of
Mr. AMER (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): At a time when the General Assembly
the Credentials
intends to approve the first
Committee, document A/48/512,
the approval of my
delegation of this report does not mean at all recognition of
the credential papers of
Despite the latest
developments on the question of Palestine we do not think
that
this is an overall, comprehensive solution to this
question. The solution would be the full recognition of all
the rights of the Palestinian people and, especially their
rights of return to their homeland, self-determination and the
establishment of their own independent State.
Israel.
The PRESIDENT: We shall now take action on the
recommendation of the Credentials Committee contained in
paragraph 12 of its first report (A/48/512).
The Committee adopted the draft resolution without a
vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the
same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 48/13).
The PRESIDENT: We have thus concluded this stage
of our consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 3.
AGENDA ITEM 15 (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87012 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.43
22 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
ELECTIONS TO FILL VACANCIES IN PRINCIPAL
ORGANS
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to that
procedure?
(a) ELECTION OF
FIVE NON-PERMANENT
It was so decided.
MEMBERS OF THE SECURITY COUNCIL
The PRESIDENT: The General Assembly will now
proceed to the election of five non-permanent members of
the Security Council to replace those members whose term
of office expires on 31 December 1993.
The five non-permanent outgoing members are the
following: Cape Verde, Hungary, Japan, Morocco and
Venezuela. These five States cannot be re-elected and
therefore their names should not appear on the ballot papers.
Apart from the five permanent members, the Security
Council will include in 1994 the following States: Brazil,
Djibouti, New Zealand, Pakistan and Spain. The names of
those States,
therefore, should not appear on the ballot
papers.
Of the five non-permanent members which will remain
in office in 1994 two are from Africa and Asia, one is from
Latin America and the Caribbean and two are from the
Group of Western European and other States.
The PRESIDENT:
In accordance with rule 92 of the
rules of procedure, the election shall be held by secret ballot,
and there shall be no nominations.
Does any Member wish to speak before we proceed to
the election?
I now call on the representative of Zimbabwe as
Chairman of the Group of African States.
Mr. MUMBENGEGWI (Zimbabwe):
Africa has
endorsed the candidature of Rwanda from the central Africa
region to fill one of the two non-permanent seats in the
to be vacated on 31 December 1993.
Security Council
the same cannot be said for the west Africa
However,
Hence both Guinea-Bissau and Nigeria are
region.
candidates to fill
in the
Security Council to be vacated on 31 December 1993.
the other non-permanent seat
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Indonesia as Chairman of the Group of Asian States.
Consequently, pursuant
to paragraph 3 of General
Assembly resolution 1991 A (XVIII) of 17 December 1963,
the five non-permanent members should be elected according
to the following pattern:
three from Africa and Asia, one
from Eastern Europe and one from Latin America and the
Caribbean. The ballot papers reflect this pattern.
Mr. WISNUMURTI (Indonesia):
In my capacity as
Chairman of the Asian Group for the month of October 1993
I have the honour to inform the Assembly that the Asian
Group has endorsed the candidature of the Sultanate of
Oman for election to a non-permanent seat in the Security
Council.
In accordance with the established practice there is an
understanding to the effect that of the three States to be
elected from Africa and Asia, two should be from Africa
and one from Asia.
I should like to inform the Assembly that the number
of candidates, not exceeding the number of seats to be filled,
receiving the greatest number of votes and a two-thirds
majority of those present and voting will be declared elected.
In the case of a tie vote for a remaining seat, there will
be a restricted ballot limited to those candidates which have
obtained an equal number of votes.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
the Russian Federation as Chairman of the Group of Eastern
European States.
Mr. VORONTSOV (Russian Federation)(interpretation
from Russian): As Chairman of the Group of Eastern
European States for the month of October I have the honour
to announce that for the one seat for a non-permanent
member of the Security Council allocated to the Group of
Eastern European States there are two candidates, Belarus
and the Czech Republic.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Cuba as Chairman of the Group of Latin American and
Caribbean States.
Mr. REMÍREZ DE ESTENOZ (Cuba) (interpretation
from Spanish): As Chairman of
the Group of Latin
American and Caribbean States, I have the honour of
informing the General Assembly that the Group supports and
endorses Argentina as the single candidate from our region
43rd meeting - Friday, 29 October l993
3
for the corresponding seat on the Security Council. We
commend to the Assembly the candidature of the Republic
of Argentina, confident that Argentina will make a valuable
contribution to the work of this important organ.
The PRESIDENT:
In accordance with the rules of
procedure, we shall proceed to the election by secret ballot,
taking
the
representatives of Zimbabwe,
the Russian
Federation and Cuba.
statements made
Indonesia,
into
account
the
by
On behalf of the General Assembly I should like to
convey our heartfelt condolences to the Government and the
people of Burundi, and to the bereaved family.
I invite representatives to stand and observe a minute of
silence in tribute to the memory of the late President of the
Republic of Burundi.
The members of the General Assembly observed a
minute of silence.
Ballot papers marked "A", "B" and "C" will now be
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
distributed.
Zimbabwe.
I request representatives to use only those ballot papers
that have been distributed and to write on them the names of
the five States for which they wish to vote.
A ballot paper containing the names of more States
from the relevant region than the number of seats assigned
to it will be declared invalid. Names, on a ballot paper, of
Member States that do not belong to that region will not be
counted.
At
the invitation of the President, Mr. Suziedelis
(Lithuania), Ms. Jonsvik (Norway) and Mr. Berguido
(Panama) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF MELCHIOR
NDADAYE, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
BURUNDI
The PRESIDENT: Before suspending the meeting for
the counting of ballots, I propose that the General Assembly
pay a tribute to the memory of the late President of the
Republic of Burundi, His Excellency Mr. Melchior Ndadaye.
Just over three weeks ago the General Assembly had
the honour to hear President Ndadaye’s eloquent, thoughtful
and profound address.
In the course of his statement he
informed us that on 1 June 1993 Burundi had held free, open
and fair general elections for the first time. He believed that
the path of democracy was the only way to resolve the
problems of power that affected the Republic.
Last week’s attempted military coup against his
Government, in which the President was assassinated, was
a serious blow to Burundi’s progress and a personal shock
to all of us who retain very vivid memories of this respected
leader.
Mr. MUMBENGEGWI (Zimbabwe):
I should like to
begin by thanking you, Mr. President, for the tribute that has
been paid at this meeting to the memory of the late President
of the Republic of Burundi, His Excellency Mr. Melchior
Ndadaye.
Allow me, on behalf of the African Group, to express
to our colleagues in the delegation of Burundi and, through
them, to the bereaved people of their country our sincere
sympathy and condolences on the very untimely death of
their President.
We in the African Group received the tragic news of
the assassination of President Ndadaye with great shock and
personal grief. We had had the singular honour and
privilege only three weeks earlier of welcoming President
Ndadaye to the United Nations, and I as Chairman of the
African Group enjoyed the privilege of presenting him to the
Group.
Mrs. Frechette (Canada), Vice-President,
took the
Chair.
His address to the Group, just like his earlier address to
the General Assembly that same morning, was most
profound and inspiring.
the pinnacle of his political
Brutally murdered in the very prime of his young life
and at
leadership and
statesmanship, President Ndadaye had dedicated his life to
the promotion of democracy and the general well-being of
his people. He had gained deserved recognition in Africa as
a courageous fighter for democratic principles and peaceful
cooperation between peoples and nations.
It was in
recognition of his courage and leadership qualities that, in
Burundi’s first democratic elections on 1 June this year, the
people of Burundi overwhelmingly mandated Mr. Ndadaye
to lead the country as President.
The tragedy that has befallen the people of Burundi is
enormous. The bloody and senseless attempted coup and the
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
brutal and despicable assassination of President Ndadaye and
other democratically elected national leaders are not only
setbacks for democracy, but have also brought the peace-
loving people of that country perilously close to the brink of
civil war. The highest tribute we could ever pay to the late
President, as well as the most fitting solace we could offer
the grieving nation of Burundi, would be for
the
international community to stand solidly behind the people
of Burundi as they close ranks at this tragic hour behind the
legitimately elected Government to preserve their hard-won
democratic gains.
In that regard, we note with appreciation the dispatch
by the United Nations Secretary-General of a Special Envoy
to Burundi, as well as the efforts of the Secretary General of
the Organization of African Unity to consult with
neighbouring Heads of State on the best way to restore the
authority of the legitimate Government of Burundi. We also
note with appreciation the rapid response of the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the World
Food Programme
to the
humanitarian needs of the people of Burundi.
and other
relief
agencies
I should like, therefore, on behalf of the Group of
African States, to reiterate our grief and sorrow at this tragic
loss and to convey to the bereaved families of the President
and the others who lost their lives in this tragedy our deepest
sympathy and condolences.
Finally, I wish to thank Mr. Insanally for allowing us
this opportunity to share our grief with the people of
Burundi over their irreparable loss, and to pay homage to
that fine son of Africa, the late President Melchior Ndadaye.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Indonesia, who will speak on behalf of the Asian Group of
States.
Mr. WISNUMURTI (Indonesia):
I have the sad duty
to state, on behalf of the Asian Group of States, that the
members of our
regional Group have learned with a
profound sense of sorrow and grief of the passing of
President Melchior Ndadaye.
His untimely death under tragic circumstances has cut
short a promising career in the service of his country and of
the continent of Africa. From the early years of his life, he
saw it as his duty to place himself at the service of his
country. Because of his unshakeable faith in freedom,
progress, democracy and human rights, he enjoyed the
esteem and admiration of his people. He will undoubtedly
leave his mark as a man who served his country with
devotion and dedication.
On behalf of
the Asian Group,
I convey to the
Government and people of Burundi and the bereaved family,
through the intermediary of the Burundi delegation, our
sincere condolences.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
the Russian Federation, who will speak on behalf of the
Group of Eastern European States.
Mr. VORONTSOV (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): On behalf of the members of the Eastern
European Group of States, I would like to pay tribute to the
deceased President of Burundi, Mr. Melchior Ndadaye, who
fell victim to the military coup against the democratically
elected Government of Burundi.
The criminal acts of violence committed by the
perpetrators of the coup have been unanimously condemned
by the international community.
I ask the delegation of Burundi to convey to the family
of the deceased President and the Government and people of
Burundi our sincere condolences. It is our sincere hope that
democracy and constitutional rule will be promptly restored
in Burundi.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
Cuba, who will speak on behalf of the Latin American and
Caribbean Group of States.
Mr. REMÍREZ DE ESTENOZ (Cuba) (interpretation
from Spanish): The members of the Latin American and
Caribbean Group of States learned with profound sorrow of
the death on 21 October of the President of the Republic of
Burundi, Mr. Melchior Ndadaye, and of prominent members
of his Government as a result of a bloody coup d’état in that
fraternal African country.
May I today, on behalf of the Latin American and
Caribbean Group, express the heartfelt condolences of our
members to the people and Government of Burundi, the
members of the President’s family and all those others who
were close to him. We hope that the country can continue
along the path freely and in a sovereign manner chosen by
its people towards progress, development and well-being.
The PRESIDENT: I next call on the representative of
New Zealand, who will speak on behalf of the Group of
Western European and Other States.
Mr. KEATING (New Zealand):
It was with great
sadness and regret that the delegations of the Group of
Western European and Other States learned of the tragic
death of the President of Burundi, Mr. Melchior Ndadaye.
43rd meeting - Friday, 29 October l993
5
We recall that just 25 days ago President Ndadaye, the
leader of a democratically elected Government, stood before
the Assembly at this very podium and offered us his vision
of a peaceful and prosperous Burundi. President Ndadaye
was a young man, and the vision he offered was a young
man’s vision, of hope, unity and dignity for all people in his
country.
His untimely death, just when real political progress
was being made in Burundi, leaves us all with a sense of
loss and outrage. We condemn those responsible for the
deaths of the President and his compatriots, and we hope
that they will be brought to justice.
On behalf of the Group of Western European and Other
States, I should like, on this solemn occasion, to convey our
most sincere condolences to the bereaved families, to the
people and the Government of Burundi, and to our
colleagues in the Burundi delegation.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
the United States of America as the host country, Her
Excellency Mrs. Madeleine Korbel Albright.
joins
Mrs. ALBRIGHT (United States of America): The
the world in
United States, as host country,
condemning the murder of President Ndadaye and other high
Government officials. This reprehensible action violates the
most fundamental principles of law and morality. We
extend our sincere condolences to the late President’s wife
and family and to the families of all those who were killed
or injured, or who have disappeared.
We are shocked and deeply saddened by the violence
and mounting casualties in Burundi. We urge all sides to
refrain from violence and to respect the authority of the
elected Government.
the
action
for
perpetrating
The United States reiterates its demand that
against
those
responsible
the
democratically elected Government of Burundi reveal the
whereabouts and fate of all Government officials and others
who may have been taken prisoner or who disappeared
during this action. We support the Government’s right to
prosecute to the fullest extent of the law those responsible
for murder,
the
Government and people of Burundi.
rebellion and other offences against
We salute the freely elected Government and the people
of Burundi, who remain committed to consolidating their
country’s democracy.
The international community is
unanimous in its support of Burundi’s democratic transition
and will condemn any attempt to reverse it.
We are encouraged by the recent signs that the coup
attempt is collapsing. Prime Minister Kinigi and other
members of the cabinet have taken important measures to
reassert control over the country. We applaud the bravery of
the Prime Minister,
the Foreign Minister and other
Government officials who have persevered throughout the
crisis and are now working to consolidate the Government’s
control over the situation.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Burundi, His Excellency Mr. Therénce Sinunguruza,
Permanent Representative of Burundi.
Mr. SINUNGURUZA (Burundi) (interpretation from
French): The tragic circumstances that so recently brought
sorrow to my country lead me to speak today in this forum,
where you have just paid a final tribute to a man who, only
three weeks ago and from this very rostrum, conveyed to
you a message of peace, unity and democracy from the
people of Burundi.
I should like in turn to carry out that duty. But before
so doing, may I first of all thank most sincerely, on behalf
of the people of Burundi, of my Government and on my
own behalf, all those who have supported us and continue to
support us during the tribulations forced upon us by a
military group intent on achieving their own self-interest by
any means possible.
Yes, indeed! The Assembly stood together in silence
just now to condemn this putsch and the assassination of our
President, and the people of Burundi are deeply grateful for
this tribute.
I thank most particularly those who spoke on behalf of
their organizations and of their Member States for the
sympathy and support they expressed to my people, who are
going through a very difficult period.
I also thank the
Security Council for the swiftness with which it reacted to
the situation in my country and for
its crystal-clear
declaration to those who were usurping the sovereignty of
our people. We are certain that assistance from the
international community will help us quickly to restore peace
and stability in Burundi.
the first President of
The enemies of peace have struck, and they have struck
with great force. His Excellency Mr. Melchior Ndadaye
was
the Republic of Burundi
democratically elected by the people. The Assembly has just
paid a final tribute to him, and for this I should like to thank
the Members wholeheartedly. His most earnest desire was
that the people of Burundi might finally be shielded from
ethnic confrontation, so that not one more drop of blood
might be shed. But alas, he did not know that the enemies
of peace, unity and democracy were going to begin by
By sacrificing himself, he has become a martyr for
democracy. "Never again" - the phrase he spoke from this
rostrum only 17 days before his tragic passing - will give
pause to many peace-loving Burundians for a long time.
And today, I say, "Enough of this!" We must finally put an
end to the cycle of tragedies which have struck my country.
Indeed, the consequences of this putsch were such that
the old demons of division have arisen again just when we
thought that they had finally been relegated to the trash heap
of history.
Ethnic violence is currently ravaging the
countryside of Burundi.
People are seeking refuge in
wretched and unsafe areas, and a great many of them have
fled to neighbouring countries. The number of displaced
persons and refugees is now estimated at 400,000.
Though irreparable harm has already been done, the
international community must now help us put a stop to this
carnage. This requires the restoration and protection of the
constitutional order resulting from the June elections.
My Government, which is prepared to take things in
hand once again, nevertheless requires a minimum of
security. Indeed, it can no longer trust its army, which rose
up one fine morning to shoot down an innocent President
without any apparent reason. That is why the international
community must understand the appeal made by my
Government for an international force to come to Burundi to
ensure the security of political and democratic authorities, to
restore peace and security to our population and to help in
the return and resettlement of displaced persons and
refugees. We have no doubt that this community, already
aware of the situation in my country, will not fail to give us
its full support.
We also would like to avail ourselves of
this
opportunity to appeal to all States Members of the United
Nations,
to
non-governmental organizations
to lend my country
emergency humanitarian assistance for displaced persons and
refugees.
international
to
organizations
and
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Oman
Rwanda
Nigeria
Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Group B - Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Czech Republic
Belarus
Group C - Latin American and Caribbean States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
176
0
176
0
176
118
174
153
99
82
2
176
0
176
1
175
117
113
62
176
1
175
5
170
114
169
1
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
shedding his own blood and that this brutal and outrageous
act would entail great loss of human life.
The meeting was suspended at 11.25 a.m. and
resumed at 11.50 a.m.
The President returned to the Chair.
The PRESIDENT: The result of the voting for the
election of five non-permanent members of the Security
Council is as follows:
Group A - African and Asian States
His Excellency Mr. Ndadaye has just been assassinated
on the battlefield of democracy. He therefore deserves to be
called a hero of democracy in Burundi.
Argentina
Honduras
For all
those who wish to address their written
condolences to my people, our Permanent Mission has
opened a register for that purpose. To all those who have
already done so, I would like to convey my gratitude.
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, the
following States were elected non-permanent members of
the Security Council for a two-year period beginning
1 January 1994: Argentina, Oman and Rwanda.
43rd meeting - Friday, 29 October l993
The PRESIDENT: I congratulate the States which have
the Security
been elected non-permanent members of
Council.
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
7
173
116
105
68
176
1
175
1
174
116
127
47
Since two seats remain to be filled, one from the
African and Asian States and one from the Eastern European
States, we shall now proceed to the first restricted ballot.
This second round of balloting shall be restricted to
those two States from among the African and Asian States
that were not elected but obtained the largest number of
votes in the previous ballot, namely Guinea-Bissau and
Nigeria; and to those two States from among the Eastern
European States that were not elected but obtained the
largest number of votes in the previous ballot, namely
Belarus and the Czech Republic.
This is in accordance with rule 94 of the rules of
procedure.
Ballot papers marked "A" and "B" will now be
distributed.
May I ask representatives to write on the ballot papers
marked "A", for the African and Asian States, the name of
the State for which they want to vote, and to write on the
ballot papers marked "B", for the Eastern European States,
the name of the State for which they want to vote. Ballot
papers marked "A" will be declared invalid if they contain
the name of a State other than Guinea-Bissau or Nigeria and
if they contain the name of more than one State. Ballot
papers marked "B" will be declared invalid if they contain
the name of a State other than Belarus or the Czech
Republic and if they contain the name of more than one
State.
At
the invitation of the President, Mr. Suziedelis
(Lithuania), Ms. Jonsvik (Norway) and Mr. Berguido
(Panama) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and
resumed at 12.45 p.m.
The PRESIDENT: The result of the voting for the
election of two non-permanent members of the Security
Council is as follows:
Group A - African and Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
176
2
174
1
Nigeria
Guinea-Bissau
Group B - Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Czech Republic
Belarus
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, the
Czech Republic was elected a non-permanent member of
the Security Council for a two-year period beginning
1 January 1994.
The PRESIDENT:
I congratulate the State that has
been elected a non-permanent member of the Security
Council.
Since one seat remains to be filled from among the
African and Asian States, we shall now proceed to the
second restricted ballot. This third round of balloting will be
restricted to the two States from among the African and
Asian States which were not elected but obtained the largest
number of votes
in the previous ballot - namely
Guinea-Bissau and Nigeria. This is in accordance with rule
94 of the rules of procedure.
The ballot papers will now be distributed.
May I ask representatives to write on the ballot papers
the name of one State for which they wish to vote. Ballot
papers containing the name of a State other
than
Guinea-Bissau or Nigeria, as well as any containing more
than one name, will be declared invalid.
At
the invitation of the President, Mr. Suziedelis
(Lithuania), Ms. Jonsvik (Norway) and Mr. Berguido
(Panama) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed
at 1.15 p.m.
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
8
The PRESIDENT: The result of the voting for one
is as
the Security Council
non-permanent member of
follows:
Group A - African and Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Nigeria
Guinea-Bissau
176
0
176
1
175
117
116
59
The PRESIDENT: This restricted ballot has been
inconclusive. In accordance with the rules of procedure, we
all continue with the series of restricted ballots, but in view
of the late hour I propose that we postpone further balloting
until the next meeting.
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
