yUnited Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
In the absence of the President, Mr. Yoo (Republic of
Korea), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. KAPUTIN (Papua New Guinea): On behalf of the
people and Government of Papua New Guinea, I should like
to congratulate Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on his
election to preside over the General Assembly at its forty-
eighth session.
In so doing, I should like to recall - and to
express my delegation’s sincere appreciation for - the even-
handed and efficient manner in which his predecessor, Mr.
Stoyan Ganev, the Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, presided
over the Assembly at its forty-seventh session.
His outstanding example has maintained and thereby
helped to strengthen a high standard which we are confident
Mr. Insanally will match. His election brings us particular
pleasure because of the many important interests which
Guyana shares with Papua New Guinea and the increasingly
strong relations which have been developing between our
two countries, mainly through cooperation in the context of
multilateral organizations such as the Commonwealth, the
African, Caribbean and Pacific group of Governments parties
to the Lomé Convention, and the United Nations itself.
The Government of Papua New Guinea is also pleased
to welcome the further progress towards the universal
membership of the United Nations marked by the admission
24th
PLENARY MEETING
Monday, 11 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
of the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Eritrea, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and
Andorra. We look forward to cooperating with their
Governments and delegations in advancing the objectives of
the United Nations.
In welcoming the new Members, I feel bound to
observe that my Government is concerned that other small
States, including a number in the South Pacific, which find
it difficult to afford to join and send missions to the United
Nations, should be provided with the means of keeping
abreast of developments and of having proper account taken
of their interests, perhaps through such arrangements as a
regional observer, as a number of Governments have
proposed to the South Pacific Forum.
I turn now to the proposed United Nations initiative on
opportunity and participation. When I addressed the General
Assembly 12 months ago,
I had chosen
"opportunity and participation" as the main theme and goal
of my policy as Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also forecast
that my Government would be formally proposing an
initiative for the United Nations bearing the same name.
I said that
It
The proposal is now listed as item 151 on the agenda
of the current session of the General Assembly.
The
initiative is, of course, important for Papua New Guinea -
opportunity and participation are, in fact, among the national
goals and directive principles embodied in our national
Constitution.
to other developing
countries where increasing opportunity for, and participation
by, citizens is a public issue and an official aim.
It is,
to countries where previous
moreover, directly relevant
economic arrangements are in transition to markets.
In an
increasingly interdependent world, where issues and ideas
often have global implications, it should be of interest and
certainly deserves support worldwide.
is also important
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86813 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.24
1 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Papua New Guinea became independent on the very
same day, 16 September 1975, as the General Assembly
adopted a consensus
resolution - 3362 (S-VII), on
"Development and international economic co-operation" -
directed, in the words of its first preambular paragraph, "to
accelerate the development of developing countries". The
timing was, almost certainly, coincidental. But it is none the
less worthy of notice because of what it suggests about the
circumstances, including a continuing need to achieve the
same aim on the part of countries such as Papua New
Guinea both then and now.
In the early l990s, Papua New Guinea has been
enjoying an unprecedented rate of economic growth,
measured, in the standard terms employed by bodies such as
the World Bank, at something more than 9 per cent per year.
But few would suggest that the living standards of most of
our people have improved at anything like the same rate.
The measure is quite seriously misleading, as many of us
have known for a very long time. But so are government
policies and processes of economic development that fail to
pay adequate attention to questions of distribution, including
who benefits and who takes part. I refer here, I should add,
to distribution not only of Government services but of
openings - and even more to effective access - for people to
benefit by taking part in economic development.
In certain sectors of society in many countries,
including my own, people - particularly those living in rural
areas - are still trying to enter the cash economy for the first
time. In other sectors and even more countries, people who
have long been engaged in monetary transactions are trying
to increase openings, access and mutually beneficial
interactions.
Increasing opportunity and participation is, in
many respects, a universal goal. The urgency of the need to
address
the means of achieving it comprehensively,
systematically, thoroughly and critically now arises out of
concern at several features of the current
international
situation.
The
first
is
the difficult
and often worsening
circumstances of and in many developing countries. A
second is the problems being encountered in the transition to
markets in countries where economic arrangements were
previously State-centred. Another feature results from a
tendency among economic policy-makers in widely scattered
parts of the world, including developed countries and the
major international financial institutions, during the 1980s to
favour reducing the economic role of the State and to leave
questions of access and distribution of benefits to markets.
Complicating the effects of so-called "aid fatigue" in
developed countries are the increasing need and demand for
investment and commercial
loans arising from the
aid,
changes occurring in Eastern and Central Europe, the former
Soviet Union, southern Africa and the Middle East. New
opportunities for scarce capital and other resources are also
opening up in the same and other areas. Furthermore,
expensive and urgent needs will have to be met when the
terrible conflicts currently raging in the former Yugoslavia,
the Caucasus, parts of Africa and elsewhere are resolved and
rehabilitation can get under way.
resumption or
In other words,
continuation of
development in many parts of the world will require that
more must be done with less. Opportunity, access and
beneficial participation in economic development must be
quite dramatically increased if living conditions are to be
maintained, let alone improved.
The proposal which the Papua New Guinea Government
is therefore making is for the United Nations to establish a
small panel of distinguished, expert and experienced persons
broadly representative of the international community to
review what has already been done and to identify options
to increase opportunity and participation, with particular,
though not exclusive,
reference to the economies of
developing countries. We propose not an academic study,
but one that draws on actual experience and makes
recommendations for practical action. We do not have any
fixed ideas about what it should say. Rather, we want it to
make a close, critical examination of what has been
attempted, what has been proposed and what has been - for
whatever reason, or for none - overlooked.
its involvement
We emphatically do not want the project to begin with
doctrinaire assumptions; rather, we want it to ask questions -
for example, about when and how it is best for the State to
to withdraw
limit
completely, and when and how the State should act
to
maximize opportunity and participation. Above all, we want
it to investigate and to provide advice on the best way of
linking opportunity, via effective access, to participation.
in the economy or
Thus, the panel, the project and the report ought to be
multidisciplinary in approach and scope, examining critically
both experiences and ideas about ways in which legal,
administrative, economic, social and other arrangements help
or hinder increasing economic opportunity and participation.
While the focus should be on the particular difficulties
of developing countries, the project should, we believe, look
further afield.
It will, in fact, have to do so if its research
and findings are to stimulate the world-wide information
exchange, and, above all make the practical difference which
we hope will result.
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
3
In my statement to the General Assembly a year ago I
described the proposed United Nations
initiative on
opportunity and participation as being in some respects "the
economic counterpart" to the Secretary-General’s most
succinct and constructive report, "An Agenda for Peace." It
should also be seen, I believe, as a complement to, and a
necessary filling-out of, other important United Nations
resolutions and documents that have been concerned with
development issues more generally, such as the reports of
the Pearson and Brandt Commissions, and "The Challenge
to the South".
resolution should,
The panel and the report envisaged in our proposed
draft
in addition, be viewed as
complementing and helping to fill out the Brundtland Report,
particularly in so far as they manage to identify options not
only for maintaining increased opportunity and participation,
but for continuing to increase them so as to allow living
standards
to go on being raised for and by future
generations.
report
an
outlining
anticipated
While we await publication of the Secretary-General’s
eagerly
for
development, the proposed initiative on opportunity and
participation should not be seen as a rival or a duplication.
The proposal ought to be seen instead for what it is intended
to be, namely, a constructive start and a practical
contribution to setting objectives and specifying means for
development into the twenty-first century.
agenda
Like other supporters of the proposal, the Government
of Papua New Guinea has been gratified by the strong and
positive response with which the proposed United Nations
initiative on opportunity and participation has been greeted
by Governments, non-governmental organizations and
international bodies in diverse parts of the world.
We have particularly appreciated the expressions of
support we have received from the Government of the
the General
Assembly’s President,
Assembly’s
organizations
particularly concerned with advancing the common interests
of developing countries, the Group of 77 and the Movement
of Non-Aligned Countries.
the Chairman of
and
Second Committee,
In our own immediate neighbourhood, we have been
individual and collective support by
assured of strong,
members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations
(ASEAN), the Melanesian Spearhead Group, and the South
Pacific Forum, which includes
the Governments of
developed countries in the region.
With assistance from the United Nations Development
Programme, my Government has convened both a national
and a regional Workshop,
in which highly respected,
variously experienced and diversely skilled persons gave
their time on an honorary basis to help develop and refine
the proposal. The proceedings of both Workshops are being
circulated to all United Nations members.
When the proposal is debated in the Assembly on 15
November, we look to all members of the United Nations for
contributions to its further development and refinement, and,
of course, for their votes. As it did with the resolution
(47/441) on development and international economic
cooperation, adopted on Papua New Guinea’s independence
day, my Government hopes that the General Assembly will
endorse
the proposed United Nations
initiative on
opportunity and participation by consensus.
Believing as we do in the importance of the proposed
initiative, but conscious of the severe strains currently
imposed on the United Nations human and financial
resources, and bearing in mind the recommendation made to
all members by the Second Ministerial Meeting of the
Standing Committee on Economic Cooperation of
the
Non-Aligned Movement, my Government has decided to
make a special pledge to contribute K100,000 -
the
equivalent of a little more than $102,000 - to assist in
realizing
that
implementation of the proposal must not depend on special
donations, we call upon others to do the same in accordance
with their means.
While we
proposal.
believe
the
With regard to conferences on development and related
issues, consistent with Papua New Guinea’s obvious interest
in development issues generally, and in those that pertain to
small island countries in particular, my Government looks
forward to the first Global Conference on Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States, which is to
be held in Barbados in April 1994.
We shall remain actively involved in preparations for,
and the proceedings of, what we regard as a most important
occasion for sharing experiences and ideas, including both
problems and hopes, with island States in our own and other
regions.
For closely related reasons, we also look forward to the
International Conference on Population and Development, to
be held in Cairo in 1994.
Having taken a close interest in the deliberations and
outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights in
Vienna in June, we shall contribute as best we can to the
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
preparations for the World Summit for Social Development,
to be held in Copenhagen, and the Fourth World Conference
on Women, scheduled for Beijing, both in 1995.
I turn to the subject of apartheid and sanctions against
South Africa.
Successive Governments of Papua New
Guinea have always been strongly opposed to apartheid, both
in principle and in practice. We have consistently applied
sanctions, backed by the force of Papua New Guinea law,
against those who have upheld it. Even as apartheid has
been dismantled, and progress towards a democratic,
multi-racial South Africa has been observed, my Government
has been conscious of the special perspectives and interests
of African States. We have accordingly taken the view that
we would remove our sanctions against South Africa only in
consultation,
the
Commonwealth and the United Nations, with such States.
Despite the economic interests which might have been
served by allowing links between Papua New Guinea and
South Africa, we have willingly paid the price our policy has
required.
conducted through bodies
such as
countries
I have been personally moved in recent days by the
addresses made by the President of the African National
Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, before the United Nations
Special Committee against Apartheid as well as the Joint
Assembly of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP)
Group of
and the European Community.
Following the recommendations made by Mr. Mandela, the
Organization of African Unity and the Commonwealth
Secretariat, as well as the resolution adopted by consensus
in the General Assembly on Friday 8 October, my
Government will now take steps to remove legally enforced
sanctions. But in doing so we remain conscious of the
continuing - and unfortunate - relevance of Mr. Mandela’s
pointed reminder to the Joint Assembly of the ACP Group
and the European Community that:
"the white minority Government and its institutions ...
should not be ...
treated as though they were the
representative of all the people of South Africa."
The struggle for real equality for the African citizens of
South Africa is certainly not over. In some respects, it has
scarcely begun. My Government believes very strongly that
the achievement of a genuinely stable, democratic and
multi-racial South Africa requires increasing opportunities
for access to and participation in all areas of society,
including the economy, by the country’s African population.
My next subject is the progress towards peace in the
Middle East.
Successive Governments of Papua New
Guinea have consistently followed a policy of supporting
the right of Israel to exist within secure borders, while
recognizing the Palestinian people’s right to a homeland.
We are accordingly both impressed and encouraged by the
dramatic, bold and hopeful agreements reached by the Israeli
Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization.
We commend the steps that have since been taken,
including the diplomatic and material support provided by
other Governments to facilitate implementation of those
agreements. As our Prime Minister, the Right Honourable
Paias Wingti, has already announced, the Government of
Papua New Guinea will do what little it can to further the
process, by acknowledging the constructive role being played
by the Palestine Liberation Organization and examining ways
in which we might seek to strengthen relations with the
legitimate representatives of the Palestinian people.
I come now to the reform and revitalization of the
United Nations and the recharging of its resources.
The welcome developments in southern Africa and the
Middle East, particularly those related to Israel, the occupied
territories and the Palestine Liberation Organization, reveal
both strengths and weaknesses in the United Nations, and
suggest that while there are situations in which the United
Nations can play an important, even vital, role, there are also
situations in which it cannot.
We must recognize that when the United Nations itself
cannot, for whatever reason, be effective, then individual
Governments, such as Norway’s, regional organizations, such
as the Organization of African Unity, or some other body
may be able to initiate or facilitate a positive outcome.
The Government of Papua New Guinea welcomes the
reforms which are gradually being made to the United
Nations system:
in the Secretariat and other organs, and in
the manner in which our deliberations are organized. We
also welcome the generally revitalized role that our
Organization aspires to play in international relations. But
we must remember that internal reform and reorganization
are only as important as their eventual outcome.
A revitalized United Nations must not be allowed to
become an instrument of sectional interests or ill-planned
adventurism.
In the context of the contrast between the
evidently satisfactory outcome of United Nations efforts in
Cambodia and the uncertainties of the situation in Somalia,
my Government feels a need to sound a cautionary warning.
The terrible events unfolding in the former Yugoslavia,
particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the mounting
toll of human death, injury and suffering resulting from
conflicts in parts of the former Soviet Union reinforce my
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
5
Government’s reservations about aspects of the current
debate over the part that the United Nations can and should
play in the post-cold-war international order.
The Government of Papua New Guinea is also
conscious of the selectivity and costs of United Nations
peace-keeping, peace-observing and peacemaking operations,
and of the need to ensure that the Organization is reformed,
revitalized and re-endowed with sufficient resources to make
a difference to the very basis of peace in developing
countries: development itself.
My next topic is decolonization, indigenous people and
natural resources.
In this, the United Nations International
Year of the World’s Indigenous People, my Government had
the rare privilege of hosting a Regional Seminar of the
Special Committee of 24 on decolonization, chaired by
Papua New Guinea’s Permanent Representative at the United
Nations. The occasion gave us an opportunity to reaffirm
our commitment to the decolonization of New Caledonia,
with special safeguards for
the
Kanaks. The Government of Papua New Guinea is strongly
opposed to any suggestion that the Matignon Accords might
not be fully honoured. The same position has been adopted
by our partners in the Melanesian Spearhead Group and the
South Pacific Forum.
its indigenous people,
In addition to the question of New Caledonia,
the
Regional Seminar also focused attention on other relics of
European colonialism, including French Polynesia, where
Polynesian demands for independence seem to be gaining
strength.
Elsewhere
in the South Pacific,
the negotiated
settlement between the Governments of Nauru and Australia
has been widely welcomed for the redress it provides for a
long period of colonial exploitation of Nauru’s principal
land-based natural resource and the destruction of much of
its natural environment.
The settlement is also arousing considerable interest as
to its possible implications in other former Trust Territories
and colonial dependencies. The Government of Papua New
Guinea is only one of a number of interested parties which
have the matter under close examination. My Government
is also only one among many in welcoming, and wishing to
encourage, efforts to recognize the rights and to improve the
situation of other indigenous people in the South Pacific and
elsewhere.
Together with our partners in the Melanesian Spearhead
Group - the Governments of Solomon Islands and Vanuatu
- we have signed a Declaration on Cooperation in
Development of Natural Resources. One of the explicit
objectives of the Declaration is to facilitate implementation
of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development.
Another objective, which has yet
is to
supplement existing efforts in relation to regional fisheries
by broadening and deepening cooperation between the
Governments of countries in the South Pacific where other
natural resources are being developed, often by outsiders.
to be realized,
The crisis in Papua New Guinea’s North Solomons
Province is an unfortunate and costly internal affair of Papua
It continues, still unresolved, even as
New Guinea.
Government and other services are being restored.
I am
therefore pleased to report that my Government has recently
been engaged in productive exchanges with the Government
of the Solomon Islands, particularly concerning the spill-over
effects of the crisis on and near the common border.
Following these exchanges, I have issued an invitation
on the Government’s behalf to the Joint Assembly of the
African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States party to the
Lomé Convention and the European Community to send a
visiting mission to Papua New Guinea, including the North
Solomons Province,
situation and to
recommend how it might assist in rehabilitation.
to assess
the
The Government has also announced its intention to
work towards an All-Bougainville Leaders’ Conference to
try to resolve the crisis by political means. The Government
of Solomon Islands has offered its cooperation in what has
been, at times, a rather difficult situation. We hope to
continue our dialogue over long-term measures to strengthen
bilateral relations.
and global
to regional
With respect
economic
cooperation, the Government of Papua New Guinea, like
most other Members of the United Nations, is concerned at
the possibility that reform of the international trading system
might fail as a result of the apparent intransigence of vested
interests in certain developed countries during the final
stages of the Uruguay Round of negotiations of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). We also do not
believe that regional
trading blocs can be an adequate
substitute for an equitable and orderly international trading
system.
The Government of Papua New Guinea does not see
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC) as
a replacement or a rival for an updated version of GATT.
But we do regard APEC as being important to our interests.
More than 80 per cent in value of exports from Papua New
Guinea go to the existing APEC member countries. Nearly
90 per cent of our imports come from exactly the same
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Other
aspects of Papua New Guinea’s
countries.
international economic relations are just as deeply enmeshed
with APEC members. With encouragement from existing
members, my Government has therefore applied to join
APEC. We believe that it would not be right for such a
body to continue without a single member from the centre
of a region whose name it bears:
the Pacific. We look
forward to an early - and positive - response to our
application.
In conclusion, I should like to say the following:
No human being can have failed to be deeply moved
by, or to feel the utmost sympathy for, people affected by
the disastrous earthquake which occurred in India in late
September.
No one who has been following the developments
consequent on the changes in the former Soviet Union can
have failed to be both excited and concerned by the dramatic
political and military confrontations which have been
occurring in the Russian Federation. All of us must surely
be concerned at
testing has been
resumed, at the possibility that more tests might follow, and
that weapons of mass destruction might grow in number,
power and circulation.
reports that nuclear
In short, notwithstanding the progress made towards
finding lasting solutions to some long-standing issues since
the cold war ended, we continue to live in a rapidly
changing, often fragile and uncertain world. Able by virtue
of our membership of the United Nations at least to let our
views be known on what are some of the most important
and pressing issues of our time, the Government of Papua
New Guinea has, therefore, chosen to give close attention to
an issue of particular concern to developing countries, to
explore avenues of cooperation with other States, and to
propose a United Nations initiative on "Opportunity and
Participation". Let me end by repeating my previous call for
members’ support for a proposal
in
identifying what the people and Government of Papua New
Guinea believe to be common interests, global problems and
practical solutions.
intended to assist
Mr. PAPAZIAN (Armenia): Allow me to congratulate
His Excellency Mr.
Insanally on his election to the
presidency of the forty-eighth session of the United Nations
General Assembly. Given his talent and experience, I am
confident that he will guide this session to the successful
completion of the noble mission entrusted to it by the
Charter of the United Nations. I would also like to express
my appreciation and thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Ganev,
for the contribution he made to accomplishing the tasks of
the last session.
I wish to take this opportunity to extend my warm
welcome and congratulations to the six States that have been
admitted to membership of the United Nations over the past
year.
I stand before the Assembly as the Foreign Minister of
a small,
land-locked, newly independent country of 3.5
million under complete blockade, with no energy resources,
still not recovered from the devastating earthquake of 1988,
flooded by hundred of thousands of refugees fleeing the
conflict between Nagorny-Karabakh and Azerbaijan, and
under constant provocation by Azerbaijan to be drawn into
that conflict.
I am also the Foreign Minister of the only democracy
in the region, an island of stability in a sea of political chaos
and turmoil, a country with close to 30 registered political
parties, a free press and freedom of conscience and religion,
and with laws guaranteeing civil and political rights and
freedoms. The Government of Armenia has also made
headway towards establishing a market economy and has
taken several significant steps to integrate its economy into
the global economy. Armenia has moved swiftly in many
areas of reform. Most agricultural land and homes and
many small enterprises have already been privatized, and a
tax programme, a pricing policy and legislative reform to
create the legal framework for a free-market economy are
effectively under way. Nevertheless, substantial work will
need to be done if
these advances are to contribute
effectively to a successful transition.
It is encouraging to see that the United Nations has
recognized that full integration of the economies in transition
into the world economy will not only help those economies
but also have a positive impact on world trade, economic
growth and development, and is prepared to support the
process of bringing about economic reform and restructuring
through its special bodies and specialized agencies.
the United Nations
I wish to take this opportunity to convey my
Government’s deep gratitude to the Secretary-General for
establishing
- United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) interim office in Armenia.
As a result of adverse natural and geopolitical circumstances,
Armenia is currently in a state of economic and social crisis.
We see the importance of short-term assistance in these
times of great need, but at the same time are fully aware that
it is the pursuit of long-term goals that will bring Armenia
to function at full capacity as a member of the international
community. We are convinced that the presence of United
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
7
Nations specialized agencies in Armenia such as the United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the
World Food Programme (WFP),
the United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP), and the United Nations
Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), providing technical
and advisory assistance and coordination would enhance the
durability of the transition that is well under way.
As we and other nations grapple with problems unique
to each, the collapse of regimes and empires continues to
fuel violent conflicts throughout the world. But there is an
apparent change in the pattern of international conflicts.
Very few wars are fought between nation States any more.
The rest are struggles for self-determination turned into
bloody conflict and civil war in one and the same nation
State. These movements need a forum in which to lodge
their claims, identify and understand their rights, negotiate
with government authorities, establish just administration of
their affairs, and peacefully work out realistic political and
territorial arrangements for the future.
Now more than ever, it is incumbent upon the United
Nations to revisit its provision of non-intervention in matters
which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of
Member States, and to define more stringently the extent of
the impact of a conflict on the peace and security of other
nations. Having in clear view the essential role the United
Nations can play in enhancing peacemaking efforts
throughout the world, we concur with recent proposals in
academic circles that
the United Nations transform the
near-moribund Trusteeship Council into a modern clearing-
house for self-determination.
Under the proposed system, a "trust territory" would be
that part of a Member State voluntarily placed into
trusteeship by the Government of that State for the purpose
of resolving a self-determination claim under United Nations
supervision without prejudicing the final status of
the
territory. We believe that the trusteeship system could save
lives and prevent
the escalation of a self-determination
struggle to a devastating civil war, or worse, to a regional
conflict involving other countries.
The conflict over Nagorny-Karabakh has claimed the
lives of more than 10,000 people and has caused close to a
million innocent people to be uprooted from their homes
during the past five years.
This conflict continues to
threaten the security and stability of the whole region. The
international community has yet to come to grips with the
root cause of the conflict and devise appropriate measures to
find a peaceful solution.
Armenia’s position on the Nagorny-Karabakh conflict
has been clear and consistent since day one. The conflict is
between the people of Nagorny-Karabakh, who are striving
for their self-determination, and the Azerbaijani Government,
which is refusing to address the rights and security concerns
of the people of Nagorny-Karabakh.
As an interested party, Armenia has advocated an
unconditional cease-fire and has fully supported all
the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
initiatives. The Government of Armenia sees no alternative
to the peaceful settlement of the Karabakh conflict, than that
which can be reached within the framework of the CSCE
Minsk Conference.
Nagorny-Karabakh has at
The recent developments of the peace process are
promising.
long last been
recognized as a party to the conflict and direct talks between
the leadership of Nagorny-Karabakh and Azerbaijani
authorities, mediated by the Russian Federation, have
brought about a cease-fire, which has continued to hold for
more than a month now and is unprecedented in the
five-year history of this bloody conflict. On 28 September
during its meeting in Paris, the Minsk Group produced the
"Adjusted timetable of urgent steps to implement Security
Council resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993)", to which
Armenia has given its agreement, and is hopeful that a
similar position will be adopted by the main parties to the
conflict, Azerbaijan and Nagorny-Karabakh.
There is now a genuine opportunity for peace.
Therefore, the convening of the Minsk Conference must not
be delayed. Once peace is established, legal questions, first
and foremost among which is the issue of the status of
Nagorny-Karabakh, can be negotiated. The clear position of
the Government of Armenia is to accept and be gratified by
any solution agreed upon between Nagorny-Karabakh and
Azerbaijan at the Minsk Conference.
Last May,
the United Nations Charter.
The CSCE has an explicit security role in the new
world order, consistent with the provisions of Chapter VIII
of
the
Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Chairman
of the CSCE Council agreed on a framework for cooperation
and coordination between the United Nations Secretariat and
the CSCE, namely through the regular exchange of
information in the fields of early warning, conflict
prevention and the promotion of democratic values and
human rights. The CSCE is also striving to obtain United
Nations observer status, an initiative which Armenia fully
supports.
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The successful cooperation between the United Nations
and the CSCE over the Nagorny-Karabakh conflict can serve
as a case study in how to reconcile, practically,
the
conflicting claims of regionalism and universalism. Such
cooperation will enhance the role of regional organizations
in conflict prevention, peace-keeping and the peaceful
settlement of disputes.
Armenia appreciates the Secretary-General’s report "An
Agenda for Peace" which embodies
the notions of
peace-keeping, peacemaking and post-conflict peace--
building. History has taught us, however, that development
is intrinsic to peace, and that the two can no longer be
thought of as separate processes. Starvation, poverty and
poor living conditions in many parts of the world loom as
serious threats to stability and peace. The United Nations in
its commitment
the Earth’s
inhabitants must place development high among its priorities.
Indeed, it must establish economic and social development
as guiding principles for
the Organization’s activities.
Armenia fully supports the Secretary-General’s initiative for
an agenda for development and looks forward to contributing
to this important milestone towards world peace. Armenia
also gives its full support to the convocation of the 1995
World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen.
to secure peace for all
Today, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
poses another grave threat
to both global and regional
security and stability. Armenia supports the indefinite
extension of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT)
beyond 1995. The United Nations should work to ensure
universality and strict compliance with the Convention on
the prohibition of chemical weapons.
Development and human rights are also mutually
inclusive values. There can be no genuine development
unless systems of thought and government are based on
respect for the full spectrum of the rights of individuals. It
is auspicious that this year coincides with the forty-fifth
anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
the Declaration and the Vienna World
The spirit of
Conference on Human Rights held last
June will
undoubtedly deepen the understanding of the significance of
human rights for stability, freedom, peace, progress and
justice.
It
is my Government’s strong conviction that
the
adoption and implementation of all human rights principles
by nation States will create solid ground for unity and
harmony throughout a world which is being transformed and
is searching for new constants.
For more effective implementation of the principles of
human rights we feel it is imperative to establish the post of
high commissioner for human rights and a permanent
international criminal court where cases of gross violations
of human rights and other crimes against humanity are
submitted and prosecuted.
In 1995, the United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth
anniversary.
In the past 50 years, the Organization has
grown and has witnessed historic events, in many of which
it has played a considerable role. As the Organization has
entered a period in which it is being called upon to take an
increasingly active guiding role in a changing world, it too
must be prepared to respond effectively to these changes.
Armenia supports the call for restructuring the Security
Council that has been placed before the United Nations by
its Member States. Because the international community is
looking to the Security Council to take a more dynamic role
in the maintenance of international peace, it is necessary that
the Security Council increase its membership in order that it
may be able to address the issues before it
in a more
balanced and equitable way.
Improving
streamline
the Organization’s
the United Nations
administrative
performance must also become a top priority at this time.
We welcome the current initiatives of the Secretary-General
to
and
management structures and procedures to meet the demands
that are now being placed upon the Organization.
administrative
it
As the world seems to have grown accustomed to the
dreadful routine of tragic news coming from various regional
hotbeds,
is inspiring to reflect on some of the more
positive reverberations of the end of the cold war, which can
be epitomized by the historic accord between the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel signed recently.
It is my privilege to salute the leaders of Israel and the PLO
for taking this courageous step.
No less significant are the processes currently in motion
in South Africa. Armenia joins the other Member States in
supporting the negotiating process there, and believes that
lifting economic sanctions at this time could encourage the
people of South Africa to take up the task of building a truly
free and democratic country.
the end of
In the United Nations,
the cold war
continues to translate into ever closer cooperation between
its Members. In 1992, as in 1991, despite the large volume
and the diversified nature of the issues examined in the
Security Council, none of the members of the Council
exercised its right to veto. There is a growing harmony of
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
9
interests among nations that is creating an atmosphere of
trust and cooperation, which are the prerequisites for the
realization of the goals envisioned by the founders of the
United Nations 48 years ago in San Francisco.
Indeed, for the first time since its inception, the United
Nations has been given the opportunity to become what it
was intended to be:
a collective security system, with a
Charter providing for special forms of cooperation between
sovereign States, designed to ensure peace and prosperity
throughout the world.
the Republic of Fiji,
Mr. SENILOLI (Fiji): On behalf of the people and
I congratulate
Government of
Ambassador
Insanally very warmly on his election as
President of the Assembly. I am confident that his extensive
knowledge of the United Nations system and his wide
experience in the field of international relations will help
guide this session to a successful conclusion.
I wish to pay a tribute to Mr. Stoyan Ganev for the
excellent manner in which, as President, he conducted the
business of this Assembly at its last session.
I express my
admiration and deep appreciation to him for a job well done.
I also congratulate him for his initiative in rationalizing the
work of the Assembly, and especially in rationalizing its
Committee structure.
My delegation applauds the excellent work done by our
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in the period
since he assumed his high office. I take this opportunity to
express my Government’s deep appreciation for his untiring
efforts in tackling the difficult and complex problems facing
the world Organization.
I should also like to extend a warm welcome to the
new States Members of the United Nations, the Principality
of Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, the Principality of
Monaco, the Slovak Republic and The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia.
the
Organization, as it continues to strive for universality, will
greatly benefit from their participation in its work.
am confident
that
I
New threats are endangering international peace and
security in all corners of the world.
Incipient nationalism,
ethnic conflicts and excessive protectionism are threatening
peace, security, and growth in trade.
Thus, a heavy
responsibility is placed on this Organization, which, as we
all know, is the main body responsible for promoting social
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.
Behind these complexities,
there are also many
devastating structural problems that undermine even the best
the 1990s.
to achieve
security and economic progress.
efforts
Population growth, if left unchecked, will add 97 million
people a year throughout
Poverty, disease,
famine and oppression account for the 18 million refugees
and 24 million displaced persons throughout the world. The
gap between the rich and the poor countries has not
narrowed, but continues to grow as economic difficulties in
the
increased
to
protectionist measures
Environmental
degradation further compounds these problems.
industrialized
against
trade.
countries
have
led
In the light of these trends, we must underscore the
need for better international cooperation in order to arrive at
effective solutions. This, we believe, is a critical element in
moving us towards the creation of an international order in
which this Organization assumes greater importance as the
centre of global endeavours.
The process of reviewing the role of the Organization
that is currently under way is therefore very timely. We
hope that the review will assist greatly in determining how
the United Nations can be strengthened and, most important,
how each of us as Member countries might best contribute
to the new order.
The Secretary-General, in his report on the work of the
Organization, has quite rightly stressed the need for adequate
resources. We share his anxiety, and join in his call to
Members to ensure that their contributions to the regular
budget, as well as to the peace-keeping budget, are met on
time and in full. We must make every effort to explore all
possible avenues for ensuring that the Organization is put
back onto a viable financial path.
My Government would like to pay a tribute to the
entire United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
(UNTAC) team for the way in which they carried out their
mission in particularly difficult and dangerous conditions.
Fiji is pleased to have joined other Members of the United
Nations
in restoring peace in Cambodia through its
participation in UNTAC.
That mission has now successfully completed its major
task. For the people of Cambodia, who unambiguously
demonstrated their desire for peace and democracy, it is the
beginning of a new era. We urge all factions to cooperate
fully with the new Government by keeping alive the spirit of
the Agreements signed in Paris.
The age-old problem in the Middle East has taken a
new turn during the past month. This turn of events spells
hope for the future in the Middle East - indeed, in the entire
world and for all humanity. The desire of both Prime
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel and Chairman Yasser
Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) to
achieve peace for
their peoples has necessitated the
dismantling of differences that have existed for decades.
The Washington accords should pave the way for a lasting
peace.
Humanity has been touched by this historic event - the
coming together of two arch-rivals for the sake of peace.
We congratulate Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat
- indeed, all who have laboured to bring this peace pact to
reality. We must also acknowledge the contribution of the
United States of America and, indeed, the United Nations
and others over the years.
While positive developments are taking place in the
Middle East and Cambodia, Fiji is deeply saddened at the
fact that the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina remains
unresolved. Our profound sympathy goes to all who have
suffered untold misery.
Such a tragedy should not be
allowed to continue. We recognize that the issue is a highly
complex one, but the international community must do all it
can to stop the slaughter, prevent
from
spreading, and achieve a lasting and equitable settlement.
the conflict
We are equally saddened at the events in Somalia. The
success of
the United Nations Operation in Somalia
(UNOSOM) in meeting the humanitarian challenge has cast
a ray of hope, for which the United Nations deserves praise
and, indeed, support. However, recent violence against
UNOSOM II personnel must be condemned, and efforts to
find ways of reducing tension between the peace-keepers and
the local population must be given high priority.
Having for years witnessed the repugnant policy of
apartheid in South Africa, we are pleased at the rapidity with
which that policy has recently been broken down. We
congratulate the leadership in South Africa - the South
African Government, the African National Congress (ANC)
and others - for their courage, determination and foresight in
getting together and dismantling apartheid. The United
Nations has played a major role in the process, but we
should continue the effort until a democratic Government is
elected by all - I repeat: all - the peoples of South Africa.
Fiji, like the other members of the South Pacific Forum,
shares the sentiments that the Secretary-General expresses in
"An Agenda for Peace", in which he highlights the positive
role that regional organizations can play in the maintenance
of international peace and security in their own regions. Fiji
will support such regional initiatives.
On the economic front, we believe that a successful
conclusion to the Uruguay Round is vital
to economic
growth and prosperity in all our countries. Only increased
access to markets for our exports, especially in areas of
comparative advantage, will enable us to increase our
external purchasing power - our ability to pay for imports
from the developed countries.
In any event, we look
forward to a genuinely equitable outcome that will include
a substantial and liberalizing effect on trade in agricultural
products.
Slow progress in finalizing the Round has led to the
formation and strengthening of regional trading blocs. Many
new initiatives now being put
in place are defensive
responses to existing regional trading arrangements. These
have the potential to weaken the multilateral character of the
trading system, as many of them do not comply with the
spirit and the provisions of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
Developing countries, it has been estimated, lose about
$100 billion a year in export revenues as a result of market
barriers in industrialized countries - about twice the official
development assistance that
the industrialized countries
provide. Furthermore, it is most ironic that taxpayers in the
industrialized countries pay both for aid and for imports that
are more costly as a result of trade barriers, while the
poorest developing countries lose more in trade than they
gain in aid. For these reasons alone, further progress in
trade liberalization, through success in the Uruguay Round,
is very urgent, and we join other delegations in stressing that
no effort should be spared in bringing the Round to a
successful conclusion.
Of the 42 resolutions on disarmament issues adopted by
the Assembly at its last session, 15 deal with various ways
of controlling nuclear arms, the management of nuclear
waste, the banning of nuclear tests and the elimination of
nuclear weapons. In this regard, we welcome the decisions
by nuclear Powers to extend their testing moratorium, and
we regret very much that this moratorium has just been
breached. We call on all nuclear Powers to continue to
honour the moratorium.
In August this year, the South
Pacific Forum welcomed
the
Governments of France, the United Kingdom and the United
States to the early negotiation of a comprehensive test-ban
treaty. We take this opportunity to urge all the nuclear-
weapon States to participate actively in the negotiations and
to adopt the Treaty as soon as possible.
commitment
the
by
The signing of the chemical-weapons Convention in
Paris early this year was a major step forward in the process
of eliminating weapons of mass destruction.
As a
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
11
demonstration of its commitment to that end, Fiji has not
only signed the Convention but also ratified it - the first
country to do so.
In the South Pacific Forum, member Governments,
including the Government of Fiji, highlighted the importance
of an enhanced international regime to deal with possible
transboundary damage arising from peaceful nuclear activity,
and noted the absence of effective international rules for
nuclear liability. Members of the Forum have agreed to
participate in the ongoing deliberations of the Standing
Committee
the
International Atomic Energy Agency and to support the
establishment of a comprehensive international legal regime
dealing with liability for nuclear damage and reflecting fully
the principle that the polluter should pay.
on Nuclear Liability
convened
by
Fiji welcomes the continuing growth in the number of
parties to the non-proliferation Treaty and will support
indefinite extension of the Treaty.
In support of international peace and security, we have
consistently contributed to many peace-keeping operations
over the years. Since our first participation in peace-keeping
operations in 1978, Fiji has been involved in seven. We pay
tribute to the men and women currently engaged in United
Nations peace-keeping operations
around the world.
Peace-keepers are being increasingly asked to serve in
high-risk environments. That these are high-risk operations
is tragically borne out by the fact
that hundreds of
peace-keepers have made the supreme sacrifice in their
service to humanity.
The time is right for the issue of the safety and security
of peace-keeping personnel
to be addressed in a more
systematic, comprehensive and practical manner, and we
support the notion wholeheartedly. The related question of
responsibility for attacks on United Nations and associated
personnel, and measures to ensure that those responsible for
such attacks are brought to justice, is also now an important
one to address. We shall fully support any effort in that
direction.
Apart
in the nature of peace-keeping.
from the large increase in the number of
peace-keeping operations, many important changes are taking
place
eight
peace-keeping operations undertaken since the end of the
cold war have involved not only traditional military activities
but also a wide range of humanitarian and civilian activities.
The constantly changing nature of the various crises means
that we must increasingly be more innovative in designing
peace-keeping operations, as they are normally very costly.
The
are
operations
now costing
As indicated in the report of the Secretary-General, the
17 peace-keeping
the
Organization some $2.8 billion annually. To some extent,
the answer to the increasing costs lies in more preventive
diplomacy aimed at defusing potential conflicts. Moreover,
the involvement of Member States, either on an individual
basis or through regional organizations, in peace-building
and peace-keeping activities appears to be another effective
way of preventing military clashes.
In this regard, the
Secretary-General has placed before us several suggestions
which, we believe, deserve our serious consideration and
action.
I now wish to turn briefly to a subject that has been the
focus of a great deal of attention, especially during the last
three years; that is, the subject of sustainable development.
Several resolutions adopted by the Assembly on following
up the important decisions taken at Rio about 15 months ago
are now being implemented at various levels.
It is most
encouraging that we now have 162 countries that have
signed the Framework Convention on Climate Change, and
26 countries that have ratified it.
Fiji ratified the Convention in February this year, and
hopes that the required number of ratifications, 50, will soon
be achieved, so that the Convention can enter into force. As
global warming and a rise in sea level are amongst the most
serious threats to the Pacific region and to the survival of
some small island States, Fiji reaffirms its support for the
Convention and takes this opportunity to urge all States to
sign and ratify it as soon as possible.
Fiji has been active in the area of environmental
management and protection. The Rio Conference has,
however, changed the way in which many of us now view
environment and development
issues. More than ever
before, we are committed to the idea that the development
of our economy and society must not come at the expense
of our environment. To the contrary: development and
environmental protection are complementary.
My Government is committed to sound environmental
management and protection as an integral part of our
decision-making process. A national environment strategy
has now been adopted by the Government, and will form the
basis for further work on environmental issues in Fiji.
The United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development has recognized in the Agenda 21 plan of action
for sustainable development, that small island developing
countries are a special case for sustainable development.
Small island countries supporting small communities are
ecologically fragile and vulnerable; because of our small
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
resources are limited, and because of our
size, our
geographic dispersion and isolation from markets, we are
placed at a disadvantage economically and have limited
economies of scale.
Our dependence on the ocean and our coastal
environments is also very significant. They are not only of
strategic importance to us; they also constitute a valuable
development resource.
Island Developing States,
It was in this context that, last year, we welcomed the
adoption of General Assembly resolution 47/189 calling for
a Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of
Small
to be convened in
April 1994. We appreciate the very important work that has
been put into the organizational session and the preparatory
meetings, convened early this year. We hope that
the
Conference will be successful and will help us not only to
identify the most critical issues involved but also to agree on
precise
for overcoming our
vulnerabilities. We urge all member countries to participate
in this Conference and to assist
in finding solutions to
problems that have buffeted small island countries for a very
long time.
and practical
solutions
The small island States contain a wealth of biological
diversity of global significance - our rich marine ecosystems
rivalling the better-known tropical rain forests in their
importance to life on this planet and in their potential for
new knowledge and new products, including medicines. An
international cooperative approach to conserving our coastal
and marine resources would benefit not just the island States
but the world as a whole.
The international community met in July this year and
examined ways and means of conserving and managing
straddling and highly migratory fish stocks. We believe that
good progress was made at this meeting in identifying the
problems that exist and areas in which fisheries cooperation
between States could be improved.
important
the Assembly.
There are still, however, several
tasks
remaining that need to be completed before the next session
of
fully supports the
convening of two further sessions next year to enable the
Conference to reach agreement on all issues relating to the
conservation and management of straddling and highly
migratory fish stocks.
Fiji,
therefore,
Fiji was the first country to ratify the 1982 United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We are
therefore gratified that the Convention is soon to achieve the
60 ratifications required for
its entry into force. We
continue to support all efforts towards universal participation
in this very important Convention, which is to govern over
70 per cent of the Earth’s surface.
In this regard, we are
pleased that all States - including now the United States -
are engaged in the ongoing dialogue to resolve the
outstanding problems and thereby pave the way towards
universality for the Convention.
Over the next few years,
the Organization will be
focusing its attention and energies on the convening of
several very important international conferences. While
these conferences will be important in themselves, as they
will bring together the world community, they will not only
discuss issues that are assigned to them but will also provide
opportunities to arrive by consensus at solutions to many of
the critical problems facing the world today.
The World Summit on Social Development planned for
1995 will help to strengthen social development
in all
countries by giving political impetus, at the highest level, to
the promotion of social policies. The three core issues that
have been established for the Summit - the alleviation of
poverty, the growth of employment, and the enhancement of
social integration, especially of disadvantaged groups - are
all essential. Above all, the Summit should, in our view,
foster greater understanding of the importance of social
development and, particularly, its relationship with economic
development and protection of the environment.
The Fourth World Conference on Women,
to be
convened in Beijing in 1995, will, we hope, be action--
oriented and provide an opportunity to review past activities
and, most important, set new priorities. For its part, my
Government is fully committed to strengthening the role of
women in economic and social development and has taken
several steps to integrate women into the mainstream of
national development. Towards this end, plans have been
formulated and are being implemented by the Ministry of
Women and Culture, other sectoral ministries and non-
governmental organizations. Women constitute more than
50 per cent of Fiji’s population, which makes them valuable
partners in the growth and development of our country and
the uplifting of our people.
We are, at the same time, also turning our attention to
the situation and needs of children in Fiji as we continue to
participate actively in Universal Children’s Day. Fiji has
ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and has
signed the World Declaration on the Survival, Protection and
Development of Children in the 1990s. We have also
undertaken a detailed study of the situation of children in
Fiji and have identified areas which require our attention.
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
13
are now in the process of
We
recommendations of this study.
following up the
Fiji, as a multiracial and multicultural community,
attaches great significance to family values and family
traditions. We therefore welcome and appreciate the
decision by the United Nations to observe 1994 as the
International Year of the Family. My Government has
already
comprising
representatives from both government and non-governmental
sectors,
the
International Year of the Family in a meaningful and
practical way.
to make preparations
for observance of
formed
a
national
committee,
The International Year of the World’s Indigenous
People will soon be coming to a close. With the observance
of the International Year the attention of the United Nations
has for the first time been focused directly and solely on
indigenous peoples. Next year, the Commission on Human
Rights will assess the activities of the Year. It is important
that the voices of indigenous peoples should continue to be
heard, and their right to self-determination, their right to
rebuild their communities in dignity with freedom of choice,
must continue to receive the full support of the United
Nations.
The draft text of a declaration on indigenous peoples’
rights, first proposed in 1985, received the approval of the
Fiji welcomes the Working
Working Group last July.
Group’s decision as
a
much-needed international instrument on indigenous peoples’
rights.
an important
step towards
The International Year of the World’s Indigenous
People, should not, we believe, be treated as an isolated
event, but as the beginning of a long-term policy of
supporting, protecting and learning from the world’s
indigenous peoples. For our part, we have set aside a
special day in our nation’s calendar to commemorate this
event, coinciding with the birthday of Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna,
one of the great leaders of the indigenous people of Fiji.
The indigenous people now comprise the majority of
Fiji’s population but my Government recognizes the need
and will do its utmost to ensure unity, order, equity and
security for all the people of Fiji, so that we can all live in
peace and harmony. We will continue to ensure that
harmonious relationships are established and maintained both
among our own people at home and with other people
abroad.
With reference to my own region, the South Pacific, we
are following very closely the current progress in New
Caledonia towards the self-determination of that territory.
We hope that the developments, as envisaged under the
Matignon and Oudinot accords, will continue so that the
indigenous Kanak population will be fully prepared to take
part in the referendum in 1998 and to decide on the future
political status of their country.
Speaking at the session of the General Assembly last
year, on 8 October, Fiji’s Prime Minister, Major General
Sitiveni Rabuka, promised to initiate a review of the 1990
Constitution of Fiji, which has been the subject of
controversy both locally and abroad.
I am pleased to say
that my Government has already set in train the process for
the review of the Constitution, as promised. The review is
to consider how the provisions of the Constitution can be
improved upon to reflect fully the concerns and interests of
Fiji’s multi-ethnic and multicultural society.
This Organization, now almost 50 years old, has stood
the test of time but, like other institutions, it must also adjust
to change. We must continue to examine ways of making
it a forum for both discussion and action on the important
social, economic and political
issues facing the world
community as they evolve.
In conclusion, I should like to reaffirm my country’s
commitment
to the United Nations and to the spirit of
international cooperation and solidarity that it embodies. My
country, and its people, joins with other nations to do its
utmost
to seek world peace, stability and sustainable
development for all. We firmly believe that the United
Nations remains the only hope for mankind to achieve peace
and prosperity.
It is through the combined efforts of all
Member States, large and small, that we can develop a
global environment which is just and equitable and which
reflects the legitimate needs and interests of all peoples.
Miss CHIEPE (Botswana): Botswana and Guyana
have, since their attainment of independence, both in 1966,
been the closest of friends. That is why we have welcomed
the election of Ambassador Insanally of Guyana to the
presidency of the forty-eighth session with so much warmth
and anticipation.
I say "anticipation" because we are
confident that he has the requisite experience, expertise and
diplomatic finesse to make a good and productive President
for this most hopeful session of the Organization.
Our gratitude goes to the outgoing President of the
forty-seventh session, the Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, who
gave the best account of his skills in the service of the
Assembly last year.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The new Members who have just joined the United
Nations are most welcome in our midst. We assure them of
our fellowship and readiness to cooperate with them in the
service of peace here at the United Nations.
We also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on the creative dynamism he has
injected into the work of the United Nations. We know his
work has not been easy. But under his able leadership the
United Nations has indeed demonstrated its capacity to serve
impartial management of
as a reliable instrument of
international conflicts.
Increasingly, we are seeing the
fulfilment of the ideas contained in what I think was the
most forward-looking report ever produced by a Secretary-
General of this Organization, "An Agenda for Peace".
Mr. Ansari (India), Vice-President, took the Chair.
so
far
to
enhance
We commend the efforts the Secretary-General has
undertaken
the Organization’s
effectiveness. Botswana understands the concerns raised by
the Secretary-General when he
addressed the Fifth
Committee in August. Many demands and problems foisted
on the United Nations have put a lot of strain on its coffers.
Resources made available by Member States are far from
enough to meet these demands. Thus, the Organization is
facing a financial crisis of unprecedented magnitude. The
biggest problem, as explained by the Secretary-General, is
the failure of some Member States to fulfil their financial
obligations by paying the assessed contribution for both the
regular budget and peace-keeping missions. Member States
must heed the Secretary-General’s call and fulfil
their
Charter obligations by paying their contributions in full and
on time.
At the same time, it would be remiss of me not to
emphasize the need and importance of transparency and
accountability in the use of United Nations funds. Of late,
we have heard of many irregularities in the administration of
this Organization’s funds, in particular funds for peace-
keeping missions. A number of proposals have been put
forward by the various Member States for a review of the
rules and regulations governing United Nations finances.
The time has come to set up a respectable mechanism to
undertake this urgent task.
Although the cold war is no more and old ideological
empires have unravelled, the euphoria of triumphalism has
been short-lived. There is turmoil almost everywhere as
age-old nationalisms that have for so long been suppressed
explode with a vengeance that knows no limit. True to
character, the twentieth century will not, so it seems, fade
away peacefully.
The post-cold-war era and the celebrated onset of a new
world order have thus not brought peace to our world, but
more bloodshed, instability and insecurity in many places.
Consequently, there has been a rapid expansion of United
Nations peace-keeping operations - far beyond the capacity
of the Organization’s resources to manage. There is neither
the manpower nor the financial wherewithal for the United
Nations to be everywhere in the magnitude of presence that
is so often requested.
There is, nevertheless, every reason for us to be
satisfied with the valiant efforts which the Secretary-General
and his staff have exerted to ensure that the many fires of
civil war that have become such dominant features of the
so-called new world order do not engulf us all. The United
Nations has shown that, given the wherewithal, it can live up
to what we expect of it in the realm of peacemaking and
peace-keeping.
Cambodia has just been saved from
self-destruction. Imagine what Somalia could have become
had the United States and the United Nations not intervened
to safeguard the delivery of the massive humanitarian
assistance which the international community has poured into
the famished country. Even in the Balkans, where the most
brutal and senseless civil war imaginable is in progress,
particularly in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina - a
civil war that for a year and a half has been defying every
solution attempted - the United Nations has played a
mitigating humanitarian role under the most difficult of
operational circumstances.
On Somalia, Botswana stands firm in its support for the
United Nations mission of mercy in that devastated country.
We condemn in the strongest terms the continued attack on
United Nations peace-keeping forces even as we deeply
regret the loss of innocent Somali lives. We cannot condone
the massive loss of civilian lives in Mogadishu, though at
the same time we need to be extremely circumspect in
apportioning blame to one side of the conflict or the other.
An international effort
to save a people is in serious
jeopardy. An attack on United Nations peace-keeping forces
must never be taken lightly, for it is fraught with very
serious implications. The horrendous spectacle of the corpse
of a United Nations peace-keeper being dragged like a
garbage bag on the streets of Mogadishu deserves all the
opprobrium civilized humanity can heap on such a callous
act of inhumanity. The international community must not
flinch in the face of the acts of those in Mogadishu who are
bent on thwarting the process of
reconstruction and
rehabilitation in Somalia.
In many ways, the United Nations Operation in Somalia
(UNOSOM) has been a success. Botswana is proud to have
made a contribution to UNOSOM, however modest.
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
15
The terrible civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a
monumental outrage that must shame us all as human
beings. A world that is able to tolerate scenes of tiny
innocent children being torn to pieces or maimed by
shrapnel and bullets - innocent and helpless victims of a war
that makes sense only to its perpetrators - is a world without
a conscience. The international community must devise
more creative ways and means of dealing effectively with
that savage conflict.
To turn to our own continent, in Mozambique there is
an encouraging movement towards peace and tranquility.
The situation there has stabilized enough to give us more
hope than ever before that the war-ravaged sister country
will soon enjoy the beginnings of economic recovery and
national reconciliation and healing. Humanitarian relief is
now able to reach the famine-stricken. The United Nations
peace-keeping force, among which is our own contingent, is
progressively moving towards full deployment and the
accomplishment of its mandate.
It is hoped that the many
cease-fire violations thus far recorded will not sabotage the
peace process.
The survival of the State and nation of Angola is in
very serious jeopardy as the senseless civil war that has been
raging there since the mid-1970s has worsened and assumed
the dimensions of an unstoppable conflagration. All the
efforts of the Security Council to find a lasting solution to
the civil war have come to naught as a result of Mr.
Savimbi’s stubborn refusal to negotiate a peaceful end to the
conflict. Unfortunately, in the face of this stubbornness on
the part of Mr. Savimbi, the world seems utterly incapable
of doing anything more than calling continuously for
peaceful negotiations - a call that is continuously scorned.
The international community must do more to save
Angola. A terrible crime against humanity is being
perpetrated against the Angolan people. We take note of the
recent announcement by UNITA that it is ready to accept the
Bicesse Accords and the results of the 1992 elections. The
Government has in principle agreed to the resumption of
peace talks. We hope that this time the peace talks, if they
take place, will produce the solution we have been
desperately waiting for.
In South Africa,
the horizon of change is more
promising than ever before. Negotiations for a new South
Africa have been torturously slow and painful, but they
have, in a stunning reversal of fortune, produced the first
tangible evidence of the onset of real and meaningful
change. The legislative structures that are to underpin the
transition to the establishment of a democratic Government
in the first half of next year are in place. Four bills -
those
regarding
the
the Independent Media Commission,
Independent Election
namely,
Commission,
the
Independent Broadcasting Authority and the Transitional
Executive Council - have been adopted by the Negotiating
Council and will soon be enacted into law, having been
passed by the South African Parliament.
Once the transitional
legislative package has been
completed with the adoption of the interim constitution and
the constitutional principles and fundamental rights at present
under negotiation, the transition will officially begin with the
installation of the Transitional Executive Council. To show
the great promise that the situation in South Africa holds
today, I can do no better than quote Mr. Nelson Mandela’s
momentous speech of 24 September to the United Nations
Special Committee against Apartheid. He said,
"The countdown to democracy has begun. The
date for the demise of the white minority regime has
been determined, agreed and set".
In its statement of 29 September 1993 the Ad Hoc
Committee of the Organization of African Unity on Southern
Africa concurred that enough progress had been made in the
peace process in South Africa to warrant
the lifting of
economic sanctions. This was a momentous decision taken
by Africa in the ardent belief and hope that we are truly
approaching a historic watershed in the blood-stained history
of southern Africa:
the end at last of the long nightmare of
apartheid. However, as Mr. Mandela and the Secretary
General of the Pan-Africanist Congress of Azania, Mr.
Benny Alexander, have conceded, freedom is not yet there.
With all the horrific violence now ravaging the KwaZulu
countryside and the East Rand townships, in the back yard
of the World Trade Centre in Johannesburg, where the
negotiations are taking place, the process does not lack
enemies or detractors. There is also the unfortunate boycott
of
the negotiation process by some parties, whose
implications it is impossible to ascertain. Nevertheless, the
people of South Africa, more than ever before, will need
and, indeed, deserve our determined companionship as they
walk the last and, possibly, the most difficult mile in their
journey to the new South Africa.
Regrettably, progress, if any, has been very slow in the
implementation of the United Nations plan on Western
Sahara. We urge the Secretary-General to continue to spare
no effort to ensure that the referendum is held so that the
people of Western Sahara can at long last decide their future.
Botswana is encouraged by the readiness of all parties
to the Liberian conflict to honour their commitments to the
Yamoussoukro Accords and other subsequent peace plans.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
We are anxious to see the Accords implemented peacefully
and in full. The Secretary- General, in his last report on the
subject (S/26422), notes that a successful implementation of
the Accords would require sufficient resources. We appeal
to all Member States to be generous in their contributions to
the trust fund set up for this purpose.
to all
the parties to the conflict
It is with a sigh of relief that we welcome the adoption
of Security Council resolution 872 (1993) on Rwanda. We
appeal
in Rwanda to
cooperate fully with the United Nations Assistance Mission
for Rwanda (UNAMIR) in ensuring that that war-torn East
African sister country does not revert to the carnage that has
often threatened its very existence.
We celebrate the triumph of the democratic process in
the south-eastern Asian nation of Cambodia. The shroud of
misery and death that for many years eclipsed Cambodia
has, hopefully, now been lifted, and lifted forever. We
congratulate the United Nations and the Cambodians on a
job well done.
89.56 per cent of Cambodian voters,
undaunted by violence and threats of violence, have spoken
loud and clear that they want peace and reconciliation.
In the Middle East, the homeland of the Bible and its
recently witnessed a miraculous
miracles, we have
rapprochement between the Jewish people of Israel and the
Palestinian people. The foundations of peace in the area
have been laid, and no effort should be spared to build on
them. No effort should be spared in making the peace
process only just begun a just, comprehensive and lasting
one. Given the desperate conditions in the occupied
territories, we, the international community, have a duty to
support and nurture the peace process by contributing
generously to the economic reconstruction of the area to
enable the Palestinians to taste the fruits of peace.
We cherish the hope that the sudden improvement of
prospects for peace in the Middle East will have a catalytic
and propelling effect on the quest for a workable formula for
the reunification of the island Republic of Cyprus. So long
as the island remains divided, it will remain a source of
conflict and instability in the area.
So it
is with Korea. Botswana hopes the divided
peninsula will soon realize that it has become fashionable in
this post-cold-war era for age-old problems suddenly to
become amenable to solution. Change - peaceful change -
through negotiation is the imperative of our time.
In Central America, after many years of conflict, El
Salvador is finally at peace. We hope that the proven
capacity and efficacy of the United Nations in the field of
election-monitoring and supervision will again be put to
good use in El Salvador’s March 1994 election.
In Haiti, we look forward to the imminent restoration
of the presidency of Father Aristide. The success of the
United Nations and the Organization of American States in
shaping the agreement deserves our commendation.
Botswana, a country whose respect for human rights is
second to none, supports fully the creation of a post of
commissioner of human rights. We have no human rights
abuses to hide, nor do we fear criticism - constructive
criticism, that is - should the international community find
some aspect of our domestic policy or policies to be
incompatible with the enjoyment of human rights by our
citizens. This is not an invitation to interference in our
internal affairs. We have always maintained that no nation
has the right to violate the basic human rights of its citizens
while using Article 2 (7) of the Charter as an argument
against intervention by the international community.
Recent reports have revealed that the United Nations is
spending roughly three times as much on peace-keeping and
peacemaking as on development assistance. Problems of
development, as should be clear to everybody, constitute the
underlying cause of world conflicts, and for the United
Nations to be effective in the maintenance of international
peace, more energy and resources have to be expended on
development activities.
Of particular concern are the downward trend in
the debt burden and the
Africa’s commodity prices,
shrinking aid flow.
In addition, many African countries,
including my own, have had to cope with the serious effects
of drought and famine. The civil strife which many African
countries have had to cope with have also had a crippling
effect on economic activity through damage to infrastructure.
In order for an effective process of development to get
under way in Africa the international community needs to
establish a more open trading system giving access to, and
adequate compensation for, commodities produced in Africa.
For the past several years the market share for African goods
has experienced a dramatic decline. Botswana appeals for
a speedy conclusion of the current Uruguay Round of
multilateral
trade negotiations, which we believe will
strengthen Africa’s trading capacity and allow unrestricted
access of our commodities to the world markets.
The debt burden continues to be a major obstacle to
Clearly,
African economic growth and development.
necessary measures have not been taken to attend to this
compounding problem. The time has come for the donor
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
17
community and the multilateral financial institutions to heed
Africa’s call to reduce or totally cancel the debt stock.
We live in exciting times, exciting in both positive and
negative ways. We have been fortunate to wake up from the
long nightmare of the cold war and bear witness to the birth
of a new world, however imperfect. The birth of any new
epoch has never been easy or free of pain. The membership
of the Organization has multiplied with the rapid emergence
of new nations, whose aspirations for self-determination had
for so long been frustrated.
The import of this most welcome development is, of
course, not simply that we are close to universality but, also,
that the problems facing the Organization have multiplied.
Thankfully, our rejuvenated United Nations seems to have
borne this increased load of responsibilities with a great deal
of enthusiasm. Botswana renews its faith in this rejuvenated
United Nations and in its time-tested Charter.
The delegation of
Mr. TAVERAS GUZMAN (Dominican Republic)
the
(interpretation from Spanish):
Dominican Republic takes great pleasure in extending its
warmest congratulations to Mr. Samuel Insanally on his
well-merited election to preside over the General Assembly
at this forty-eighth session. A man from our America - and,
more specifically, from the Caribbean region, where both of
our countries are located - he has the required abilities and
experience successfully to guide our work at this session,
which must confront and deal with the major challenges
facing the international community, namely, the achievement
of peace and the economic and social development of our
nations.
We also wish to express our appreciation to the
outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the wisdom with
which he led our deliberations at the previous session.
I should also like to take this opportunity to extend our
thanks to the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his commitment and for his
efforts to carry out
the principles and purposes of the
Organization’s Charter.
Today,
in our America, we are witnessing the
beginnings of a negotiated solution to conflict, and we are
pleased that
in Central America, and particularly in El
Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala, the disputes that have
disturbed the peace and hindered the development of our
peoples are now being resolved at the negotiating table. In
our Island of Hispaniola,
imperial and colonial rivalry
divided the population into two peoples who, over the course
of time, established two independent States - the Dominican
Republic, which we represent here, and the Republic of
Haiti. The efforts being made by the Haitian people and
their leaders, with international assistance in the form of
negotiations under the aegis of the United Nations and the
Organization of American States, are now beginning to bear
fruit and will, we trust, restore normalcy to that fraternal
country with the re-establishment of constitutional order.
In that connection our delegation reiterates its appeal to
the international community to lend real assistance to
stabilize the democratic regime and to ensure the economic
reconstruction of Haiti - assistance and cooperation adequate
to meet
The
Dominican Republic, in so far as it is able, remains ready to
continue to cooperate with this fraternal people to lighten the
heavy burden of its current problems.
the needs of peace and employment.
In this respect, we are pleased to report that the Prime
Minister of the Haitian Government, Mr. Robert Malval,
recently made an official visit to the Dominican Republic,
with a view to fully normalizing relations between the
Dominican and Haitian peoples and establishing the full
spectrum of relations between the two countries, in their
mutual interest.
I am happy to say that the Haitian Prime
Minister was given a very warm welcome by the President
of the Dominican Republic, Mr. Joaquín Balaguer, who has
always been interested in finding a solution to our brother
country’s political conflict and especially in alleviating the
serious economic situation there. As a result of the meeting,
the two statesmen reached an agreement, subsequently
formalized, that will ensure the speedy and constructive
normalization of relations, with real reciprocal cooperation,
between our two States.
There is no more appropriate forum than this for me,
on behalf of my country and Government, to appeal again
for massive aid from the most developed nations of the
Earth to that afflicted and impoverished neighbouring brother
country.
Since the conquest and colonization of America, the
Dominican Republic has defended human rights.
It was in
our island, Hispaniola, that a loud voice was first raised on
behalf of the rights of the indigenous inhabitants of our
American lands - the voice of Brother Antón de Montesinos,
in his famous Advent sermon. Faithful to that first call for
the redemption of our continent, our Government honours
this historical tradition, which is fully valid today in our
country’s official and private practice. It has been working
on
become
in nature - that will contribute to giving
international
juridical force to that tradition.
- which might
instruments
eventually
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Our country has advocated the universality of human
rights. We believe that neither geographical, economic,
social, religious nor cultural differences can ever be used as
a pretext for showing contempt for human rights.
The Dominican delegation believes that, because of the
increase in the membership of the United Nations - currently
at 184 countries -
there should be a more equitable
representation in the Security Council, while at the same
time we continue to abide by the provisions of paragraph 1
of Article 23 of the United Nations Charter. Now that the
bipolarity of the past has disappeared and the use and abuse
of the veto are fading, the Council should become more
representative of the new international reality. This should
be done in broad consultations, after due reflection and with
account taken of the need for equity, so that the Council can
become more representative without its effectiveness being
in any way mitigated or weakened. Rather, its authority and
responsibility will be enhanced so that
it can respond
effectively to any crisis with which the international
community might be confronted, as the Council has done
recently.
it would be
practical and feasible to give the Council greater flexibility
in meeting the just aspirations of nations, such as the
Republic of China, that wish to become Members of the
United Nations and cooperate in carrying out its principles.
In this regard, we consider that
I would now like to express our views on developments
in the international situation, particularly on conflicts that, in
one way or another, have been affecting international peace.
I shall refer first to the Central American crisis, which,
happily, today is on the road to a definitive solution because
of the positive evolution, under the auspices of the United
Nations, of the El Salvador peace agreements, and the recent
return to democracy in Guatemala, which augurs well for the
institutionalization of peace and prosperity in that region.
is,
that
Next, we would like to refer to one of the most
complex and difficult conflicts facing the international
community today -
the existence of extreme
nationalism, which in some cases has led to fratricidal wars
and the annihilation of large groups of people because of
racial and cultural hatred. This has happened in the former
Yugoslavia, where even now, despite the efforts of the
United Nations and intensive diplomatic activity, blood is
still being shed between brother peoples that until recently
lived together under one flag. Our Government wishes to
see a swift solution to the situation in the former Yugoslavia
and reiterates its support for measures taken by the Security
Council, in particular the establishment of an international
war tribunal to pass judgement on crimes against humanity
committed in some areas of the conflict.
We would especially like to point
to one positive
development that represents perhaps our best hope for peace
today:
the transitional agreement between the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) and the Government of the
State of Israel. The long-standing conflict in the Middle
East engendered dangerous tension that has kept the entire
world in suspense and has been regarded as the potential
source
a
incalculable
destructiveness.
conflagration
of
of
future
In connection with the development to which I have
just referred - the agreement between the Palestinians and
the State of Israel - it might be time to defer consideration
of or remove the items on that conflict that have long
appeared on the General Assembly’s agenda. With this
reciprocal exchange of olive branches of peace, we can see
the promise of harmony between peoples that have been
living in such uneasy proximity.
We must recognize how the persistent diplomacy of the
United States contributed to securing the results that have
been achieved. The United States considered the situation
with a view to deciding what was possible in relations
between the Arab and Jewish peoples. The agreement
culminated in the signing at the White House in Washington.
In our opinion, that demonstrated unequivocally and very
clearly to international public opinion the sincerity of the
parties, who were fully aware of the extreme importance of
the commitments into which they were entering.
We must constantly stress the importance of
the
environment. After economic crisis and the imbalance
between North and South,
the major challenge facing
mankind is the environmental crisis. The gradual destruction
of ecosystems and the deteriorating quality of life of human
beings are unavoidable aspects of everyday existence for the
peoples of the world. Thus, it is essential that the course of
events be changed. The political will of Governments and
of all those who participate in organized civilian society will
be necessary to our taking up this great challenge, which
will
involve commitment on the part of everyone - a
commitment from all mankind.
In that connection, the Dominican Republic supports the
general outline of the Plan of Action that was adopted at the
summit Conference on Environment and Development in Rio
de Janeiro in 1992. Here we have a valuable instrument for
political programming and regional cooperation to protect the
environment in Latin America and the Caribbean.
The latter part of the twentieth century has witnessed
major changes in world political affairs, ranging from the
end of the cold war to democratization in the countries of
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
19
Eastern Europe.Despite this ideological thaw, however, we
still have arms
trafficking and nuclear arsenals and,
therefore, a serious threat to peace.
Let me refer once again to the situation in the Korean
peninsula and mention specifically North Korea, which is
continuing its nuclear research and investing enormous
resources in this undertaking. Let us invite the Government
of North Korea to become a party to the universal
agreements on the control of nuclear weapons. Let us invite
it
to cooperate transparently and effectively with the
International Atomic Energy Agency in that body’s
important
inspecting and monitoring nuclear
facilities. Willingness to do so would constitute evidence of
that Government’s respect for its own nation and of its
concern for the future of its people and of all mankind.
task of
We support United Nations measures to put an end to
arms trafficking. We support efforts to ensure transparency
in military expenditures so that military activity may be
made more predictable, and peace and international security,
at the regional and world levels, strengthened.
Let me now turn to two important issues that are still
on the agenda of this Assembly.
as
to
the
here,
represented
May I, first, draw the attention of the international
community,
positive
developments in the area of drug trafficking, which are due
to the success of many measures aimed at combating and
eradicating what has for too long been one of the most
ominous scourges of mankind. None the less, we must
redouble our efforts to ensure that measures are implemented
both internally and internationally and result
from
coordinated policies of all the nations represented here today.
The Dominican Republic has just become a party to the
1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and the 1972
Protocol Amending the Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs of 1961, bringing itself up to date on international
legislation in order the better to play its role in collaborating
with other States and agencies.
The other issue to which I wish to refer is the economic
crisis affecting most countries of the world. Today, the
phenomenon of globalization of the economy and integration
of regional blocs is typical of the international situation,
which is evolving so rapidly that countries such as mine can
no longer put off negotiations to determine their participation
in multilateral free-trade agreements, customs unions or
regional markets.
In this connection, the international activities of the
Dominican Republic focus on the economic programmes of
countries in our region and regional organizations that can
help in our development and in our enjoyment of technical
and financial cooperation.
The implementation of appropriate domestic policies by
our Government will ensure that trade and investment will
become the ideal means to strengthen bilateral relations,
underpinned, of course, by the unilateral granting of trade
benefits under the Caribbean Basin Initiative and by the
opening up of our market under the Americas Initiative.
In the new international order, another of the major
challenges that the Dominican Republic must face is the
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and its
possible implications; we understand that NAFTA, as a
theoretical possible outcome, would imply an effort towards
the
the
hemisphere.
liberalization of
throughout
complete
trade
I should like to emphasize the Dominican Republic’s
strong support for holding a World Summit for Social
Development
to take up matters relating to the social
situation in the world, particularly that of women, young
people, the elderly, the handicapped and families. The
Summit will have to deliver a clear undertaking for common
policies to defend and protect these important segments of
the world’s population collectively, and we hope that many
of our countries will take measures to extend coverage and
protection for these social sectors, especially for children and
the elderly.
We should like to draw to members’ attention a subject
of serious concern to my Government and country, and that
has complex and serious ramifications that will be brought
before the appropriate forums during the forty-eighth
General Assembly session. This is the Secretary-General’s
proposal to merge the International Research and Training
Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW) with
the United Nations Development Fund for Women
(UNIFEM). Theoretically, the General Assembly will study
this proposal in November.
My Government attaches the greatest importance to this
decision, and requests this world forum to give it its closest
attention in order to avoid committing a grave injustice by
taking hasty action or the like.
conceived at
INSTRAW was
the First World
Conference on Women, held in Mexico City in 1975, and
was established as the result of a series of resolutions,
including, we should like to recall, Economic and Social
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Council resolution 1979/11 of 9 May 1979. This resolution
specified clearly that the permanent headquarters of the
Institute was to be my country, the Dominican Republic, a
developing country.
Moreover, my Government gave the United Nations the
building that is being used as the Institute’s headquarters.
Not only that, it had to make significant investments in
terms of money and other resources in order to overhaul the
building to bring it up to the specifications required by the
Organization.
We request
the Secretary-General
to postpone any
action leading to merger between INSTRAW and UNIFEM
until such time as the General Assembly considers his
proposal and comes to its own conclusions on the matter.
Also, it would seem that there is an attempt being made
to ignore, unilaterally, the Agreement between the United
Nations and the host Government that is the legal framework
within which INSTRAW operates. My Government regards
this as a serious - an extremely serious - impropriety, and
reserves the right to use all relevant legal means to assert its
legitimate rights.
Finally, the delegation I lead calls upon the consciences
of all nations and on all those leaders who bear upon their
shoulders responsibility for the destiny of their countries and
the world, for peace, common sense and mutual respect to
prevail over violence and for there to be cooperation and
solidarity between peoples;
these are the supreme
purposes of this Organization.
for
Mr. ARSALA (Afghanistan): Permit me, first of all, to
Insanally on his unanimous
congratulate Ambassador
the United Nations General
election as President of
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I am confident that,
under his dynamic and wise leadership, coupled with the
support of
that able and consummate diplomat, His
Excellency Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General of
the United Nations, the deliberations of this Assembly will
produce constructive and fruitful results in meeting some of
the major challenges our world is facing at this time and in
laying a sound foundation for international relations in the
foreseeable future.
Our appreciation is also extended to His Excellency
Stoyan Ganev, the President of the General Assembly at its
forty-seventh session, for his successful conduct of that
session of the Assembly.
I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome
I expect that
the new Member States that have joined us.
their participation at this session will contribute significantly
to international peace and cooperation.
The world has witnessed phenomenal changes within
the last two or three years. With the collapse of Soviet
communism, many new independent States have emerged,
and several countries whose citizens lived unwillingly behind
the Iron Curtain for almost half a century have rejoined the
free world. The bipolar world has disappeared and the cold
war has practically ended. These great changes provide an
opportunity for us to reduce international tensions, to attain
true parity among nations,
to put an end to wasteful
investments in destructive and devastating armaments and to
free up our resources for more productive use by all our
citizens.
On the other hand, however, we also see that these
changes in the world have created substantial uncertainties
and in many instances have given rise to extremely tragic
regional, local, ethnic and religious conflicts which, unless
addressed by the international community, will endanger
world peace. These conflicts, combined with the continuing
problems of poverty, the widening gap between the rich and
the poor, and the scourge of drug use and drug trafficking
could offset the advantages we all hope to gain from the
recent changes. Do we have the vision, the creativity and
the resolve to ensure that the world takes positive advantage
of the new realities for the benefit of all countries and
peoples? Or will we continue to be myopic, dogmatically
blind and self-centred, and risk losing this great opportunity?
The Afghan people have a special stake in the choice
we collectively make. We wish to ensure that our choice is
the right one and that all countries, including Afghanistan,
share fully in the benefits that should flow from the new
realities. Our special stake is based on our belief that the
changes that have taken place in the world are partly the
result of the enormous sacrifices made by our nation during
the 14 years of struggle against Soviet occupation and
communist rule.
In this context, I would like to say a few words about
some of the issues confronting the world community today,
issues which we must address in this Assembly. I will then
discuss the situation in Afghanistan and state what our
expectations are of the United Nations and the world
community.
One of the issues confronting us is that of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The country’s situation is indeed tragic, and
will be a test case to determine whether we in the
international community have the sense of justice and can
muster the resolve to end this tragedy successfully and
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
21
the intransigence of
The continuing occupation of Bosnian Muslim
justly.
territories by the Serbs, backed by the armed might of
Serbia,
the Serbians vis-à-vis the
Security Council
resolutions, and the untold atrocities
committed against the innocent Bosnian Muslim population
is not only an affront to this Organization but also an insult
to humanity.
The delegation of the Islamic State of
Afghanistan believes that aggression must not be rewarded
and that any territorial gains that were made as a result of
force should and must be rectified. A definitive time limit
should be set by which the Serbs should agree to the terms
of the London Conference and withdraw from the seized
territories. Otherwise, the current arms embargo against
Bosnia should be lifted and other urgent and effective
measures, including the use of force, should be considered
by the United Nations and the international community to
ensure that the Bosnian tragedy is ended and the Serbian
aggression repulsed.
The Palestinian people have suffered long. The Islamic
State of Afghanistan would like to see peace finally achieved
for these people in a way that meets their national objectives
and satisfies their right to self-determination. We believe
that the declaration of principles on Palestinian self-rule
signed in Washington on 13 September 1993 will serve as
the basis for a long-term solution to the Palestine problem
and ensure peace and stability only if it is followed by
earnest negotiations that lead first, to the withdrawal of
Israeli forces from the occupied territories; secondly, to the
establishment of an independent Palestinian State that
includes the Holy City of Jerusalem, one of the three most
sacred cities of the Islamic world; thirdly, to the return of
the Palestinian refugees; and fourthly, to a resolution of the
problem of Israeli settlements in a manner acceptable to the
new Palestinian State.
Kashmir is another tragic issue that requires urgent
attention.
This issue has not only caused substantial
suffering to the people of Kashmir, but has become the
source of friction between two important neighbouring States
in South Asia and has prevented the full realization of the
economic and trade potentials that exist within and outside
the region. The Islamic State of Afghanistan therefore urges
the resolution of this issue by these two States through
negotiations under United Nations auspices or under any
other arrangements that may be acceptable to both sides,
taking into account the wishes and aspirations of the people
of Kashmir.
In the case of Somalia, the Islamic State of Afghanistan
is distressed by the chaos which has resulted from increasing
civil upheaval. We support the peace-keeping efforts of the
United Nations and hope that international participation can
in Somalia and the
ensure a safe end to the turmoil
establishment of a viable government to protect the interests
and rights of the Somali people. We believe all peaceful
avenues that might help in solving this problem should be
explored.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan supports every
equitable international effort to prevent the proliferation of
nuclear weapons. However, given that most of the tragedies
around the world are caused by the massive increase in the
availability of conventional weapons, my delegation would
welcome and support a resolution to control the production
and sale of such weapons. Such a resolution should also
provide for effective arms collection programmes
in
countries which are saturated with weapons that are causing
internal and regional instability.
Now I would like to focus the attention of
the
Assembly on my own country, Afghanistan. As all of you
know, Afghanistan has suffered enormously within the past
15 years.
I do not wish to go into the details of the
destruction that has taken place, but I would like to highlight
a few points very briefly.
The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has
aptly summarized the tragedy of Afghanistan:
"Few countries in history have suffered to the
extent Afghanistan has over the past fourteen years.
Aside from the physical destruction, which was often
nothing short of cataclysmic, the results of the war
include well over a million people killed, over 2 million
disabled, nearly 6 million refugees in neighbouring
countries, and 2 million internally displaced persons."
Almost the entire transportation, communication, and
power infrastructure in Afghanistan has been either wiped
out or severely damaged. The agricultural system is in total
disarray, with the irrigation system destroyed, much
livestock killed and the agricultural credit and extension
services totally defunct. The placement of millions of mines
throughout the country makes it impossible to revive the
agricultural sector. Forests are denuded and the environment
spoiled.
Attempts to provide health care, medicine,
immunization and so on are stymied by the destruction of so
many hospitals and clinics. Mental health problems resulting
from many years of war and bombings have no relief.
In
addition,
thousands upon thousands of amputees require
artificial limbs. Thousands of schools have been destroyed
and many of our teachers and professors have been killed or
exiled.
Indeed, illiteracy has overtaken almost our entire
population.
A whole generation of Afghans has no
experience of normal life or of education in any form.
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The other two urgent problems we have are both linked
to the lack of jobs and of economic alternatives within
Afghanistan:
the problem of large numbers of weapons in
private hands and the problem of illicit drugs. I shall return
to both of these matters a little later.
Let me describe the plight of one individual, Abdul
Rahim. This man escaped to Pakistan from the war in
Afghanistan nine years ago. He was newly married, with
one baby, and during his years in Pakistan he had two more
children. Two of his brothers were killed in battle, and the
third died of disease that went untreated because of poor
medical facilities. He is responsible for two of his widowed
sisters-in-law and their five children. Thus, as he returns to
his village in Afghanistan he is the head of a family of
twelve. He finds that his parents, who had refused to leave,
are no longer there. It will be some time before he learns of
their fate. His home is reduced to a pile of rubble, as,
obviously, are those of his neighbours. The shops of the
village are gone. The once-paved road that came almost to
the village is an unrecognizable path of dust and rocks.
There is no water and no electricity. Worse, there are no
trees or source of wood, and winter’s shadow grows longer
with each cold night.
In his once productive fields lie
burned tanks and odd pieces of metallic rubble. His cousins
nervously talk of land mines, one of which killed an old
neighbour the day before his return. His family is concerned
about lack of flour, tea and sugar. This person is just an
example;
there are millions of people like him in
Afghanistan.
One of the most damaging legacies that Afghanistan
has inherited from Soviet occupation, Communist rule and
the long, drawn-out war is a substantial break-up of our civil
and military administration and the virtual collapse of our
In the past year the
economic and financial institutions.
Government has taken substantial steps to correct
the
situation. Indeed, progress has been made in re-establishing
central authority and in reviving public and private economic
and financial institutions. None the less, considerable work
and much assistance will be required before we begin to
overcome those shortcomings.
In addition, given the destruction that has taken place,
we are in need of a massive reconstruction programme
which we are unable to undertake unless we are assisted by
the international community.
the General
Assembly adopted a resolution calling for reconstruction
assistance to Afghanistan. Not much has happened since
then. A similar draft resolution will be presented to the
Assembly this year, and we hope that it will be supported
and that many can take part in putting it into effect.
Last year
When we raise
the question of
assistance for
reconstruction and revitalization of the economy, our request
is gently dismissed with the reply that once security is
established, Afghanistan will be helped. While granting that
security is important
for a full-fledged reconstruction
programme, I would suggest that a reasonable degree of
peace and security does exist in large parts of Afghanistan.
In these areas reconstruction is possible and, if started, could
serve as a catalyst in revitalizing the entire Afghan economy.
There are only a few areas where tensions exist and where
there may be intermittent fighting. We should also bear in
mind that it may not be possible to have full peace and
security in the country unless we are able to start the process
of
reconstruction and provide people with productive
economic opportunities to make it attractive, and indeed
possible, for them to give up their arms. The vicious circle
of security first and then reconstruction or economic revival
first and then security must be broken if we are to make any
progress.
Another dimension of security is obviously political.
the entire Afghan nation participates in
To ensure that
determining the country’s future political structure, we plan
to hold elections in the course of the coming year. We have
therefore requested the United Nations to help organize and
supervise the election process.
Now I should like to come back to the two or three
points which I mentioned earlier.
One issue worth mentioning here and which has had
both regional and international
implications is that of
narcotic drugs. At the present time the illicit cultivation,
production, stocking, smuggling of and trafficking in narcotic
drugs are without a doubt critical problems that
face
humanity. Regrettably, one of the legacies of the long war
is the transformation of some parts of our country into
staging areas for illicit drug activity. This phenomenon,
which is the result of
the unavailability of economic
alternatives, is a source of great pain to us. The Islamic
State of Afghanistan, despite its scarce resources, has
undertaken serious measures in the struggle against illicit
drugs. We shall spare no efforts in combating these illegal
activities. However, we must not overlook the reality that
Afghanistan, with its extremely limited means and massive
economic and financial needs,
in a position to
accomplish effectively this task on its own. Afghanistan
needs urgent support from the international community to
intensify the struggle against cultivation and of trafficking in
drugs.
is not
Another area where we require cooperation is that of
land mines. Last year the Secretary-General’s report brought
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
23
The Islamic State of Afghanistan stands firm in support
of human rights. This we consider not only an international
commitment, but also a religious conviction. The fact that
after the collapse of the communist regime in Afghanistan
and the takeover by the Mujahideen, no policy of revenge
against the former regime members was pursued is a good
indication of this commitment. It is true, however, that due
to the massive number of weapons now in private hands in
our country some individual
incidents of human rights
violations have taken place, and skirmishes between different
armed groups have regrettably led to the loss of innocent
lives. Therefore, the Islamic State of Afghanistan is taking
measures to collect heavy arms from various armed groups.
We seriously hope that these efforts will bear fruit in the not
too distant future.
I also want to make it clear that, having been the
victims of terrorism ourselves, the Afghan nation opposes
terrorism in any form or shape. We will never tolerate
terrorism or allow Afghan territory to be used for such acts.
Terrorism and the killing of innocent people is abhorrent to
our religious beliefs and to our traditions. God Almighty
condemns the killing of innocent people and says that when
anyone kills an innocent person, it will
"be as if He slew the whole people". (The Holy Koran,
V:35).
The agricultural sector,
to the attention of the world the fact that there are more than
10 million land mines in Afghanistan.
It should also be
mentioned that, on average, about 300 people fall victim to
land mines each month.
the
traditional base of the Afghan economy, will never be
revived until these mines are cleared. We of course express
our gratitude for
the past and ongoing mine-clearing
programmes of the United Nations and experts from other
countries. However, there is an urgent need for greater
assistance
actual
mine-clearing operations and in training Afghan citizens so
as to enable us to complete this task in as short a time as
possible.
In this connection, the delegation of the Islamic
State of Afghanistan wholeheartedly supports the new item,
introduced by the European Community, on the current
agenda of the General Assembly concerning mine-clearing
programmes for war-stricken countries.
interested
countries
by
both
in
any
prejudice
country, without
We Afghans want to reconstruct our country and to
heal the wounds of the war that was imposed upon us. We
look forward to a normal life in which all our citizens
participate fully in the political, economic, and social life of
the
and without
discrimination based on ethnicity, religious sect, language or
gender. Here we consider it particularly important that
Afghan women play an effective and positive role in the
process of rebuilding Afghanistan. We want to raise the
standard of living of our people. We want to live in peace
with all our neighbours and to cooperate fully with them so
that we can use the vast resources of our region to the
maximum advantage of all our peoples. Indeed, we want to
serve as a transit and trade route in our region. To this end,
the Islamic State of Afghanistan intends to devise a
reconstruction and development strategy that
takes into
account not only Afghanistan’s own requirements, but also
the requirements of the region.
the highest
We are of course distressed by the recent upheavals in
Tajikistan. We have made every effort
to ensure that
tensions along the Tajik-Afghan border are reduced. For this
purpose, official visits at
levels have been
exchanged between the two countries. These visits have
resulted in mutual understanding on important
issues.
Appropriate communiqués to this effect have been issued in
Kabul and Dushanbe. We welcome the decision of the Tajik
authorities to solve their internal political problems through
negotiations so that the Tajik refugees now in Afghanistan
can return to Tajikistan voluntarily with confidence,
in
security and with honour, in accordance with international
norms. To this end we are planning to reach a trilateral
agreement between Afghanistan, Tajikistan and the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The world is also witness to the fact that throughout the
unequal war against the former Soviet Union the Afghans at
no point carried out any acts of terrorism against Soviet
citizens or Soviet property.
I would like to conclude by stating that the international
community will draw maximum advantage from the changes
that have taken place in the world if we assume
responsibility for, and become committed to, working
collectively towards improving the lives of all peoples, while
each country maintains its full independence and enjoys
equal rights and privileges as a separate nation. All
countries represented in this body should be thinking not
only of the prevention of conflicts, but also of engaging our
energies to uplift the economic, social, and political lives of
every nation and citizen so that all are safe, secure and free.
It is with such vision, such commitment, such sense of
sharing, that we will be able to realize the objectives for
which this Organization was founded. For the attainment of
these goals, we must ensure that new opportunities in the
world are not wasted and that the sacrifices of millions of
people who gave their lives for freedom and dignity, as well
as the silent suffering of those who despaired under years of
poverty and oppression, were not in vain.
For our part, I would like to assure the Organization
and the international community that Afghanistan will be a
full and cooperative partner in all constructive collective
efforts aimed at ensuring international peace, stability,
progress, freedom and justice.
May God bless everyone present and help us all in our
efforts.
The meeting rose at 1:30 p.m.
