United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.40 a.m.
The PRESIDENT: I should like to apologize for this
late start, but, as members know, the Secretary-General and
I sometimes have duties of protocol.
members to maintain their punctuality.
I do encourage
ADDRESS BY MR. ISLAM A. KARIMOV, PRESIDENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Mr. Islam A. Karimov, President of the Republic of
Uzbekistan, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, His
Excellency Mr. Islam Karimov, and to invite him to address
the Assembly.
President KARIMOV (interpretation from Russian):
May I express my gratitude for the honour of representing
for the first time, as Head of State, the independent country
of Uzbekistan at the United Nations General Assembly.
6th
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 28 September 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
nations to live in peace and accord has become a clear sign
of mankind’s spiritual progress. At a time of radical historic
transformation and growing interdependency in the modern
world, the global role and significance of the United Nations
is growing correspondingly as a political instrument for the
world in the consideration and solution of common human
problems.
Independent Uzbekistan, recognized by all States, has
now become a full-fledged member of the United Nations.
Embassies of many countries and offices of various
international agencies have been opened in the Republic. I
am pleased to acknowledge the fruitful activities of the
United Nations Office in Uzbekistan, the opening of which
was undertaken on the personal initiative of the Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
I should like to take this opportunity, on behalf of my
people and the Government of Uzbekistan, to express sincere
gratitude to the United Nations and all its Member States for
their recognition and support of my country’s independence.
Uzbekistan, with its population of 22 million,
constitutes both the geographical and political basis of
Central Asia. One of the most ancient world civilizations
emerged in the region, and this land was crossed by the
Great Silk Road. The history of my people goes back deep
into the past, being more than 3,000 years old. Once-
prosperous empires and kingdoms in the territory of ancient
Turan, Transoxania and Turkistan had a marked impact on
the development of world culture.
We see the United Nations as a unique institution for
the discussion and solution of the most urgent issues facing
all States and regions and the world community at large.
The United Nations is a great symbol of the good will of
The cities of Tashkent, Samarkand, Bukhara and Khiva
have been known far and wide since time immemorial and
have had trade links stretching from China to Spain and
from Europe to the Indian Ocean. These cities were noted
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86617 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.6
5 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
structures
architectural
and attracted
for magnificent
outstanding thinkers, scholars and artists from all parts of the
world. The great Tamerlane turned Samarkand into a capital
city of his empire and was famous as a patron of scholars,
philosophers, architects, poets and musicians.
Spiritual,
intellectual and aesthetic values have had a profound effect
in shaping the way of life and traditional culture of our
people. We are proud of our history and revere the memory
of our great ancestors, the thinkers of the East: Al-Bukhari,
Al-Termezi, Ahmad Yassavi, Bahaudin Naqshbandi,
Al-Kworazmi, Beruni, Avicenna, Nawai, Ulugh Beg and
many others who made an invaluable contribution to world
civilization.
Having declared its independence, Uzbekistan has now
entered an era of spiritual and intellectual renaissance and
radical transformation in the economic, political and social
spheres. We have embarked on the building of a
democratic, lawful and secular society with an open-market
economy and a strong system of social welfare. There is
consent among the people of Uzbekistan on the need,
directions and forms of developing political institutions, and
there is now perceptible progress towards democratic
transformation. The new Fundamental Law of the Republic
of Uzbekistan, adopted last December, has been highly
received by independent international experts and meets the
essential criteria of a democratic constitution while ensuring
all human rights and basic freedoms of citizens. Free and
contested general elections have been held for Head of State
and the Parliament. There is a clear separation of powers in
the country, and the multi-party system is gaining strength.
Our people have regained their freedom following more
than 100 years of oppression and now have an opportunity
to decide their own destiny, develop their culture and bring
about their spiritual renaissance. The Republic, inhabited by
people of more than 100 nations and nationalities, provides
all ethnic groups with broad and equal opportunities for the
development of
traditions and
languages. We are proud that, despite the difficulties of
transition, Uzbekistan has been able to preserve political
stability, peace and ethnic accord.
their national cultures,
The Republic of Uzbekistan is a country of great
potential, unique natural resources and a promising future.
About half of its population is below the age of 18.
It is
third in the world in cotton production, eighth in gold
extraction, tenth in the production of copper and is among
the leading nations in deposits of rare metals and strategic
raw materials. Uzbekistan possesses huge energy resources
and has much more to offer the world market.
It has long
traditions of craftsmanship, trade, commerce and farming
and is a great country for tourism. The Republic has a
powerful scientific,
intellectual and spiritual potential.
Research carried out by our scientists in the fields of
mathematics, physics and biology has won renown far
beyond the region. But our principal wealth is an open,
hard-working, hospitable and proud people noted for its
sense of honour and dignity.
Free Uzbekistan has chosen its own path to reforming
society and has elaborated its own model for transition to a
democratic society and a free market economy. At the same
time, we are quite aware that the Republic - which earlier
served as a raw-materials appendage of the former Soviet
Union, exporting cheap raw materials and importing
low-quality finished products - with a hypertrophied
economy and devastated environment, can hardly be
expected to overcome in a short span of time the situation it
has inherited. Given the high birth rate, acute problems of
employment and considerable material difficulties, economic
and spiritual development can be expected to outstrip
political transformation. We must work out a solid legal
foundation, educate people in living in a law-abiding society,
encourage tolerance of diverse views and opinions and,
above all, change the mentality of the people, whose outlook
was
and
totalitarian-distributive system we lived under for the last
74 years.
command-administrative
shaped
by
the
Any other approach, or a thoughtless acceleration of
events, may lead to conflicts and civil confrontation in many
countries of the former socialist camp. As we have seen,
such approaches have led to civil confrontation, inter-ethnic
clashes and the further proliferation of problems, rather than
to their solution, and may discredit the very idea of a free -
market economy and democratic reform. This can be seen
quite clearly from the examples of those countries that are
now going through a very difficult time in their history.
It
has become evident today that there are no universal models
of social and economic development
that are equally
acceptable to all countries. There seems to remain no
marked difference between the orthodox concepts of
capitalism and socialism. The need has emerged to shape
new and free thinking without ideological indoctrination,
which would reveal the entire diversity of the forms and
ways for each country’s transition to an entirely new
condition.
Taking into consideration the concrete situation,
mentality and traditions of the Uzbek people, we have
proclaimed five basic principles of our reform. First, we
have proclaimed the priority of the economy over politics
and the de-ideologization of both domestic and external
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
3
economic relations. Secondly, we consider that the State
needs to play the role of main reformer and initiator of
democratic transformation in our Republic during the
transition period. Thirdly, we proclaim the preservation of
law and order and the supremacy of law. Fourthly, we
believe it is of exceptional importance to have a strong
social policy protecting the interests of all citizens, especially
the neediest and those requiring Government support.
Finally, we believe the transition to free-market relations will
have to be carried out gradually, on an evolutionary basis.
A popular saying in our country goes, "Never destroy the old
house before you have built a new one."
Social stability and State security are vital factors in
democratic reform. Hardly any other problem can be solved
without them. Uzbekistan has steadfastly and consistently
supported security and stability in all regions, especially in
our own, Central Asia. The specific characteristics of our
region and its geopolitical situation are such that negative
developments may trigger world-wide instability. Suffice it
to say that about 60 million people associated with various -
and I stress, various - ethnic and religious groups live in
Central Asia. Both nuclear and conventional arms of
tremendous destructive force have been accumulated in this
region, and any violence may result
in disasters of
unforeseeable magnitude.
the political
In this connection, one cannot avoid discussing the
situation in Tajikistan and on the Tajik-Afghan border. One
could argue about
interests of the parties
involved; however, there is no doubt that the bloody conflict
in Tajikistan has arisen as a result of the unlawful efforts of
one of the sides to seize power through the force of arms
and intimidation and maintain it on the basis of continued
material and ideological interference from the outside. Thus,
numerous political
the
population have become involved in this armed conflict. It
has been internationalized also because financial and
logistical support of anti-government fighting units with
military equipment, as well as training centres, were located
beyond the borders of Tajikistan.
forces and different parts of
The Government of Uzbekistan is concerned at the
continued conflict in Tajikistan and on the Tajik-Afghan
border, primarily because for centuries the peoples of Central
Asia have been linked by close economic, spiritual and
cultural relations. At the present time, there are in essence
no real borders in the classical sense among the countries of
the region. That is why any outbreak of conflict for purely
geographical reasons may affect the whole region.
We are also concerned at the uncontrolled accumulation
of modern arms in huge quantities. Where do they come
from, and who is arming the extremists and terrorists? What
is the world community doing, and what should it do to
prevent the flow of arms into zones of fratricidal conflict?
These burning issues, which affect millions of people and
entire nations, are awaiting a solution.
The problem of Tajik refugees has become extremely
serious as their conflict escalates. Tens of thousands of
peaceful people have been compelled to leave their homes.
Uzbekistan is sending food products, medicine and other
vital necessities to Tajikistan and is encouraging the return
of the refugees, and through the United Nations office
supports
for
the United Nations High Commissioner
Refugees for the rendering of humanitarian assistance.
Uzbekistan resolutely condemns extremism, terrorism,
religious fanaticism and fundamentalism in any form.
It is
in favour of the peaceful resolution of conflicts by political
means, of holding negotiations between opposing parties, and
of non-interference in the internal affairs of sovereign States,
and it is prepared to render further humanitarian assistance
to the Tajik people, primarily to refugees returning from
Afghanistan. In the early stages of the conflict in Tajikistan,
Uzbekistan twice drew the attention of the Secretary-General
of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to the
urgent need for thorough consideration of the situation and
its settlement within the framework of the United Nations.
We are grateful
to the United Nations and to the
Secretary-General for their prompt response to the concern
we expressed and for their efforts to settle the conflict. We
believe that
the international community will properly
appreciate this contribution to peace. A United Nations
mission headed by Mr. Kittani,
the Secretary-General’s
Special Envoy, has been working fruitfully in the region.
Data collected by the mission have, in our view, provided
an opportunity to draw objective conclusions as to the nature
and the driving forces of the conflict at a meeting of the
United Nations Security Council.
Nevertheless, there is hardly any basis today on which
to talk about sufficient attention being paid to the situation
on the Tajik-Afghan border in the light of the current
situation in Tajikistan as well as in Afghanistan. We have
not understood the scale and potential of this conflict and its
globally devastating consequences. I should like to take this
opportunity to appeal to participants in this session of the
General Assembly to express their constructive views on
ways of solving this problem.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Uzbekistan would welcome the convening of a standing
United Nations seminar on security, stability and cooperation
in Central Asia.
Tashkent, a city with peacemaking
traditions, steeped in the spirit of international cooperation
and ethnic accord, is prepared to be the venue for this
seminar.
In accordance with Article 52 of the United
Nations Charter, the parties involved could discuss, within
the framework of
the
possibilities of setting up an effective system of regional
security in Central Asia.
the United Nations
seminar,
Such a system could contemplate measures for the
preservation and restoration of peace in case of conflicts and
wars,
including collective sanctions of a diplomatic,
financial, economic and
other nature against those who
today would venture to violate peace and existing borders,
and produce recommendations for the United Nations on the
establishment of stability and lasting peace in this region.
Uzbekistan supports the idea of a new role for the
United Nations as a global
institution in safeguarding
security on Earth, which was advanced by the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
in his "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277), which he outlined
in the Security Council on 31 January 1992. We invite the
Secretary-General to pay a visit to the Central Asian region,
including the Republic of Uzbekistan.
I am sure that the
authority of the United Nations and the Secretary-General
will make it possible to prevent the negative development of
events in the region.
In "An Agenda for Peace", Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali
attaches great importance to preventive diplomacy in today’s
world, which coincides fully with our own view. From this
lofty international rostrum, I wish to call upon the United
Nations
its peacemaking work,
specifically in zones of emerging conflicts.
to strengthen further
It must unfortunately be admitted that, in many cases,
authoritative international agencies react to conflict situations
not when - speaking figuratively - they smell smoke, but
only afterwards, when the fire has already flared up and is
almost impossible to put out. To prevent the escalation of
conflicts, the international community should abandon the
role of passive observer it so often plays and instead adopt
the stance of an active peacemaker.
It would be expedient in this regard to establish a
special group under the United Nations Security Council to
analyse and forecast emerging international conflicts for the
purpose of
the
Security Council, other United Nations agencies and the
rapidly preparing recommendations for
world community so that the necessary measures can be
taken.
Current realities in the world today show that
the
security of one nation cannot be guaranteed at the expense
of another State and that regional security can be viewed
solely in concert with global security. On this basis,
Uzbekistan is in favour of the total abolition of nuclear
weapons. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons will have to become a more efficient
treaty,
unrestricted by any time limits. Our Republic will actively
participate in preliminary negotiations for the preparation of
a conference on the prolongation of this Treaty. Uzbekistan
is a staunch supporter of proclaiming Central Asia a
nuclear-free zone.
We are firmly determined also to hold negotiations on
signing the chemical weapons Convention. Uzbekistan
considers that we need international control over
the
proliferation of chemical and bacteriological weapons in
Central Asia.
I should like to draw particular attention, among other
top-priority problems, to the question of stepping up our
common efforts against narcobusiness. We would like to see
a large-scale cooperation in the struggle against this scourge,
this white death.
It is a secret to no one that a large
percentage of the narcotics consumed throughout the world
are produced in and transported through Central Asia.
Concentration of narcobusiness in a single region alone
provides sufficient ground for the world community to focus
its efforts on the elimination of this horrible business.
Uzbekistan is ready to cooperate in this area with all
interested countries and organizations. We would welcome
the establishment, under the aegis of the United Nations, of
a regional commission on Central Asia for the coordination
of joint efforts in the fight against narcobusiness.
We also favour greater United Nations involvement in
controlling the environment and preventing global ecological
disasters, and we are ready to facilitate the implementation
of that noble mission by all available means.
Like so many regions of the planet, Central Asia faces
an ecological disaster on an unprecedented scale. First and
foremost, there is the tragedy of the Aral Sea.
In recent
years it has lost two thirds of its volume, its water table has
shrunk by half and its shoreline has retreated 80 kilometers,
the content of mineral salts has increased fourfold, 2 million
hectares of arable land have become desert, and sandstorms
range at distances greater than 300 kilometers from it. All
this adversely affects the sanitary and health situation in the
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
5
region. In its ecological and socio-economic consequences,
the problem of the Aral Sea, according to United Nations
experts, is one of the major calamities of the twentieth
century.
In light of
the global nature of
The death of the Aral Sea may have unpredictable
affects the whole world. We appeal to the world community
to render assistance in saving the Aral Sea and the adjoining
zone.
this disaster,
Uzbekistan would appreciate the establishment of a United
Nations special commission on the Aral Sea which,
in
coordination with the region’s Governments, and through
United Nations
international
resources and opportunities for the solution of this ecological
tragedy. As a first step, this commission could hold an
international conference under United Nations aegis in
Nukus, bordering on the Aral Sea.
channels, would attract
Uzbekistan became independent at the end of the cold
war. This new epoch requires a new and sober assessment
of all problems facing the United Nations and the world
community. We are concerned by the growing suspicion
between the advanced countries of the North and the
developing countries of the South. We regret that the former
ideological intolerance between East and West is now being
replaced by ethnic and religious intolerance. We are also
concerned about the growing trend towards fundamentalism,
extremism and terrorism.
for
tool
In our view, under the circumstances,
the United
Nations should be the world’s principal
the
prevention of new hotbeds of confrontation which could
jeopardize human progress. We believe that urgent and
effective measures are now necessary so that a key organ of
the United Nations - the Security Council - can adequately
reflect
the socio-economic, ethno-cultural, religious and
spiritual diversity of today’s world; its currently conservative
structure should be reconsidered.
The world’s nations are on the threshold of a new
millennium. They want to face a bright, promising future
and leave behind the cataclysms of past global ideological
confrontation. There is growing conviction that there is no
alternative to peace, cooperation and universal security.
What will the future of mankind be like? What kind of
new era is opening? Will it succeed in overcoming the
heavy legacy of the past? Will it achieve openness and
sincerity in inter-State
eliminating mutual
suspicion, distrust and diktat, particularly the latter? The
future of the community of nations depends on the answers
to these questions. Uzbekistan is determined to progress
relations,
steadily towards the achievement of its national objectives,
the world
in harmony with the common interests of
community and the deep democratic processes
that
characterize the current level of its development. The Uzbek
people are aware that hard times still lie ahead but they are
assured of a great future in the single family of mankind.
The PRESIDENT: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Islam A. Karimov, President of the Republic of
Uzbekistan, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
ADDRESS BY MR. MAHAMANE OUSMANE,
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE NIGER
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of the
Republic of the Niger.
Mr. Mahamane Ousmane, President of the Republic
of the Niger, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic
of the Niger, His Excellency Mr. Mahamane Ousmane, and
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President OUSMANE (interpretation from French):
On behalf of the Niger and its people, I wish to extend my
warmest salutations to this distinguished Assembly.
It is
truly with great pleasure that I am taking part in the general
debate of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
As the first democratically elected President of the
Niger, I have come to bring members and all the peoples
represented here a message of esteem and friendship,
goodwill and cooperation from the people of the Niger.
I
have come to express the pride of the people of the Niger in
belonging to the great family of the United Nations. I have
come to reassert its powerful and sincere faith in the ideals
and principles expressed in the United Nations Charter.
I
have come to share its anxieties and concerns with members
and to state our determination to join with all the members
of the Assembly in the efforts to build a better world for
present and future generations.
First, however, may I join the speakers who have
preceded me in extending to you, Mr. President, our sincere
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
congratulations on your well-deserved election as President
of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
freedom and independence of the communications media and
fair access for political parties, associations and citizens to
official means of information and communications.
By unanimously giving you the heavy task of guiding
its work, the General Assembly pays a well-deserved tribute
to your skills and to your country, Guyana, for its invaluable
contribution to the efforts of the United Nations to achieve
its noble ideals. Of course, I also congratulate the other
members of the Bureau, who I am certain will spare no
effort to support you in the successful accomplishment of
your difficult functions.
I also assure you of the full
cooperation of the Niger delegation.
To your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, I
express the compliments of the Niger delegation for the
competence, efficiency and tact with which he presided over
the work of the last session.
Finally, I pay a special tribute to our Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the fresh dynamic he has
brought to the United Nations, with a firm commitment to
international development, peace and security. This work
since his election to the head of the world Organization
clearly reflects our concerns. On behalf of Niger, I warmly
congratulate him.
From 29 July to 3 November 1991 the active elements
of the nation of Niger held a National Supreme Conference,
which was a historic opportunity to consider the results of
Niger’s 30 years of independence and lay the foundations for
further efforts to strengthen the cohesiveness and unity of
our people and guarantee them the conditions for sustained
and harmonious development.
Following that Conference, Niger resolutely set forth on
the path of democratization, to build for our people a State
of law founded on the principles of pluralist democracy and
committed to observing and guaranteeing respect for human
rights as defined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of
Human Rights and in the 1981 African Charter of Human
and National Rights.
As a prelude to the democratization process, the people
of Niger, by an overwhelming majority, adopted in a
referendum on 26 December 1992 the Constitution of the
Third Republic, which guarantees the human rights set out
in various international
instruments and enshrines the
separation of powers between the executive, legislative and
judiciary branches. Furthermore, the Constitution contains
many other innovative elements, such as providing for the
establishment of a high council of communication, an
independent administrative body to ensure and guarantee the
The Constitution of 26 December 1992 proclaims
Niger’s commitment to spare no effort to achieve the ideal
of African unity, as well as its willingness to cooperate in
friendship and equality with all peoples devoted to peace,
justice and freedom.
Once the Constitution was adopted the people of Niger
went to the polls on 14 February 1993 to elect the 83
Deputies of the National Assembly, the legislative body of
the Third Republic.
This Assembly is in every way
representative of the ethnic diversity of our people and its
Indeed, through the creation of
political points of view.
special districts during the elections,
in addition to the
regular administrative districts, every ethnic group in Niger
is today represented in the National Assembly.
The
government majority is made up of an alliance of nine
political groups, while the opposition is made up of a
grouping of three parties holding 33 of the 83 seats in the
National Assembly.
The democratization process undertaken by my country
was completed by the holding, from 14 to 27 March 1993,
of two-stage presidential elections, in which eight political
groups took part. The result was that the people of Niger
entrusted me with the onerous task of leading them into the
future.
It is important to note that throughout the process
the people of Niger demonstrated great maturity and behaved
in an exemplary manner. Tens of thousands participated,
travelling great distances
extreme
temperatures that are typical of Saharan Africa. They took
part in a calm, peaceful and disciplined manner, always
maintaining the very powerful feelings of brotherhood and
of belonging to a single nation that unite them.
Such
conduct, which I am happy to praise once again here, earned
the people of Niger the esteem, consideration and respect of
the hundreds of international observers from all over the
world who monitored the elections and attested to their
fairness and openness.
and braving the
The people of Niger thus made its choice, deciding that
democracy would be the framework of its future. This
choice is, to be sure, in keeping with the changing times, in
keeping with the direction of history. But we know that
democratization is a long-term undertaking requiring patience
and selflessness. The great democratic nations of today
themselves travelled a long road before reaching their
current stage of development.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
7
Young nations such as Niger which have firmly chosen
this path must overcome many obstacles and difficulties
resulting from the weakness of
socio-economic
structures and the international environment.
their
For my country, one of the most important difficulties
is the armed rebellion in the north, which poses grave risks
to its unity. This inherited situation is in large part caused
by the drought
in the Sahel, which is making living
conditions precarious for its nomadic peoples, who already
face a most hostile and arid environment. The situation is
a cause of great concern to Niger. Therefore, immediately
it
took office on 23 April 1993 the new Government
knuckled down to finding ways and means to allow a fair
and speedy solution to the problem to prevail in peace and
brotherly trust.
The Government has been helped in this undertaking by
the valuable assistance of friendly countries, to which I
extend our sincere thanks and deep gratitude. Thanks to
these efforts, on 11 June 1993 the negotiations resulted in a
three-month truce which was scrupulously respected by the
parties and whose terms were recently renewed. There are
encouraging signs of a speedy solution to this problem being
found, and we intend to devote the needed energy to it.
From this rostrum dedicated to peace I express the hope
that all the sons of the Niger nation will work together to
surmount
their present difficulties and build a fraternal,
democratic and prosperous Niger.
is a basic human right.
The World Conference on Human Rights held at
Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993 reaffirmed that the right to
development
It affirmed that
democracy, development and basic human rights are
interdependent, reinforcing each other, and it stressed the
overriding need to support the process of democratization in
developing countries if we wish to ensure its success.
Niger remains convinced that freedom and democracy
need water to grow, just as fish need water to swim, and that
they need to be buttressed by economic and social progress.
Similarly, we are convinced that international peace and
security cannot prevail in the world unless we take into
account the vast mass of mankind’s legitimate yearnings for
economic and social progress.
Thus, development
is a major challenge for
the
fledgling democracies. They must give an urgent and
compelling reply to the question: how can we maintain and
cultivate our faith? That is the ardent question of millions
of men and women who went to the ballot box to vote and
the euphoria of victory,
find themselves
who, after
confronted with the harsh realities of their lives, the endless
problems of survival.
I know that the Assembly has a broad awareness of the
countless difficulties that paralyse our peoples in their daily
lives and impede their development.
I know that the Assembly is fully informed about the
unspeakable hardships our peoples have endured for decades
and our thoughts about them. Indeed, for year after year and
session after session, we have been constantly seized of such
great
the
buttressing of protectionism, the debt crisis, the continuing
deterioration of the environment, the growing shrinkage of
public development assistance, population growth, and
reforms in structural adjustment.
topics as the deterioration in terms of trade,
The listing of those great topics is but an imperfect
summary of the fate and the enormous poverty that is the lot
of a large portion of mankind.
The economic situation of
the African continent
provides an edifying example of that state of affairs. Africa
has been experiencing a widespread economic crisis of
unprecedented severity,
the result of a long period of
economic recession. For years now,
the continent has
suffered from this prolonged recession and from a decline in
living standards and a breakdown in the social fabric that is
so widespread and so deep that many of the benefits gained
in the early years of
independence have now been
irretrievably lost. Today, real per capita income has sunk
below the 1980 level.
The relationship between investment and gross national
product continues to deteriorate. Our economies are marked
by budgetary and trade imbalances and large import
reductions, aggravated by the drop in the price of raw
materials.
According to some estimates,
the ability of some
countries to repay, based on exports, is diminishing. Thus,
the debt-export relationship, which stood at 97 per cent in
1980,
in 1985 and stood at
approximately 333 per cent in 1992.
to 233 per cent
fell
In any event, economic indicators give only an
incomplete picture of the situation and do not enable us to
visualize the consequences of drought, famine and the
deterioration of the environment. The slump means that in
some regions of Africa the standards of living, which had
already been among the world’s harshest, have deteriorated
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
even further, reaching levels that are unacceptable for a
modern civilization.
opportunity for rich and poor to join efforts against hunger
and malnutrition.
Yet
those
the Governments of
countries have
recognized their own weaknesses and laid out areas of
responsibility. They have courageously undertaken harsh
reforms and adopted painful austerity measures for their
people aimed at improving their economic and financial
environment.
Closer
to home,
in a few days an international
conference on African development will be held on the
initiative of the Government of Japan. Niger hopes that that
meeting will come up with the necessary radical measures to
solve the problems of the African continent.
For a number of reasons, these adjustment policies have
not produced the expected results. I should point to two of
them.
First, there is the inadequacy of financial and material
means, which has prevented us from achieving results and
consolidating our gains.
Secondly,
there is our States’ burden of
foreign
indebtedness, which has reached an intolerable level and
which continues to weigh ever more heavily upon them,
worsening their economic and social difficulties.
In those circumstances, how can we expect the poor
countries to develop?
Underdevelopment is making daily headway, and the
list of countries eligible for the soft conditions of the
International Development Association is growing.
The world is now enjoying one of those propitious
moments for peace that history occasionally provides us.
Prospects today enable us to hope for a better future.
The end of East-West antagonism has given rise to a
powerful movement towards peace and has simultaneously
awakened great hopes for sustainable development.
Disarmament, as set
forth in the United Nations
Charter, must entail a system of collective security designed
to avoid any excessive stockpiling of weapons. Indeed, it is
of primary importance to establish confidence between
neighbouring countries that share a similar destiny owing to
the many ties joining their respective populations. It is also
essential that States without weapons of mass destruction
have guarantees that their territories will never serve as
testing grounds. We believe it is essential that the resources
thus freed be devoted to eradicating poverty, which still, at
the end of the twentieth century, is creating conditions of
shocking poverty intolerable to the human conscience.
For that reason, from this rostrum Niger is calling upon
the developed countries to give proof of greater solidarity by
agreeing to a blanket cancellation of the debt of the least-
developed countries.
Another ground for hope is the recent United Nations
Conference on Human Rights, which has declared the right
to development to be a universal and inalienable right, an
integral part of fundamental human rights.
Niger had hoped to hear of this decision following the
meeting of the Group of 7, but, unfortunately, the seven
most-industrialized countries did not move to improve the
repayment abilities of the debtor countries.
Hence, we must curb this development, which has a
negative impact on our countries. We must find ways and
means to reverse present trends. We must act in order to
restore hope to Africa, Asia and Latin America.
Niger earnestly hopes that the first Copenhagen summit
on social development will not be another meeting with no
follow-up.
Similarly, the international conference on population
and development planned for 1994 should provide an
Hope was also created by the last Rio summit meeting,
which focussed world attention on the threats to our
environment, highlighted the existing interrelationship of
development and the environment and thereby stressed the
overriding need to ensure its preservation in the interests of
present and future generations.
Pledges to finance the programmes of Agenda 21 have
already been recorded. Niger hopes that the fine hopes
awakened in Rio will very soon be translated into concrete
actions. That is why we welcome the creation of operational
machinery such as
the Commission on Sustainable
Development and the intergovernmental committee to draft
an international convention on desertification and drought.
Niger, which has had to deal with the galloping and
frightening encroachment of the desert, is following with
close interest the work of this committee.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
9
I have spoken at length about Niger and about our
concerns and our hopes. However, I should not like to give
the impression that the great problems of the world are
matters of indifference to us. Notwithstanding the difficult
times through which we are passing, Niger is attentive to
what
is going on in the rest of the world. We are
encouraged by developments in the situation in South Africa,
and we were relieved to hear the announcement that the first
free, democratic elections there would be held on 27 April
1994.
In this regard, we join in the appeal of our brother
Nelson Mandela that the international sanctions imposed on
South Africa be lifted. We believe that the adoption of such
a measure would help to create in that country the
atmosphere of détente and trust that is necessary if the
emergence of a multiracial, egalitarian and democratic
society is to be promoted. This would lead to South
Africa’s entry into the African arena and its return to the
concert of the civilized nations of the world.
It was with real relief that we received the results of the
Geneva negotiations between the various parties to the
conflict in Liberia, which led to the signing of the Cotonou
agreements in Benin. This outcome suggests that peace is
beginning to return to that country. Niger supports action by
the Economic Community of West African States with a
view to securing respect for these agreements by all the
parties concerned.
We also welcome the talks in El Ayoun on Western
Sahara. These talks open up new prospects for a final
settlement of this conflict, which has lasted far too long.
is
Now more than ever before, other regions of the
African continent require our close attention and action.
This
true of Angola, Mozambique and Somalia.
Representatives may rest assured that Niger unreservedly
supports all Security Council resolutions that promote the
return of peace to this long-suffering country.
I wish now to praise Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s
dynamic work towards elimination of the numerous sources
of tension and conflict in Africa and in the world at large.
We wish to thank him, in particular, for the insights and
thoughts contained in the report entitled "An Agenda for
Peace". We have familiarized ourselves with the many wise
proposals that the Secretary-General has put forward in that
In particular, we share his views regarding
document.
preventive diplomacy.
the
Organization of African Unity, at its 29th summit meeting in
Cairo, equipped itself with machinery for the prevention,
management and resolution of conflicts in Africa.
It was in this spirit
that
Away from the African continent, we welcome the
signing by the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel,
on 13 September 1993 in Washington, of the agreements on
mutual recognition and on autonomy for the Gaza Strip and
Jericho.
We hope that
is
beginning in certain parts of the world will move to Bosnia
and Herzegovina, which has suffered far too long.
the momentum for peace that
It is on this hopeful note that I shall conclude my
statement. But first I should like, on behalf of Niger, to
welcome the arrival in the great family of nations of Eritrea,
the Principality of Monaco, the Principality of Andorra, the
Czech Republic,
the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and the Slovak Republic. Their presence among
us strengthens the universality of the United Nations and
testifies to the value of the Organization’s action in support
of the widespread progress of mankind.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Niger for the statement he has
just made.
Mr. Mahamane Ousmane, President of the Republic
of Niger, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. CLAES (Belgium) (interpretation from French):
I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the European
Community and its member States.
Allow me, first of all, Mr. President, to pay a tribute to
your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who conducted the
General Assembly’s proceedings during its forty-seventh
session.
The Assembly has unanimously decided to entrust to
you, Sir,
the conduct of this the forty-eighth session. We
welcome that decision as we are familiar with your personal
qualities and your professional experience. We also see this
as a well-earned tribute to your country, the Republic of
Guyana, and to the contribution made by the Caribbean
region to the activities of our Organization. The European
Community and its member States, which continue to enjoy
fruitful relations with the countries of the Caribbean, within
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the dynamic framework of the Lomé Convention, assure you
of their fullest cooperation.
We welcome also the admission to our Organization of
the
the Czech Republic,
Principality of Monaco, the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and the Principality of Andorra.
the Slovak Republic, Eritrea,
In his address to the Assembly last year, my British
colleague, Mr. Douglas Hurd, made the point that, after a
brief interlude of optimism, the world had entered a period
of instability and of challenges to law and order. This trend
has increased over the past 12 months. We now have to
cope with new crisis situations, while - speaking only about
Europe - a just and lasting solution to such a long-standing
problem as that of Cyprus has yet to be found, despite the
continued efforts of our Organization.
Long restrained by the so-called balance of terror, latent
antagonisms have resurfaced in the Balkans, the Caucasus
and Central Asia. The collapse of the old institutional
frameworks has led to the emergence of forms of rapidly
competing nationalisms. The personal ambitions of certain
rulers and the propaganda machines they control have
plunged clans or whole peoples into conflicts marked by the
blind use of violence. In that process, the basic rights of the
individual
international
humanitarian law have been constantly flouted.
and the elementary rules of
to
ground
for
fertile
provide
In other countries, the economic and social crisis has
continued
religious
fundamentalism, enabling it to increase the number both of
its followers and of its victims. Elsewhere, the existence of
a large immigrant population has served as a pretext for
intolerance, which have even led to
reactions of racial
deliberate criminal acts. All
these forms of fanaticism
designate human beings as the enemy to be destroyed. They
must be fought not only through political declarations and
laws but also through a more sincere and committed
engagement in favour of the human values which should
unite us all across continents and cultures.
The proliferation of these situations has gone hand in
hand with a growing desire to possess weapons of mass
destruction.
In this connection, we are concerned by the
actions of Member States of our Organization which have
ample resources, bear regional responsibilities and claim to
be lovers of peace. The proliferation of these weapons
represents a grave threat to both global and regional security
and stability.
It is of the utmost importance that the Non-
Proliferation Treaty should be unconditionally extended in
1995 for an indefinite period.
Economic underdevelopment and the unacceptable
living conditions of hundreds of millions of inhabitants of
the planet constitute another major concern for the European
Community and its member States.
The outcome of
three decades of development
cooperation cannot be regarded as positive. This means that
all of us, countries of the South and of the North, must take
serious stock of the situation. We know that it is pointless
to speak of peace in the world if we do not at the same time
work towards global economic and social development. The
forthcoming world conferences in Cairo, Copenhagen and
Beijing will be important landmarks in this process.
Our concerns have not blinded us to the important
efforts undertaken in all regions of the world towards
democratization and economic recovery.
The Republics which made up the former Soviet Union
have pursued the immense task of creating a political,
economic and social framework designed to strengthen their
sense of identity as individual nations. We must help these
countries find ways of achieving deep-rooted national
reconciliation while fully respecting each other’s territorial
integrity. The European Community and its member States
will continue to support them substantially through technical
assistance and partnership agreements.
They will also
maintain their trade with the countries of Central and Eastern
Europe, in particular through new or strengthened association
agreements.
The European Community and its member States
support President Yeltsin in his efforts to promote economic
and political reform as well as to strengthen democracy in
his country.
It is in Africa that the gap between objectives and
realities remains most discouraging. Two hundred million
people across that continent live in abject poverty. However,
in spite of armed conflicts and acute economic problems,
there are undeniable signs of the dawn of a new political era.
It is of course up to the African people to determine the
pace and practical form of their democratic development.
Some dictators, however, are still clinging to the power they
have long exercised for their own exclusive benefit. Their
armies, for whose services they somehow manage to pay, are
like a weapon permanently aimed at
their own people.
Despite appearances,
they are now no more than an
anachronistic element of underdevelopment.
South Africa is approaching the historic moment when
the democratic majority of its people will accede to power.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
11
The path leading to this has, alas, been littered with further
massacres and attacks. The European Community and its
member States reiterate their support for the negotiating
process pursued by President Frederik De Klerk and Mr.
Nelson Mandela and appeal to the international community
to assist South Africa in this crucial phase by helping to
organize elections and to rebuild and develop the country.
In Asia, the positive trend of the past few years has
the Asian
been maintained. On the economic front,
countries of
the Pacific Rim, particularly China, are
characterized by remarkable dynamism. The European
Community and its member States hope that this progress
will swiftly bear positive results for the living and working
conditions of their populations.
Latin America is a continent at peace, continuing its
economic recovery in accordance with the objectives of
democratically elected Governments.
In several of these
countries, rapid population growth, social imbalances and
drug-trafficking are, however, still a considerable handicap
in the march towards progress.
More attention has been paid by the authorities to the
indigenous peoples, but certain tragic events have occurred
to remind us of the precarious conditions in which those
peoples live.
The European Community and its member States
welcome the substantially improved prospects for peace and
stability in the Middle East. They hope that following the
recent Israeli-Palestinian agreements new decisive steps will
be taken by Israel and the Arab countries directly concerned
in
recent
Israeli-Jordanian declaration of principles is a positive move
in this direction. We call upon this Assembly to take
account of these major developments when considering the
situation in the Middle East.
the Middle East
process.
peace
The
in
close
coordination with
The European Community and its member States, in
keeping with their long-standing position, stand ready to
assume,
competent
international institutions, an important part in the general
coordination of the assistance offered by the international
community to the Palestinian people in the occupied
territories. In this connection donor countries will, above all,
have to be guided by criteria of efficiency and speed.
the
During this difficult period the United Nations has not
been merely a passive onlooker.
The World Conference on Human Rights made it
possible to adopt a Final Declaration which reaffirms and
enriches the universal consensus on the essential respect due
in all circumstances to the human person. The Vienna
Programme of Action provides for a large number of
measures to ensure greater respect for, and promotion of,
such rights throughout the world. The European Community
from the present
and its member States will endeavour,
session,
in
particular as regards increased resources for the Centre for
Human Rights and the appointment of a United Nations high
commissioner for human rights.
to achieve application of
these measures,
Active preparations have continued for other world
conferences, on population, social development and the
promotion of women. The follow-up to Rio was ensured by
the first meeting of
the Commission on Sustainable
Development, which, from the outset, established a relation
of partnership, which we consider to be highly promising.
The "Agenda for Peace" has been discussed in various
bodies. The warm welcome it has received has been
followed by various practical measures of implementation.
We would, however,
like our Assembly to show more
willingness to abandon its reservations regarding certain
types of preventive action which have already been adopted
in
the
by
Secretary-General.
Security Council
practice
and
the
The Organization itself has embarked on and made
progress with a series of restructuring measures. The most
complex is probably the restructuring of
the Security
Council, but it is encouraging that this topic is now the
subject of open dialogue.
Pending a reform which would not compromise its
efficiency, the Council has kept up the pace of its activities.
It has given a larger place in practice to the concepts of
preventive diplomacy and cooperation with regional
organizations. The Secretary-General has resolutely backed
this trend both through his numerous visits on the ground or
those of his personal
representatives and through the
adjustments he has made within the Secretariat. These have
focused particularly on strengthening the departments
responsible for managing peace-keeping operations. The
indispensable extension of these services has not yet been
completed and will require further assistance from the
Member States.
Indeed, there has been an overwhelming
increase in the United Nations operations in this area over
the last few years. They have not simply multiplied:
their
objectives have also diversified.
the
traditional task of peace-keeping has had to be supplemented
In several cases,
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
or, initially, replaced by the much more delicate task of
restoring peace.
The Organization has, in the eyes of some, met with
failure in the very difficult situations with which it has had
to cope in the former Yugoslavia and Somalia.
The
duplicity of some warlords constitutes a permanent threat of
destabilization.
But,
the
in no circumstances has
international
community chosen to combine humanitarian-aid missions
with peace-restoring missions. The use of force has been
seen only as a last resort in order to come to the help of
people held hostage by self-proclaimed leaders. Our
Organization has consequently been constrained to use,
under certain circumstances, means corresponding to the
provocations it has had to face. We must, however, draw
lessons from the experience acquired through these various
operations.
The breadth and complexity of humanitarian crises
throughout the world also require greater coordination of
humanitarian assistance both during strategic planning of
operations and during their implementation on the ground.
The spirit of perseverance,
in compliance with the
Charter and human rights, is more necessary than ever.
It
enabled Cambodia to implement the Paris Agreements in
conditions which proved to be very difficult - as indeed they
had promised to be. This represents a great victory for the
Cambodian people as well as a remarkable success for the
United Nations, and was achieved through unprecedented
effort: by numerous Governments, by thousands of officials
and volunteers, and also by large numbers of soldiers,
dozens of whom sacrificed their lives.
The European
Community and its member States pay tribute to the "Blue
Helmets" who, frequently killed in cold blood, have been
victims of their duty throughout the world. Their safety, as
well as that of all United Nations staff, must be improved
and the pursuit of their aggressors must be organized more
effectively.
The European Community and its member States are
also convinced of the need to react to the consequences of
the presence of mines resulting from armed conflicts. These
devices claim numerous victims every year amongst the
civilian population and jeopardize the rehabilitation of vast
areas of territory ravaged by war. We ask this Assembly to
consider the draft resolution which we have submitted on
this subject with a view to a more systematic and effective
organization of assistance in mine-clearing. We also
welcome the French initiative of asking the United Nations
Secretary-General to convene a conference to review the
1981 Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use
of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed
to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate
Effects.
Thus, the overall picture of activities by the United
Nations and its Members during the last 12 months is far
from disappointing, and I could have listed many other
positive developments. However, when we consider the
difficulties facing us, it is hard to claim categorically that,
whatever happens, the United Nations will be able to meet
the challenges of the future effectively.
The Secretariat’s capacities are being used to the full;
they are no longer sufficient to deal with Member States’
wishes in every case. The Organization’s coffers are empty
or virtually so. The development of new activities is
hampered more and more often by disagreements about the
allocation of costs. Most of the major contributors, who are
seriously affected in their own countries by an unfavourable
economic situation, regard strict budgetary restraint as more
important than ever. The cost of peace-keeping operations
alone will be $3.6 billion for 1993.
In addition to the immediate cash-flow problems, there
is an increasing structural deficit in the balance between the
ability to take multilateral action and ever-increasing requests
for intervention. What can we do to ensure that the United
Nations does not fall victim to its own success? We feel
that finding a solution entails three areas of action.
First, of course, all Member States must pay their
contributions fully and in a timely manner. That
is a
fundamental obligation with which the European Community
and its member States never fail to comply. The effort this
requires is neither more nor less than that demanded of other
contributors, be they "big" or "small", for each Member
State is required to make a contribution in line with its
ability to pay. Failure to pay represents a serious breach of
the commitments entered into, and it
the more
regrettable that certain defaulting countries at the same time
lay claim to a privileged role in the Organization’s debates
and decisions.
is all
Secondly, the various reforms undertaken in order to
improve the operational efficiency of the Organization have
to be pursued with a maximum of determination. We have
in mind in particular the management of the Secretariat, the
control of its expenditures and the forthcoming restructuring
in the economic and social sector. It is unacceptable that the
objectives set could not be met owing to interminable
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
13
negotiations
administrators.
or
power
struggles
between
senior
Thirdly, although the United Nations remains an
intergovernmental body, it is called upon more and more
frequently to fulfil a central government
task, with
responsibility for solving each and every problem that may
arise.
In order to cope with this growing tide of demands, the
Secretary-General
in his "Agenda for Peace" has quite
rightly stressed the need for cooperation with regional
organizations and arrangements.
is
a
is
that, without
But are they ready? Do they exist everywhere? Does
the strengthening of cooperation between the United Nations
and regional organizations offer real prospects if the latter do
not become effective centres of decision and action? We
feel
the capacity for swift and ongoing
intervention on a regional scale, preventive diplomacy by our
Organization
undoubtedly
indispensable but of limited scope.
It will indeed facilitate
successes here and there, but will be insufficient to come to
grips with the most deep-rooted and most
threatening
antagonisms.
the danger of entire
countries imploding is real. The situation will channel
multilateral resources more and more into makeshift rescue
and rehabilitation operations, to the detriment of collective
sustainable development objectives.
If nothing changes,
resource which
In this connection the positive effects of an area of
stability such as the European Community no longer need to
be demonstrated. The European Community was inspired at
the start by a profound desire for peacemaking and
reconstruction. The same needs and aspirations are to be
found elsewhere in the world but have not been matched by
a comparable response.
We believe that
there is no alternative to the
establishment of such areas in every continent. The resolute
pursuit of regional economic integration is a decisive and
indispensable step in that direction.
The benefits of
economies of scale and the free movement of persons and
goods then contribute as much to consolidating peace as to
sharing prosperity. By uniting to form centres of stability
and progress,
the participating countries gradually free
themselves of the mounting problems and crises which, at
this time of tremendous change, tend to be more than they
can cope with on their own.
In addition to these areas of stability,
it
necessary to create or
strengthen broader
is also
regional
mechanisms, making it possible for a number of subregions
to develop principles of peaceful and prosperous coexistence.
Here, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
can serve, if not as a universal model, at least as a source of
inspiration. Even if its ability to intervene directly is
limited, it constitutes an indispensable platform for dialogue.
When internal or bilateral crises occur, it encourages the
neighbouring countries
to show moderation and thus
contributes to limiting the conflict. As respect for common
rules grows, more concrete collective actions can be
envisaged.
These are the essential tools for achieving the threefold
objective which the Secretary-General recommends in his
latest report on the activities of the Organization: peace,
development and democracy.
Already 32 years ago, a young Egyptian jurist declared
at the Academy of International Law:
"To encourage assemblies of States in a world that
is becoming more and more Balkanized, to play
the role of bringing peoples together and to offer
massive and constant aid to underdeveloped
countries:
these should be the primary objectives
of the international organization." (Recueil des
cours, Académie de Droit International, La Haye,
1960, II, pp. 69-70)
This jurist is today at the head of our Organization.
To be sure,
in all continents regional bodies have
already embarked on this course of action:
in the past year
they have contributed,
in cooperation with the United
Nations, to crucial mediation and peace-keeping ventures -
but always after the conflict had flared up. Areas of genuine
stability and more reliable regional mechanisms would make
it possible to forestall major crises by reducing their causes.
Regional integration indeed can only help contain the
collective frustrations and anxieties that fuel nationalist
movements.
It also provides a formidable incentive for
economic growth and therefore a strategic element
in
combating poverty. Finally, regional economic integration,
as it
is progressively being built, simply eliminates the
option of war from the thinking of the Governments and
peoples involved.
The disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and its
tragic consequences make it all too clear that the comments
we have just made relate to a course of action that will
prove long and demanding rather than a miracle cure.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Neither the European Community nor the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe has been able to prevent
the outbreak of the conflict and the subsequent series of
disasters. Like the United Nations and the United States of
America, the European Community and its member States
have consequently been accused of lacking strategy and of
indifference.
the European Community and its
members, one of the lessons to be learned from this
catastrophe is that the deepening of its own internal relations
- more Europe rather than less Europe - would strengthen
the role it must play as an instrument for promoting stability
and peace in Europe and neighbouring areas.
For
No one can dispute, however, the fact that the European
Community and its member States have endeavoured to
mediate from the earliest days of the conflict.
It was the
members of the European Community who, going against
the current, managed to persuade the whole Security Council
to react to the worsening situation. Without compromising
their
despite numerous
disappointments, the member States of the Community have
at no point wearied of their thankless task.
positions of
principle,
and
The efforts deployed at
the London and Geneva
Conferences bear witness to this. As you are aware, the
European Community and its member States have played a
fundamental role on the ground, particularly through the
activities of
in the implementation of
sanctions and through their contribution to the United
Nations Protection Force and to measures to help the victims
of the civil war.
their monitors,
The European Community and its member States also
reiterate their readiness to participate in the implementation
of a peace plan accepted by all the parties.
The Treaty of Maastricht on the European Union should
provide us with the means of strengthening the Union’s
ability to act in the world, in particular by implementing the
common foreign and security policy. Once it has entered
into force - which should happen in the next few days - that
Treaty will enable the European Union to play an enhanced
role in all areas of international policy and security and will
establish close working relations between the European
Union and the Western European Union. Moreover, the
imminent enlargement of the European Union to include new
members will simply increase its ability to exercise a
stabilizing influence over adjacent countries.
The enlargement of
the European Union and its
readiness to conclude association and cooperation agreements
of ever wider scope with virtually all regions and countries
of the globe are proof of our sincere desire to forge ahead
with the building of Europe while at the same time opening
Europe to the world. This is the kind of Europe that is
proving increasingly able to serve the objectives of the
Charter.
It provides encouragement to other countries and
regions to unite, to join together, as Europe has done, in the
common task of achieving greater peace in tomorrow’s
world.
Mr. KOZYREV (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): First of all, I should like to congratulate you,
Mr. President, on your election to your important post. I see
it as a manifestation of respect for the peace-loving policy
of Guyana, and as a tribute to the growing role of Latin
American and Caribbean countries in international affairs.
Last year demonstrated the great potential for drama
in the post-confrontational and post-communist
inherent
world. We have seen that
levels of
cooperation are achievable. We see truly exciting prospects
in yesterday’s address by President Bill Clinton of the
United States and in other statements already delivered from
this rostrum.
the very highest
At
the same time, developments
in the former
Yugoslavia, Abkhazia and Karabakh have also revealed the
true depths of barbarism and the significant new threat of
aggressive nationalism.
Outbursts of violence caused by xenophobia, even in
traditionally prosperous countries, have shown that no one is
safe from this danger. It is no less serious a threat to peace
today than nuclear war was yesterday.
The world
community mustered the strength to stave off the nuclear
danger. An important guarantee against
this was the
Russian-American START II Treaty. Nowadays we all
confront
the equally formidable challenge of a new
generation of conflicts and wars triggered by nationalist,
political and religious intolerance. That is why democracy
and peacemaking must be the key terms defining the strategy
of the world community as it moves into the twenty-first
century.
The United Nations is now turning to face this new
challenge. The successful United Nations operation in
Cambodia was one of the largest
in the history of the
Organization. Life is returning to normal in a country so
long torn by civil war. We stand ready, together with other
members of the international community, to help the people
of Cambodia to rebuild their country.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
15
a
We
and
seen
have
political
psychological
breakthrough in the solution of the key problem of the
Middle East settlement, which is the problem of Palestine.
We pay tribute to the courageous leaders of Israel and the
PLO who have taken the first and most difficult step towards
mutual recognition and reconciliation. We are ready to
participate in an international conference on the economic
development of
self-governing Palestinian territories.
Russia, as a co-sponsor of the Conference on the Middle
East, will spare no effort to advance the peace process in all
other areas.
However, the key to the settlement of many conflicts
has not yet been found. Russia will continue to encourage
the parties to the Bosnian conflict not to lose the chance of
a peaceful settlement and will contribute to the operation for
its implementation under United Nations command.
Twice during wartime I have had occasion to visit
Sarajevo. I propose that the United Nations should place the
city under its moral and political protection and that it
should be declared a centre of coexistence and a meeting
point for Islam, the Orthodox Church, Catholicism and other
religions. The city should become a symbol for the whole
world, a reminder that political violence and intolerance
under the banner of religion are the worst possible crimes
against religion itself and the human spirit.
In any case, it
is surely time to think of establishing closer contacts
between the United Nations and the world’s leading
religions.
The international community seems to have turned a
blind eye to Afghanistan and Angola as soon as they ceased
to be pawns in the cold war. The United Nations has no
right to leave millions of people who live there in the grip
of an epidemic of ethnic, clan and religious extremism and
to forget
their economic and humanitarian problems,
including that of the liberation of former Soviet prisoners of
war.
We must
and considerably improve
learn the lessons of the United Nations
its
operation in Somalia
effectiveness. Conscious of its special responsibility for
maintaining peace, Russia has made peacemaking and the
protection of human rights, particularly those of national
minorities,
the priority of its foreign policy, first and
foremost in the territory of the former USSR.
no
spare
We will
the
Commonwealth of Independent States and make it a positive
factor, not only regionally, but globally.
I call upon
the United Nations to support proposals
Members of
strengthen
effort
to
submitted jointly by the members of the Commonwealth of
Independent States to the present session,
relating in
particular to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction, the struggle against international terrorism and
the protection of the environment.
Our peacemaking efforts are already yielding their first
results. For more than a year now there have been no
hostilities in the Transdniester region and South Ossetia.
With our participation, the process of normalization of the
situation and national dialogue has started in Tajikistan.
Russia is making active efforts to put an end to the
render
and Karabakh
Abkhazian
conflicts
humanitarian assistance to their victims.
and
to
All these problems are too serious and too tragic for
speculation about neo-imperial plans of Russia, diplomatic
rivalry, or the search for new spheres of influence by
neighbouring and distant Powers. The United Nations, the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
and all States truly interested in peace, along with Russia,
will have enough work to do together. We want to see
much more active assistance for our peacemaking efforts,
not in words, but in deeds.
In most cases this means that the United Nations should
give a mandate for operations conducted at the request of
conflicting parties on the basis of appropriate agreements.
For this, close interaction with the United Nations and the
CSCE missions is essential. Also, our minds should be open
to non-traditional methods, such as the participation of
contingents of the conflicting parties themselves and those
of a neighbouring mediating State. The pragmatic nature of
such a model was shown in particular in the Transdniester
region and in South Ossetia. This model should be used,
and not disregarded, in other regions, in the interests of the
United Nations, which is facing an overload of peace-
keeping operations. The collective peacemaking forces of
the Commonwealth of Independent States could also interact
with the United Nations itself.
It is in any case time to
establish closer relations between the two organizations.
terms
In material and financial
the burden of
peacemaking borne by Russia alone today in the territory of
the former USSR must be lightened. This could mean
establishing a voluntary fund for this purpose. Of course,
Russia realizes that no international organization or group of
States can replace our peacemaking efforts in this specific
post-Soviet area.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
By and large,
taking into consideration the wide
experience gained throughout the world, it is time to think
of a modern overall strategy of peacemaking which would
be integrated with "An Agenda for Peace" proposed by the
Secretary-General.
The Russian Federation, as an initiator of the statement
of the President of the Security Council on peacemaking and
peace-keeping issues, made on 28 May 1993, makes the
following proposals.
The first is to define a clear-cut concept of political
leadership by the Security Council, create an effective
military command under the supervision of the Secretary-
General and establish a procedure for involving, on that
basis, regional organizations.
The second is to establish under Article 29 of the
United Nations Charter a special Security Council committee
on improving peace-keeping operation practices. This could
include those States which have already gained considerable
experience in this area of United Nations activity.
Our third proposal is to set up United Nations stand-by
forces which would be at the disposal of Member States and
used in peacemaking operations with the consent of their
Governments on a case-by-case basis at the request of the
Secretary-General.
All these questions directly relate to the process of
renewal of the United Nations. The reform of United
Nations bodies, including the Security Council, will make
sense and be effective if it allows for a more adequate
response to new challenges in the field of peacemaking.
The settlement of conflicts should go hand in hand with
the international protection of their victims. As a follow-up
to the Geneva International Conference on the Protection of
Victims of War, we propose that
legal
restrictions be imposed on the use in internal conflicts of the
most destructive and indiscriminate types of weapons,
primarily military aircraft and artillery-rocket systems. We
should also eliminate or call a halt to the use of mercenaries
and volunteers both in domestic and international conflicts.
international
the
We propose
establishment of
a permanent
international tribunal to deal with crimes against humanity.
The inevitability of punishment will help to prevent the
recurrence of such atrocities.
It
become
crucially
has
address
comprehensively the problem of refugees and to specify the
relevant principles of
law at a special
conference.
international
important
to
Peacemaking cannot be separated from the protection
of human rights. The international community is duty-bound
to condemn strongly "double" or lower standards of human
rights protection, the theory and practice of the superiority
of rights of an "indigenous" nation and the creation of mono-
ethnic States. The time has come to establish a United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Following
the example of the Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe, it is time for the United Nations also to have a
Special Rapporteur on National Minorities. We support the
proposals of the Secretary-General in the field of human
rights protection.
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction would
directly contradict the peacemaking efforts of the United
Nations. This poses an ever growing threat not only in the
future but even at the present. We are ready to cooperate
with the United States and other countries in solving the
problems connected with cutting off fissionable material
production and banning the construction of facilities for such
production, particularly in conflict areas.
We are in favour of
transforming the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty into a universal agreement of
unlimited duration. The United Nations should also work to
ensure the universality of and strict compliance with the
Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
Russia reiterates, from this rostrum of the General
Assembly, its intention to adhere to the international regime
of non-proliferation of missile technology. In the very near
future, we intend to take concrete steps to strengthen our
relevant domestic legislation, going so far as to envisage
criminal prosecution for violations of the rules governing the
export of missile equipment and technology. We call on all
States that possess such technology to join the Missile
Technology Control Regime (MTCR).
It is also necessary
to provide for equality of rights and obligations of the
participants, so as to enable them freely to export peaceful
space technology.
Successful economic reform is one of the guarantees of
peace. This is of particular relevance to the many developing
countries and to the post-communist States. Easier access to
world markets for countries with transitional economies,
including Russia, and the lifting of all discriminatory
restrictions is becoming an issue of the highest priority. We
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
17
believe that the General Assembly should express its support
for efforts
in this direction. We also propose the
establishment of a mechanism to coordinate programmes
carried out by the institutions of the United Nations system
in support of economic reforms in countries in transition.
The strengthening of democracy is the principal
guarantee of security and socio-economic development in the
world today. This has been true in Europe, Asia, Africa and
Latin America, although the process is not proceeding easily
and automatically everywhere. Peoples who have risen up
against totalitarianism are threatened by the risk of political
violence and ultra-nationalism.
We categorically reject such an alternative. Russia is
peacefully transforming itself
in accordance with the
fundamental principle of democracy: free elections. In 1991,
the people of Russia elected their country’s first democratic
President, and they confirmed their confidence in his policies
at the April referendum this year. On the basis of this
twofold mandate, the President has taken decisive measures
to ensure democratic elections
in
December of this year. Thus, the old totalitarian system of
power will be definitively dismantled and replaced by a new
system of power elected by the people and responsible only
to the people. We invite international observers to monitor
the elections to the Parliament.
to the Parliament
In building a new democratic Russia, we of course must
first of all rely on our own potential. Yet we very much
appreciate the solidarity the democratic community has
shown us. Such solidarity is neither an act of interference
the whimsical gesture of
in our domestic affairs nor
It
romanticists in international politics.
is simply an
expression of the human duty to protect
the rights of
individuals in other countries.
Next month will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the
Moscow Conference when, in the turbulent year of 1943, the
foundation was laid for the establishment of the United
Nations, which was conceived as an organization of
democratic
over Nazi
totalitarianism.
the success of
democracy in Russia and many other countries has made it
possible for the first time to realize fully the lofty destiny of
the United Nations and to help it become a truly efficient
peacemaking Organization.
Half a century later,
countries
having
triumphed
We should not allow political short-sightedness, current
economic difficulties, egoism and conceit to make us lose
the chance to transform the still fragile post-communist
world into a democratic one.
I hope that this session will
move us closer to an understanding of this goal and of the
ways of reaching it in the interests of all States and nations.
Mr. HURD (United Kingdom): Mr. President, may I
first of all congratulate you on your election, and on the
dignified and effective way in which you are already
presiding over this Assembly. You have a burdensome job
and we wish you all good fortune as you discharge it.
I have sometimes heard speakers from this rostrum
patrol the world in their speeches in the general debate,
dealing at length with one continent after another.
Indeed,
I have done so myself in past years. There is much to
describe: events in the Middle East and South Africa are
particularly encouraging, and developments in Russia, as we
have just heard from Mr. Kozirev, are particularly important.
But today it seems to me that in the time available, the focus
of interest should not only be on distant events or distant
tragedies, but here,
in this building, on this institution.
Never has there been a time when the United Nations has
been so discussed, so misunderstood, so needed.
The international
task of this decade is managing
disorder.
I believe it is possible. But it demands cool
heads, low voices, and an understanding of what we can and
cannot do.
It demands concertation between all countries
that take on part of the responsibility for steering the world
through channels which are certainly strewn with rocks.
This concertation takes place in many forums, but nowhere
with greater legal and political authority than here at the
United Nations.
We can now see the events of 1989 in their true
perspective. They did not usher in a new world order.
I
think we have to be sober about this. What happened in
1989 was not the birth of a new world order, it was the
collapse of one super-Power and the end of communism as
a threat to world peace.
The tragedies of the world have continued.
Indeed,
"Tragedy" is a
they have probably increased since 1989.
term
better description than the usual, and overworked,
"crisis", because "crisis" implies a threat to world peace.
Now that the cold war is over and super-Powers no longer
exert themselves on behalf of clients, it is no longer a crisis
in that sense - a threat to world peace - if Sudan, Bosnia,
Angola, Liberia, Georgia, Afghanistan, Rwanda, Somalia,
Tajikistan, Azerbaijan and others are racked by civil war.
But these are appalling tragedies for those who are killed or
driven from their homes, and indeed for all of us, because
we are all diminished when the bell tolls.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Some of
these tragedies are illuminated by the
haphazard light of television. In those cases, millions of our
citizens, in all our countries, share feelings of sympathy,
indignation and horror. But other tragedies equally foul are
played in a darkened theatre: no television, no audience,
little pressure. But all these tragedies are a reproach to those
of us who are convinced that it is possible slowly and
painstakingly to construct a more decent world.
How do we do that? Not, it is clear, by the remaining
super-Power using its superiority to impose its own solutions
by force. In the 10 tragedies that I listed, the United States
has intervened with troops only in one, Somalia - and that
now on a reduced scale and under the United Nations -
because the United States, quite rightly in my view, is not
prepared to send its troops all over the world, as Rome once
sent its legions all over Europe, to fight, to pacify and to
rule. There are British, French, Spanish and other European
troops in Bosnia today under the command of the United
Nations. But their role is to save Bosnian lives - they do
that daily -
implementing United Nations decisions.
Likewise, they are not imposing a European imperium on
that country.
If America and its allies are not to exert themselves as
a joint imperial Power, imposing on other countries and
sustaining laws and rulers of their choice, then the answer
can only lie in reforming and making much better use of the
international institutions to which we belong. They were
mostly built after the Second World War for one purpose
and are now, after the end of the cold war, being hurriedly
adapted for another. The British architect Norman Foster
has just been given the responsibility of designing in Berlin
the new parliament house for a united Germany. If his plans
are accepted, he intends to include the old Reichstag
building alongside the line of the Berlin Wall in a splendid
new structure reaching across the old Wall into East Berlin.
There is a parable here for us as well as for Germany.
Inevitably, we have to cope as best we can with what
we have. A man, after all, may take some shelter in an
unfinished building.
I do not believe that an international
organization like ours, which is not a colonizing Power, will
ever be able to guarantee solutions to civil wars or even to
that pernicious variant of a civil war which we see today in
Bosnia. But if there are no guarantees of success, the
United Nations can be helped greatly to improve on its
record. With greater experience, greater resources for
preventive action and effectively coordinated humanitarian
efforts, it can act before the situation gets out of control and
the demand grows for the implementation of sanctions and
for peace enforcement.
I hope that within the next few weeks the European
Community will move into a new phase of working together
on a common foreign and security policy once the Treaty of
Maastricht
is ratified by all 12 member States. Our
President, Willy Claes, the Foreign Minister and Deputy
Prime Minister of Belgium, has just illustrated that point.
But one of our main aims as European partners must be to
support and strengthen the role and the work of the United
Nations, for the United Nations is not "them"; it is us, all of
us. We have to take responsibility for it and its failures.
If we want the United Nations to work better, it is up
to us to give the Secretary-General the support he needs in
thoughts, words, deeds and money. I suppose there are few
more lonely or more demanding jobs than that of the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, and the present
Secretary-General certainly has the misfortune to hold his
office in interesting times. He has already given and
continues to give a firm and effective lead. He needs and
deserves our support.
The United Nations is unique.
It alone conveys the
word of the international community. Only the United
Nations has the legal powers to translate those words into
action for the maintenance of world peace. We need, as
President Clinton said yesterday, to look at tasks closely, to
ensure that they are properly defined and that the resources
are there to meet them. We may on occasion have to accept
that a mandate should not be given because in reality it
cannot be fulfilled.
Let me follow that by looking briefly at the way we
the way we deploy
carry out peace-keeping operations,
preventive diplomacy and the way we run our finances.
Peace-keeping:
United Nations blue-helmets are
deployed on nearly every continent. We can reel off the
statistics, but actually we hear too little of individual soldiers
and small detachments. Who knows, for example, of the
single military observer in a remote part of Cambodia who
found himself not only acting as the local arbiter of family
disputes but also providing a local, much appreciated,
medical service using a handbook called When There is No
Doctor, who kept on securing supplies from his wife in
Germany and the field hospital in Phnomh Penh for his
Khmer community? Or the United Nations military observer
who spent his leave in Bangkok fund-raising for a water
filter for a remote Cambodian village? Now, they happen to
be British, but such servants of the world come from many
countries.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
19
We in Britain are committed to our peace-keeping
contribution. We now have over 3,300 men and women in
blue berets around the world.
envoy for all humanitarian and refugee aspects of an
operation, is good.
In June the Secretary-General asked Member States to
identify for him those areas of United Nations peace-keeping
operations which needed strengthening and for our ideas on
positive steps we could take.
I look forward to his report
drawing all those responses together.
Useful steps have certainly been taken. There is now
a 24-hour operations room, improving the ability of those
here in New York to oversee operations around the world.
The standby force planning project has been started. A new
Department of Peace-keeping Operations is responsible for
all United Nations field missions. We can build on these
improvements.
Good organization involves clarity and sobriety in
setting out our objectives. That means that any operation
must have clear and achievable objectives linked to a
political process which offers reasonable hope of a solution,
and to which all parties should be committed. The mandate
should be precise and finite. That means adequate support
at Headquarters for planning and reconnaissance missions.
It means that the Security Council must resist the temptation
to become involved in the detailed conduct of operations. It
means the mandate must not create impossible obligations
for a force commander on the ground. Once an operation is
agreed, command and control relationships could be more
clearly defined.
Unity of command at the highest level is essential.
Where the United Nations is charged with executing as well
as authorizing a peace-keeping operation, all aspects of it
should be handled by a single department in New York.
That is why we have suggested the creation of an expanded
planning and operations staff. This in effect is a general
staff for peace-keeping. These men and women, civilian and
military, would be able together to provide the necessary
core of the United Nations strategic-planning chain. They
would operate mainly here in New York, but also in the
field. They would provide the United Nations with the
nervous system for which its present staff
is neither
structured nor resourced.
Then, there must be flexibility in running peace-keeping
The more comprehensive a bureaucracy
operations.
becomes, the harder it is for it to stay nimble on its feet.
Doctrinal and administrative difficulties in working with
other international organizations can be overcome. For
example, the United Nations is already building valuable
links with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE) and with the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization
and
peacemaking operations can be run more effectively by
regional organizations or single countries on behalf of the
United Nations. That depends on the nature of the problem
and on the proposed action agreed by the United Nations.
I am thinking, for example, of the Economic Community of
West African States (ECOWAS) in Liberia, the Organization
of African Unity (OAU) in Rwanda, and the European
Community and NATO in the former Yugoslavia.
peace-keeping
(NATO).
Many
Regional organizations can also be asked to help with
training. We might look at getting certain nations with well-
trained, equipped and available forces to provide the first
wave of a peace-keeping force, allowing other nations the
time to train and equip their forces to the required standard.
A commitment to deploy early would of course need to be
matched by a United Nations commitment to agree a firm
end-date for the deployment, because exits can be as
important as entrances.
What we cannot do, we should not pretend to do.
If
we play a game of bluff, we can deceive and disappoint
others, and sometimes we deceive and disappoint ourselves.
Rarely can we attain our ends that way.
It is empty to
pretend that we can impose peace with justice on every
disorder, every dispute, outside our national borders.
But what the United Nations can do, it should do well.
Cambodia, for example, is a success story. So was Namibia.
Our peace-keepers have been able to limit, though not stop,
conflict and to assuage,
though not bring to and end,
suffering in Bosnia and Somalia. But the authority of the
United Nations will suffer if it fails to approach new
challenges realistically and flexibly.
We are not proposing here some new and heavy
bureaucracy. On the contrary, we are talking about core
staff:
trained staff officers, United Nations civil affairs and,
increasingly, humanitarian advisers, and chief administrative
officers. The example of the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), of a special
However important peace-keeping may be, successful
preventive diplomacy would be better.
I have just been
reading the book published this week by our Australian
colleague, the Australian Foreign Minister, Senator Gareth
Evans. His new book, Cooperating for Peace, brings this
point out well and is full of fruitful ideas. Defusing trouble
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
costs a great deal less than a military operation. You can
field plenty of emissaries for the price of a battalion. But to
be useful, of course, an emissary has to set about his work
before the excitement of violence has taken hold.
The Secretary-General has been energetic here. He has
sent missions to several areas of tension - to Tajikistan and
other regions of the former Soviet Union, to Macedonia, to
South Africa and elsewhere.
But in this as in other parts of the United Nations
system money is tight. Many missions create an acute need
for additional international staff with the necessary skills. I
am thinking not just of eminent people, of retired ministers
or distinguished ambassadors who can head such missions.
The Secretary-General will find them when he needs them.
What he needs from Member States is personnel at a more
junior level with local experience and negotiating skills.
Now, we have discussed this problem in particular with
the French Government, and as an Anglo-French initiative
we stand ready to provide the Secretariat with a list of such
people, people who have experience in Government service -
sometimes outside Government service - and whom we
would be prepared to make available for particular missions.
We would also be prepared to provide a certain amount of
equipment where personnel provided by the United Kingdom
were involved. We are ready to respond to the invitation of
the Secretary-General in "Agenda for Peace" to provide
information crucial to the task of preventive diplomacy. The
British and French Governments are both committed to
support him in this way, and we hope that others may join
in a similar enterprise.
All this work means a financial burden. Of course we
should all pay our assessed contribution in full and promptly.
We do so. So do most of our European partners, the Nordic
countries and those with a long tradition of peace-keeping
like Australia and Canada. But others, not entirely or
always through their own fault, others who share the heavy
burden of international responsibility, do not.
The fact is, the United Nations will always be short
of money. Even if everybody pays up in full and on time,
the United Nations will still have to choose priorities within
the resources available to it. That means - and will always
mean - turning down some good causes, and reappraising
and sometimes bringing to an end existing commitments.
The United Nations needs to conduct a rigorous
scrutiny of what it needs and what it spends. Obviously, it
would be able to afford more operations if it ran the existing
ones more economically. Without thrift, without financial
probity, the authority of the United Nations will weaken and
So we welcome the Secretary-General’s recent
vanish.
additional senior appointments at
the level of Assistant
Secretary-General, covering administrative and financial
affairs. We support proposals for a system of inspection
with teeth, which can match more delegated financial
authority to the field.
I mention these three areas - peace-keeping, preventive
diplomacy and finance.
If we can tackle these three areas
constructively and vigorously, there is no reason why even
under present strains the authority of the United Nations
should not grow as strikingly as the burden of expectations
now placed upon it. People will always continue to turn to
the United Nations, even if they will always expect more of
us than is conceivable.
We are discussing, in that context, reform, and we in
Britain welcome the debate on Security Council reform. We
are discussing positively the enlargement of the Council.
This will be complex, as our debate already makes clear,
because there are many currents and cross-currents of view.
I do not doubt that if there were to be consensus on
enlarging the Security Council there are some countries
which, because of their global interests, their contribution to
international security, their contribution to United Nations
peace-keeping,
of
responsibilities of a permanent member and can certainly be
expected to do so.
undertake
could
the
full
range
I have concentrated simply on this Organization for the
reason which I gave. Few tasks are more important than
improving the way the United Nations works if we are to
secure a more stable world. We have lived through the
events of these last few years. They have been dramatic and
exhilarating, they have changed the political and strategic
landscape, but
removed from us our
responsibility to work constructively for a better United
Nations. This better world order will not happen because we
make a few speeches or pass a few resolutions.
It will be
constructed steadily, brick by brick, learning always the right
lessons from the past, developing steadily our international
institutions and our international relations.
they have not
It is fair to say that in the last four years, with its ups
and downs, we have come a long way, and I believe that,
together, we have the will and the wisdom to continue along
that road.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
21
Mr. PERES (Israel): I should like to congratulate you,
Mr. President, on your unanimous election to preside over
the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General
Assembly.
We feel strongly that the time has come for all of us -
communities, nations, peoples, families - finally to lay the
last collective wreath on the tombs of the fallen combatants
and on the monuments of our beloved. It is the right way to
honour their memories and to answer the needs of the newly
born. We have to lay the foundations for a new Middle
East.
The peace agreement between us and the Palestinians
is not just an accord signed by political leaders.
It is an
ongoing, profound commitment to the next generation of
Arabs and Israelis, Christians, Muslims, Jews and people of
all other faiths.
We know it is not enough to declare an end to war.
We have to try to eradicate the roots of all hostilities. If we
only bring violence down but
ignore misery, we may
discover that we have traded one menace for another peril.
Territorial disputes may have been the reason for wars
between nations, and poverty may again become the seed of
violence between peoples. While signing the documents on
the lawn of the White House, I could almost sense the
breeze of a fresh spring, and my imagination began to
wander to the skies of our land, which may have become
brighter to the eyes of all people, both those who agree and
those who oppose. On the lawn one could almost hear the
heavy tread of boots leaving the stage after a hundred years
of hostility. One could have heard the gentle tiptoeing of
new steps making a debut in a world awaiting peace.
Yet we could not depart from reality. I know that the
solution to the Palestinian issue may be the key to a new
beginning, but it is in no way the answer to the many needs
awaiting us upon our return home.
The last decade saw great changes, including the end of
East-West confrontation and the opening of the way for the
gradual disappearance of North-South polarization. The
great continent of Asia and the picturesque continent of
South America introduced the dynamics of an economic
development of their own. The dramatic event in South
Africa is a declaration to the same effect. So, contrary to all
assumptions, it has been demonstrated that neither geography
nor race is a hindrance or an advantage to economic
promise.
We witnessed the end of some wars only to discover
that the warriors did not reach their own promised land.
Some colonized people gained their independence, but they
hardly enjoyed its fruits. The dangers may have been over,
but their hopes evaporated. We have learned that the end of
a war should be the beginning of a new genesis, which will
be the end of belligerency and will put an end to
psychological prejudices.
No nation, rich or poor, is able nowadays to attain
security unless the region in which it exists is secure. The
scope of regional security must exceed the range of ballistic
missiles, which may hit each and all of us.
As we strive to achieve a comprehensive peace, no
wound must remain unhealed.
Geographically speaking, we live side by side with the
Jordanian Kingdom, and what is so obvious geographically
must become clear politically. We have already agreed with
the Hashemite Kingdom on many complicated issues, and
there is no doubt that we can complete the story fully, that
we can offer the people on both sides of the river full peace,
that the Dead Sea can become a spring of new life and that
the old waters of the River Jordan can be a source of
prosperity flowing from each side to the other.
We hope - as a matter of fact, we are determined - to
make peace with Syria, yet we ask the Syrian leadership, if
it has chosen peace, why it refuses to meet openly. If Syria
is aiming for the Egyptian fruits of peace, it must follow the
process that led to them. Both of us have to look ahead and
realize that the threats of war are no more than an illusion
that one can return to an unbearable past.
We shall not give up our negotiations with our
Lebanese neighbours. We do not have any territorial claims
or any political pretensions concerning Lebanon. We pray,
together with many Lebanese, that their country will no
longer be a back yard for troublemakers. It is for Lebanon
to make a choice between Hizbollah, on the one hand, which
operates from its territory and then takes orders from another
Government, and, on the other, insisting on having one
army, one policy, and offering real tranquillity to its people
and security to its neighbours. Lebanon does not need a
license to regain its independence, and Lebanon should not
postpone its return to its balanced, traditional policy.
I am not sure whether there is a new order in the
world, but all of us feel there is a new world awaiting an
order. We are encouraged by the new attempt of the United
Nations and its Secretary-General to answer the social and
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
economic call of the present era. The United Nations was
created as a political answer; today it must face social and
economic questions.
The Middle East, which has been an important agenda
item in United Nations history, must become prosperous, not
only peaceful. To construct a modern Middle East we need
wisdom no less than financial support.
We have to rid ourselves of the costly follies of the
past and adopt the principles of modern economy. Who
will, and who should, pay the cost of oversized armies?
Who will, and who should, bear the price of an arms race
whose cost has reached $50 billion annually? Who will, and
who should, pay for the inefficiencies of old systems? Who
will, and who should, compensate for outmoded censorship
of mail and control of trade and travel? And who will
comply with the State where suspicion intercepts the
enterprising spirit of the people?
economy
the market
development,
We can, and we should,
turn to the promises of
scientific
and
comprehensive education. We must base our industry,
today’s
agriculture
and services on the highest of
technologies. We have to invest in our schools.
Israel, a
country of immigration, is blessed with many scientists and
engineers. We shall gladly make this human wealth
available as a contribution.
I know that there is suspicion; that, when referring to
a common market in the Middle East or announcing an
Israeli contribution, it may be perceived as an attempt to win
preference or to establish domination. May I say sincerely
and loudly that we did not give up territorial control to
engage ourselves in economic superiority. The age of
domination, political or economic, is dead. The time of
cooperation has begun.
the
is not
For us, Israel
As a Jew, may I say that the virtue and the essence of
our history since
times of Abraham and the
commandments of Moses have been an uncompromising
opposition to any form of occupation, domination and
discrimination.
just a territorial
homeland, but a permanent moral commitment as well.
There are other questions, concerning the building of a
common market in the Middle East, as to how to attain this
when governments are so varied and economies are so
different. The differences in governments and economies
should not prevent us from doing together what can be done
together: combating the desert and offering fertility to an
arid land.
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations declared that
the Middle East must double its
agricultural production in the 25 years to come. The
population of the region in the same period will double itself
anyway. The land is cut by many and large deserts and its
water resources are stingy and scarce. Yet we know that in
a similar period of time - the 25 years between 1950 and 1975 -
Israel was able to increase its agricultural output twelvefold -
an increase unprecedented in history.
During the past decade, 95 per cent of the growth of
our agriculture resulted from research, planning, training and
organizing. High technology permits nations to attain real
independence and to experience genuine freedom, political
as well as economic. There is nothing new about
the
scarcity of water in our midst. Jacob and Esau drank from
the same wells even when their paths were separated. But
then, unlike today, they could not desalinate the sea water;
they could not computerize irrigation; nor could they enjoy
the potential of biotechnology.
We are meeting again with an entirely different
opportunity. Greening the land can be accompanied by the
creation of many new jobs for all people in the area. The
most promising opportunity may be the development of
tourism. No other branch of modern industry assures an
immediate growth of the Middle East like this one. Our area
is blessed by nature and by history, a history which is still
very much alive: the eternity of Jerusalem, the magnificence
of the pyramids, the symbols of Luxor, the Hanging Gardens
of Babylon,
the red
palaces of Petra, the inimitable charm of Marakesh, the old
winds which still blow in Carthage, not forgetting the
beaches of Gaza or the scent of Jericho’s perfumed fruits.
We have to open roads to those wonders and keep them safe
and hospitable. Tourism depends on tranquility; tourism
enhances tranquillity. It makes friendship a vested interest.
the Pillars of Wisdom in Baalbek,
Thirdly, we have to build an infrastructure with modern
means so as to avoid the pitfalls of the past. Modern
transportation and revolutionary communications crossing the
air, covering the ground and connecting the seas will turn
geographical proximities into an economic advantage. We
should not ask taxpayers of other countries to finance follies
of our own. We have to correct them ourselves. We do not
have the moral right to ask for the financing of unnecessary
wars or wasteful systems.
If the thumping of hammers replaces the thunder of
guns, many nations will be more than willing to extend a
helping hand. They will invest in a better future. They will
support the replacement of unwarranted confrontation with
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
23
prosperity, all in real time. They know that they can attain
more if they work harder.
If we want
to represent
their hopes, we have to
combine wise policies and regional security with market
economies. Historically we were born equal, and equally we
can give birth to a new age.
the
"Behold,
plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of
the days come, saith the Lord,
that
much-needed economic competition. Markets can serve the
needs of the people no less than flags can signify their
destinies. The time has come to build a Middle East for the
people and not just for the rulers.
It was not simple to open the locked doors to peace. In
the name of God, let them not be closed again. Let peace
be comprehensive, embracing all issues, all countries, all
generations. We suggest that we all negotiate together as
equals. We offer a common ground of mutual respect and
mutual compromise. Thirteen years have passed since we
made peace with Egypt. We are grateful to Egypt and its
President for expanding understanding, overt and hidden. In
a world in which so many insoluble problems reside, the
Palestinians and we have finally shown that in fact there are
no insoluble problems, only people who tend to believe that
many problems are insoluble.
We have negotiated one of the most complicated issues
of the last 100 years. We are grateful to the United States
for its support and leadership. We are grateful to both
President Clinton and Secretary Christopher for their crucial
role. We appreciate the Egyptian role and the Norwegian
encouragement;
the European involvement and serious
contribution; the Asian support and blessing. Maybe we
now have the right to say to other people in conflict: "Do
not give up. Do not surrender to old obsessions and do not
take fresh disappointments at face value." What we did,
others can do as well.
We are determined to make the agreement with the
Palestinians into a permanent success. Israel would consider
the economic success of the Palestinians as though it were
its own, and I believe that a newly achieved security will
serve the aspirations of the Israelis and the necessities of the
Palestinians.
Gaza, after 7,000 years of suffering, can emancipate
itself from want. Jericho, without its fallen walls, can see its
gardens blossom again.
As the twentieth century comes to a close, we have
learned from the United States and Russia that there are no
military answers to the new military dangers, only political
solutions. Successful economies are no longer a monopoly
of the rich and the mighty.
They represent an open
invitation to every nation ready to adopt the combination of
science and open-mindedness. We see at the end of this
century that politics can achieve more by good will than by
power, and that
the young generation watching their
televisions compare their lot with the fortunes or misfortunes
of others. They see freedom, they watch peace, they view
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
grapes him that soweth seed; and the mountains shall
drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt." (The
Holy Bible, Amos 9:13)
So said the Prophet.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
