United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
7th
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 28 September 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
May I also take this opportunity to say a special word
of congratulations to the Secretary-General, His Excellency
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on his outstanding stewardship
of the United Nations during these critical times, when the
world body is increasingly being called upon to respond
promptly and effectively to complex situations all over the
world.
ADDRESS
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
BY MR. ROBERT G. MUGABE,
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe.
Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic of
Zimbabwe, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
As
the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization
approaches, there is great merit in our taking stock of what
the United Nations has achieved in the maintenance of peace
and security and in fostering international cooperation for
development.
It is also our duty at this session to explore
ways and means of further strengthening this body so that it
is better equipped to fulfil its purposes and principles as
enshrined in the Charter.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, His
Excellency Mr. Robert Mugabe, and to invite him to address
the Assembly.
President MUGABE:
Allow me to begin by
congratulating you, Your Excellency Ambassador Samuel
Insanally of the Republic of Guyana, upon your election to
the presidency of the General Assembly for this forty-eighth
session. Your well-known diplomatic skills and your
country’s long-established positions of principle augur well
for the successful conduct of the work of this session.
I also wish to pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. Stoyan
Ganev of Bulgaria for the able manner in which he steered
the work of the Assembly during a particularly challenging
forty-seventh session.
The admission of new States to the community of
nations upholds the principle of universality that we so much
cherish.
In this connection, it is important for us to take
note of and applaud the historic agreement that has been
signed by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization,
which heralds a period of peace after more than four decades
of bitter and destructive fighting. It is our hope that one day
the State of Palestine will earn its deserved place as a
Member of this Organization. We would, at the same time,
like to pay tribute to those countries and organizations that
were instrumental in bringing the negotiations to a fruitful
conclusion.
The fact that the membership of this Organization has
increased dramatically to 184 surely suggests an urgent need
to restructure it so that it serves the world community better
in the vastly changed circumstances. The end of the cold-
war era has finally placed the United Nations at centre stage
of international affairs for the maintenance of peace and
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86623 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.7
8 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
security and the strengthening of international cooperation in
social and economic development.
However, the arrangements made for the maintenance
of international peace and security need a thorough review.
At a time when great emphasis is being placed on the
principle of democracy at the national level, there is no valid
reason for not extending the same principle to the sphere of
international relations.
subject, of course, to membership that is democratically
elected and fully accountable to the total membership of the
Organization on whose behalf the Security Council acts. It
will take time to negotiate and put the changes in place.
However,
in the intervening period there is nothing to
prevent
the Organization from implementing interim
measures which may go some distance towards redressing
the present discrepancies.
It
The principle of sovereign equality among States is an
important provision of the Charter. The General Assembly
and its style of work represent the embodiment of this
important principle.
is the only organ that enjoys
universality of membership; therefore, its relationship with
other organs of the Organization should reflect this pre-
eminent status. Consequently,
in the revitalization and
restructuring process,
be a
reinvigorated General Assembly capable of asserting itself in
its relationship with other organs of the United Nations.
the end product should
The Security Council is assigned by the Charter the
primary responsibility for the maintenance of international
peace and security. The recent proliferation of situations of
conflict, instability and tension around the globe calls for
greater participation and involvement of
the general
membership in the workings of the Council. There is
therefore need to adjust
its membership, structure and
methods of work to reflect the changes which have occurred
in international relations since 1945.
The first obvious change in our Organization is the
dramatic increase in its membership. Consequently, the ratio
between the General Assembly and the Security Council has
progressively declined from 5 to 1 in 1945, through 8 to 1
in 1965, to 12 to 1 in 1993. Clearly, the Security Council
has become less representative and needs to be enlarged.
The second change relates to the configuration of power
in political, economic and military terms which created the
notion of permanent membership and the veto in the
Council. Present realities dictate that the privileges enjoyed
by the permanent members of the Security Council be
modified and that the composition of the Council be altered,
but with due regard to the provisions of Article 23,
paragraph, 1 of the Charter, which accords due importance
to
"the contribution of Members of the United Nations to
the maintenance of international peace and security and
to the other purposes of the Organization",
The mere expansion of the membership of the Security
Council will not amount to much for Africa, Latin America
and Asia unless the question of equitable geographic
distribution is adequately addressed. At present, these three
regions are grossly underrepresented, in terms of both non-
permanent and permanent members. Africa and Latin
America do not even wield a single veto, whereas the Group
of Western European and Other States, and Eastern Europe,
now wield four of the five vetoes in the Council. Moreover,
the Group of Western European and Other States, and
Eastern Europe, are allocated 7 of the 15 seats, leaving
Africa, Asia and Latin America to share the remaining 8, an
arrangement
totally inequitable and therefore
unacceptable.
that
is
It is clear that the Security Council, through a liberal
interpretation of the concept of international peace and
security, has encroached on the jurisdiction of other organs
in the system. We are concerned by the apparent impression
often created by the Council that majority votes in the
Council constitute international
the
provisions of the Charter and other relevant international
statutes.
regardless of
law,
The Security Council acts on behalf of the entire United
Nations membership. Therefore, any tendencies or practices
that may be interpreted as contradicting the norms and
principles of transparency, accountability and democracy
should be avoided. To this end, we should evolve a system
that would ensure more participation by interested Member
States that are not members of the Security Council. This
will make it possible for such Members to have a
meaningful
the
Security Council. It is also desirable that the Council keep
the general membership well informed regarding the stage
and nature of discussions and negotiations undertaken.
input during the informal meetings of
If we have addressed ourselves at some length to the
issue of the Security Council it is because the responsibilities
it shoulders have manifestly increased in number and
complexity.
It is our view that only through a process of
internal
institutional reform, which we believe is long
overdue, can the moral authority and effectiveness of the
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
3
Security Council in discharging its mandate be enhanced and
acknowledged.
It is our hope that the current negotiations
on this matter will be successfully concluded to coincide
with the celebrations marking the fiftieth anniversary of the
founding of the United Nations in 1995.
I now turn to the vital role of the Assembly as the
central and universal forum for deliberation. Africa fully
supports the efforts under way to revitalize and rationalize
the work of the General Assembly. We believe that the
exercise must be comprehensive, taking into account the
expanded membership of the world body as well as the
principle of sovereign equality of all States. The reform
process must also fully address the need for the other
principal organs of the United Nations system to report to
the General Assembly, as provided in the Charter.
As I have already noted, the tasks facing the United
Nations today have increased with the unprecedented
mushrooming of peace-keeping operations all over the world.
Bitter armed conflicts continue to ravage lives and destroy
property, stretching the much-needed administrative and
financial resources of the Organization to the limit. Let us
therefore redouble our efforts in support of the increased
commitment and responsibilities of our Organization.
is in this context
in resolving conflicts,
The recent successes of the United Nations in bringing
peace to Cambodia, El Salvador and Haiti and in facilitating
the referendum in Eritrea are testimony to what can be
achieved by our Organization acting in a concerted manner.
It
that we particularly welcome the
Secretary-General’s proposals in his report "An Agenda for
Peace", relating to cooperation between the United Nations
and regional organizations
in
peacemaking as well as peace building. We in Africa have
taken a positive step in this direction. At the thirtieth
summit meeting of the Organization of Africa Unity (OAU),
held at Cairo in June this year, we adopted a mechanism
whose primary objective is the anticipation and prevention
of conflicts. Its mandate will be guided by the principles of
the OAU Charter, in particular the sovereign equality of
States. Where conflicts have already occurred, the function
of this mechanism will be peacemaking and peace building.
Even with our meagre resources, we are proud to say that
Africa has already established a Special Fund to support
OAU activities in conflict prevention and settlement.
In southern Africa we continue to be bedeviled by
conflicts in Angola, Mozambique and South Africa.
In
Mozambique, however, we welcome the recent talks between
President Chissano and RENAMO leader Afondo Dhlakama,
which have cleared some of the major obstacles to the peace
process. We therefore urge the United Nations to continue
its efforts to put the peace process back on schedule to
enable elections to be held in October 1994.
In Angola we are gravely concerned at the continued
escalation of fighting between UNITA and the legitimate
MPLA Government. This has caused untold loss of life and
property. We believe that the efforts of the United Nations
and the OAU should be aimed at achieving a cease-fire
between the two warring parties and creating favourable
circumstances for the deployment of United Nations peace-
keeping operations while negotiations for peace take place.
UNITA should accept the results of the September 1992
democratic elections, which were declared free and fair by
international observers, including the United Nations.
On South Africa, we applaud and support the current
negotiations to bring about democratic change in that
country, particularly the recent agreement regarding the
future, and indeed ongoing, establishment of the Transitional
Executive Council. We are, however, dismayed to note the
intensification of violence and the withdrawal of the Inkatha
Freedom Party and the white conservatives from the
negotiations. These actions threaten the smooth progress
towards the goal of democratic elections currently set for
April 1994. We therefore urge the two parties to return to
the negotiating table, as this is the only way forward. The
United Nations should also seriously consider a more active
role in the prevention of violence.
The President of the African National Congress (ANC)
has appealed to the United Nations for the ending of
sanctions against South Africa, and we are glad that there
has been response from a number of countries to that appeal.
Zimbabwe fully supports the appeal, and we are glad that a
stage has now been reached when we can judge the process
to be more or less irreversible.
In Somalia we commend the efforts of the United
Nations in the difficult mission to restore normalcy to that
tortured country.
In Liberia and Rwanda, while peace has
remained elusive, we are glad that current OAU and United
Nations efforts to resolve the crises have begun to bear fruit.
It is our hope that recent positive developments on the long-
standing question of Western Sahara will result in a just and
equitable settlement. The untiring efforts of the Secretary-
General and the United Nations in seeking lasting solutions
to these
and elsewhere,
particularly those emanating from the disintegration of the
former Yugoslavia
and Soviet Union, deserve our
unqualified support.
conflicts on our
continent
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
As equal members of this family of nations, we believe
that peace-keeping, peace-building and peacemaking must
not be the preserve of a few economically or politically
powerful countries. We stand ready to cooperate with the
international community in seeking solutions to the many
problems facing the world today, by participating in peace-
keeping operations or mediation efforts, or by providing any
facilities or expertise at our disposal. However, unless all
Member States commit themselves to timely payments of
their assessed contributions for these efforts, some countries
will find continued participation difficult.
We are fully aware that
issues involving violent
disputes or armed conflicts are not the only concerns of the
international community. Other issues, such as trade and
economic growth, as well as international cooperation for
development, are matters of primary concern. We note with
concern from the World Economic Survey, 1993 that for the
third year in succession the rate of growth of world output
in 1993 will be below that of world population.
It is also
evident from the Survey that
the end of the East-West
ideological divide has not brought with it a commensurate
narrowing of the economic disparities between North and
South.
these disparities have become more
pronounced than ever before.
Instead,
The problems confronting the developing countries
today are manifold. Terms of trade continue to deteriorate,
as high prices of imported manufactured goods and rising
protectionism in developed countries become the order of the
day. The socio-economic crisis in the developing countries
has been further exacerbated by the crippling burden of debt.
The flows of official development assistance, upon which
they are dependent, has declined in recent years, while direct
investment has constituted only a marginal percentage of all
inflows to these countries, particularly those in Africa.
In Africa, the least developed and most marginalized of
all
the majority of countries are
the world’s regions,
undertaking economic reform measures. They have made
great sacrifices and encountered untold difficulties in
implementing these reforms. In southern and eastern Africa
in particular,
the capacity to implement and keep these
economic reforms on course was further undermined by the
devastating drought which swept the region in 1991-1992.
Yet these countries have continued to demonstrate their
commitment to the reforms aimed at improving the standard
of living of their people.
Our sacrifices alone are not enough to ensure the
success of our economic reform programmes. In this regard,
we must once again reiterate the imperative need for an open
and equitable international trading system and the provision
of adequate financial resources. We therefore call for an
early conclusion of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade
Negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT). We also call again on the developed countries to
achieve without further delay the target of 0.7 per cent of
their gross national product
for official development
assistance that was set over 24 years ago by this very
Assembly.
Africa’s economic and social progress in general, and
in the context of the implementation of the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s in particular, will
remain severely hampered as long as the continent’s debt
burden continues to be as acute as it is today. Standing at
close to $290 billion at the end of 1992, the continent’s debt
is equivalent to 100.1 per cent of its gross national product,
while it is an alarming 108 per cent for sub-Saharan Africa.
With Africa continuing to be a net exporter of financial
resources,
that many of our human
development needs and social services have gone unmet?
is it any wonder
We believe that there is a clear and compelling need to
find a lasting solution to Africa’s indebtedness. While we
welcome some of the positive steps taken by some creditor
countries towards debt relief, as well as the important
initiatives of the Bretton Woods institutions in this regard,
we believe that an unacceptable gap still remains between
rhetoric and action, and that more decisive measures can be
taken to address this crisis.
is primarily our
Africa believes that the commitment it made together
with the international community, when the New Agenda
was adopted in 1991, must be renewed and translated into
concrete action. Fully cognizant of the fact that Africa’s
responsibility, we have
development
proceeded courageously to implement our side of
the
commitment, particularly in the promotion of regional and
sub-regional economic cooperation and integration and the
for
creation of an enabling environment
foreign and
domestic
therefore
call upon the
international community to buttress our efforts by addressing
in a concerted manner the major constraints which I have
highlighted.
investment. We
Africa does not seek charity. Mindful of the need to
promote sustainable and self-sustaining development on the
basis of self-reliance and the interdependence of Member
States, the countries of Southern Africa signed in August
1992 a regional
treaty establishing the Southern Africa
Development Community (SADC). Foremost among our
regional
objectives
achievement -
through
are
the
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
5
the
integration - of development and economic growth,
alleviation of poverty, the enhancement of the standard and
quality of life and the support of the socially disadvantaged.
Through the various regional economic organizations
such as the Eastern and Southern African Preferential Trade
Area (PTA), the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS), and the Arab Maghreb Union, African
countries are trying to further their aim of achieving self-
sustaining development.
These efforts will eventually
culminate in the formation of an African Economic
Community, whose foundations have already been laid.
Furthermore, it is our objective to evolve common political
values, systems and institutions, and to promote and defend
peace and security in the region. It is our earnest hope that
the international community as well as organs of the United
Nations system and the multilateral financial institutions will
continue to render their invaluable and generous assistance
in order to ensure the success of our regional integration
efforts.
Zimbabwe is
fully committed to achieving the
sustainable utilization of our natural resources and the
protection of our environment in order to attain sustainable
development. In this context, we note with appreciation the
progress made so far
in establishing the institutional
mechanism for the follow-up of the decisions taken during
the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June last year. In
particular, we commend the Commission on Sustainable
Development for the constructive and positive manner in
which it conducted its work during its first substantive
session in June.
of
the
areas
We welcome the stress that the Commission has placed
on
some
successful
implementation of Agenda 21, including the urgent need to
support national efforts to achieve sustainable consumption
and production patterns and lifestyles and the need for a
supportive international economic environment.
critical
to
the
Issues such as the alleviation and reduction of poverty,
the creation of remunerative and productive employment and
social integration are at the core of the endeavours of all
countries, but more urgently of developing countries.
It is
appropriate that these constitute the basis of our deliberations
when we convene in Copenhagen, Denmark, in March 1995
for the World Summit for Social Development.
severally. The theme of social integration, for example, was
addressed in a special way when two years ago we held a
summit meeting on children here in New York. We adopted
principles and guidelines which should govern the treatment
and development of children in all our countries. We
should, in translating these principles into practice, work to
remove the status and stigma of society’s marginal people
from our children. The children are our future. We have a
duty to the future for them by the positive and practical
measures we take today for their protection, education and
development.
Of great importance to us also are issues of population
In this context we
and the advancement of women.
the World
welcome
convening of
Conference on Population and Development
in 1994 in
Cairo, Egypt, and of the World Conference on Women in
Beijing, China, in 1995.
and support
the
In this regard let me underscore the conclusion of the
World Economic Survey 1993 that the social concerns of
developing countries, and the major issues of development
in other areas of the world, cannot be resolved in the
absence of world economic growth.
It is our fervent hope
that just as the United Nations has considerably strengthened
its role in the political and humanitarian fields, its role in the
economic,
likewise be
strengthened in order adequately to meet the emerging new
realities and their impact on the developing countries.
social and related fields will
Let me conclude by calling upon all Member States to
remember that just as the new international situation dictates
the need to strengthen, democratize and streamline the
operations of the United Nations and its constituent bodies,
so also is it incumbent upon us to make an exceptional
contribution in pursuit of the noble goals of justice, peace
and development. This we believe can be achieved only if
all Members live up to their obligations under the Charter.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic of
Zimbabwe, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Mrs. Fritsche (Liechtenstein), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
These themes are all equally vital. It is gratifying that
the international community has pronounced itself on them
on many occasions as indeed have States individually and
ADDRESS BY MR. FRANJO TUDJMAN, PRESIDENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Croatia.
Mr. Franjo Tudjman, President of the Republic of
Croatia, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Republic of Croatia, His
Excellency Mr. Franjo Tudjman, and to invite him to address
the Assembly.
President TUDJMAN (spoke in Croatian; English text
furnished by the delegation): Throughout the half century of
its history the United Nations has never rallied a greater
number of Member States and has never played a more
prominent role in global and regional international relations,
than it does today, and it has never borne the brunt of such
problems as it bears today. This, the forty-eighth session of
the United Nations General Assembly, is being held in an
atmosphere of great hope and of even greater commitments
facing the Organization which, in this post-cold-war time,
following the historical collapse of communism and
multinational State communities in Europe, is becoming the
cardinal guardian of global peace and security.
are
required and possible
The fall of Soviet and other European Communist and
totalitarian systems has reinforced hope and provided the
prerequisites for the comprehensive democratization of the
world while simultaneously raising the question of what kind
of multilateralism is
in the
contemporary world. Of no lesser importance is the question
of the new role of the United Nations at a time when many
new States
coming into being and when the
strengthening of global peace is becoming the fundamental
ideology of mankind. The United Nations must shoulder the
responsibility for a more equitable global order to take hold
in every corner of the world. But, in order to achieve this
goal, one must thoroughly review multilateral mechanisms
as well as the activity of international organizations under
conditions of the emergence of many new States, the end of
bipolarity and the strengthening of the polycentric foundation
of the world.
The process of disintegration of the Soviet communist
system, which began with the fall of the Berlin Wall, led
towards a fundamental shift in relations, not only within
Europe, but also on a global scale.
It has redirected and
drafted new American-Russian and American-European
relations. The competitive wars of the great Powers bent on
gaining influence and predominance in the Third World have
almost died away, but the focus of regional crises has now
the former Soviet Union, because of
moved to Eastern and South-Eastern Europe and to the area
of
the profound
political, national, social and economic changes sweeping
those areas. International factors, primarily West European
and North American countries, were taken unawares by the
depth and speed of these historical changes. Their initial
disorientation turned, subsequently,
into a renewal of
dormant traditional competition for spheres of influence in
changing circumstances. On the international scene, the
ultimate result has been disunity and the inefficiency of the
most responsible international factors in dealing with volatile
regional crises, but such developments have also jeopardized
the European integration processes already under way. The
fundamental values and goals of European regional
organizations now face a serious test and a radical review of
their mission. The new system of European collective
security is yet to take hold, and the same holds true for the
system of general, global security. This is a matter of the
greatest importance because the security of small countries
has become the key to the stability of each region and of the
overall international system.
international
The world has been slow to accept, and slower to
understand, the changes involving the national and State
emancipation of old and new European and Asian nations,
and it has recognized their
identity with
reluctance. The world has found it hard to grasp the at-first
untenable contradiction implied in the fact that we have
entered a period, in the development of human society and
international
national
individualization
comprehensive
civilizational integration. Even worse, the world has not
been ready to face the difficulties and the temporarily
destabilizing consequences of such changes, which will
ultimately lead to the full democratization of international
relations.
relations,
based
of
on
broadest
the
a most
The view that the collapse of communist systems and
of Soviet domination over nations in the Soviet Union and
Eastern Europe had resolved the problem of regional and
international stability was wrong. There was a similar lack
of understanding of the fact that the process of internal and
international democratization cannot stop at
the mere
democratization of political systems, and that
it also
inevitably leads to the disintegration of multinational State
formations. This was the logical sequence of political
democratization and national emancipation.
There can no longer be any doubt today about the fact
that the ever-increasing functional integration of the world
was the very prerequisite of national
independence and
internal sociopolitical and international democratization.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
7
This has only seemingly been a contradictory process.
Specifically, because of their endangered position, small
nations and their States are anxious to preserve their own
State, cultural and economic identity, and this sustains not
only the variety but also the very development of the world.
It should be remembered that positive nationalism, that is,
the national-democratic movement of oppressed nations in
Eastern Europe and of oppressed stateless nations in other
parts of the world, deserves the greatest credit for the
collapse of the communist systems.
Having achieved their national sovereignty and the
independence of their State, small nations, in their own
interest, became supporters of "civilizational" integration and
democratization. This is the reason why one of the most
important goals of the international community today should
be the successful resolution of problems affecting complete
regional and international
integration of States having
emerged after the disintegration of communist systems in
former multinational States such as the Soviet Union,
Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia.
The new world order which is being created so
laboriously, but also of necessity, can no longer be based
only on the ascendancy of the anti-fascist coalition or of the
nuclear Power club. Half a century after the historic victory
over fascism, new economic and political realities have come
into being, and the countries against which the anti-fascist
alliance was directed cannot bear the liability of the past
indefinitely. Germany, Japan, Italy and the countries within
their international political spheres during the Second World
War are today democratic countries with huge developmental
power, which is also obviously beneficial to the world.
Similarly,
the fundamental political and other eventful
changes taking place in Russia are transforming that country,
currently in the throes of dramatic upheaval, from a former
Stalinist threat to international peace and order into, we
hope, a constructive component of global order built on new
foundations of equality and partnership of nations and States
for the sake of mutual benefit and the stability of peace.
The balance of military blocs, weapons and ideologies
established during the cold war was only seemingly a stable
system, because it was actually founded on repression or
dependency, first of all at the expense of small States or
stateless nations. Today, to quote Secretary-General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali,
the democracy of
international
Times,
20 August 1993, p. A29, "Don’t Make the U.N.’s Hard Job
Harder")
"Multilateralism is
(The New York
society."
Multilateralism, certainly! But of what kind? We must
tend towards a multilateralism that will help us - after a gory
history of strife, first between dynasties, then between States
and, finally, between imperialist or ideological-military blocs
- to avoid war between incompatible civilizations. A brutal
entanglement of these civilizational contrasts is taking place
precisely in the area of the former Yugoslavia, threatening
to polarize greater areas along the lines of separation and
conflict between civilizational-religious blocs. We should
tend, instead, to internal, regional and global relations in
which these civilizational spheres will blend productively
and reinforce their identity through peaceful competition,
instead of wasting their precious potential on mutual
confrontation and annihilation.
A new multilateralism capable of coping with the
epoch-making changes of our time also calls for a thorough
reform of the United Nations. This implies, primarily, the
strengthening of international law, but also the development
of mechanisms which will help the United Nations and its
agencies to function more effectively and to be depoliticized,
less costly and more receptive to ideas,
influences and
supervision.
In particular, the role and responsibility of the Security
Council in dealing with questions concerning international
peace and stability should be given greater emphasis. Over
past years there has been considerable progress in the
operation of the Security Council, and the use of the veto
has almost become obsolete. Nevertheless, certain Security
Council decisions are still excessively influenced by the
national interests of its members, the permanent ones in
particular. Accordingly, we need a climate of cooperation
in the Security Council that will prevent its being used as an
extended instrument of the foreign policy of individual
Security Council members.
of
the
Croatia
supports
extension
permanent
membership of the Security Council, which will reflect the
economic and political realities of the present-day world and
assure a balanced regional representation in the Council.
Croatia also endorses the limitation of the right and practice
of veto. The major crises of our time, such as the one in the
area of the former Yugoslavia, should be used as precious
lessons for more effective and concerted action by the
Security Council.
We also believe that a high degree of responsibility and
authority in decisions concerning the major directions of
global economic and social development should also be
vested in the Economic and Social Council, so that
its
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
decisions, in specific areas of decision-making, would have
executive force similar to that of Security Council decisions.
Although it would be difficult to envisage the General
Assembly assuming the role of a global parliament to the
detriment of the sovereignty of Member States, a clearer
delimitation of authority among the General Assembly, the
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council
would nevertheless be required. A more articulated link
with United Nations agencies, which ought to improve their
efficiency and prevent
the political blocking of certain
processes, is also necessary. However, the enhanced role of
the Security Council, which we are advocating, should not
affect the authority of the General Assembly, which is a
forum for the manifestation of the views of the vast majority
of small countries Members of the United Nations. As a
form of present-day democracy, multilateralism should
provide the foundation for the stability of the new and, in
every respect, democratic world order. However, while
striving to turn our global Organization into a most
consonant orchestra which will provide for
the full
expression of the voices of all differences and contrasts,
natural-permanent and secondary-provisional ones alike, we
sight of uncontroverted historical
must never
experience - namely,
the
responsibility, of the small and the greatest components and
lines of force in international life are not and cannot be
identical throughout all events, times and circumstances.
Because of
this we should continue to build global
organization on the efficient activity of the Security Council
and, within it, on the role and responsibility of its permanent
members.
hence,
and,
lose
role
that
the
The central point with reference to the efficient role of
the Security Council, and of the entire United Nations, is the
need to develop a new foundation for peace mediation.
Established in cold-war times, the mechanism was adjusted
to the need to prevent the outbreak and spread of conflict
between the blocs, or between their dependants in the third
world, with long-term freezing of conflict as the goal.
Today peace mediation requires a much more active and
flexible approach, first of all because of the need and
possibility of preventive action, but also because of a
selective use of force in the implementation of peace
agreements and Security Council decisions. The example of
my country,
the Republic of Croatia, and that of the
neighbouring Republic
and Herzegovina
pinpointed most exactly the two fundamental weaknesses of
the existing peace-keeping-force model and mandate. First,
the classic mandate, the freezing of the conflict by sustaining
a cease-fire, does not resolve the conflict but, rather, creates
further complications. Second, as has become manifest,
of Bosnia
forces
engaged in the
certain countries whose
implementation of the multilateral peace mandate are trying,
through the members of their peace-keeping units and
negotiation mediators, to pursue their national policies and
not the policy of the Security Council.
are
The reform of the overall peace-operation mechanism
requires,
first and foremost, a more efficient use of
coordinated instruments of diplomatic, economic, political
and military pressure and consistency in the implementation
of the peace-keeping-force mandate. Such an approach,
which also implies the selective use of force, not only could
have prevented the escalation of the conflict in the former
Yugoslavia but also reduced peace-keeping-forces’ casualties
to fewer than have actually been the case with the present
static mandate, which does not offer adequate protection
even to the peace-keeping force itself.
has
been
and
in
the
conduct
acquired
prepared
operations
in Croatia, Bosnia
In recent years extensive positive, but also negative,
of
experience
peace-keeping
and
Herzegovina, Somalia and Cambodia. It has been found that
peace-keeping forces should be more qualified and better
trained and equipped for special missions in each peace-
keeping operation. The United Nations should also have
greater authority in the sensitive conduct of peace-keeping
operations. This suggests the need for the establishment of
already well-trained
national military
contingents to be available, with all their facilities, to the
global community. Under the current system, in the best of
cases several months are required for unit selection and the
provision of necessary facilities for the deployment of
peace-keeping forces in specific areas, which results in
delayed action and substantially affects the conditions of
peace-keeping-mandate implementation. It has also become
evident
regional military
alliances and systems in particular, can in the majority of
cases be the main and most efficient mechanism to
implement
Peace-keeping
operations are being used at an ever-increasing rate to
prevent disastrous humanitarian situations or to alleviate their
consequences, but they will still have a role to play in
political mediation and organization of the basic State
institutions, as well as in supervising political and economic
reconstruction in the initial period. Such United Nations
operations of an increasingly more comprehensive scope call
for the cooperation of the entire international community in
the implementation of regularly highly complex missions.
The international community must act through the Security
Council whenever there is obvious aggression against a
Member State, as well as in cases where international
security is seriously threatened. Selective interventionism
regional organizations,
peace-keeping
operations.
that
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
9
mainly has an adverse effect on the reputation and credibility
of the United Nations.
of
and
pressure
international
Economic sanctions are becoming, at an ever-increasing
rate, an instrument of international pressure in the absence
of political will to use stronger means to implement Security
Council resolutions or to protect basic interests of Member
States and promote international law standards. In our view,
sanctions can have an effect only if combined with other
instruments
isolation.
However, what is also required is a more efficient system of
compensating those countries which subsequently have to
bear, with no guilt on their part, the burden of sanctions
against specific regimes. A more effective system is also
needed to supervise the implementation of sanctions through
the enforcement of "sanctions imposed for violations of
sanctions".
In the opposite case, the sanctions, to be sure,
will have a long-term effect, but before the ultimate
objective is achieved the highest price will be paid by the
innocent population of the affected country, by people who
cannot deal by themselves with the internationally censured
regime.
the punishment of
law and the protection of
The democratization of international relations and a new
multilateralism also imply a greater commitment of the
international community to the safeguarding and respect of
the violators of
human rights,
humanitarian and war
the
ecological balance of the planet. Although we uphold the
view that the defence of cardinal rights and international law
standards cannot take precedence over the sovereignty of
United Nations Member States, regimes and individuals that
violate such rights and standards may not be allowed to hide
behind the principle of "non-interference with internal
matters of countries".
in
reconciling the two approaches, and the ways in which, and
conditions under which, international mechanisms can be set
in motion ought
to be codified in the safeguarding of
universal human rights and interests in order to preserve
peace and the international order.
Balance should be sought
territory -
Because of its own experience - the orchestrated military
revolt of part of the Serbian population organized from
Belgrade, resulting in the occupation of one quarter of
Croatia’s
the Republic of Croatia supports
cooperation with the international community in the
identification and incorporation of the highest standards of
protection of the Serbian minority into Croatian legislation.
We accept international supervision of their implementation
in
reconciliation,
confidence-building and the future stability of the country
and the greater area.
inter-ethnic
interest
the
of
Of course, the responsibility which the United Nations
should assume at an ever-increasing rate in crisis areas,
relief operations, protection of
the environment and
assurance of balanced development, as well as in other
issues of general interest, requires vast financial resources.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the regular budget and the
financing of peace-keeping operations have assumed such
key importance among the matters to be discussed at this,
the forty-eighth, session of the General Assembly. Part of
these outlays can be reduced by a more economical use of
existing resources and by improving the efficiency of the
United Nations system itself. We should prevent United
Nations actions from becoming an end in themselves, and
avenues
greater
programming coordination with other organizations and
initiatives within the international system. Greater care
ought to be exercised in preventing all instances of abuse
and corruption within the United Nations system, because
they not only increase the cost but also undermine the
reputation of the global Organization.
explored
towards
should
also
be
the international order
The global community is saddled with many adversities
and crises, but
is nevertheless
becoming more and more settled. We are encouraged by the
fact that, after half a century of Israeli-Arab conflict, the
way has finally been paved towards more stable peace in the
Middle East. This example can also be instructive with
regard to the solution of the crisis in the former Yugoslavia.
It demonstrates the practical use and advantage of carefully
worded agreements which are possible especially when their
resolution actively involves the leading world power as well.
Such cases call on both sides for statesmanship and courage
in making concessions for the sake of peace and require
realism in the assessment of national interests with regard to
objective international circumstances and the particular
historical moment.
The statesmen involved, and the
responsible officers of the global Organization, are expected
to be reasonable and principled, determined but also
moderate,
in a way allowing for no narrow-minded
radicalism, but tending rather to seek the most favourable
solution for the protection of peace and the international
order.
We are also encouraged to see that conditions are being
established for the withdrawal of the peace-keeping forces
from Cambodia early next year. This gives us hope that a
similar process will also be completed in the Republic of
Croatia in the immediate future, and in Bosnia and
Herzegovina in the nearest possible future.
We welcome the evident progress attained in the
transfer of power to the black majority in the South African
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Republic. We hope that the sporadic cases of racial and
political violence in that country are only aftershocks
following the major political shifts towards racial tolerance
and democratization of political life in that country. We are
convinced that the international community will also find the
means to succeed in the already initiated and then halted
process of political stabilization in Angola and Mozambique.
We also believe that resoluteness of the United Nations is
also required in the area of the former Yugoslavia, just as it
has been in Somalia, in terms of selective use of force,
protection of the peace force and assurance of relief. But in
Somalia as well, the international community must also
assume broader responsibilities in the restoration of the basic
functions of the State and in the establishment of law and
order in that country.
It is obvious that differences in the
approach to the solution of problems which frustrate the
efficiency of
from
operative but from political reasons.
the peace-keeping forces stem not
The Republic of Croatia welcomes the efforts of the
Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, the
European Community and the United Nations to mediate
peace in the conflicts between or within the former Soviet
republics, and we express our readiness to take part in these
peace efforts. Fortified by its own experience, Croatia will
be ready, especially after the end of the war in the Republic,
to contribute even more to the new mission of peace-keeping
operations throughout the world.
As a country of outstanding natural attractions, but also
of a very vulnerable environmental system, the Republic of
Croatia will consistently implement the commitments of the
Action Plan - Agenda 21 - the conclusions of the Conference
on the Environment and Development and the Rio
declarations.
Croatia believes that support of the programme of
is the proper way towards the
sustainable development
gradual bridging of the growing developmental gap between
the North and the South, which is a permanent source of
political and social instability and ecological imbalance in
specific areas and in the world as a whole.
The crisis in the area of the former Yugoslavia is the
most difficult crisis in the world today, and it cannot be
resolved without a more determined role on the part of the
international community. Past mediation efforts have been
shown to be insufficient because they were limited by a
mandate lacking firmness, but also rendered more difficult
by the diverse political interests of individual external forces.
It has not been sufficient to try to freeze the conflict, send
thus
in humanitarian aid and engage in empty threats,
allowing the crisis to deteriorate to the point where
"everybody would get tired of waging war" and then agree
to a political settlement. The initial aggression of the
Yugoslav communist army, Serbia and Montenegro, for the
conquest of Croat and Muslim territories was not countered
by determined steps, and the consequences of such a policy
have been disastrous. They have included first and foremost
the terrible destruction and "ethnic cleansing" in areas
conquered by the Serbs, and then the extension of the
conflict to the Muslim and Croat sides as well, the struggle
for the remaining territory, the incessant growth of the death
toll, and the ever swelling tide of refugees, which has now
exceeded the figure of one million agonized men, women
and children.
the expense of
In the Republic of Croatia the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR) mandate achieved certain
initial results in putting a stop to fighting and providing for
the withdrawal of the Yugoslav army. However,
the
mandate has been misused by the Serbian extremist
insurgents and their promoters, the Belgrade expansionists,
to freeze territorial gains, continue "ethnic cleansing," and
consolidate occupation which has assumed forms of
terrorism even at
the local Serbian
population. The international community has allowed the
Serbian side to completely ignore all Security Council
resolutions and other agreements, in spite of the fact that the
modalities of resolving the conflict have been clearly and
well defined: complete cease-fire and the disarmament of
Serbian paramilitary units; the return of all refugees and
displaced persons to their homes; the normalization of traffic
and supply; the guarantee of extensive ethnic rights to the
Serbian minority within the scope of the territorial integrity
and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia; the gradual
reinstatement of Croatian authorities and of law and order in
the occupied areas; confidence-building measures; scheduling
of elections for
local self-government authorities; and
general amnesty for all persons not found guilty of war
crimes.
Owing to the lack of determination on the part of the
international community in the implementation of
the
UNPROFOR mandate, the Republic of Croatia has found
itself, through no fault of its own, in a position where
pressure is being brought to bear on it,
including even
threats of sanctions, because it is trying to deal with its vital
communications problems, or prevent Croatian towns from
being shelled from areas under
the
peace-keeping forces. Thus, Croatia is being taken to task
for reinstating civilian traffic across the Maslenica Strait, on
which a million people in southern Croatia and parts of
Bosnia and Herzegovina depend. Croatia is first urged to
the protection of
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
11
negotiate and normalize relations with Belgrade, and then
accused of doing so. Meanwhile, nothing efficient is being
done to disarm Serbian paramilitary units and to prevent
Serbian extremism and terrorism in the United Nations
protected areas.
the most comprehensive rights
One of the basic concepts of our policy has been the
guarantee of
for all
minorities - including of course the Serbian minority as a
whole, and particularly in the areas of Croatia in which the
Serbs constituted a majority before the war - in the interest
of the future permanent stability of the Croatian State and of
its role within the international order. However, at the same
time the Serbian insurgents must provide for the return of
hundreds of
thousands of displaced Croats and other
non-Serbian citizens to their homes in the areas under the
protection of the peace-keeping forces. Belgrade must
finally recognize the Republic of Croatia and its borders, as
the whole world has already done. Croatia cannot tolerate
a situation in which the Serbian minority abuses its rights in
order to break up the Croatian State or to create the legal
framework for
local
self-government and their annexation to the "federation of
Serbian lands". This would mean the realization of the
Greater Serbia idea, which was precisely the underlying
motive of the present war against Croatia and Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro
must remain in force until peace is achieved in Croatia, too,
and not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as is also provided
for by the respective Security Council resolutions. Croatia
resolutely urges the consistent and effective implementation
of all Security Council resolutions - no more, but no less
either.
the secession of
territories under
Croatia has shown extreme patience within the scope of
endeavours for a peaceful settlement of the conflict with the
Serbian minority, orchestrated during the time the former
socialist Yugoslavia was disintegrating and the democratic
State of Croatia was being established. However, Croatia
cannot tolerate indefinitely the occupation of its territories,
the pressure of the hundreds of thousands of displaced
persons from Croatian areas, and a situation in which the
State is split. Croatia can no longer be forced to accept the
fourth extension of the UNPROFOR mandate if the mission
of the peace-keeping forces is not specified in more resolute
terms, and if the Serbs are not given an ultimatum to
implement the Vance Plan and all relevant Security Council
resolutions.
The means used to bring about Serbian
withdrawal from Igman and Bjelasnica - military strikes -
must also be applied in Croatia.
the relevant
The Republic of Croatia is not pleased with the latest
report of
the United Nations Secretary-General, which
suggests the extension of the UNPROFOR mandate in
Croatia by six months, with no essential changes in respect
of the present mandate. If the UNPROFOR mandate is not
amended within the next 48 hours to ensure energetic
implementation of
resolutions and other
documents of the Security Council, the Republic of Croatia
will be forced to renounce the United Nations peace-keeping
operation on its territory and to request units to abandon
Croatia not later than 30 November 1993. Maintenance of
the status quo, which is nothing but the occupation of part
of Croatian territory, and the inefficiency of UNPROFOR
are detrimental to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia
and to the normalization of its economic and overall life.
Croatia is prepared to resolve the key problem of its
existence by all necessary means and at any cost - by
negotiated agreement and settlement
if
necessary, by resort to legitimate means of restoring law and
order, with full observance of laws governing war and
humanitarian affairs, in areas currently suffering the anarchy
of Serbian terrorist and paramilitary troops.
if possible, but,
Croatia
is grateful
circumstances.
in the area of
With its involvement
the former
Yugoslavia, UNPROFOR has borne a great burden and has
suffered considerable casualties, operating in extremely
difficult
to all
UNPROFOR members who have performed their duty
bravely and honourably, risking their personal safety and
their lives, and helping thousands of suffering people.
Croatia does not oppose UNPROFOR, but it can no longer
tolerate the consequences of the Force’s inefficiency and its
persistent circumventing of
relevant Security Council
resolutions. The implementation of these provisions will
affect not only the existence of the Republic of Croatia but
also the basic credibility of the United Nations.
By renouncing the UNPROFOR mandate, Croatia does
not close its doors to any humanitarian action or to the
possibility of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
operation in the former Yugoslavia. On the contrary,
Croatia welcomes the readiness of NATO to assume the role
of principal guarantor of peace and stability in this part of
Europe,
in the
implementation of the peace settlement. We also look
forward to seeing NATO involved in the implementation of
the Vance plan. At the same time, Croatia’s door is being
opened wide to all relief and human rights organizations,
European Community monitors and UNPROFOR civilian
logistic personnel engaged in the provision of relief to the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
actively support
and will
its units
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
I
refer
factors -
International
to the European
Community and the United Nations - have brought
the
negotiations on resolutions of the crisis in Bosnia and
Herzegovina to the settlement currently proposed. It should
be remembered that the Republic of Croatia and the Croats
in Bosnia and Herzegovina were the first to support all
serious peace plans put
forward by the international
community. However, the indecision and inconsistency of
the international community have allowed both the Serbian
and the Muslim representatives to reject or to flout these
plans.
Even the proclamation of independence of the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have been
impossible without the agreement of the Croats, expressed
through the 1992 referendum. Without the resistance put up
by the Croats, no part of Bosnia and Herzegovina would
have been defended,
from Serbian
aggression. We were the first to recognize the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the first to send an ambassador
to Sarajevo. The Republic of Croatia has contributed more
to the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to the care of
Bosnian refugees, than have all other countries combined,
and that situation continues despite the aggression waged by
the Muslim army against Croatian populated areas in central
Bosnia and against
territory envisaged for the Croatian
Republic within the Union of Republics of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
in the beginning,
In view of past developments, there are no longer any
completely equitable and clear-cut solutions to the complex
Bosnian crisis.
If peace is to be achieved, all the parties
must accept political and territorial compromise. The Croats
in Bosnia have made major concessions for the sake of
peace. They have lost the most, especially in Posavina and
Central Bosnia, where the majority of
the Croatian
population used to live.
They have agreed to accept
18 per cent of territory although the previous Vance-Owen
plan envisaged a share of about 27 per cent.
Indeed, for
strategic, political and psychological reasons, the Croatian
side cannot agree to any further concessions.
It should be remembered that
in 1948 the Croats
accounted for 23.9 per cent of the Bosnian population. That
proportion declined as a result of the pressure of the
hegemonistic policies of the Serbs and then of the Muslims.
In the search for a solution, the same principles must be
applied throughout. One might ask, for instance, why
Mostar, along with Sarajevo,
is being singled out for
European Community supervision. Why not Banja Luka and
Zenica or Vare, where the Croatian population is struggling
for survival?
the Croats who lived there for centuries?
What about the fact that, as a result of Serbian and then
Muslim aggression, two thirds of Catholic parishes in Bosnia
and Herzegovina have been occupied or completely cleansed
of
The
international community must face facts and problems in
their entirety.
It must identify ways of halting Serbian
aggression, but also means of protecting the Croatian people
from the attempts of extremists to set up a Bosnian Islamic
state, mostly at the expense of the Croats.
Nevertheless, I am pleased to report, here and now, that
hostilities between the Croat and Serbian sides in Bosnia and
Herzegovina have stopped and, in particular, that, on my
initiative and with the good offices of Turkey, political
agreement has been reached between the Croats and the
Muslims concerning the cessation of hostilities and the
provision of the prerequisites for permanent peace and
cooperation.
We believe that the purpose of peace would be served
by NATO’s energetic assumption of the chief role in
implementing the peace plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina
and in solving the problem of the United Nations protected
areas
in Croatia, with the United Nations assuming
responsibility for implementation of the peace settlement.
token,
the Republic of Croatia
For geopolitical, historical and economic reasons, as
well as for the sake of transport links, the Republic of
Croatia is interested in the closest future cooperation with
the Union of Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the
same
the
normalization of relations with all States that emerged
following the disintegration of Communist Yugoslavia, on
the basis of mutual recognition. This is not only in the
interests of
is also a
prerequisite for the establishment of peace and for the
creation of a stable international order in this part of the
world.
the peoples of
these States;
supports
it
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Croatia for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Franjo Tudjman, President of the Republic of
Croatia, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
ADDRESS
BY MR. ALGIRDAS MYKOLAS
BRAZAUSKAS, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
LITHUANIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Lithuania.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
13
Mr. Algirdas Mykolas Brazauskas, President of the
Republic of Lithuania, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Republic of Lithuania, His
Excellency Mr. Algirdas Mykolas Brazauskas, and to invite
him to address the Assembly.
ADDRESS
BY MR. ALGIRDAS MYKOLAS
BRAZAUSKAS, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
LITHUANIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Lithuania.
Mr. Algirdas Mykolas Brazauskas, President of the
Republic of Lithuania, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Republic of Lithuania, His
Excellency Mr. Algirdas Mykolas Brazauskas, and to invite
him to address the Assembly.
President BRAZAUSKAS (spoke in Lithuanian; English
text furnished by the delegation): Allow me to congratulate
Mr. Insanally on his election as President of the forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly and to wish him much
success in heading this august body.
It is a great honour to speak in this historic Hall, in
which, as nowhere else, all the victories and concerns of the
world, all its problems and opportunities, are concentrated.
The voice of Lithuania, which had been muffled for half a
century, can now be heard loud and clear throughout the
world. Lithuania, with a long tradition of statehood dating
back to the thirteenth century, regained its independence
through the determination of our people, certain fundamental
changes in the world and international support.
Our State is consolidating democracy.
It respects
human and minority rights, and strives to ensure social
progress and an improved standard of living founded on free
market principles. By participating in the activities of the
United Nations and other international organizations, we
hope to contribute to a better world.
felt
and
other
international
organizations.
We have an opportunity to voice our concerns and to
obtain support not only at the United Nations, but also at the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
the North Atlantic Cooperation
the Council of Europe,
Council
In
establishing friendly relations with other countries, Lithuania
has
the supportive and increasing influence of
international organizations in the process of democratization
and in the creation of a free market economy. We trust that
the following international Conferences sponsored by the
United Nations - the International Conference on Population
and Development,
for Social
Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women
- will help us find lasting solutions to these concerns.
the World Summit
Since parliamentary elections held last autumn the
Government in Lithuania has changed. Our chosen course
in foreign policy, however, in the tradition of democratic
States, has not altered. Our foreign policy priorities remain
close cooperation with the other Baltic States of Latvia and
Estonia, as well as with the countries of northern Europe,
and full
integration into Europe’s political, economic,
security and cultural sphere.
Lithuania is seeking in particular friendly and mutually
beneficial relations with neighbouring Russia, Poland and
Belarus. Lithuania supports President Boris Yeltsin’s efforts
to stabilize the political situation in his country and to
maintain the course of reform. We are essentially in full
agreement with the position of other democratic States
regarding recent events in Russia.
Like its other neighbours, Lithuania is seeking its place
on the new map of Europe, and we hope for closer
cooperation between the countries of the Baltic Sea region.
An important aspect of such cooperation, and of Lithuania’s
relations with Russia,
relationship with the
Kaliningrad region. The gradual demilitarization of that
region, the development of a free trade zone there and the
increased
organizations,
especially the European Community, have on its future are
in Lithuania’s best interest and, we believe, in the interests
of other States in the area.
international
influence
is our
that
In the long term, the shores of the Baltic Sea should be
free of armaments. Measures should be taken now to
increase trust and security. Our chosen path - a gradual
coming together of the nations and States of the Baltic
region and good relations between neighbours - should lead
us to the European Community and contribute to the
consolidation of security on the old continent.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The shortest road from Paris, Berlin and Warsaw to
Moscow and St. Petersburg leads through Lithuania. For
many centuries, however, the vehicles of war of attacking or
retreating armies rolled across these crossroads, bringing
with them many misfortunes and tragedies. Today, however,
we hope that convoys of goods will roll across our territory.
We believe, and are working to ensure, that our complex
geopolitical situation in a new Europe - a Europe no longer
torn apart by antagonistic ideologies - should become a
source of new opportunities, benefits and prosperity. We are
inspired by the example of countries such as Denmark,
Switzerland, Austria and others, which have successfully
taken advantage of similar situations and the opportunities
offered by a more unified Europe.
Having restored its independence, Lithuania has once
again become a participant
in the processes of a more
unified Europe. Lithuania is receptive to cooperation with
the West and the East, and sees future opportunities in such
cooperation.
Despite the great distances that separate us, relations
with the United States have been, and will continue to be,
especially significant for Lithuania. We are grateful to the
United States for resolutely adhering to the policy of
non-recognition of the illegal incorporation of Lithuania into
the Soviet Union. A sizeable emigré community, which
found refuge in the new world, links our two countries. We
value close United States cooperation with Europe, including
that with the structures of the CSCE and the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, and we sincerely wish every success for
efforts to stabilize the situation in a changing world and to
encourage the progress of post-Communist countries toward
democracy and a free market.
We turn to the United Nations, asking it to safeguard
the interests of small States. The future of a more integrated
world lies in democracy and in the individuality of free
nations. The international community should be prepared to
defend, with force if necessary, the sovereignty of small -
even the smallest - nations. During his recent visit
to
Lithuania, Pope John Paul II stressed that
"the interests of large States should never force small
States to become satellites of a foreign Power".
In spite of the conflicts that now plague the world, it is
fortunate that some good news also reaches this house in
New York. We welcome the peace processes in the Middle
East and the positive trends in South Africa, Cambodia,
Haiti and El Salvador.
On 31 August, in compliance with General Assembly
resolution 47/21 of 1992, the last remaining units of the
Russian army were withdrawn from Lithuania. I should like
to take this opportunity to thank representatives from all the
countries, large and small, that supported our legitimate goal.
I should also like to sincerely thank the United Nations and
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who monitored the
fulfilment of the obligation to withdraw that army, and who,
during the most
envoy,
Ambassador Tommy Koh,
to Vilnius, and Mr. Stoyan
Ganev, President of the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly, who visited Lithuania and the other Baltic States
in July to discuss the army’s withdrawal. We were glad
when, having made it just in time for the ceremony marking
the departure of the last Russian troops, Ambassador Koh
said:
critical moments,
sent his
"My work in Lithuania is done, although some work is
waiting for me in the other Baltic States."
When a large State withdraws its army from a small
one without issuing any ultimatums or setting conditions,
this signals a new era for the world in which, thanks to
international efforts in accordance with the principles of the
United Nations Charter, even the most sensitive problems
can be solved peacefully. Despite several disagreements that
arose at
the last minute, calm and balanced diplomacy
allowed Lithuania and Russia to reach agreement on this
fundamental question.
On more than one occasion I had the pleasure of
speaking openly and sincerely with President Boris Yeltsin
of the Russian Federation. A fresh page is being turned in
the relations between our two countries. Of course, the issue
of compensation for damage inflicted during the years of
occupation is still on the agenda for negotiations between
Lithuania and Russia.
The Russian army still remains in Estonia and Latvia.
We believe that with the help of the United Nations this
international problem will be resolved successfully and, at
the same time, the stability of the region will be bolstered.
Until people become fully aware of the possibilities that
democracy and freedom provide these ideas will remain just
that - ideas. After an initial wave of euphoria, disillusion
may follow. One can already notice this in some post-
communist countries. This causes me, as President of
Lithuania, great concern.
I do not think that the world
community can afford to remain indifferent to this problem.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
15
religious and political beliefs,
A democratic and civic State, based on the rule of law,
in which people are not segregated according to their
nationality or
is being
established in Lithuania. There is no tension in our country
between Lithuanians and ethnic minorities. We are
reforming and stabilizing the Lithuanian economy; we are
searching for ways to provide at least minimal social welfare
guarantees; as much as possible we are trying to clear the
way for private initiative. We cannot, however, change our
economy overnight. The Lithuanian people are patient and
industrious, working hard for their well-being and future.
However, disillusion with democracy and the free market
would be disastrous.
for
Therefore I wish to speak very frankly to this body:
even though we feel the concern and support of the world
It appears that even the
community, that is not enough.
most authoritative international organizations
lack the
coordinated action and initiative
truly effective
assistance. We occasionally feel isolationist tendencies on
the part of the most industrialized nations; having attained a
high standard of living, they attempt to dissociate themselves
from the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. This
greatly complicates the future of these countries as they
attempt
to solve by themselves the difficult economic,
political, psychological, cultural and historical problems that
they have inherited from the recent past.
In most
post-communist countries there still prevails a nostalgia for
the past, when authoritarian government guaranteed people
their minimum needs, albeit at the expense of their freedom.
Without
this nostalgia for a
pseudo-socialistic past could cause the development of
certain countries
to follow a course that would be
unacceptable to all of us.
timely and joint efforts,
For several years now, both in Europe and North
America, the idea of a new "Marshall Plan" has been in the
air, but it has in no way materialized. Yet investments in
the countries of Central and Eastern Europe - and I have in
mind not only financial
investments - would really be
investments in all of our futures. Greater and more effective
assistance for the democratic forces in post-communist States
would help decisively to rid the world of the remnants of
totalitarianism and dictatorship that have so tormented
mankind in the twentieth century.
With the dissolution of two hostile blocs, the world has
become a safer place. However, that does not solve all the
security problems that mankind now faces.
Indeed, the
number of such problems has increased. There is now a
greater possibility of localized conflicts: they have flared up
in precisely those places where dictatorships that suppressed
nations have fallen. Such horrendous practices as "ethnic
cleansing" must be severely condemned. The model of an
absolutely closed nation-State is no longer a viable one for
the solution of separate national problems.
The Lithuanian people respect the struggle of nations
for their freedom, but they condemn atrocities which occur
under the guise of a noble cause. The tragedy of what was
formerly Yugoslavia is truly horrible. We approve of the
means that the United Nations uses to uphold peace and
security, but too often resolution of the structure of a State
and border issues are left to warring countries to decide by
force of arms.
In the future the United Nations should
pursue even more actively preventive diplomacy to stop
conflicts before they erupt. Every illegal and violent act
requires a response, not appeasement.
The Secretary-General’s "An Agenda for Peace" is a
welcome plan that provides a solid foundation. What should
the new role of the United Nations be in an ever-changing
world? As I see it, in future the Organization must not only
be a guarantor of security, but also an instigator of economic
development and a global defender of human and ethnic
minority rights. At
the Vienna Conference on Human
Rights, we spoke out in favour of establishing the post of
high commissioner for human rights. At this time, ideas
about the sovereignty of States, the self-determination of
nations, national
and
enforcement of peace are changing rapidly. The individual
problems of individual States are becoming global in scope,
especially in the areas of environmental protection, refugees,
narcotics and organized crime. For precisely that reason,
cooperation among neighbouring States is growing in
importance.
security and the maintenance
regional
Regional
structures and arrangements
interaction is broadening and the role of
international organizations is being extended. We approve
of
that help to
guarantee peace and stability in their respective regions.
However,
their activities should be linked with United
Nations supervision, so that large and powerful nations do
not transform such regional structures into instruments of
domination.
I am referring to failed States. They need
international assistance that would not force upon them the
protectorate of another State or provide conditions for
assimilating them into some sort of sphere of influence, but
would
and
independence. Small countries have a right to rely on a firm
guarantee of security. The United Nations could and should
become that guarantee.
In the long-term future, as
democracy and cooperation become firmly established
sovereignty
respect
and
protect
their
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
throughout our planet, the United Nations would perhaps
assume certain functions of a world government.
I reiterate my support for Lithuania’s proposal, which
was outlined here at the United Nations exactly one year
ago, that new permanent members could be added to the
Security Council. For the United Nations to achieve its
objective, it is important to continue and even expand the
system reforms that are now being put into effect to increase
cost-efficiency. We welcome the initiatives by several
countries, among them the United States, to establish more
dependable internal and external inspection machinery. The
suggested creation of an office of inspector-general could
help to assure Member States that the mandates that we have
provided for various programmes are put
to the most
effective use possible.
its obligations
I should like to state clearly that the current financial
crisis of the United Nations is of great concern to Lithuania.
We are not indifferent to it. Lithuania is firmly resolved to
fulfil
to the Organization and it has
demonstrated its readiness to do so. Lithuania could support
the activities of the Organization even more strongly if for
three years now we had not been forced repeatedly to
discuss the difficult problem of assessments with regard to
the United Nations budget. Our delegation, along with other
countries that have found themselves in a similar situation,
has on more than one occasion suggested ways in which this
problem could be solved.
I wish to emphasize that the
position of Lithuania remains unchanged. The scale of
assessments must be determined on the basis of statistical
data provided by each State, in accordance with its capacity
to pay and, most important, abiding by the principle that the
same methodology for calculating assessments must be
applied to all States equally.
In seeking to ensure these
principles and finally to resolve this problem, we are
prepared to exchange ideas with, and we hope for the
cooperation of, all delegations.
I reiterate my support for Lithuania’s proposal, made
here at the United Nations exactly a year ago, that new
permanent members could be added to the Security Council.
Lithuania not only supports peace-keeping efforts, but would
like eventually to become a contributor to military and
civilian operations.
When Lithuania became a member of the Council of
Europe I suggested a meeting of all the Heads of State of
post-communist countries. This would not be an attempt to
create some sort of new bloc or to console each other about
our economic hardships. Such a conference, under the
auspices of the Council of Europe or perhaps some other
organization, could provide an opportunity to discuss in a
down-to-earth way how to recover more quickly from the
maladies of national egoism and ethnocentricity that may be
unavoidable in young States and fragile democracies. All of
us in post-communist countries should, as quickly as
possible, learn how to cooperate among ourselves and with
the rest of the world and strive to be better full-fledged
members of our planet’s democratic community. Other
countries have learned the art of cooperation over decades.
We have not had that much time.
It is very important that
we succeed through a joint effort in making this period as
brief as possible.
We welcome the initiative by some Members of the
United Nations to establish a forum for new and restored
democracies.
It is our sincere hope that this movement,
begun in the Philippines, will help bring developing
countries and countries in transition closer together, so that
they may reach common approaches down the path to
democracy and a free market.
The spirit of the approaching twenty-first century
already fills this Hall. At the turn of the third millennium
mankind is faced with critical global problems that threaten
its very existence: ecological, social and spiritual problems
and the nuclear threat, which has not yet been abolished.
National and regional problems seem to pale in comparison,
but I do not think that that is really the case. Every step
towards progress, even if taken in a small country or with
regard to improved relations between two States, diminishes
the possibility of global conflict, and vice versa.
I should
therefore like to believe that the withdrawal of the Russian
military from Lithuania was an achievement for more than
just two countries. The entire world became somewhat
better, somewhat more just, and the threat that hung over it
was abated.
I think that there will be more and more such successes.
The United Nations system contributes, and will continue to
contribute, significantly to their attainment.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, I
wish to thank the President of the Republic of Lithuania for
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Algirdas Mykolas Brazauskas, President of the
Republic of Lithuania, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
Mr. Rahman (Bangladesh), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
17
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mrs. UGGLAS (Sweden): Let me express the Swedish
Government’s satisfaction at the election of Ambassador
Insanally of Guyana as President of this session of the
General Assembly. I should also like to pay a tribute to the
Secretary-General and to his endeavours to promote the
principles of the Charter and a stronger United Nations.
Furthermore, I welcome the six new Members of the
Organization.
The totalitarian ideologies of this century have been
defeated, but the struggle of ideas is not over. Totalitarian
ideas and ideologies can take on different shapes at different
times. In many places - and no country is immune - we still
witness expressions of racism, xenophobia and intolerance.
If these tendencies are not effectively countered today, the
world might have to face far uglier threats tomorrow.
As we welcome the progress towards peace and
freedom in Eastern Europe, in the Middle East and in South
Africa, we have to realize that these achievements will prove
elusive if they do not give people a better life. Peace and
democracy, freedom and reconciliation, must be cemented by
economic and social progress.
The individual’s endeavours to improve his own lot and
that of his family reflect a basic human desire, which
transcends all cultural differences.
that desire is
hampered, if hope turns into disillusion, a fertile ground is
created for
the merchants of hatred and preachers of
violence.
If
The regions of the world where security and prosperity
have been relatively well secured now have opportunities to
help extend the zone of peace to areas that are struggling to
escape the vicious circle of poverty and violence. The main
instruments for such developments are freer global trade and
a more open exchange of ideas.
In Europe,
the evolving European union, of which
Sweden soon hopes to become a member, has a special
responsibility for ensuring that
the Iron Curtain is not
reinstalled in the form of persistent economic and social
divisions. The United States and Asia-Pacific countries are
meeting challenges of a similar nature in their regions.
In
the Middle East and Africa, we all
share a joint
responsibility.
conflicts, widespread poverty,
In spite of all the challenges facing the world today -
environmental
regional
damage and arms proliferation -
I believe we have a
reasonable chance of extending the zone of peace and
prosperity as we stand at the threshold of the twenty-first
century.
In this effort we must be able to rely on a strong
and efficient world Organization.
Today the United Nations is reaching middle age.
In
two years it will be celebrating its fiftieth anniversary. The
end of the cold war brings new opportunities to utilize the
full potential of the United Nations Charter and the United
Nations system. At the same time, a thorough diagnosis and
some strong prescriptions are necessary if the Organization
is to serve as a vigorous instrument of the world community.
Former Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold once
said:
"The United Nations is, and should be, a living,
evolving, experimental institution.
If it should ever
cease to be so, it should be revolutionized or swept
aside for a new approach."
Those words are as challenging and valid today as they were
in the late 1950s.
Today, I do not intend to dwell on those areas in which
the Organization works well, or to commend praiseworthy
initiatives.
Instead, I would like to concentrate on areas
where reforms and a special focus are indispensable. The
most important of these are the promotion of peace and
security, the role of the Organization in the economic and
social fields, and the promotion of human rights.
In responding to several crises in the aftermath of the
cold war, the Security Council has, de facto, considerably
broadened the concept of international peace and security.
The United Nations finds itself engaged on a regular basis
in wide-ranging and diversified operations in a variety of
complex conflict situations. Some of these are of an internal
nature and many of them involve humanitarian efforts. The
very concept of United Nations peace-keeping has undergone
dramatic change.
Unprecedented demands are being placed on the
Organization in the quest for global security and peace.
There has been an eight-fold increase in the number of
people serving in peace-keeping operations during the past
two years; the peace-keeping budget will more than double
in the course of a single year.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The implementation of a peace agreement in Bosnia
and Herzegovina will require additional and substantial
contributions from United Nations Member States. Again
the willingness and ability to provide personnel and
resources will be tested.
I am pleased to announce that at
this very moment a Nordic battalion group is being deployed
in Bosnia.
As much as we welcome a peace settlement for Bosnia
and Herzegovina we must recognize that it is far from an
ideal solution to that long and bitter conflict.
It might
constitute no more than the beginning of a complicated and
frustrating process towards peace where all efforts must be
used to counter the inherent dangers of continued aggression,
"ethnic cleansing" and the dismemberment of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
As soon as a settlement has been signed by the parties,
we should concentrate on building a peace which can
provide safe and decent conditions for
the suffering
population. First of all, we need a strong and efficient
peace-keeping operation in order to assist in implementing
the provisions of the agreement.
International organizations, particularly the United
Nations, must embark on a comprehensive reconstruction
and rehabilitation programme. Special attention should be
paid to the situation of refugees and displaced persons, and
to their return, and to the plight of women and children.
conflict
Experience gained from the
in former
Yugoslavia and from the successful United Nations
Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) shows the
need for an integrated approach to international peace and
security. This must be one of the guiding principles for
reforming and restructuring the Organization to enable it to
deal more
The
Secretary-General’s report "An Agenda for Peace" indicates
ways to improve the medium-term and long-term handling
of peace-keeping.
An interaction between preventive
diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict
peace-building is indispensable.
effectively with today’s
conflicts.
The need for reform in the peace-keeping area is
undisputed. Ongoing efforts in this regard are commendable
and should be further promoted. The Nordic countries
intend to present proposals on this issue during the current
General Assembly session. At this early stage I would like
to stress the following points.
First, we should be able to react flexibly to dynamic
situations in peace-keeping operations, and that requires
for planning and operations
staff.
better provisions
Command and control need to be clearly defined. The
operative command of operations in the field would, of
course,
the respective force
commanders.
remain in the hands of
special
Secondly, close consultations between the troop
contributors, the Security Council and the Secretary-General
are of
importance in complex peace-keeping
operations. A forum for coordination and exchange of
information to improve contacts between the Council and the
troop contributors would be desirable.
I propose that such
a forum be set up for each major operation.
Thirdly, we urge Member States to respond positively
to the Secretary-General’s request, and provide troops, other
personnel and equipment on a stand-by basis for use at short
notice for peace-keeping purposes. The members of the
Security Council hold a special responsibility to ensure that
adequate resources are provided when it decides on new
operations.
Fourthly, peace-keeping operations and humanitarian
relief efforts are increasingly interrelated, and this requires
In many cases the humanitarian
improved coordination.
efforts
for
the
of
peace-keeping operations.
successful
pursuance
are
vital
Fifthly, the great number of peace-keeping operations
and their diversity require special emphasis on training. To
address the need for appropriate training of United Nations
peace-keepers, United Nations training colleges should be
established. The United Nations has an important role to
play in coordinating and promoting peace-keeping training
for all categories of personnel. Member States with
long-standing traditions
field bear a special
responsibility. Sweden, for its part, is prepared to contribute
to improving the skills of peace-keepers. This could include
training for civilian and humanitarian-relief personnel, and
also for police and military staff.
in this
Finally, and most important, present and increasing
demands on United Nations peace-keeping cannot be met if
Member States do not pay their dues. We must create the
necessary resources for the rapid implementation of Security
Council decisions.
If not, we run the risk of undermining
the credibility and the prestige of the United Nations and the
Security Council.
New threats
security are emerging.
Cooperation between the United Nations and regional
arrangements is vital
these threats of global
to regional
to meet
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
19
importance. Regional action is indispensable to strengthen
the global community of values and to secure the efficient
use of scarce resources.
In this spirit, the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) is applying for
Observer status in the General Assembly.
As Chairman of the CSCE Council, I signed in May a
framework document with the Secretary-General.
This
framework aims at improving coordination and cooperation
between the United Nations and the CSCE in conflict
resolution in the CSCE area. The implementation of that
framework is essential for realizing the goals of Chapter VIII
of the Charter. Regular consultations, mutual exchange of
information and coordination of activities between the United
Nations and the CSCE have started. CSCE missions are
supervising the implementation of United Nations sanctions
against
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro). Concrete action in the field is also taking
place in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and in
unfortunate Georgia.
As Chairman of
the CSCE I deplore the recent
developments in Georgia. The very survival of Georgia as
a member of the international community is now at stake.
The CSCE lends its full support to President Shevardnadze’s
efforts to prevent the dismemberment of his country. All
participating States must now exert their influence to that
end. The disintegration of Georgia is in no one’s interest.
The Security Council bears primary responsibility for
the maintenance of international peace and security, and
must be the driving force behind reforms in this area,
reflecting the aspirations of the States Members of the
Organization. In this context, we welcome the statement by
the Council that progress in disarmament, arms control and
non-proliferation can make a crucial contribution to the
maintenance of peace and security. An early agreement on
a comprehensive test ban would enhance that concept.
The considerable increase in the number of Members of
the United Nations makes an enlargement of the Security
Council a matter for urgent consideration. The effectiveness,
efficiency and legitimacy of the Council must be the
overriding goals. A reform must ensure that the Council
continues to be relevant in a changing world and that it
retains its capacity to act decisively and promptly.
social
The United Nations has a unique mandate to promote
and
economic,
Increased attention should be given to these
development.
areas to overcome long-term threats to international peace
and security. Today, the challenge for the United Nations is
environmental
progress
and
its important
role in supporting international
to fulfil
cooperation and governments’
the
increasingly complex problems of development. Sweden is
looking forward to contributing to the deliberations on the
report of
for
development.
the Secretary-General on an agenda
to master
efforts
Along with other countries, we have witnessed with
increasing concern what seems to be a fragmentation and
marginalization of
the United Nations in development
assistance, not least in long-term development. It is obvious
that extensive reform is needed if the United Nations is to be
able to respond to the new challenges.
A more efficient governance structure and a broader,
more stable and predictable funding of operational activities
are in the interest both of recipient and of donor countries.
We must sharpen our instruments, both in terms of policy
formulation and development action, to avoid having interest,
commitment and funding from Sweden and other Member
States diverted to other organizations, to the detriment of
those most in need of what the United Nations could offer.
As a long-standing, major donor, with a firm belief in
the importance of the United Nations in the economic and
social fields, Sweden will continue to work for much-needed
reforms. Against this background, we hope that the recent
decision to continue negotiations on the role, size and
functioning of the executive boards of the development
programmes will lead to a result that ensures an effective
conduct of work in the development field. The executive
boards must be efficient
instruments, capable of firmly
guiding the work of their respective organizations.
The promotion of human rights is a United Nations
priority objective, as set out in the Charter. Thus, the
protection and promotion of human rights should underpin
the whole spectrum of United Nations activities.
Flagrant abuse of human rights and humanitarian law
is still a tragic reality for millions of people in many parts
of the world. At the World Conference on Human Rights,
all States reaffirmed their solemn commitment to promote
respect for and protection of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, the universal nature of which is beyond question.
Such commitments are, however, of no avail if they are not
put into action. All States have a duty to adhere to the
international conventions in this field.
We must also make sure that the United Nations human
rights programme is allocated the means and support
necessary to fulfil its role. We should, as a matter of
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
urgency, take steps to increase the resources and improve the
function of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights.
The establishment of a high commissioner for human
rights would enhance the capacity of the international system
to deal more directly with emergencies and grave violations.
It would help to improve coordination and integration of
human rights within the United Nations system as a whole.
The commissioner would personify the priority given to the
protection of human rights, and this issue should be a matter
for prompt consideration by this General Assembly.
Sweden welcomes the fact that the General Assembly
recently proceeded to select the judges for the Tribunal
established for prosecuting war crimes committed in former
Yugoslavia. This means that
the Tribunal can shortly
commence its important work.
Let me revert to the United Nations financial crisis. It
is deeply disturbing that 90 per cent of
the assessed
contributions are paid late or not at all. There is no
justification for the failure of permanent members of the
Security Council
to live up to their obligations in this
respect.
The time has come to address the issue of incentives
and penalties to enhance the principle of meeting financial
obligations on time and in full. The recommendations of the
Independent Advisory Group on United Nations Financing
in this respect must receive immediate attention.
In this
connection, let us not forget the letter and the spirit of
Article 19 of the Charter, with its implications for the right
to vote.
An adjustment of the scale of assessments must ensure
a fairer and more up-to-date application of the principle of
capacity to pay.
At a time of resource constraints, it is also imperative
for Member States to face the questions of priorities and
efficient management.
Strict budgetary discipline is
required, and scarce resources should not be wasted on
activities lacking well-defined goals: the means entrusted to
the Organization must be used in the most cost-effective and
prudent manner. We welcome the recent measures taken by
the Secretary-General in this regard.
We now have a unique opportunity to strengthen
international cooperation. This window of opportunity is
greater than at any time since 1945. The judgement of
history will be harsh if we fail
to grasp this moment.
Therefore, it is up to us, as politicians and statesmen of the
present generation,
cooperation takes a decisive step forward.
to make
sure
that
international
The United Nations has a central role in this process.
If the United Nations concentrates on the essential tasks
entrusted to it in the Charter, and manages to generate the
necessary support and cooperation, this can be achieved.
There is broad consensus among the Member States about
the need to strengthen the United Nations. If this consensus
can be transformed into rapid action, we will have made
considerable progress in making the world Organization
fulfil the high expectations attached to it today.
Mr. MELESCANU (Romania) (interpretation from
French): There can be no doubt that today "transition" is
the key word that defines the process that my country, along
with others, is undergoing. The inclusion in the agenda of
the General Assembly of an item on countries in transition
exemplifies the Assembly’s capacity to respond swiftly to
the concerns of its members.
Last year, my predecessor stressed to the General
Assembly the importance of Romanian society’s capacity to
learn. Since then, my country has continued to learn that
democracy, the rule of law, political pluralism, a market
economy, and respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms are necessary conditions for individual potential
and aspirations to be fulfilled.
We have also learned that the transition will last longer
than expected, that the challenges it presents are greater than
we imagined and that its social costs are heavier than we
first estimated. However, these bitter lessons do not in any
way dissuade us from our irreversible choice: democracy
and a market economy.
As the Assembly may know, during 1992 free and fair
local, general and presidential elections took place in
Romania. The first stage of restructuring the political life
and strengthening the rule of law has thus been completed.
Clearly, the political process is still undergoing changes.
Eleven parties are now represented in Parliament. Moreover,
a special provision of our electoral law guarantees a seat in
the legislature for each national minority, even if their
political organizations did not obtain the required minimum
of votes. At the same time, there is a slow but steady trend
towards a clearer shaping of political diversity into stronger
and better defined political forces.
As for economic restructuring,
in March 1993 the
Government formed after the general elections presented its
strategy for economic and social reform to the Romanian
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
21
Parliament. The central idea of this strategy is that the
transition to a market economy should be as fast as possible.
While focusing on privatization and structural changes, at
both the macro-economic and micro-economic levels, the
Government also pays particular attention to their social
costs.
This year we have taken some decisive steps. On 1
May the Government ended all subsidies for the production
of consumer goods and as of 1 July the value added tax
became the sole fiscal instrument.
We already note a growing interest on the part of some
major Western companies in investing in and cooperating
with viable Romanian companies. This augurs well for the
stimulation of economic activity.
faces
However, our economy still
some major
difficulties, inherent in the transition period. At the same
time, unfavourable external circumstances have during the
last three years triggered a dramatic fall in the output of
important economic sectors. They include the reduction in
economic cooperation with neighbouring countries and the
adverse effects of the successive United Nations embargoes
imposed on Iraq, Libya and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, all strictly observed by Romania.
Our experience over recent years has shown that
internal efforts can be decisively catalyzed by foreign
assistance, both financial and managerial. Therefore, we
believe that international assistance in the next few years
could speed up our reform process and boost industrial
production, while improving the Romanian economy’s
integration into the world economy.
this juncture that
To sum up, we can state at
the
essential lesson we have drawn from this period of transition
is that - in spite of undeniable difficulties - there is no
turning back. We shall respect and follow the irreversible
choice of the Romanian people to join the family of
democratic nations.
In our view, democracy and the new role of the United
are not only complementary, but mutually
Nations
strengthening.
In this respect, I should like to quote
President Woodrow Wilson in his Address to the United
States Congress on 2 April 1917, as follows:
(spoke in English)
"A steadfast concert for peace can never be maintained
except by a partnership of democratic nations. No
autocratic Government could be trusted to keep faith
within it or observe its covenant.
It must be a league
of honour, a partnership of opinions".
(spoke in French)
These ideas are still valid, and constitute precisely the
objective we must strive for, devoting all our efforts to
strengthening and giving new substance to the role of the
United Nations. While remaining loyal
to its basic
principles and goals, the Organization must naturally adapt
to the new political climate.
Deeply and sincerely
committed to the spirit of the United Nations Charter,
Romania
and
recommendations contained in the Secretary-General’s report
"An Agenda for Peace".
In so doing, my country regards
the United Nations, as described in the report of the
Secretary-General on the work of the United Nations,
support
intends
to
fully
the
ideas
"as the instrument of the body of Member States,
and ... as more than the sum of its parts." (A/48/1,
para. 512)
Mindful that implementing the lofty ideals of the United
Nations requires adequate resources, we are ready to support
fully every effort to make better use of resources, with the
contributing nations having stricter control. Firm measures
are needed. Accountability must become the watchword
both for the Organization’s daily work and for its future
projects.
Enlargement and diversification of programmes for
economic and social development and for protection of the
environment are imperative.
It is, however, important to
make sure that money allocated to these programmes is not
wasted on piles of paper and unnecessary travels around the
world.
Peace-keeping operations, which have undergone such
an impressive expansion in recent years, have similar
requirements.
Increased attention should be given to the
ratio of costs to benefits and control of the use of resources.
The new political climate, which has brought an
enhanced role for the Security Council, has made possible a
more effective use of the United Nations potential for
controlling and resolving conflicts.
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Romania is determined to contribute to the best of its
ability to United Nations peace-keeping operations, and to
this end has already started a special programme to increase
its capacity to respond adequately to the requirements of the
Organization or of other institutions. A first battalion of
professional military personnel is already being trained for
such operations; we estimate that
it could become
operational at the beginning of next spring.
Given the need to enhance the capacity of the United
Nations in this dynamic exercise of its functions, the support
and cooperation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
and the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe
are all the more needed and welcomed.
In this regard, the
contributions of other regional agreements and organizations,
and particularly the praiseworthy work carried out by the
North Atlantic Cooperation Council, are of great importance.
At the same time, in order to preserve the prestige and
credibility of peacekeeping operations and to ensure the
confidence of the international community, such operations
must strictly observe the principles and premises which have
contributed to their success thus far. Therefore, we must be
cautious in granting any unilateral authority that some
countries might be tempted to assume in areas where they
have special interests. This applies especially when there are
doubts about the impartiality of forces involved, or when the
necessary consent of the host country may be prejudiced by
any kind of pressure.
Wisdom and caution are all the more necessary in this
respect,
the United Nations
peace-keeping operations as an important dimension of a
future new world order.
since we
recognize
Human beings and their creative potential must always
remain the central focus of all our endeavours. We welcome
the encouraging results of the World Conference on Human
Rights, and we hope that these conclusions, including those
concerning the creation of a post of High Commissioner for
Human Rights, will be implemented as soon as possible.
We
the World Summit on Social
Development,
to be held in 1995, will be even more
successful.
also hope
that
I am very pleased to reaffirm that respect for the human
person has become a generally accepted norm in our strategy
for social development. Romania is now a party to almost
all the major international agreements on human rights and
is engaged with all openness in the relevant international
procedures.
International commitments to uphold human rights and
the rule of law are closely linked to national legislation
through a constitutional clause that enshrines the primacy of
international regulations over domestic law. The admission
of Romania as a member of the Council of Europe, as was
recommended earlier today by an overwhelming majority in
the Council’s parliamentary assembly, will complete this
picture.
In short, international standards and norms are at
the same time our standards and norms.
Certainly, progress, particularly in the field of human
rights, is not just a matter of drafting and passing new laws
and regulations:
it is also a matter of their implementation
in a social environment. No less important is the economic
aspect.
Standards of living and quality of life have a
considerable impact on human rights. That is why we are
striving to make social protection a basic dimension of our
reform programme.
The protection of the rights of people belonging to
ethnic minorities is an integral part of the protection of
human rights. In Romania there are 14 national and ethnic
minorities registered as such through their political parties or
organizations. All together they represent about 10 per cent
of the population. Since 1989 we have been making steady
efforts to institute measures to protect the rights of persons
belonging to national minorities.
The establishment this year of the National Council of
Minorities broadened the institutional framework, enabling
each and every national minority in Romania to take part in
the decision-making process regarding the protection of their
ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity. It is true
that we have not responded completely to all their demands
and aspirations. The explanation for this lies, not in a lack
of will, but
in the difficulties confronting the entire
population.
those of
themselves,
Unfortunately,
the majority of
the excessive use of
Yet we would underline that
to the interests of
minority-related issues is harmful
minorities
the
population, and those of the international community as a
whole.
expressing
aggressive nationalism as well as xenophobia, racism and
anti-Semitism, are still significant destabilizing factors and
a threat to international peace and security in Eastern and
Central Europe as elsewhere. Caution is therefore needed in
dealing with these phenomena, as well as with the so-called
new concept of the right to self-determination, in order to
prevent any debasement of its legal content.
such
tendencies,
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
23
In the view of
The Romanian delegation would like to avail itself of
this opportunity to reaffirm its great satisfaction over the
Israeli-Palestinian declaration of principles on Palestinian
self-rule in Gaza and Jericho, signed on 13 September 1993
in Washington, D.C.
the Romanian
Government, their mutual recognition and the declaration of
principles represent a triumph of the reason and political will
of both the Israeli Government and the Palestine Liberation
Organization, thus opening up new possibilities for peaceful
coexistence and collaboration, not only between their two
peoples, but among all the peoples in the region. The lion’s
share of the credit certainly goes to the two parties directly
involved, but we cannot overlook the contribution of the
international community, of the United States Government,
and of
In this
connection, I am very pleased to recall the constant efforts
deployed by my country for peace and understanding
between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples.
the Governments of other countries.
With regard to the conflict in the eastern region of the
Republic of Moldova, the conclusions expressed last year by
the Romanian delegation are, unfortunately, still valid in
large part. No progress whatsoever has been made towards
the political solution of the conflict. Moreover, we are
witnessing a strange situation in which the commander-in-
chief of the 14th Russian army - a foreign army on the
national soil of an independent country without the consent
of that United Nations Member - was recently "elected" as
a member of the so-called local parliament.
In our opinion, the withdrawal of foreign troops is the
key to the solution of the conflict in the Transdniestr area.
We note with full satisfaction that a similar viewpoint is
shared by the international community.
A resolute
affirmation of this position at the current session of the
General Assembly would be instrumental in upholding the
independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of
Moldova.
The recent positive developments on the
withdrawal of the Russian troops from the Baltic countries,
an item which is to be debated at the current session of the
General Assembly, could serve as a useful precedent.
Within the same framework we should like to
acknowledge the efforts of the mission of the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and to assure it
of our full support for the accomplishment of its tasks. We
favour the resumption of the quadripartite mechanism of
meetings between the Ministers of Foreign Affairs from the
Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation and
Ukraine.
The Republic of Moldova needs both the understanding
and the support of the international community. A very
promising sign in this respect is the prompt international
reaction to the so-called trial in Tiraspol, where a group of
persons was detained for political
reasons by the
self-proclaimed authorities of Transdniestr. Their lives are
still in danger. This trial reveals the political nature of the
conflict in the Republic of Moldova.
Despite the energetic diplomatic efforts made to date,
the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia are far from being
resolved. As a neighbour and friend to all the successor
States, Romania is genuinely interested to see the earliest
possible resumption of normal life in that region. Putting an
end to the sufferings of the people and to the continual life-
threatening risks to the lives of the members of the United
Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) is an immediate
imperative.
Romania reiterates its great appreciation of the constant
efforts deployed by the two Co-Chairmen of the Peace
Conference on Yugoslavia. In this context we should stress
the Romanian Government’s commitment to continuing its
efforts for a peaceful settlement of the Yugoslav conflict and
its support for the peace process co-sponsored by the United
Nations and the European Community.
Convinced that a negotiated peace is
the only
acceptable solution to the conflict, Romania will add its
diplomatic efforts to those of other countries in the region.
The success of our joint efforts is vital for the new Europe
we wish to build and for the future stability of the region.
In the context of the Yugoslav crisis, Romania complies
strictly with the sanctions regime imposed by the relevant
Security Council’s resolutions. Despite painful effects on
our economy in the midst of a period of crisis and transition,
we consider these measures a necessary means of supporting
the peace-seeking efforts.
The presence of European Economic Community and
CSCE sanctions assistance missions and of a small Western
European Union fleet that is patrolling the Romanian sector
of the river has tightened the already-existing monitoring
mechanisms. We have also engaged in close coordination
with the other riparian countries.
Notwithstanding these efforts, we have not received
suitable compensation to defray our tremendous economic
losses. We are certainly encouraged by the increasing
awareness on the part of the international community and the
Security Council, in the spirit of Article 50 of the United
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to the difficulties being
Nations Charter, with respect
experienced by Romania and other affected countries. We
should like, however, to see this spirit given material form.
The United Nations bodies and international financial
institutions should respond to the needs of our countries
rather than leave us to fend for ourselves in seeking
solutions to the burdensome difficulties we face as a result
of acting as loyal Members of the United Nations.
We welcome the serious debate in various United
Nations bodies on the issue of compensations.
The
recommendations adopted by the Committee of the Security
Council established under resolution 724 (1991) express
genuine moral support and solidarity. Unfortunately, we
must accept the fact that moral support is not enough; we
cannot face serious economic needs with nothing more than
fine words. We await strengthened consultative mechanisms
for considering concrete solutions to these problems, and we
hope that the international financial institutions will be more
receptive.
This would bring well-deserved assistance to the
affected countries, while at
the same time increasing
confidence in the authority of the United Nations Charter
and its ability to preserve the dedication of countries to the
cause of peace.
We believe that the end of the cold war will result in
new general and specific duties for the members of the
international community. If our common goals as Members
of the United Nations are democracy, peace and security,
then solidarity is an essential means of achieving those
goals. One of the most original contributions the United
Nations could make during the current United Nations
Decade of International Law would be to define the legal
content of
the "duty of solidarity" which should be
implemented in consonance with the universally accepted
principles of jus gentium, democracy and human rights. In
our view solidarity should become one of the central
strategic values of the new world order.
Undoubtedly we still live in a time of great challenges
for the world community and the United Nations. Though
it is true that many of the great expectations raised by the
end of the cold war have not yet been fulfilled, we should
not give up hope. The best way to turn hope into reality is
to work together, leaving both unfruitful habits and selfish
considerations behind us. Our joint efforts must, above all,
be an expression of a vital, powerful solidarity and of
confidence in what we can do together
for a better
tomorrow.
Mr. DI TELLA (Argentina)
(interpretation from
I congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his
I have no doubt that he will conduct our work in
in the same way as his
for Foreign Affairs of
Spanish):
election.
a wise and balanced manner,
predecessor,
the then Minister
Bulgaria, Mr. Ganev.
Once again, we welcome the new Member States, the
Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Monaco, Eritrea and Andorra.
We also reiterate our gratitude to and support for the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, who with clear
objectives and diplomatic efficiency has undertaken the new
tasks of the United Nations in an international climate that
is problematic but promising.
Serious conflicts, such as that in the former Yugoslavia
and the sensitive situation in Somalia, still remain, and are
the object of the work and efforts of the United Nations.
There are long-standing regional confrontations and frictions
resulting from certain national, cultural or
religious
identities; ignored for long periods, they are now demanding
their rights, and not always in a peaceful manner.
Moreover, there are still sharp economic imbalances
between nations and regions, as well as the serious risk that
the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade
some
Governments insist on maintaining anachronistic protectionist
policies that adversely affect
the trade opportunities of
countries such as Argentina.
(GATT) negotiations will
fail because
Above and beyond these problems, this is also a time
of hope and optimism; we are heartened by the expansion of
democracy, the globalization of the concept of human rights,
and the economic openness and reform in regions where
state control once prevailed and where today the basis for
freedom and the continual quest for peace is growing.
Perhaps there is no better symbol of this hope and
optimism than the historic agreement between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization.
The Arab-Israeli conflict has until now been one of the
more disturbing issues in contemporary history and one of
the greatest obstacles
The
consequences of this prolonged and painful confrontation
have been felt everywhere; hence all humankind rejoices at
the agreements that have been reached.
to peace and stability.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
25
These agreements undoubtedly reflect the tenacious and
intelligent diplomacy of the parties, the special contribution
of Governments such as those of the United States, the
Russian Federation and Norway and the support of the
members of the Security Council; but, above all, they attest
to the courage, intelligence and maturity of the peoples and
leaders of Israel and Palestine. Today we wish to pay a
tribute to all of them.
Since its origin, the conflict in the Middle East has
been of particular concern to Argentina, inter alia, because
the Arab and Jewish communities in our country have
always coexisted peacefully. That is why we have always
hoped for peace
and respected the need to avoid
confrontation and achieve a just and lasting solution taking
account of the interests of both parties.
The agreements reached can be considered as a
breakthrough in that direction. They open the door to a
global settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and that is why
we rejoice at their attainment and firmly support them. We
call upon all States, particularly those which have interests
or influence in the Middle East, to join resolutely in the
support that the circumstances require.
The Republic of Argentina considers the maintenance
of international peace and security as essential. Hence, my
Government considers that the efficient functioning of the
Security Council must be a priority for the Organization.
to endanger
Argentina has therefore clearly defined its position on
an eventual restructuring of the Security Council.
In our
opinion, that body has recovered the role assigned to it by
the Charter. Any changes in its structure should therefore be
made solely on the basis of consensus, always respecting the
principle of the sovereign equality of States, and taking care
not
its ability to fulfil effectively the
responsibilities assigned to it by the Charter. Hence we
must act with the utmost prudence, and on the basis of the
aforementioned principle, in making changes that would
introduce structural modifications, creating, for example, new
categories of privilege.
In any case, it would be counter-
productive to ignore the position of those countries that have
actively demonstrated their firm and continued support for
the Council’s important work.
Mr. Bull (Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Argentina, for example, resolutely and actively supports
the system of collective security provided for in the Charter
and the decisions of the Security Council. That support has
been repeatedly demonstrated through concrete action in
accordance with Council decisions, and in particular through
our active presence in peace-keeping operations.
At present, Argentina
is participating in nine
peace-keeping operations; in the last few months alone, we
have pledged to send three new groups of our armed forces
to Mozambique, Kuwait and Cyprus: a field hospital, a unit
of engineers and an infantry battalion respectively.
Argentina has the firm political determination to support
United Nations peace-keeping operations, within its means.
At the same time, I am obliged to mention some issues that
currently affect the normal development of the operations
and that somehow limit the ability of Member States to
participate to the extent they would desire.
We consider it a priority to do as much as possible in
order to guarantee the safety of the men and women who
participate in peace-keeping operations.
The arrears in the payment by Member States of their
contributions and the subsequent delays in reimbursements
to troop-contributing Governments have created very serious
financial problems for those Governments. For that reason -
and also because of their own domestic budget limitations -
these countries find it ever more difficult to increase their
contributions of troops and equipment. A mechanism should
be established at once to find a solution. In this context, we
welcome the efforts of the office of the Secretary-General,
as well as the initiative with respect to creating stand-by
forces.
to each State in the struggle against
The priority goal of peace also imposes on us a firm
the
commitment
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
This
commitment is one of the main focuses of Argentine foreign
policy. Hence, we have brought total transparency to the
Argentine nuclear programme. With that aim in view, we
and Brazil have signed an agreement on full-scope
safeguards with the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA); we have already ratified it.
In the same spirit, we
have discontinued the missile project CONDOR II.
In addition, together with Brazil and Chile, we have
promoted amendments to the Treaty of Tlatelolco that would
strengthen that major agreement and make it effective; we
hope that these will soon be approved by the Argentine
Parliament.
At the same time, Argentina has been admitted to the
Missile Technology Control Regime, whose guidelines we
have included in our domestic legislation, and is a member
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
of the so-called Australian Group. We are among the
original
the Convention on Chemical
Weapons, and we participated actively in its drafting; we
will soon start the proceedings for its legislative approval.
signatories of
We firmly support the negotiation, in the framework of
the Conference on Disarmament, of a treaty to ban all
nuclear tests. The moratorium respected in practice by the
nuclear Powers points to the existence of
favourable
conditions for the total ban of such tests.
In the field of armaments, we support
the United
Nations Register of conventional weapons, to which we have
recently supplied all the relevant information and data. We
are particularly interested in the functioning of the Register
in our own region;
in Buenos Aires, we
organized, jointly with the United Nations, a very successful
regional seminar on this very important subject.
last March,
The
to political
Latin America is now going through a promising stage.
The climate of cooperation and harmony prevailing in the
region contributes
stability and economic
development.
expansion and consolidation of
democracy and economic and social growth have also been
stimulated as a result of the strong impetus given to the
process of regional integration. As regards the Common
Market of the South (MERCOSUR), Argentina expresses the
firm political will and determination to contribute to its
strengthening.
In this context we must acknowledge the
positive role of the Rio Group, which has been consolidated
as an increasingly useful and trustworthy mechanism for
dialogue, cooperation and consultation.
The Group’s information and internal communication
systems have been enhanced, which enables it to take unified
positions on common problems. This has increased its
influence in the United Nations and the Organization of
American States (OAS), where it has played a constructive
and effective role, for example in relation to the crisis in
Haiti.
reached under
Indeed, Haiti is a case in which we note the opening of
a path towards democracy - albeit with certain difficulties.
Argentina welcomes the agreement
the
the United Nations and the OAS for the
auspices of
restoration of democracy in that nation,
through the
successful mediation of Mr. Dante Caputo, whose
performance is a source of legitimate pride for my country.
Provided that the Haiti agreements are respected in their
entirely, effective 30 October the Argentine Republic will
contribute, in the framework of relevant Security Council
resolutions, a field hospital to be used in the operation the
United Nations and the OAS will conduct together to support
the consolidation of democracy in that country.
As regards El Salvador, we note with satisfaction the
substantive progress represented by the peace agreements
recently signed. We trust that the elections to be held next
March will mark a decisive stage in efforts to consolidate
democracy.
We also express our support for the re-establishment of
constitutional order in Guatemala and we encourage its
people and Government
to
strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
to continue their efforts
There has been remarkable progress in the consolidation
of a climate of peace and détente in Latin America as a
whole,
thanks to the restoration of democracy and to
economic reforms. There is still one case about which we
are concerned and about which we have repeatedly
expressed our hope for profound change. The best option is
to move forward in the same direction as the rest of the
continent. Delays will only bring about more suffering for
its people and more concern on the part of their Latin
American brothers.
The strengthening of a climate of harmony in Latin
America requires new ideas leading to the development of
a structure of regional security adapted to the present times
and based on cooperation, balance and transparency. We
believe that cooperative security is a realistic and feasible
proposal for Latin America, and we urge the countries of the
region to give it special consideration.
enter
Latin America must
fully into the new
international context.
In accordance with the Secretary-
General’s ideas on the role of regional organizations as
stated in his "Agenda for Peace", it should strengthen the
contribution of the Organization of American States to the
maintenance of international peace and security.
Argentina shares with the rest of the international
community the constant anguish caused by the conflict
unfolding in the former Yugoslavia and supports efforts
aimed at an urgent solution.
We are contributing significantly to the work of the
United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), a force that
has helped save thousands of lives and has worked to
prevent the intensification of conflict in the areas where it is
deployed.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
27
We support the resolutions of the Security Council on
this subject, and strongly condemn the practice of "ethnic
cleansing" and other war crimes. Consequently, we support
the establishment of an international tribunal to try those
allegedly responsible for violating international humanitarian
law. We particularly condemn the inhuman attacks on the
civilian population in Bosnia and Herzegovina and reaffirm
the need to reach an agreement acceptable to all parties
involved, based on the principles of the London Conference.
We are deeply concerned particularly about the serious
consequences that civil and international armed conflicts
have on children. We urge the international community as
a whole to devote the utmost attention to this serious
problem and to initiate with the greatest urgency appropriate
assistance plans to alleviate the suffering of children,
especially in situations like the one in Somalia or the former
Yugoslavia. This question - like those concerning the family -
should be given the greatest attention by organizations such
as the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF).
With respect to Cyprus, I reiterate our support for a
prompt solution to the conflict, and we urge the parties to
accept
the plan developed by the Secretary-General’s
mission of good offices.
islands. The peaceful and negotiated recovery of the islands
is a central and permanent issue in our foreign policy.
Special Committee
The United Nations
on
decolonization, at its recent session, adopted, for the first
time without a vote, a resolution on this question, in which
the parties are once again urged to start negotiations. We
therefore stand ready to do so.
As I informed the Special Committee, our relations with
the United Kingdom would be excellent but for the conflict
in the South Atlantic, where apart from the central dispute
there are problems in specific areas. However, within this
overall picture, there has also been progress in some of those
areas.
We have made progress in reducing the security
restrictions inherited from the 1982 conflict and we have
reached a provisional understanding on fishing for 1993.
We now have to negotiate a new agreement - which is being
made difficult because of certain recent unilateral British
jurisdictional decisions over the South Georgia and South
Sandwich islands - that must necessarily reflect Argentina’s
legitimate decision now to relate its own catch to the actual
potential of the area.
I also reaffirm our express support for United Nations
resolutions aimed at guaranteeing the territorial integrity of
Kuwait and peace and security in the region. We will
continue to support the recently adopted Security Council
decisions that, in connection with this specific case, demand
respect for the inviolability of the international border - that
have already been defined - and the right of navigational
access.
As regards oil, there is still an impasse, both because of
the rejection of a specific proposal for cooperation put
forward by Argentina and because of the United Kingdom’s
preference for acting unilaterally. We are still convinced
that there is no realistic alternative to cooperation. We are
sure that potential investors will also see it that way, because
their situation would be highly uncertain and unstable in any
other context.
As regards South Africa, we welcome, together with the
rest of the international community, the recently adopted
legislative measures aimed at guaranteeing free and fair
elections next April and establishing the Transitional
Executive Council. We continue to support the multiparty
negotiating process towards a democratic, united and non-
racial South Africa. This is another of those world events
that are on the point of crystallizing in the next few months,
and whose importance is really much greater than we could
have imagined even just a few months ago.
I must mention once again the question of the Malvinas
islands, just as we did a few weeks ago before the Special
Committee on decolonization.
reaffirm Argentina’s
well-founded and unequivocal sovereign rights over those
territories and over the South Georgia and South Sandwich
I
Argentina’s relationship with the islanders is an area in
which there have been important developments in the last
few months.
Since the last session of the General Assembly, there
have been communications between the inhabitants of the
islands and Argentina.
I personally have been in touch
several times with some of them. My Government reiterates
its conviction that it is in everybody’s interest to establish
normal relations between the islands and the continent. We
reaffirm that Argentina and the United Kingdom are the only
parties to the dispute, but we underline also our willingness
to conduct a dialogue with the inhabitants of the territory
because they deserve our consideration and respect. We are
also aware of the weight their opinion carries in London.
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The dialogue with the islanders has wide support in my
country, and is a natural development in the civilized search
for a solution to the conflict.
the
islanders themselves also understand that this is an inevitable
step, because the only realistic alternative is to march
forward together.
is important
It
that
The recent World Conference in Vienna ratified the
universal and binding nature of respect for human rights.
Today it
is no longer possible to claim, as despotic
governments have in the past, that the treatment States afford
their citizens is exclusively an internal affair.
It is a fact that the principle of absolute sovereignty has
become relative and that the international community, acting
within the framework of the United Nations, has laid the
legal foundations for denouncing violations of human rights
wherever they occur and for implementing specific measures
to ensure that human rights can be exercised to the full. We
therefore support the establishment of the post of High
Commissioner for Human Rights.
Furthermore,
in the opinion of
the Argentine
Government, there must be universal and complete freedom
of the press, because this is a fundamental guarantee of
respect for other essential human rights. Whatever excesses
there may be in the exercise of press freedom are nothing
compared with the awful drawbacks of policies that restrict
that freedom.
Argentina supports the restructuring of the United
Nations economic and social system in order to increase its
effectiveness and global credibility in that area.
In the field of the environment and development, we
continue to give high priority to the implementation of
Agenda 21 and the Conventions on climatic change and
biodiversity and to the use of the global environment facility
as a financial mechanism for implementing environmental
projects in the those and the related areas of marine
pollution and the ozone layer.
Argentina will participate actively in the International
Conference on Population and Development to be held in
1994. We support the negotiating process now under way
and we agree with the conceptual framework agreed upon
for the programme of action in that field.
We shall also participate actively in the World Summit
for Social Development, and we stress the great importance
of the negotiating process and of what is included in the
Summit’s agenda.
I should like to refer
to the deterioration in the
Organization’s financial situation, which is so seriously
affecting its regular activities and is endangering the normal
functioning of peace-keeping operations.
Reality tells us that the only way to solve the problem
is the timely payment in full of the financial obligations of
Member States. Such payment is a fundamental factor in
restoring the financial soundness of the United Nations, but
it is undoubtedly not the only one. We consider that it is
indispensable for immediate steps to be taken to make the
allocation and use of the Organization’s scarce resources
more efficient, thus avoiding administrative disorder and
possible irregularities or substandard management practices.
A proper balance between budgetary control and the
implementation of activities will enable us to achieve the
financial consolidation needed to fulfil the goals set out in
the Charter.
In conclusion, we wish to reiterate our firm conviction
that, despite the serious problems that still obtain, we are
witnessing an encouraging development in the principles that
in their time guided the founding fathers of the United
Nations.
Those ideals of universal peace today seem more within
our grasp and in that context the Argentine Republic, a
democratic and peace-loving nation, is genuinely willing to
contribute to strengthening an international system based on
law and justice, and guaranteed by the United Nations.
Mr. PETERSEN (Denmark):
Let me begin by
congratulating President Insanally of Guyana on his election
to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly. I feel confident that under his guidance we shall
succeed in strengthening the United Nations and establishing
peace and prosperity.
The number and importance of the challenges facing
the United Nations after its almost 50 years of existence call
for reforms. The number of Members is increasing. Now
that the cold war has ended, the United Nations, and notably
the Security Council, is in a better position than ever to
function as foreseen in the Charter. The peoples of the
world are looking more and more to the United Nations to
solve their conflicts. The United Nations is expected to
bring political stability and economic prosperity to all parts
of the world. The United Nations is expected to play a
leading role in surmounting the poverty gap. It is expected
to secure ecologically sustainable development. The United
Nations is expected to provide development assistance,
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
29
It is
environmental assistance and emergency assistance.
expected to play a leading role in securing democracy and
respect for human rights, including women’s and children’s
rights.
is expected to bring relief to refugees and
displaced persons. And the United Nations is expected to
prevent the spread of the means of mass destruction.
It
Reform of the United Nations is necessary to meet
these challenges. Let me concentrate on seven items on the
reform agenda.
First, Denmark attaches particular importance to the
role of the Security Council as stated in the Charter. The
efficiency of the Council in making decisions during the
recent past has raised new expectations as to its ability to
respond to crises.
are
there
It is therefore important to ensure that the Council
membership reflects the situation of today. The Government
of Denmark recognizes that the developing countries have a
case for improving their representation. We also recognize
that
and
responsibilities that may wish to see this acknowledged in
the composition of the Security Council. Those Member
States will, I am sure, also assume a special responsibility
vis-à-vis the activities of
in
particular, to contribute politically, militarily and financially
to the implementation of the Council’s decisions.
the United Nations and,
countries with global
influence
As my second point I wish to recall that Denmark has
always participated actively in the peace-keeping operations
of the United Nations. Consequently, it stands ready to
discuss how to strengthen the Organization in the area of
peace-keeping, peacemaking and preventive diplomacy. The
Nordic countries intend to follow this question with
particular interest with a view to putting forward proposals
during this session of the Assembly.
The deployment of a largely Nordic peace-keeping
force in Macedonia is a concrete example of preventive
deployment.
In addition, Denmark is setting up a reaction
brigade of 4,500 soldiers. They could be deployed in peace-
keeping, peacemaking and humanitarian United Nations
operations. We are ready to make part of that force
available for the United Nations stand-by force arrangement.
The stand-by force arrangement could be vital in improving
the planning, reducing the lead-time and increasing the
flexibility in the peace-keeping field.
Denmark supports a more active role for the United
Nations in conflict prevention and crisis management.
I
welcome the fact that some of the recommendations in "An
Agenda for Peace" in this respect have already been
implemented.
Thirdly, the World Conference on Human Rights in
June this year in Vienna reaffirmed the universal character
of human rights. The conference also focused on the human
rights of women, and rightly so: women’s rights are human
rights.
of
high
commissioner
The General Assembly should decide to establish the
post
as
recommended by that Conference. We should also take
steps substantially to increase the resources for the United
Nations human rights programme,
including the United
Nations Centre for Human Rights.
human
rights,
for
There are times when the principle of non-interference
in the internal affairs of a Member State must yield to a
decision by the international community to secure respect for
fundamental human rights and freedoms, such as freedom
from hunger and protection from genocide. Furthermore, the
right of the civilian population to receive humanitarian
assistance must also be respected, regardless of national
frontiers.
Denmark fully supports efforts to secure the safety and
protection of United Nations personnel operating in areas of
armed conflict.
Fourthly, we also need a strong United Nations in the
economic and social fields. The United Nations must
respond effectively to the economic and social needs of the
developing countries. There can be no lasting peace and
security unless the growing inequalities are addressed. The
"agenda for development" to be drafted in the coming year
by the Secretary-General will, it is hoped, contribute to
setting the priorities for the United Nations for the twenty-
first century.
By attaining the accepted United Nations targets for
official development assistance - 0.7 per cent of gross
national product and within that 0.15 per cent to the least
developed countries - we would dramatically increase the
volume of support for the developing countries. That would
also clearly demonstrate the world’s commitment to deal
seriously with its economic and social problems.
Fifthly, as
is well known, Denmark contributes
substantially to United Nations development activities. Our
contributions must be used to the optimum benefit of
developing countries and not
in bureaucracy and
inefficiency. We must convince donors that the United
lost
30
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Nations and its funds and programmes can serve as efficient
channels for a large part of their development assistance. If
not, other channels will increasingly be used. Member
States must demonstrate their commitment to fundamental
reform - not just window-dressing.
It also leaves troop -
unable to perform vital functions.
contributors such as Denmark with the problem that the
United Nations does not honour its financial obligations to
us - that is, to repay expenses for Danish United Nations
personnel and equipment.
During the past year a compromise solution for
restructuring and revitalizing the United Nations in the
economic and social fields was carefully negotiated, but
finally not agreed upon. The Government of Denmark
deeply regrets this situation. We sincerely hope that it will
be remedied by this session of the General Assembly.
Sixthly, it must be recognized that social peace is as
important as strategic peace. We see the World Summit for
Social Development to be held in Copenhagen in March
1995 as an opportunity to put people at
the centre of
development.
To us, democratic practices and fair
distribution of resources are closely related to dynamic
economic development.
The Copenhagen Summit and the fourth World
Conference on Women will both mark the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations in 1995. The preparations
for the women’s Conference should lead to a substantial
input for the Copenhagen Summit. Likewise, the outcome
of the Copenhagen Summit ought to be a strong message
from the world’s leaders signalling their commitment to
closing the gap between men’s and women’s social and
economic opportunities.
My seventh point concerns the Secretariat. Since he
took office the Secretary-General has carried out a number
of changes in the Secretariat.
I commend the Secretary-
General for these changes and assure him of our support in
his efforts to make the Secretariat more efficient.
All efforts should be undertaken to eradicate corruption,
waste and mismanagement in the Secretariat. I welcome the
establishment of the post of Assistant Secretary-General for
Inspections and Investigations. This is the first step towards
the creation of the post of Inspector-General. But such
initiatives cannot of themselves solve the financial crisis of
the United Nations. That requires that Member States pay
their assessed contributions on time and in full. That is one
of
the
Organization.
for membership of
requirements
the basic
I fail to understand how Member States, including some
of the permanent members of the Security Council, can call
for United Nations assistance, including in peace-keeping
operations, and then not pay. This leaves the United Nations
Let me now turn to a few current problems facing the
world and the United Nations.
In the Middle East we are witnessing a historic
I pay tribute to the Israelis and the
a
I commend
breakthrough.
Palestinians
comprehensive,
Norway for its role in bringing about this agreement.
just and lasting solution.
for having taken this
step towards
I also welcome the fact that Israel and Jordan have
I hope that
signed an agenda for further negotiations.
progress will soon be made in the Israeli-Syrian and
Israeli-Lebanese tracks of the peace process.
Ample support, both economic and political, is essential
to keep momentum, and must be provided by the
international community. Denmark, at an early stage,
together with the other Nordic countries, decided to pledge
a substantial amount. We have also demonstrated our
commitment to the developments in the Middle East region
through the European Community, the major donor in this
context.
In contrast, it is with dismay we see the developments
in the former Yugoslavia. The international community
should accept only a solution reached by peaceful means and
negotiations. In this connection, I pay tribute to the tireless
efforts of Lord Owen and Mr. Thorvald Stoltenberg.
to
the
The
respect
solution
crises must
the
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia
and Herzegovina. We cannot accept a territorial solution
dictated by Serbs and Croats at the expense of the Bosnian
Muslims. It is extremely important now that all parties show
the necessary flexibility in order to arrive at a solution they
all can freely agree to. Such an arrangement must ensure
the protection of human rights and the rights of minorities.
Sanctions will remain in place until conditions for their
lifting have been met. They should not be eased before a
peace agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina is under faithful
implementation by the Serbian side. Future attempts to
hinder humanitarian aid and the guaranteed free passage of
convoys
serious
consequences for relations between the party responsible and
the European Community.
unacceptable
and will
have
are
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
31
By its resolution 827 (1993),
the Security Council
decided to establish the International Tribunal
the
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of
International Humanitarian Law committed in the Territory
of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991. Denmark strongly
supports this decision.
for
The conflict in the former Yugoslavia is probably the
most difficult task taken on by the United Nations in its
history. Denmark participates
in the United Nations
Protection Force with almost 1,300 peace-keepers and has
made substantive contributions to the European Community
Monitoring Mission. Large numbers of Danes are also
involved in the humanitarian work carried out under the
auspices of
the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees. In addition, Denmark has made
large financial contributions to the various international relief
programmes
non-governmental
organizations.
through Danish
the Office of
and
for
Responding to the calls
swift and effective
implementation of Security Council resolution 836 (1993) on
safe areas, the Nordic countries have decided to field a joint
Nordic United Nations battalion group of about 1,300 men
to protect
the safe areas around Tuzla in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
The force is expected to be ready for
deployment in October. That decision is evidence of the
willingness of
their
contribution to resolving the tragic conflict and protect the
civilian population from the horrors of war.
the Nordic
to make
countries
In the African continent, we see both hope and
continued distress, regional conflicts and violations of basic
human rights.
As Mr. Nelson Mandela eloquently told the Special
Committee against Apartheid last Friday, historic advances
towards democracy in South Africa have been achieved.
I
the economic and diplomatic
welcome his call
sanctions vis-à-vis his country.
I also share his view that
this will give added impetus to the process, and strengthen
the forces, of democratic change.
to lift
the decision of
I wish to recall
the European
Community and its member States on 8 June 1993 to adjust
their policy towards South Africa concurrently with
developments towards majority rule and democracy.
Denmark stands ready to support South African efforts
to normalize relations with the United Nations. The United
Nations, for its part, should support South Africa during its
difficult transitional period. An urgent priority should be to
It is essential that
support the first democratic elections.
they be free and fair.
I can only echo Mr. Mandela’s call
last week to the Security Council to consider how the United
Nations can best support South Africa in this endeavour. It
must be ensured that this last mile on the road to democracy
is successful. Denmark intends to make a substantial
contribution. We will also - once the Transitional Executive
Council has been established - initiate a programme of
transitional assistance to South Africa amounting to
approximately 600 million Danish kroner, or about $100
million.
The level of violence in South Africa remains
unacceptably high; it is the single most serious threat to the
process. We appeal to all parties to make every effort to
stop the violence. The international community should
continue to support such efforts.
In Somalia the situation is still very grave.
The
deplorable actions in the form of continued attacks directed
against the United Nations Operation in Somalia forces and
relief and aid personnel cannot be condemned strongly
enough. All parties in the civil strife must understand that
violence does not pay in the long run. We support the
efforts by the United Nations to bring about a negotiated
settlement in Somalia as well as the efforts to relieve the
suffering of the people.
has
Civil strife and violations of the most basic human
rights have characterized the Sudan for far too long. The
Secretary-General
Special Envoy
Humanitarian Affairs for the Sudan. Denmark urges all
parties to seek political solutions to the problems of the
country. We fully support the work of the Special Envoy as
well as other steps to redress the prevailing situation,
including the violation of human rights.
appointed
a
Denmark congratulates the people of Cambodia on the
historic and successful elections for a Constituent Assembly
and on that Assembly’s presentation of a new constitution.
The impressively high voter participation and the Constituent
Assembly’s dedication in fulfilling its task constitute a
victory for democracy and for the peace process.
I also wish to thank the Secretary-General, the United
Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) and
participating international polling-station officers for their
enormous effort and hard work.
The international community must continue its support
the reconstruction of
the peace process and for
for
32
Cambodia.
respect.
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
I can confirm Denmark’s commitment in that
of peace and friendship from the people of Guinea and from
their President, General Lansana Conté.
This year, 1993,
is the International Year of the
World’s Indigenous People. The Government of Denmark
wishes to promote indigenous peoples’ own organizations
with a view to their full participation in political, economic,
social and cultural life. In collaboration with the Home Rule
Government of Greenland, we support all efforts to increase
awareness of the special situation facing indigenous peoples,
including the Inuit of Greenland.
I join previous speakers in congratulating Ambassador
Insanally on his dazzling election as President of the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I wish also to assure
him of my delegation’s complete support as he carries out
his responsible tasks. His personal qualities, his wealth of
experience and the valuable assistance of his fellow-officers -
whom I also congratulate - bode well for the success of our
work.
A particular concern of Denmark is that the indigenous
peoples who have been permanent residents of the Arctic for
millenniums are at risk from environmental degradation. On
16 September 1993 the Government of Denmark and the
Home Rule Government of Greenland hosted the second
Ministerial Conference on the Arctic Environment, at Nuuk,
the capital of Greenland. In the Nuuk Declaration, adopted
and signed at that Conference, the eight Arctic countries
recognized the special
indigenous peoples in
environmental management and in development in the Arctic
and the significance of their knowledge and traditional
practices. The Government of Denmark will establish and
fund a secretariat
to promote the indigenous peoples’
effective participation in the Arctic Environmental Protection
Strategy and in the achievement of sustainable development
in the Arctic.
role of
In conclusion, let me state that there is no alternative to
our United Nations. Only the United Nations has the
necessary legitimacy to undertake humanitarian action,
peace-keeping operations, the creation of an international
tribunal, and assistance to suffering peoples around the
world.
At the same time, the need for reforms in the United
Nations is evident. The job facing all of us as Member
States is to agree in concrete terms on such reforms. We
must show that behind the words spoken from this rostrum
lies a will to enable the United Nations to serve the many
functions we the peoples are asking for.
Mr. SYLLA (Guinea) (interpretation from French):
I
am delighted to be addressing the General Assembly as the
people of Guinea commemorate a historic date:
28
September 1958, the day on which Guinea, by a unanimous
vote, chose national independence and sovereignty, thus
accelerating the process of liberation of the African peoples.
It will be easy,
to understand the pride and
pleasure I take on this anniversary in conveying a message
then,
I wish also to convey to the President of the Assembly
at
its forty-seventh session, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan
Ganev of Bulgaria, my great appreciation for the skill and
dedication with which he guided the work of that session.
delegation
highly
Finally, my
the
praiseworthy efforts made by the Secretary-General, His
Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has worked
tirelessly to build and maintain peace in the face of all the
obstacles in his way.
appreciates
The independence of the sister republic of Eritrea and
its admission to membership of the Organization were a
source of great
its people and of genuine
satisfaction for the international community.
I welcome
Eritrea and wish it great success in its difficult task of
national reconstruction.
relief
for
I welcome the admission of Eritrea, and that of the
Czech Republic, Slovakia and the Principalities of Monaco
and Andorra;
this confirms the increasingly universal
character of our Organization.
The end of the cold war radically changed world
geopolitics through a rapid series of often unforeseeable
events. While it is possible to believe that the threat of a
global conflagration has been lifted, we note with dismay the
proliferation and exacerbation of armed conflicts that are
causing immense
life, great destruction of
infrastructure and property, and severe suffering among
civilians suffering the agony of exile, famine and sickness.
loss of
What a paradox! On the one hand, the international
community is making intense efforts to prevent or contain
armed conflicts, and on the other hand international action
is not being provided with the resources it needs to eliminate
the causes and the manifestations of those conflicts. That is
a salient feature of today’s international relations.
In short, more resources are needed to restore world
peace.
to this migratory phenomenon lies in economic recovery in
the countries of the South.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
33
None the less, it is reassuring that recent history has
favoured the renaissance of the United Nations; thanks to
changed attitudes and perceptions, the Organization has truly
become the guarantor of peace at a difficult moment in
international relations.
The positive trends that we have seen here and there in
to have
finding solutions to political problems ought
promoted an improvement
in the economic and social
situation in many countries. However, in most developing
countries, that situation has instead deteriorated seriously.
The increase in the number of international forums debating
development programmes has unfortunately not made it
possible to reverse the trend towards the imbalances that I
have mentioned.
Today, world savings are under severe pressure. What
is happening is that the supply of capital for development is
inadequate relative to the ever-increasing demand from the
African countries, especially if we take into account the new
needs of the Eastern countries, which are in the throes of
transition. The world economic crisis is still going on; it is
aggravating the disparities and the already precarious
conditions for development being experience by the third
world countries.
For Africa, this crisis has been heightened by drought
and desertification, by the stagnation - for which, read
reduction -
in official development assistance, by the
deterioration in terms of trade and its corollary, the marked
drop in export earnings, by the counter-productive effects of
structural adjustment programmes and by the external debt
burden.
that
Allow me to place a particular emphasis on this last
issue. Members will recall
the seriousness of the
indebtedness problem led the African Heads of State or
Government to propose holding a special summit on African
debt. This problem is today still as widespread and as acute
as it was before, despite the relief measures undertaken by
The international community must be
some creditors.
persuaded of the fact
that so long as the question of
indebtedness is not studied in a global, concerted manner,
the socio-economic development programmes of the third
world will be put in jeopardy as a result.
The lack of resources for development has as its
corollary the mass exodus from the countries of the South to
the countries of the North; indeed, the only viable solution
Environmental problems - the relationship between man
and his environment - have in recent years quite rightly been
a major concern of the international community. Do I need
to stress the fact that man, through his nature-destroying
activities, has heightened the progressive degradation of our
world to the point where the alarm bells we hear today are
sounding?
In the past, man was essentially a passive spectator of
the natural wear and tear on the ecological system. Today
he has become the main player in the destruction of the
natural environment through the combined effects of the
inappropriate design and implementation of a number of
programmes,
through the improper use of science and
technology and as a result of runaway population growth.
In contrast,
real development must also embrace
protection of the environment and the ecological balance.
This is precisely why my delegation is emphasizing the need
for follow-up to the decisions in the Rio Declaration and
Environmental protection is a common
Agenda 21.
responsibility;
all
it.
Environmental damage, whether man-made or from natural
causes, spares no region on Earth.
nations must
contribute
to
My country, which used to enjoy good rainfall and was
called the watershed of Western Africa, is concerned to see
its rainfall and the rate of flow of its natural watercourses
diminish. This is why my Government is interested - in
more than one sense - in the negotiations that are taking
place within the high-level Commission on Sustainable
Development on drafting an international convention to
combat desertification and drought in the countries that are
being seriously affected.
The persistence of a number of political crises,
including those in southern Africa, Somalia, Liberia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina and elsewhere, is a threat to the peace and
security of mankind.
Fortunately, there is positive progress in South Africa,
where a clear awareness appears to have taken hold
concerning the vital need to build a democratic and multi-
racial society. The establishment of a Transitional Executive
Council, as well as the demonstrations for peace by civilian
society and a certain degree of political awareness, are cause
for optimism, despite some reluctance.
34
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
This remarkable improvement in the political climate,
which has been achieved, inter alia, as a result of the spirit
of compromise shown by the various political players, makes
it possible, in my delegation’s opinion, for the economic
sanctions against South Africa to be lifted, as president
Nelson Mandela of the African National Congress himself
has requested.
there is
That being the case,
reason for great
satisfaction in the activities of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) which, through its observer missions and its
Ad Hoc Committee on Southern Africa, has contributed
greatly, in collaboration with the United Nations, to the
peaceful change that has taken place in South Africa.
In Angola, after lighting a glimmer of hope, the process
of national reconciliation seems to be blocked by the
increased fighting resulting from UNITA’s intransigence.
But only observance by the parties of the Bicesse Accords
and of the election results will allow the Angolan people to
regain peace and security. The Security Council’s decision
on 15 September 1993 recommending the application of
sanctions against UNITA must be strengthened and
implemented strictly, because only constant firmness with
UNITA and its leader will make it possible to put an end to
this painful civil war that is sowing death and destruction.
With regard to the Western Sahara,
the parties
concerned must cooperate with the Secretary-General and
with all willing parties in order to implement the peace plan,
which is vital for there to be a happy ending to this crisis.
For almost four years now, Liberia has been the theatre
for one of the bloodiest civil wars on our continent. The
refusal by some of the parties to the conflict to compromise
has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people
and considerable material destruction, not to mention the
massive outpouring of refugees and displaced persons, in
particular into neighbouring countries, including my own,
which is at present harbouring some 600,000.
However, it is a source of comfort to note that the
negotiations held in July 1993 in Geneva, under the joint
auspices of the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations, with the support
of OAU, have made it possible to involve the various parties
to the conflict in constructive dialogue, the only way of
finding a lasting solution to this dreadful crisis.
The signing by the parties concerned of the Geneva
Accord under the auspices of ECOWAS on 25 July 1993 at
Cotonou means, I hope, that conditions have now been
created for a definitive return of peace and stability to this
country and to the subregion. But let there be no mistake:
to achieve lasting peace, the expansion of the ECOWAS
Monitoring Group to include African troops from outside
ECOWAS, strengthened by the presence of international
observers, is one of the guarantees to bring about the process
of assembling troops, disarming the belligerents and holding
democratic elections in order to achieve a return to normal
constitutional life.
The Somali conflict is becoming ever more tragic. The
international community must undertake joint, effective
action.
In order to achieve a rapid political solution, it is
essential to halt the sudden escalations that are complicating
the situation in Somalia. The United Nations must resume
its peaceful calling in the face of the many acts of violence
that are trying both the Blue Helmets and the Somali
population.
The Security Council must decide on a new strategy if
the last obstacles in the way of pacification are to be
overcome and if the mission entrusted to the United Nations
Operation in Somalia is to succeed. My Government calls
on all parties to the conflict
in Somalia to make their
contribution to the success of the political process now under
way towards the restoration of peace and security in fraternal
Somalia.
In the Middle East, after a period of hatred, turbulence
the parties to the conflict are moving
and hesitation,
progressively towards lasting peace.
of
recognition
The signing on 13 September in Washington of the
agreement on autonomy for Jericho and Gaza, marking the
mutual
Liberation
Organization (PLO) and Israel, resulted from the courage
and political realism of the two parties. Guinea, as a
member of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable
Rights of the Palestinian People, welcomes this happy turn
of events.
the
Palestine
For my country peaceful coexistence between the State
of Israel and the Palestinian State, under the leadership of
the PLO, must be a constant. After Jericho and Gaza, the
liberation of all the other territories would then promote the
consolidation of relations between the two communities.
The march towards global peace in this very sensitive
region is to be encouraged and supported by assistance from
the international community, with a view to the socio-
economic development of the Palestinian State.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
35
the conclusions of
In the Gulf, in order to prevent a new confrontation the
international community must ensure that Kuwait and Iraq
respect
the Boundary Demarcation
Commission, which by Security Council resolution 833
(1993) laid down definitively secure and inviolable borders
between these two countries.
the freedom of the press and free and equal access by all
political parties to State communications media; and the
determination of the Government to organize just and open
elections. The presidential balloting will take place on
5 December next,
to be followed by elections to the
legislature.
The relaxation of tension in Cambodia resulting from
the success of the elections is putting an end to the long
years of martyrdom endured by the Cambodian people.
There is reason to be happy over the positive results of the
efforts by the international community in this area. Respect
for the Paris Agreements will be the guarantee of lasting
peace and will facilitate the work of national reconstruction
in that country.
With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the scale of
organized killings for irrational reasons, such as "ethnic
cleansing" and religion, and the prolongation of the conflict
highlight the divisions in this nation - which until recently
was strong and united - caused by the end of the cold war.
After many efforts, the three communities involved in
the conflict have still not achieved a stable peace.
Unfortunately, the law of the jungle continues to prevail in
the face of the impotence of some and the indifference of
others. There will be true security and lasting peace in
Bosnia and Herzegovina only after serious negotiations
guaranteed by the international community in general and by
the States of the subregion in particular.
With regard to the Korean peninsula, the international
community must support the peaceful reunification of the
two States there.
Africa, like other parts of the world, is at an important
moment in its history, a time of the democratization of its
society and its institutions. The success of this process of
qualitative change requires, none the less, taking into account
the historic, social and cultural realities of States in order to
generate harmonious and lasting development.
The Republic of Guinea has taken important steps along
this road.
Its achievements include ratification of the
majority of the African and international Conventions on
human rights and humanitarian law; the adoption of the basic
law in our country which calls for a presidential regime,
separation of powers, the primacy of law, political pluralism
and decentralization; the establishment of a Supreme Court
to ensure, among other matters,
there are no
irregularities in balloting; the entry into operation of the
National Communication Council, whose job it is to ensure
that
In our view, these efforts at democratization in Guinea,
as in most other African countries, should have increased
support
from development partners to guarantee their
success.
The convening of a series of international conferences
in 1994 and 1995, particularly those regarding population,
women and social development, confirm the interest of the
international community in improving the economic and
social situation of
the most vulnerable sectors of our
populations. The same is true of their participation in
development.
The year 1993 has seen the international community
take a more active interest in the emergence of an era of
peace and universal respect for human rights.
Two conferences testify to that. Last June in Vienna,
and more recently in Geneva, we gathered together to think,
to evaluate what has been done, to consider prospects for the
future, in order to eliminate the causes of suffering, and to
reaffirm our faith in the dignity of the human being.
None the less, the absence of international machinery
for the prevention and punishment of serious violations of
human rights makes any protection measures ineffective.
My Government therefore considers that the creation of a
permanent international court with penal powers would be an
important step in the protection and promotion of human
rights.
Such a
jurisdiction, by making inevitable
the
punishment of the perpetrators of such violations, would
make existing international law more effective.
However, we must eliminate from international affairs
any tendency to be selective with regard to human rights, in
the form of discrimination over which cases should be
denounced or over the sanctions that should be applied.
Moreover, the existing link between human rights and
other aspects of social development requires the elaboration
of national programmes capable of promoting: protection of
the family, which is considered to be the basic unit of
36
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
society; the integration of women into development and their
participation in the management of public affairs;
the
protection of vulnerable categories of people - children, the
aged and the handicapped - by establishing conditions
favourable to the development of their personalities; and
efforts to combat the production, consumption and illicit
trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances through
of
international
national
legislation
international
Conventions.
harmonization
existing
cooperation,
ratification
and
of
Along with these measures, effective strategies must be
evolved to combat the pandemic of AIDS, which, because of
its ravages, is a great scourge and a threat to mankind’s
survival.
The progress achieved in disarmament must be pursued
in the hope that the resources thus released will contribute
to the recovery of the world economy.
In his report on the work of the United Nations and in
various communications the Secretary-General has described
the Organization’s financial situation as being a matter of
great concern. The situation is paradoxical. At a time when
the United Nations is entrusted with new tasks to be carried
out
the vital
resources needed for those tasks are diminishing. We pay
tribute to the Secretary-General and to encourage him in
applying austerity measures and in restructuring to increase
the effectiveness of the United Nations system.
in the service of peace and development
My delegation strongly urges Member States to honour
their financial obligations by paying regularly and on time
their
the
functioning of the United Nations and allow it to play its
role effectively.
assessed contributions
to ensure
in order
I hope that the message I have just delivered is one of
persistence and hope. This message, based on the realities
of the changes in the post-cold-war world and the divisions
those changes have caused in some parts of the world, urges
the Organization to implement new and dynamic strategies
with a view to establishing a new world order based on
equality,
for
democratic values.
justice, peace, cooperation and respect
This
demands
sustained
persistence
to
democratize international relations. The mode of operation
and structure of some bodies in the United Nations system
must be revised;
the decision-making bodies must be
streamlined and have an equitable representation of States
and regions.
efforts
This persistence is the basis of our hope, a hope of
mastering our collective future on the threshold of the
twenty-first century, a hope that all people will move
together towards peace, the development of nations and the
promotion of human rights. Our collective survival depends
on our solidarity and the effectiveness of our actions to
transform that hope into a reality in international relations.
I
Mr.
(Poland):
SKUBISZEWSKI
extend
congratulations to His Excellency Ambassador Samuel
Insanally of Guyana on his election to the presidency of this
session of the General Assembly. May I also thank His
Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria
for his
contribution to the success of the previous session.
In
addition, I should like to stress the deep appreciation of the
Polish Government for the work and accomplishments of the
Secretary-General of the United Nations over the past year.
Let me first speak about some of the timely goals and
tasks of our Organization.
I should like to start by
discussing the role of the United Nations in organizing peace
after the cold war.
In the post-cold-war era, the United
Nations is facing growing expectations and responsibilities.
That trend will continue over the coming years.
In an
increasingly interdependent world the United Nations,
despite its shortcomings and limitations, offers the best
avenue for addressing those global problems that are still
unresolved and for meeting new challenges as well. The
Organization faces the task of creating a better, more
democratic and just world. In fact, we badly need a vision
of such a world. More often than not, we have to ask
ourselves these questions: Are we rising to the occasion?
How should we resolve the present crisis of leadership, both
within individual States and on the international level?
The United Nations provides an appropriate platform
for shaping the vision I am talking about. To begin with, it
should be based on the assessment of geopolitical and
geoeconomic conditions, in particular on the assumption that
the world has become pluralistic, whatever the size and
weight of States in international affairs.
It should also
reflect an increased awareness of the need for a multilateral
approach to solving problems.
Four years have elapsed since the end of the cold war.
We must not merely adjust to the new situation, but mould
it, in order to arrive at a comprehensive solution. The
present crisis has many facets. Today, its primary source is
unresolved economic and social issues, as well as such
political problems as territorial disputes and ethnic tensions.
But we have to remember that
the process of finding
answers to these issues will unavoidably lead in the future
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
37
I think that
to a new alignment of power among States and, as a result,
we shall then face the prospect of recourse to force. That
question has been partly addressed by the Secretary-General
in his "Agenda for Peace." The matter has very broad
ramifications, and we still have not elaborated a grand
strategy of democratic transformation.
the
United Nations should start exploring, in a more systemic
manner, its role in the world as it is now and as it will be
beyond the year 2000. One of the preparatory steps might
be the preparation of a report on the United Nations as a
leader of global change and the promoter of a new world
order after the cold war. Such an assignment could be
entrusted to most-knowledgeable individuals,
research
institutes, transnational corporations and others. The report
would serve as a basis
the future
responsibilities of the United Nations and the Member
States.
spelling out
for
We need a thorough re-examination of the priorities of
the United Nations and, consequently, of the whole United
Nations system. The main purpose of reform would be to
adapt the United Nations to the requirements of peace after
the cold war. Reform should take into account ongoing
changes in Member States. This applies, in particular, to
countries in transition, not only in Central and Eastern
Europe but also in various parts of other continents. Let me
take this opportunity to add that Poland is firmly and
irreversibly committed to the political and economic
transformation it started in 1989, and that its foreign policy
has stable priorities.
the
The
fate of
countries
in the process of
transformation is not their problem alone. Their success or
failure is unavoidably going to exert a strong impact on
other States. The international community should not fail to
back up the transformation process and to assist the new
democracies in their continuing efforts to achieve reform,
economic recovery, social progress and full participation in
international exchanges. Such an approach would assist
them in their swifter integration into the world economic
system.
The military factor of security retains its significance,
although it differs from that of the cold-war era. The United
Nations has developed a disarmament agenda. The signing
of the chemical weapons Convention by almost 150 States
shows how the new political climate facilitates long-awaited
agreements and brings us closer to a world free of weapons
of mass destruction. We hope that there will be similar
positive developments
The
initiation of negotiations on a comprehensive ban on nuclear
testing constitutes a big step in that direction. The United
in nuclear disarmament.
Nations should also deal with the threat posed by the
possible spread of nuclear-weapon capabilities and the
proliferation of other weapons of mass destruction. Poland
attaches great
importance to thorough and constructive
preparations for the 1995 Review Conference of the Parties
to the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
I should now like to turn to the subject of human rights.
There are a number of reasons why, after the Vienna
Conference, the Organization should devote much of its
attention to human rights.
In doing so, I believe, it should
reflect on these words used by Secretary-General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali in addressing the high-level segment of the
Economic and Social Council:
"The United Nations is, by its very essence, universal,
global and inclusive. It is made up of sovereign States,
yet crucially concerned with the well-being of
individuals.
Its concern with individuals, with their
societies and with world society is not, as some would
claim, inherently contradictory."
There are differences of opinion on the scope of human
rights, on State responsibilities in regard to their observance
and on the role of the international community in monitoring
them.
The United Nations organs must expand their
negotiating and mediatory capacities and show much skill in
overcoming these divergences. The essential criteria are
morality, the inherent dignity of the human person and the
rule of law. Human rights must express the common values
of the international community. Their implementation is
becoming one of the preconditions of worldwide stability
and security.
Fundamental human rights are universal; their substance
is absolute and unrelated to circumstances. But saying this
does not mean that we are closing our eyes to the existence
of many different cultures and traditions in the historical
development of the various regions of the world. This
should be duly taken into account; however, it cannot justify
any violations of human rights or non-execution of the
relevant instruments. There is no room for treating criticism
of such unlawful policies and lawful attempts to redress
them as an infringement of the sovereignty of States.
In
promoting, developing and effectively defending human
rights, the United Nations should make these activities part
of its cooperation with States.
peace
International
sustainable
development and human rights are the three closely related
areas on which the United Nations should concentrate. "An
Agenda for Peace", Agenda 21 and the forthcoming agenda
security,
and
38
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
for development should, in my view, be complemented by
an agenda for human rights. With the results of the Vienna
Conference kept in mind, the Agenda for Human Rights
would constitute a plan of action for setting standards and
implementing rights and preventing violations.
Individuals need better and easier access to international
protection of their rights and freedoms. The Organization
should revise the grievance procedures and make them more
universal. While assuming that
the Second and Third
Committees will merge into one Economic and Social
Committee, Poland would suggest the establishment of a
Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs Committee as one
of the main Committees of the General Assembly. We
recommend expanding the responsibilities, competence and
rank of the Commission on Human Rights. We also
support, as a matter of urgency, the proposal to create an
office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Further, we should explore means of promoting human
rights on a regional level. A small bureau, which might be
located in Warsaw, could be entrusted with monitoring
human rights observance in Eastern Europe. This is a
sensitive region. Such a bureau would be part of the Geneva
office.
I have suggested Warsaw because bodies of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the
Council of Europe already operate there, a fact that could
facilitate cooperation between the United Nations and the
European institutions in that field. The region provides
much insight into how democracy and human rights are
being implemented in States that are undergoing democratic
transformation.
One aspect of human rights has become very critical of
late.
I am referring to the increasing violations of
humanitarian law in armed conflicts, whether international or
domestic. As the President of the International Committee
of the Red Cross emphasized during the recent International
Conference on the Protection of Victims of War, held in
Geneva, the practice has undergone a change for the worse.
With even greater
frequency, civilian populations are
becoming the hostages and primary targets of fighting
warlords. Each and every day the mass media bring us
scenes of the atrocities of war. We in the United Nations
must not be indifferent to these facts. Poland joins the call
for urgent action to revive the observance of humanitarian
law and to uphold the authority of the Geneva Conventions
as well as
The Polish
Government strongly endorses the Declaration adopted by
the Conference on the protection of war victims.
In our
view,
the international community should pay particular
attention to the observance of human rights and humanitarian
their additional Protocols.
standards in internal strife. War crimes should not go
unpunished.
that
I am confident
The third task to which I wish to draw the attention of
the General Assembly is development. The growing gap
between rich and poor nations is a significant source of
tensions and conflicts. Even Europe has not been spared,
threatened as it is by the emergence of a new "curtain", this
one economic.
the agenda for
development under preparation will comprehensively deal
with the various aspects of this potential danger. We need
a new development paradigm that is people-oriented: human
rights have their economic dimension. Economic and social
difficulties have a decisive impact on international security
and global stability, and often lead to human rights
violations. The main thing is to create a spirit of partnership
and solidarity. We expect the World Summit for Social
Development, to be held in Copenhagen in 1995, to specify
the necessary tasks in social development and thereby
reinforce sustainable economic development.
I shall now discuss some procedures and methods
which are particularly topical in view of the goals and tasks
I have enumerated.
I will speak first of the settlement and
management of disputes. The new world situation calls for
renewed and growing attention to international
its
implementation and application.
Poland welcomes the
enlargement, limited though it still is, of the compulsory
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.
It would
further withdrawals of
also be highly desirable
reservations to the jurisdictional clauses of treaties followed.
law,
if
Poland supports the Secretary-General’s call upon all
Member States to accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the
Court before the end of the United Nations Decade of
International Law in the year 2000. By means of its
advisory jurisdiction,
the Court might deal with such
questions as the legal components of political decisions, the
review of administrative action or the relationship between
some of the main organs of the United Nations.
The peaceful settlement of disputes requires a new
approach. Traditional means, as listed in Article 33 of the
Charter might, depending on the merits of each case, be
combined with peace-keeping, peace-building or even
enforcement measures. We must distinguish between
various phases or component parts of the same conflict
where each phase will require a different approach or a
different procedure. And let us not forget that there are a
growing number of conflicts which cannot simply be
"settled", at any rate in the foreseeable future. They should,
rather, be "managed". All this opens up new vistas for the
skilful use of various United Nations mechanisms.
repeating such resolutions as could harm this delicate
process.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
39
Preventive
framework.
Now I wish to say a few words about peace-keeping.
It is a subject that is high on the United Nations agenda.
The success and therefore the image of the United Nations
are at stake here. The "Agenda for Peace" has set out a
conceptual
diplomacy,
peace-keeping, peacemaking and, in particular, enforcement
require sound guidelines, procedures and detailed planning
in operational terms. Though a great deal of work has
already been accomplished, much more remains to be done.
The problems with the clarity of the mandate of the
peace-keeping operations, their time frame, management and
frugality also require the special attention of the United
Nations.
Bearing in mind the alarming number of casualties
among both military and civilian peace-keepers, Poland fully
supports the idea of
the expeditious elaboration of a
universally binding legal instrument, possibly in the form of
a convention on the safety and security of the personnel of
peace-keeping operations. The United Nations should not
undertake new operations without
clearly identified
objectives. What is involved is trust in the Organization and
its prospective contribution to the security of all of us.
Regional conflicts figure prominently on the United
Nations agenda. In specific cases regional institutions could
be helpful, as not all regions have such ready mechanisms
for dealing with conflict situations. However, they could
strive to establish them. The Security Council, also, could
play a role in appropriate instances. The importance of the
regional effort is particularly relevant to Africa, which is
facing many specific difficulties and problems. We should
devote more attention to that continent. Poland supports the
initiatives and programmes
the peaceful
settlement of conflicts and at the creation or strengthening of
democratic institutions in Africa.
that aim at
In view of the fundamental constitutional reforms now
under way in the Republic of South Africa, Poland favours
the lifting of sanctions and other restrictions imposed on that
country.
Recent developments in the Middle East have shown a
genuine will
to arrive at a compromise and achieve a
peaceful settlement. Poland shares the view that it would be
appropriate for the General Assembly to endorse the peace
process and call for regional cooperation in the Middle East.
the Assembly should refrain from
At
the same time,
We believe that the present scale of the conflict in
Bosnia and Herzegovina could have been avoided had the
international community, especially Europe, reacted when
there was still time. Obviously, I am aware of the fact that
in a conflict whose components are both internal and
international, the influence of non-parties is rather limited,
and the solution must finally come from within. Poland
rejects the policy of appeasement and imposed territorial
settlements.
Finally, there is the issue of sanctions. I should like to
draw your attention to the implementation of Article 50 of
the Charter. I think that Member States which suffer heavy
economic losses as a result of applying sanctions should be
entitled to something more than mere consultations and a
general - hence ineffective - appeal to the international
community to take account of their burden. As sanctions
have now become more frequent, the resulting problem of
economic losses by third countries cannot be ignored, as, in
fact, it now is. A satisfactory mechanism should be worked
out as a matter of urgency to resolve this issue.
In conclusion, the United Nations, like the world around
it, is experiencing a dynamic period of transition influenced
by fundamental reassessments and re-evaluations of the
potential for peace, development and cooperation among
nations.
The Organization is gearing itself to contribute its share
towards forging a better future for the world and improving
the human condition.
It has every opportunity to establish
a comprehensive agenda within the trinity of peace and
security, sustainable human development, and democracy
and human rights. It can thereby fulfil the Charter promise
"to be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the
attainment of these common ends".
Mr. KARGBO (Sierra Leone): Last year, my Head of
State, Captain Valentine E. M. Strasser, acquainted this body
with the devastation visited on Sierra Leone as the result of
the civil war in Liberia. He described to this Assembly the
pain and agony that Sierra Leoneans have had to endure as
a result of that conflict, and the ramifications it portended
for regional peace and security.
Regrettably, I am constrained to inform this body, not
only that the war in Sierra Leone has persisted, but that the
lives of many innocent Sierra Leoneans have continued to be
lost. What we are witnessing today is the internal
40
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
displacement of more than 400,000 Sierra Leoneans and
more than 250,000 others who have had to seek refugee
status in neighbouring countries, not
to mention the
devastation caused to the national economy.
on
the
cannot
embark
Thus, with our territory devastated and our economy
nearly destroyed, it is understandable that my country is so
anxious that peace should return to Liberia. Without peace,
Sierra Leoneans
economic
reconstruction of their country. Sierra Leoneans are also
hopeful that if peace should return, we can start picking up
the pieces of what is left of our country and get on with our
lives, and that the massive diversion of our resources to
prosecute a rebel war will no longer be necessary. It is also
our hope that with the conflict behind us, the Government of
the National Provisional Ruling Council will be able to give
its undivided attention to the essential
task of nation-
building. We therefore renew our appeal, from this rostrum,
for timely humanitarian assistance for the hundreds of
thousands of our fellow citizens who have been displaced
and made refugees, for it is only with such help that they
can start their lives anew.
Our cri du coeur
The socio-economic assistance of this Organization will
also be necessary for our post-war
reconstruction and
rehabilitation efforts.
the
international community to provide the requisite support and
assistance for a country desperately in need, through no fault
of its own; a country that has acted as its brother’s keeper,
in the true meaning of that expression, and on behalf of the
international community to bring an end to bloodshed and
help restore law and order in Liberia.
for
is
It
is,
therefore, our hope that
the latest Cotonou
Agreement on that conflict will continue to pave the path to
peace in Liberia. It was my Government’s expectation that
by now, with the assistance of the Security Council, there
would have been a rapid establishment and deployment of
the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL)
and also meaningful support for the Trust Fund established
by the Secretary-General for the continued engagement of
the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) Military Observer Group (ECOMOG)
in
Liberia.
Part of that peace plan calls for the establishment of a
buffer zone along our borders to prevent the infiltration into
our territory of men and matériel from Liberia. In the name
of regional peace and security, we call on this Organization
to give its full support to our request. International help for
ECOMOG is particularly necessary when one considers that
for the past two years, West African countries have been
in spite of
shouldering the burden of maintaining peace in Liberia
the enormous
without much outside help,
problems facing them individually and collectively.
In a
region which contains 10 of the least developed and poorest
nations, it is obvious that sooner, rather than later, the West
African subregion will not be able to continue with the
ECOMOG burden without such outside help.
I would like to issue a note of warning here:
the
Cotonou Agreement, in our view, offers the last chance to
bring peace to Liberia.
If it should fail, we fear that that
country might become another Somalia. Hence, the support
of the United Nations remains indispensable. We therefore
hope that Member States will contribute, and contribute
generously, to the Trust Fund. Doing so would save lives.
Before continuing with my line of thought, on behalf of
the Sierra Leone delegation and on my own behalf, I should
like to convey warm greetings to Ambassador Insanally on
his unanimous election to preside over our deliberations
during the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
It is also fitting that I express my delegation’s sincere
appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, his
predecessor,
for the able manner in which he executed his
task and for his personal exertions in the advancement of the
noble objectives of our Organization.
Our distinguished Secretary-General has, stoically and
with dedication and determination, continued his yeoman’s
service on behalf of us all. We congratulate him warmly on
his latest report.
I should also like to extend the best wishes of the
Government and the people of Sierra Leone to the friendly
Governments and peoples of those countries that have joined
us in this Assembly as full Member States. We have no
doubt that their admission has not only enhanced the goal of
universality; with their new energies they will effectively
contribute to our quest for a more peaceful world.
We believe that our Organization is at a crossroad, that
what we say and commit ourselves to during this session
will have serious implications on the shape of things to
come, and that the rebirth of this Organization will require
learning from the lessons of the recent past and adjusting our
vision for the future.
Sierra Leone had sincerely hoped that the end of the
cold war era would usher in a golden millennium of peace
and prosperity for all. Unfortunately, however, we have
witnessed a series of situations all over the world that have
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
41
given rise to a more violent and insecure international
environment. We are faced with conflicts and misery that
have adversely influenced the lives of vast sectors of
humanity, and we now feel an even deeper sense of
helplessness and despair that makes us almost nostalgic for
the order and logic of bygone days. But nostalgia has no
purpose if it serves only to pander to escapism, without
using the lessons of the past to guide our future courses of
action.
Let me now turn to an issue that continues to deeply
concern us all, namely, peace-keeping. The principle and
efficiency of peace-keeping are not in question, but already
expenditures for peace-keeping have several
times over
outstripped the Organization’s
regular budget. More
troubling is the prospect that such expenditures will soon
exceed resources committed to development since the
establishment of the United Nations. We sincerely believe
that the time has come when more attention should be given
to conflict prevention and resolution.It would serve our
purpose much better and cost this Organization much less if
conflicts were contained and resolved before reaching the
point of open hostilities, when situations are more difficult
to control. We can catalogue a series of lost opportunities
of which one glaring example is the Liberian conflict. Let
us, from this point forward, give more attention to the
prevention of conflict rather than having to field troops in
various theatres of war at exorbitant cost. Recent events
have proved that we cannot afford to risk the lives of our
men in the field in situations that could have been prevented.
Let me reiterate Sierra Leone’s
firm conviction and
commitment to the peace-keeping operations that are now
taking place throughout the world. We deplore the acts of
those who have made peace-keepers objects of
their
violence, and we salute the gallant men and women who are
acting on behalf of us all.
However, our perseverance in the pursuit of global
peace and in peace-keeping will not reap the desired harvest
if the present proliferation of arms and ammunition to
theatres of conflict continues. As we all are aware, many
third world countries where military conflicts are raging
today do not manufacture arms. On the other hand, they
continue to be the recipients of some of the deadliest
weapons. Such weapons, when supplied to the contending
factions, be they rebels or others, have as their main victims
innocent civilians. Today, we are witnessing carnage and
loss of human life, as a result of the use of weapons
acquired by various rebel movements in Africa from arms
manufacturers over the years.
It therefore becomes obvious that, if we are to put a
stop to such blood-letting and human carnage, further
stringent measures must be imposed on the sale and
proliferation of arms and ammunition. In our view, into this
category falls the proliferation and ever-increasing use of
mines and other explosive devices in the third world which
have taken a heavy toll in human life, especially innocent
civilians. Many civilians continue to die because of the
indiscriminate manner in which these mines have been
planted and used by rebel forces ever since they were
acquired from unknown sources. We therefore welcome the
initiative taken by the European Community to inscribe an
item on the agenda of this session of the Assembly to
address such issues. We believe that the support of the
international community is indispensable to dealing with the
disastrous consequences of the presence of such mines.
for
We
are
While still on the issue of conflicts, we wish to reiterate
our
the recently concluded International
support
Conference for the Protection of War Victims and its
recommendations.
that
humanitarian law must be made completely universal, widely
known and fully respected, and must be extended to fully
cover non-international conflicts.
convinced
firmly
My delegation continues to watch with interest the
political developments gaining momentum in South Africa.
Yet, much as the ongoing negotiations offer hope for a
resolution of this problem, we are deeply saddened that the
continuing violence, directed especially against
innocent
people -
the majority of whom are blacks - goes on
undiminished. Violence, in whatever form, is an abhorrence,
but its pursuit by unscrupulous groups and individuals to
reap political capital, at a time when patience, courage,
commitment and tolerance are required, can only give us all
cause for concern.
We therefore wish to appeal
to all, regardless of
affiliation, to exercise forbearance and to renounce the use
of violence. But, more so, we call on all Governments and
political leaders to use their influence with their supporters
to prevail upon them not to threaten the democratization
process and to work constructively for a better South Africa.
This appeal goes also to all emerging democracies.
Now that the goal of majority rule is in sight, it is time
for blacks, who have for long suffered under the odious
system of apartheid, to close their ranks in solid unity so
that, together, they may be able to let the new South Africa
create an impact on the international scene, for their own
benefit and the benefit of all South Africans.
42
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
We appeal to black South Africans to forge greater
unity and to be conscious of their responsibility to disprove
the assertion of the apologists for apartheid that blacks are
incapable of ruling themselves. For it is only when they act
in unison and stop the violence that they will be able to
enjoy the fruits of their freedom struggle, which they have
endured for so long and are, at last, about to win.
for many years
Sierra Leone has
supported a
comprehensive solution to the Middle East conflict, based on
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973).
We see the recent mutual recognition of the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel as an extremely
positive step towards the full restoration of peace in the
Middle East.
We also encourage all
the parties to the ongoing
negotiations concerning other facets of the Middle East
problem to demonstrate the same spirit of accommodation in
the interests of their own people, who for decades have
known nothing but strife, conflict, suffering and hatred, and
in the interests of peace and of mankind as a whole.
Sierra Leone supports the territorial integrity of Kuwait.
I would now like to turn to another important matter in
that is the functioning of the Security
this Organization:
Council.
Undoubtedly,
just as a growing number of nations
continue to encourage greater participation by their citizens
in the attainment of the ends of the State, so must this
national awareness of the need for political harmony and
justice be a paradigm instructive to the Security Council,
which, as the primary organ responsible for the maintenance
of international peace and security, should be perceived as
legitimate in its decision-making process and, thus, should
embrace the views of a wider section of the international
community.
regarding the willingness of
It is necessary at this juncture to express our concerns -
concerns that are shared by many small States Members of
this Organization -
the
international community, but more so its major players, to
ensure respect for the principles enshrined in our Charter.
It is clear that the time has come to articulate the normative
values that are to be pursued in guaranteeing the security of
those who are not in a position to undertake their own
defence and to reassure them that their reliance on the
United Nations as the guarantor of their sovereignty against
violations by stronger nations has not been misplaced.
The failure to halt aggression in some recent cases has
seriously undermined the foundations of
the common
security arrangement that the end of the cold-war presaged.
The repeated indecision with which aggression in different
parts of the world has been confronted has set a dangerous
precedent by undermining the confidence of small nations in
the Organization’s protective capacity and by encouraging
automatic resort to self-defence, with a concomitant increase
in arms build-up.
It also goes some way to assuaging the
residual fears that perpetrators of massive violations of
human rights, even genocide, may have had that
their
despicable actions will somehow be met with purpose and
resolve by the international community.
In the coming days, there must be a firm, unequivocal,
timely and balanced response from the international
community to threats to and breaches of international peace
and security if the Bosnian experience is not to become a
feature of relations between States. It is undesirable to allow
the view to prevail that the international community is more
disposed to act forcefully in certain instances than in others.
It is in this vein that we must express our concern over the
apparent deterioration of the security situation in Somalia.
We express the belief that, despite the provocation, a
distinction must continue to be made between the Somali
people, the warlords and gunmen. We firmly reject those
who want to impose tyranny on the Somali people, and we
express our heartfelt condolences to the families of those
gallant peace-keepers who have fallen while on duty in
Somalia.
The World Conference on Human Rights held in
Vienna in June this year was a landmark event which was
able to overcome the numerous challenges that it faced.
That Conference addressed, inter alia, such fundamental
human rights as the rights of women and children and
reaffirmed the universality of human rights and the
legitimate role of the international community in protecting
these rights worldwide. It also reaffirmed the importance of
economic, social and cultural
to
development, and it adopted several practical steps to
promote and protect human rights in both private and public
life. The challenge now facing us is to implement the
recommendations of that Conference.
rights and the right
We would not like to reopen the debate regarding
human rights standards. The United Nations established
those standards more than 40 years ago. What is important
is
and
non-selective. Human beings all over the world, irrespective
of their race, religion, gender or class, must enjoy equal
rights and protection.
should remain universal
that human rights
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
43
We see the re-emergence of racism and ethnic conflict
at its genocidal worst today in various parts of the world.
The United Nations must assume a much stronger role in
trying to prevent and minimize the suffering caused to
people who are subjected to the pain and intimidation of this
dark display of man’s inhumanity to man. Regrettably, in
many lands today, on every continent and among peoples of
every race, colour, language and religion, conflicts erupt in
unspeakable violence. As has been observed, ethnic tensions
have become the racial fault line in widely diverse societies
all over the globe - the advanced,
the
relatively stable and the unstable alike. We must redouble
our efforts and guard against such dangers.
the developing,
cause of political and social upheaval or military conflict
remains grinding poverty. Without the eradication of this
scourge, the prospect for human development will remain
bleak. Regrettably, for many of our countries in Africa,
especially the least developed among us, two years after the
adoption of the New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s our experience has been one of disappointment
and frustration. Even though most African countries have
carried out the structural adjustment programmes and put in
place democratic structures, the development partnership
promised by the New Agenda has not been forthcoming.
With few exceptions, the resources necessary to get the New
Agenda implemented have not been made available.
Sierra Leone continues to be concerned by the problem
of
refugees and displaced persons, particularly as we
ourselves have become victims of such a phenomenon.
Apart from the effort to prevent and avert the flow of
refugees, if our people are to be able to return to their
communities, remain there and rebuild their lives they must
have what
the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees calls "emergency development funds" to meet their
basic needs in the areas of health care, education and
employment. While acknowledging the generosity that the
international community has shown in the past in respect of
refugees worldwide, we appeal to that community in general,
and to the major donors in particular, not to give in to "aid
fatigue" but
the urgent and felt needs of their
brethren and sisters, many of whom have found themselves
refugees overnight through no fault of their own.
to meet
therefore
urges
the
Sierra Leone
international
community to look at these ever-present challenges: how to
assist uprooted people, particularly in the context of conflict
and grinding poverty; how to enable the displaced to return
home in safety and dignity and rebuild their lives; and how
to prevent and solve refugee problems.
However, while providing help and assistance to
mitigate the refugee problem, we remain convinced that
unless and until the international community can overcome
the scourge of poverty, that problem will remain insoluble
and be constantly with us.
It is therefore our fervent hope
that, even at this late hour, renewed impetus will once again
be found to prevent and eradicate this condition of human
misery.
The necessity of guaranteeing the foundation of a
common security evidently goes beyond the reduction or
elimination of military conflicts and embraces human
security as a whole. Indeed, the fortunes of many a society
will hinge on this, as in many developing countries the root
funding and support
Today poverty and underdevelopment continue to
plague countries like mine in sub-Saharan Africa despite the
commendable efforts of this Organization to solve some of
these palpable problems.
It is a matter of regret that the
new world order seems to have relegated the economic and
developmental needs and problems of Africa to the lower
rungs on its list of priorities. The New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s is failing because of a
lack of
from the international
community.
The implementation of this New Agenda
requires the full participation of the international community,
especially donor Governments and organizations and
programmes of the United Nations system. It is therefore of
the utmost importance and urgency that economic, technical
and development assistance be provided to Africa by the
international community, which unfortunately has not
responded sufficiently to our needs. We therefore call on
our partners in development
the support
necessary to make the reforms that we have carried out
successful and the sacrifices we have made not a mere waste
of time.
to give us all
Our present situation also underscores an urgent need
for support for the effective functioning of the proposed
African Economic Community, which is designed to enhance
economic integration and cooperation in Africa. Financial
and technical assistance must be provided to African
regional and subregional organizations for them to be able
to overcome the socio-economic challenges facing them.
We fully accept that responsibility for Africa’s development
rests with us Africans, but it is obvious that for us to be able
to achieve and sustain the goal of development, particularly
in the face of all the obstacles against us, including highly
unfavourable terms of trade, we must receive much stronger
support from the international community. With such
support, the vast potential of the continent will be properly
utilized so that we do not miss yet again an opportunity to
provide a catalyst for Africa’s meaningful contribution to the
44
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
growing global economy from which we all must benefit.
It is for this reason that we look forward to the forthcoming
Tokyo International Conference on African Development,
which should provide yet another opportunity for committed
international support for Africa’s development efforts. We
also look forward to a balanced and successful outcome of
the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations and an
expansion of world trade,
improved commodity pricing,
greater market access and non-restrictive trade practices that
will work for the benefit of all countries, especially those in
the process of development.
The
trauma
societies
that many African
are
experiencing daily in the fight against poverty, malnutrition
and disease must not be allowed to become a way of life.
The improvement of our people’s lot is as much to be
realized through aid flows as it is to be guaranteed by
long-term measures aimed at addressing the heavy debt
burden, discriminatory trade practices
and depressed
commodity prices from which so many of us suffer. We in
Africa would dearly love to be able to lift ourselves by our
own bootstraps but we cannot do so when our bootstraps are
firmly in the hands of others.
We face a most painful dilemma, wherein we find
ourselves in a position from which we presently seem unable
to influence the forces that shape our destinies. But the
problems we encounter as developing countries should not
deter us
to
development and prosperity. The experience gained by such
countries as Singapore, the Republic of Korea, Thailand and
other South-East Asian countries clearly shows that success
can be gained in the long run where there is sacrifice,
determination and hard work.
from forging ahead to find new ways
This
notwithstanding, Africa’s
underdevelopment
remains unique, and unless the international community
applies creative and effective comprehensive measures, such
relief
as debt-for-development
measures,
crisis,
particularly for countries in the least developed category,
will continue to be illusory.
In a world where the gap
between the rich and the poor countries is growing wider
every day, the need for economic and technical cooperation
between developing countries cannot be overstated.
swaps and other debt
economic
solution to Africa’s
the
With regard to the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development (UNCED), we welcome the
establishment
Sustainable
Development as a functional Commission of the Economic
and Social Council. What now remains to be put in place is
the practical implementation of the Commission’s mandate
the Commission
on
of
to ensure the effective follow-up of UNCED. Sierra Leone
welcomes the decision to convene a Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States in April 1994.
At the recent United Nations Conference on Straddling
Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, the plight of
many coastal States,
including mine, was highlighted
regarding the lack of an effective monitoring, control and
surveillance system that can be maintained on a sustained
basis in the face of the continuing indiscriminate advance of
certain distant-water fishing nations, some of which not only
fish the straddling stocks outside the jurisdiction area, but
enter and violate the territorial rights of our countries. Even
the fleets of those nations which obtain relevant licenses to
fish do not declare the correct catches for reliable data
records. Consequently, the true state of exploitation of the
stocks within the national
jurisdiction of most of our
countries is not accurately known, and so Sierra Leone,
despite its location in one of the most fertile areas in terms
of marine living resources, realizes only a miniscule amount
from these resources as a result of the activities of the
distant-water fleets.
This present state of affairs is certainly untenable and
should not remain unchecked. The exploitation of our
meagre resources by larger nations and bodies taking
advantage of our technological weaknesses can only worsen
our economic situation. These wanton fishing practices also
threaten to deplete the fishing grounds of our nations and to
become great environmental hazards.
I therefore wish to
reiterate the support expressed by the Sierra Leone
delegation for the conclusions of that Conference, which we
hope will bring about a radical change in the present
exploitation of our marine resources. I hope our experts will
soon be able to sit down with experts of the United Nations
to work out modalities that will ensure the equitable and
judicious exploitation of our marine resources.
Looking back at the progress accomplished by mankind
over the past few decades of its quest for peace, security and
social progress, we have to admit that the results achieved
have been mixed.
A few years ago, for example, the world watched with
hope and expectation as nations and societies were infused
with a new energy which held out the promise of a new,
dynamic era in which our societies would at last realize the
potential for peace and the global environment would be
transformed for
Then, many of us were
convinced that, if history had taught us anything, it had
impressed on us that this journey’s success could not endure
the better.
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
45
the old flawed and
unless we divested ourselves of
discredited formulae in which the age behind us had been
embedded.
It was our hope that, phoenix-like, we would
rise from the ashes of unfulfilled dreams and start on a
journey towards the fulfilment of our aspirations to a golden
age.
Today, some way into that journey, we have begun to
wonder whether that dream was not a mirage, whether the
new reality on which so much depends will be shaped with
the good will and cooperation of all nations, big and small
alike.
In the past, many of us called for the emerging order to
be nurtured and shaped by the joint will of the international
community as a whole, mindful as we were of the need to
anchor this new direction on principles we all believed in
and subscribed to. We are still of that view. Yet, though
the recent months have witnessed a process of revitalization
in the Organization’s responsibilities for crisis management
and its
larger engagement with the maintenance of
international peace and security, we are increasingly
concerned about emerging trends that may not augur well for
the global political and socio-economic transformation we all
anticipate.
that with his experience and proven capacity he will conduct
the work of this Assembly with great success.
My delegation also extends a warm welcome to the
new Members of our Organization: the Czech Republic, the
Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Eritrea, Andorra and the Principality of Monaco.
We do so fully convinced that within the framework of the
United Nations we will establish and strengthen strong bonds
of friendship and cooperation with them, and that their
participation will contribute effectively to the full realization
of the principles and purposes enshrined in the United
Nations Charter.
Pursuant
to those same principles,
the Republic of
Honduras calls, as it did at the previous session of the
General Assembly, for greater support and resources to be
accorded to the universal organs for the legal settlement of
disputes, such as the International Court of Justice, whose
rulings contribute to the peaceful settlement of disputes
brought before it. We are pleased to state that a year ago
Honduras and El Salvador were handed down a ruling by the
International Court of Justice on their border dispute; we are
now complying with that ruling and the border populations
are living in complete harmony.
The assurance of international security cannot succeed
for long unless we are able, as an Organization, to forge
international consensus among all Members on measures that
are of primary importance to us all. New energy should
impel us to find the source of today’s problems, so as to
mitigate the disastrous conditions under which a large
segment of mankind continues to live. New impetus should
be given to breaking the constraints that for so long kept us
from gaining access to those in need and finding solutions
to their problems.
On the question of disarmament, in taking note of the
vital discussion of the destructive power of nuclear weapons,
we urge the nuclear-weapon States to arrive at sound,
verifiable agreements on the reduction and destruction of
such weapons and their means of delivery,
taking into
account the great danger the use of these and other weapons
of mass destruction represents for humanity, and ensuring
that the growing financial resources released from the arms
race are transferred to the needs arising from international
cooperation for development.
It is our fervent hope that all of us, with new vision and
commitment, will accomplish these goals so that we may
attain the new world order that was conceived within the
parameters of the ideals of this Organization.
Mr. CARIAS ZAPATA (Honduras) (interpretation from
Spanish): First of all, I take great pleasure in expressing to
the General Assembly the sincerest
the President of
congratulations of
the people and the Government of
Honduras on his well-deserved election to the presidency of
the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
It
that,
is only natural
in activities in the field of
general disarmament, priority should have been given to
nuclear disarmament, but this must not impede renewed
efforts in the field of conventional disarmament, particularly
on a regional basis.
Honduras has observed with great concern the tragic
situation still prevailing in Bosnia and Herzegovina:
the
escalation of hostilities, massive violations of human rights
and attempts to enshrine in legal
instruments territorial
conquests obtained by aggression.
In entrusting this very delicate role to him,
the
international community is recognizing his personal merits
and those of our sister nation of Guyana. We are convinced
My country therefore unreservedly supports the Security
Council’s efforts to protect
to
provide them with food, medicine and protection, and to
the displace populations,
46
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
obtain a cease-fire and a solution to the various problems
that stand in the way of restoring peace to the region.
In Somalia, there is no national government to ensure
that the United Nations intervention in that country will not
only mitigate the hunger which unfortunately afflicts its
inhabitants but also make it possible, with the full
participation of the Somalis, to follow the path to peace,
coexistence and the restoration of normalcy.
That path of hope has already been taken with great
determination in South Africa, and the international
community is rejoicing at the end of the last vestiges of
apartheid and the beginning of national reconciliation and
reconstruction.
It was with rekindled hope that the entire world learned
of the outcome of the negotiations which, under the inspired
mediation of the Government of Norway, led to the recently
signed historic agreement on mutual recognition between the
State of Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization.
This is one more step towards the normalization of good-
neighbourly relations in the Middle East with respect to the
right to self-determination of peoples.
The Honduran Government, which has followed with
interest and concern the fierce struggle that for decades has
pitted Israelis and Arabs against each other, welcomes this
positive development and hopes it will be accompanied by
peace agreements between Israel and its Arab neighbours.
Similarly, our country has followed with great attention
the course of events in Haiti, where we have welcomed the
agreement reached between President Jean-Bertrand Aristide
and the head of the country’s armed forces, through the
mediation of Mr. Dante Caputo, the Special Envoy of the
Secretaries-General of
and the
Organization of American States (OAS).
the United Nations
The text of this agreement, in addition to contemplating
a series of basic provisions for the solution of the crisis,
calls for the return of Haiti’s legitimate President, and for
compliance with all commitments undertaken both in the
United Nations and in the OAS. Our country expresses its
resolute support for all measures that may be taken to
comply with the timetable established in the Governors
Island Agreement, which led to the parliamentary ratification
of Prime Minister Robert Malval, which in turn has made it
possible to suspend the embargo on Haiti.
In Central America,
the Tegucigalpa Protocol of
13 December 1991 has entered into force. It adapts the legal
framework of the former Organization of Central American
States to the new realities of the region by establishing a
system of Central American Integration which, acting under
the impetus of the regional summits, is strengthening and
fostering a new system of economic, social, cultural and
political integration for the benefit of all Central Americans.
In accordance with this basic objective, my country
aspires, with increasing determination and political will, to
see our region established as a region of peace, freedom,
democracy and development which is more actively involved
in the new reordering of the international community.
However, in spite of the progress in the regional peace
process, many of the root causes of the Central American
crisis persist, and the advances that have been made are only
a starting-point in confronting the underlying causes of the
armed conflict which threaten to destroy all that has been
accomplished.
Peace and development will be securely established
only if a broad and participatory commitment is achieved,
involving both the Governments and the organized sectors of
civilian society of each of our nations.
It is a fact that the difficulties of any one Central
American country have an effect on all other countries of the
region. Concerted action within a regional framework is
to allow internal processes to be
therefore necessary,
strengthened while
fully
particular
circumstances of each country.
respecting
the
The Government of Honduras therefore appeals to our
fellow Central Americans to meet in the near future in order
to give a new thrust to coordination of the efforts which
benefit from international support and to make it possible for
us to view with hope the economic integration now under
way.
The challenge of establishing peace in Central America
requires that we give priority to the geographical areas most
affected by poverty. This in turn requires us to promote
greater social participation by deepening the process of
decentralization through a concept of human development at
the local level and expressing that social development in
realistic macroeconomic policies which encourage both
domestic and foreign investment.
In Honduras this year we will be holding our fifth
consecutive general election since the restoration of
democracy in 1980, and it is our policy to give firm support
to the economic integration of the Central American isthmus
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
47
in order to consolidate the results of growth with greater
social well-being.
A revitalized Central America with sustainable
economic growth, while respecting the natural environment
and continually acting to rapidly improve the quality of life
of its inhabitants, is the best guarantee of permanent security
for the region bathed by the Caribbean Sea, within which
Central America, in harmony with the principles of the
member countries of the "Community of the Caribbean", can
consolidate an era of peace and cooperation by the end of
this century.
The third Ibero-American summit, held at San Salvador
de Bahia, Brazil, examined with concern the subject of
development, with emphasis on social development.
In so
doing,
it reaffirmed in that community of nations the
commitment to representative democracy, the promotion of
the observance and defence of human rights, and the
promotion of the economic and social development of our
peoples, which are united by language, tradition and by a
shared future.
To follow up on what was decided in this new forum
for cooperation, we Ibero-Americans must strengthen our
commitment
to the successful convening of the World
Summit for Social Development, an initiative of the Chilean
Government supported enthusiastically by Honduras, and
which we hope will be given a final impetus by this General
Assembly.
There can be no doubt that all of these attempts to
achieve prosperity for our nations must inevitably involve a
willingness on the part of the industrialized States to include
us in trying to establish an open, multilateral trade system
that gives our products greater access to competitive markets
so that more and more countries can reach satisfactory levels
of growth and trade.
Unfortunately, the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade
Negotiations has not yet been concluded, and this is a source
of grave concern to the less developed States whose
expectations are affected along with the programmes of
structural adjustment
they are carrying out with great
sacrifice, as an effective contribution to a better ordering of
the world economy. Protectionist measures imposed by
certain States on exports from our region not only cause a
decline in the prices of those products but also impede
access to international markets, thus helping to plunge our
economies into a climate of uncertainty by restricting the
possibilities of investment and continued growth.
The need to achieve greater global economic stability
without regard to the economic and political might of any
individual nation should be examined along with the growing
convergence of opinions concerning global priorities with
regard to the environment; this was demonstrated in a clear
and positive way at the Earth Summit held at Rio de Janeiro
last year.
The deterioration of nature must be avoided. Together
we can design preservation strategies that also make it
possible to make rational use of our natural resources in
order to meet our countries’ requirements for employment
needs and economic growth.
In Honduras, we have
established a Ministry of the Environment charged with
designing policies
creating
mechanisms to protect and preserve our ecosystem and its
endangered species of flora and fauna.
and strategies
aimed at
Lastly, as regards the restructuring of the United
Nations, Honduras supports the proposal that the Security
Council be expanded to include new permanent and non-
permanent members so as to reflect the realities of today’s
world, allowing for the rotation of membership and an
equitable geographical distribution in the composition of the
Council.
We are also in favour of the revitalization of the United
Nations in the economic, social, cultural and related spheres.
It is essential that the necessary measures be adopted as soon
as possible to strengthen the capacity of those organs
concerned in order to discharge the functions conferred upon
them by the Charter of the United Nations in the sphere of
international cooperation.
We welcome the steps that have already been taken to
achieve the objectives we have set, but we believe that we
need to arrive at a more effective and more economical
United Nations system, one which is at the same time less
passive in executing the programmes adopted here.
The emergence of new conflicts and the persistence of
old ones in different parts of the world reconfirm, if such a
thing is necessary, the proven wisdom of trying to achieve,
as we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, an integral structure of harmonization and peaceful
cooperation for the international community. Let us pledge
to achieve this with our votes and our actions.
Mr. DE MOURA (Angola) (spoke in Portuguese;
English text furnished by the delegation): First of all, Sir,
on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola and
on my own behalf, I congratulate Ambassador Insanally
48
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
warmly on his unanimous election as President of the
General Assembly at
I am
convinced that his proven experience and dedication to the
noble ideals of our Organization constitute a secure
guarantee of the success of this session.
its forty-eighth session.
To Mr. Stoyan Ganev, his predecessor, I should like to
express my sincere gratitude for his exemplary and unselfish
manner of directing the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly. The results we obtained during that session are
undeniable testimony to his valiant contribution in the search
for just and lasting solutions to the grave problems with
which we are confronted.
We are very pleased to welcome the new Members of
our Organization. Their admission confirms the universal
vocation of the United Nations at a time when its actions are
felt all over the world.
To the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
I also want to express my Government’s satisfaction at the
devotion and energy he has shown during the first year of
his difficult mandate, whose principal objective was the
constant search for adequate solutions to the problems that
afflict all mankind. We would not be wrong to say that
under his leadership concrete and decisive steps have already
been taken towards the resolution of certain issues that
seemed too difficult to resolve.
its mission. We also support
In this context we salute his efforts, within the
framework of the restructuring and revitalization of the
United Nations system, to give the system a new vitality in
the fulfilment of
the
mechanisms established for the prevention of conflict, as
explained in the report entitled "An Agenda for Peace",
whose sub-title includes the words "Preventive diplomacy".
My Government continues to support such initiatives and
commends the United Nations for the General Assembly’s
unanimous adoption of resolution 47/120 B at its forty-
seventh session on 20 September 1993.
Therefore, the restructuring and revitalization of our
Organization should include reform of the Security Council
so that it can respond to the realities of today’s world. We
understand that
restructuring the Security Council -
specifically its enlargement - so that it can permit equitable
representation of all the regions of the globe is aimed at
guaranteeing greater
representativeness, credibility and
efficiency. We think that the time has come for the defence
of peace and international security to be the responsibility of
all States.
Significant and far-reaching achievements have occurred
and are still occurring in international relations, after the end
of the East-West confrontation and the cold war. These
events are taking place in spite of the proliferation of armed
conflicts that put at risk the hope for peace and stability,
conditions that are indispensable for the promotion of
mutually advantageous international cooperation.
With the signing of the peace accords in Washington
between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the
Government of Israel, a new era has opened up for the peace
process in the Middle East. My Government commends the
signing of these accords and hopes that the international
community will continue to work for the rights of all the
people of that region, in particular so that the opportunity for
the Palestinian people to live in peace and freedom will be
an irreversible reality.
Regarding South Africa, it was with great satisfaction
that we heard, in the speech by Mr. Nelson Mandela in this
Hall on 24 September 1993,
the announcement of the
organization of free and democratic elections in April 1994
and the call for the lifting of the sanctions. We also
commend the creation of the Transitional Executive Council,
which will put an end to three centuries of white minority
domination. From this rostrum, my Government would like
to add its voice in support of all the initiatives that aim for
a peaceful and negotiated solution in South Africa for the
peaceful transition of power to the black majority.
In this context, my Government hopes
the
international community will remain vigilant in order to
deter any attempt by extremist groups to derail the present
democratic
the
establishment of the right to one man, one vote, in South
Africa.
process, which will
culminate
that
in
it
such as
those in East Timor,
While there has been encouraging progress with regard
to the conflicts in the Middle East and apartheid,
is
unfortunate that the same is not true in relation to other
conflicts,
the former
the former Soviet Union,
Yugoslavia, some States of
Somalia, Liberia and my own country. As a matter of fact,
these conflicts and civil wars continue daily to kill thousands
of human beings and to impede the social and economic
development of the countries involved. We should like the
international community, and the United Nations
in
particular, to give more attention to the resolution of these
conflicts, on the basis of international justice and legality.
I should like to express our solidarity with, and
encouragement to, the Government of Mozambique and our
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
49
Mozambican brothers and sisters, so that they may, with
determination and patience, continue on the paths that will
lead that country to a lasting and peaceful solution within the
framework of
signed in Rome, whose
implementation should be scrupulously observed by all
interested parties, under the supervision of the United
Nations.
accords
the
We welcome the positive signs which resulted from the
recent meeting regarding East Timor between the Ministers
of Foreign Trade of Portugal and Indonesia, under the
auspices of the Secretary-General.
We hope that this profitable dialogue will lead to a just
solution that
the aspirations of the
Maubere people in accordance with the relevant resolutions
of the General Assembly and of the Security Council.
takes into account
With regard to Western Sahara, my Government
supports the holding of the referendum on self-determination
for this Territory under the terms of the resolutions of the
Organization of African Unity and of the United Nations.
My Government also hopes that the existing obstacles will
be overcome as soon as possible.
There have lately been startling changes in the world
economic situation. This applies especially to third world
countries, particularly in Africa.
In this regard, while we
witness almost linear economic growth in the developed
countries, a substantial decrease has been recorded in the
less developed countries.
The indebtedness and the debt servicing of the less
developed countries, together with the great decrease in the
prices of raw materials and the recession in the industrialized
countries,
to their
development and to their full participation in the world
economy.
the principal obstacle
constitute
In summary, it may be said that the socio-economic
situation of the developing countries - in particular,
the
countries of Africa - is alarming and requires the assistance
of international financial institutions.
Nevertheless, we are opposed to the doctrine that has
been termed the états en échec - the failed States - according
to which these countries are not able to resolve their
problems by themselves and, therefore, need new "tutors".
It seems to us important that certain political situations
that are a legacy of the past be revised with a view to
reaching agreement and reducing the great barriers that exist
and the mechanisms that jeopardize real cooperation for the
economic,
the
developing countries.
In this context, we propose a
restructuring of the mechanism of international management
for economic development and cooperation.
technical and scientific advancement of
My Government shares the opinion that a successful
outcome to the forthcoming world conferences on economic
and social development and on population is of great
importance to the international community so that there may
be, at the highest level, an open and frank dialogue with a
view to finding the most equitable solutions to the most
diverse and burning issues concerning mankind: poverty,
hunger and malnutrition - in a word, "underdevelopment" -
that grip a great part of our planet.
that
it
pays
to
of
implementation
In this context,
I should like to refer also to the importance that my
issues and the
Government attaches to environmental
attention
the
recommendations and decisions of the Rio Conference of
1992.
the Government of Angola has
the
established the post of Secretary of State
Environment, whose
the
recommendations and decisions of the Rio Conference. In
addition, an inter-ministerial commission, with an essentially
consultative role, has been set up to study and follow closely
projects related to the activities of the United Nations
Economic and Social Council’s Commission on Sustainable
Development.
for
apply
purpose
is
to
The promotion of and universal respect for human
rights remain the prerequisites for the strengthening of
international peace and security.
The Republic of Angola actively participated in the
World Conference on Human Rights, which was held in
Vienna, and supported the consensus view. Nevertheless,
Angola continues to believe that, in the broad sense, human
rights are universal. We believe that there must be no
selectivity in the observance of human rights. Nowhere
should human rights serve as a pretext for interference in the
internal affairs of sovereign States Members of the United
Nations.
The world and the United Nations have witnessed the
evolution of the political situation in my country in recent
years - in particular, since 1988. To make possible a better
understanding of the phenomena that have contributed to the
dramatic situation in Angola, allow me to provide a brief
historical overview.
50
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
peace
and
link
between
The Angolan Government
is ever-conscious of the
intrinsic
socio-economic
development, not just for Angola but for all of southern
Africa. My Government took the initiative of presenting a
peace programme to the then Secretary-General of the
United Nations. This programme contained the principles
that culminated in the signing of the Accords in New York
in December 1988. We recall that these accords provided
for the withdrawal of Cuban soldiers from Angola and their
return to Cuba, as well as for the withdrawal of the apartheid
forces from Angolan territory and the implementation of
Security Council resolution 435 (1978) concerning the
independence of Namibia. At that time the international
community greeted with satisfaction the New York Accords,
which opened a new era in the relations between States in
that region.
With regard to the internal conflict in Angola, the
Government was aware of the fact that only domestic peace,
achieved through dialogue and political mediation, would
make possible the creation of a favourable framework for a
solution of the conflict. Apart from its own efforts, the
Government showed that
it was sensitive to African
initiatives that sought to contribute to the restoration of
peace in Angola.
Thus it was that, in the framework of the Government’s
internal peace plan, we arrived in Gbadolite in June 1989.
Unfortunately, the Accords lasted only a short time because
UNITA’s friends and allies wanted a different solution. The
failure of the Accords was due essentially to bad faith on the
part of the head of UNITA.
In spite of
this failure,
the Angolan Government
continued to commit itself to economic and political reforms,
as well as to a negotiated solution of the conflict.
It
continued to promote genuine national reconciliation, whose
fundamental purpose was to put an end to the conflict with
UNITA.
After New York and Gbadolite, peace negotiations
continued - the Portuguese Government mediating - and the
Bicesse Accords were signed on 31 May 1991. After a
period of 18 months, during which the Angolan people lived
in relative peace, the country’s first multi-party elections
were held on 29 and 30 September 1992.
As
the Assembly is aware,
the United Nations
considered these elections to be to be free and fair.
UNITA was not satisfied with the defeat
the
Angolan people had inflicted on it through the ballot-box,
that
It did not
and once again showed its Fascist character.
hesitate to take up arms again to take power by force.
It
resumed its previous role as a militarist organization
incapable of conforming to democratic rules.
Jonas Savimbi’s military option plunged our country
into a civil war that has caused incalculable loss of human
lives, the destruction of social and economic infrastructure
and the displacement of millions of citizens, with such
consequences as hunger, poverty, sickness and lack of proper
clothing.
As we stated in the Security Council on 15 September
1993, the situation in Angola is exceptionally tragic and
requires special attention from the international community.
Daily, thousands of people die as a direct or indirect
consequence of the war. Children, elderly people and
women are direct victims of these acts of war. We can
declare, without
the critical
economic and political situation in Angola today bears no
similarity whatever to the situation in Somalia, Bosnia,
Cambodia or any of the republics of the former Soviet
Union.
It is our profound hope that peace will be restored
to those regions.
fear of contradiction,
that
The international community seems insensitive to our
tragedy. It is as if the Angolan people were paying the price
for playing the democratic game.
Indeed, how are we to
understand the curtain of silence that envelops my country?
A poor loser will not hesitate to defy the international
community with impunity unless it punishes him once and
for all. How can one explain that UNITA still maintains
offices in certain democratic countries and that some of its
officials are still received with great pomp by officials who
do not hide their aversion to totalitarianism and are the most
ardent defenders of human rights?
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of
Angola and of its martyred people, who are dying daily by
the thousands, I appeal
to the United Nations and the
international community from this rostrum to help my people
and compel the UNITA leader, Jonas Savimbi, once and for
all to abandon his military adventurism and respect the will
of the Angolan people, as freely expressed at the ballot
boxes in September 1992.
Speaking to the Security Council last week during its
consideration of the evolving situation in Angola, we asked
ourselves how long that great organ,
responsible for
international peace and security, would permit the leader of
UNITA to perpetrate with impunity heinous massacres that
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
51
shock the human conscience. These acts discredit and
dishonour the United Nations itself and the Security Council,
whose resolutions have been purely and simply ignored. We
would like to remind this Assembly that since the beginning
of the war in Angola in October 1992 the Security Council
has adopted 10 resolutions condemning UNITA and
demanding that it abandon the military option and resume
dialogue aimed at restoring peace.
Yet UNITA has met neither demand. Worse yet, in
reaction to Security Council resolution 864 (1993) of 15
September 1993, which provides for the imposition of
sanctions, UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi attempted once
again to dupe international public opinion and the Security
Council by declaring a false cease-fire and stipulating
conditions at variance with the spirit and letter of the
Bicesse Accords, the Abidjan Protocol and the electoral
results.
The truth, however, is quite different. Not only was the
unilateral cease-fire declared by UNITA not respected, but
we witnessed an increase in military operations throughout
our national territory. As a result, fighting in Kuito and
other regions has recently intensified in a desperate UNITA
attempt to reoccupy new areas and consolidate its position.
Moreover, by making new proposals outside the negotiating
framework, Savimbi revealed his obvious intention to ignore
the resolutions of the Security Council and seize power for
himself at any cost, including the death of hundreds of
thousands more Angolans. Savimbi does not want peace
without power. Savimbi only wishes to gain time.
Obviously, the Government of Angola cannot accept the
policy of fait accompli that UNITA wishes to implement by
proposing a cease-fire in situ. We believe that there is no
good will on UNITA’s part and that it does not wish to
establish dialogue to put a definitive end to the war. This
armed party is plotting a dangerous manoeuvre with the aim
of shirking its obligation to fulfil the Bicesse Accords and
the resolutions of the Security Council.
The United Nations has a great responsibility in the
Angolan process and must not be complacent as regards
UNITA. It is important that the prestige of this Organization
in the peaceful settlement of the conflict not be jeopardized
or challenged by the irreverence of the leader of a rebel
political organization. The Government of Angola,
the
United Nations and the troika of observers of the Angolan
peace process have all
fallen victim in succession to
UNITA’s bad faith over the past 12 months, a bad faith that
has characterized the behaviour of Mr. Savimbi in every
meeting held since the Namibe, Addis Ababa and Abidjan
meetings.
In Abidjan the Angolan Government bent over
backwards to be flexible. In spite of the involvement of the
United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative
and of the leaders of the delegations of the observer States,
UNITA did not sign the Protocol of Understanding which
was negotiated and agreed upon to lead to the establishment
of a complete cease-fire in Angola. We would like to point
out that President Houphouët-Boigny and his Minister of
Foreign Affairs have done their best in the search for a just
solution to the Angolan conflict. These efforts have not
been successful, due solely to the obstinacy of Mr. Savimbi,
who says "Yes" one day and "No" the next.
it
that
that
is crucial
We therefore consider
the
international community identify the transgressor and move
vigorously against him in Angola in an act of justice towards
our people and Government, so that our hopes for the
establishment of democracy will not be frustrated in the
midst of the transitional process currently taking place
throughout the world. We want a lasting peace based on
viable conditions for reconciling all Angolans.
In that context, my Government proposed, on 22
September 1993, the following conditions to resolve the
post-electoral crisis caused by UNITA.
First, UNITA must withdraw its military forces from
the areas they occupied illegally following the multi-party
elections held on 29 and 30 September 1992, and must then
observe the cease-fire under the terms of Security Council
851 (1993) of 15 July 1993.
after
Secondly,
the declaration of
cease-fire,
humanitarian assistance should be implemented and the
urgent evacuation of the wounded, sick, interested persons
and foreigners accomplished.
a
Thirdly, UNITA must accept fully and unequivocally
the validity of the Bicesse Accords and the results of the
election held in September 1992.
Fourthly, UNITA must respect the legislation produced
by the instruments of sovereignty established by the
elections.
The Angolan Government reiterates its willingness to
resume negotiations as soon as the conditions for those
negotiations have been established.
52
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
defenceless
In my statement
by UNITA against
to the Security Council on 15
September 1993 I alerted its members to the crimes
committed
civilian
populations. These crimes range from the cold-blooded
murder of medical personnel and hospital patients, and the
hunting down and physical elimination of journalists, family
members of Government officials and UNITA dissidents to
the bombardment of cities by long-range guns and missiles.
I also had the opportunity to discuss the situation prevailing
in some regions of Angola, where, as in Kuito,
the
population has had to eat the flesh of human corpses in
order to survive. UNITA has encircled Kuito for more than
eight months and does not allow humanitarian assistance to
be distributed to the population or allow foreigners to leave
the areas in which they found themselves when the war
resumed.
In Somalia, one warlord, General Mohammed Aidid,
has been labelled an undesirable person by the United
Nations. An international arrest warrant was issued for that
Somali leader. Several days ago the General Assembly
elected a group of international jurists whose mandate is to
judge those accused of war crimes allegedly committed in
the former Yugoslavia. And what is to be said of Jonas
Savimbi?
Are the crimes that are being committed in Angola
under Mr. Savimbi’s order not worse than those which the
United Nations has attributed to General Aidid or the crimes
that it intends to judge in the former Yugoslavia? The
murder of medical personnel and patients in hospitals; the
hunting down and execution of journalists; family members
of Government leaders and dissidents from UNITA, Jonas
Savimbi’s organization;
incineration of political
adversaries
indiscriminate
huge
bombardment of cities with long-range guns and missiles;
and UNITA’s ties with the forces of apartheid - what does
all this mean? Are these not crimes against humanity?
the
bonfires;
the
in
The sanctions that the Security Council decreed and
which entered into force on 25 September constitute proof
of the commitment of the international community to the
Angolan conflict. We hope that
these signs will be
honoured by Mr. Savimbi and his allies so that dialogue can
be resumed as soon as possible, on the basis of the Bicesse
Accords,
the Abidjan Protocol and on fulfilment of
paragraphs 6 and 12 of Security Council resolution 851
(1993).
In conclusion, I should like once again, on behalf of the
to express our
the
Government of the Republic of Angola,
profound gratitude for
the wide range of support
international community has provided to alleviate the
suffering of our people. We hope this assistance will
continue in an even more substantial way. We wish to pay
here a special debt of gratitude to the humanitarian
organizations and in particular the World Food Programme,
which,
in spite of UNITA’s irresponsible and criminal
actions, has continued its operations, risking the lives of its
own personnel.
We express also our gratitude to the countries that in
diverse ways have given humanitarian assistance to the
people, who still are in need of it now.
Once again, I wish the President every success in the
work of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly
and hope that its results will contribute to the strengthening
of international peace and cooperation.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the general debate for this meeting.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish to
speak in exercise of the right of reply.
May I
remind members that,
in accordance with
General Assembly decision 34/401, statements in exercise of
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and to five minutes for the second and should
be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. RICHARDSON (United Kingdom):
regret
having to make an intervention at this late hour, but I
promise you it will not take 10 minutes.
I
this evening,
In his statement earlier
the Foreign
Minister of Argentina referred to the alleged sovereign rights
of his country over the Falkland Islands, South Georgia and
the South Sandwich Islands.
I must repeat that the British
Government has no doubts about its sovereignty over the
British dependencies in the South Atlantic. My Government
will continue to work with the Government of Argentina to
create an atmosphere of stability and cooperation in the
South Atlantic. Considerable progress has been made.
We look forward to resuming negotiations in the near
future with the Government of Argentina on a new
Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993
53
I must, however, add that
the
agreement on fishing.
progress which has been achieved is predicated on the
understanding that sovereignty is not a matter we are
prepared to discuss.
Mr. RICARDES (Argentina)
(interpretation from
Spanish): The Republic of Argentina, having taken note of
the comments made by the delegation of
the United
Kingdom, wishes to reaffirm the comments made by the
Minister
country,
Mr. Guido di Tella, in his statement this afternoon.
Foreign Affairs
of
of
our
The meeting rose at 9.20 p.m.
