United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m
AGENDA ITEM 45
INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE
FOR THE
REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF
NICARAGUA: AFTERMATH OF THE WAR AND
NATURAL DISASTERS
(a) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
(A/48/318 and Corr.1)
(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/48/L.10)
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the Deputy Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua to introduce the draft resolution
contained in document A/48/L.10.
Mr. PALLAIS (Nicaragua)
from
Spanish): Allow me at the outset to thank the Secretary-
General for his efforts on behalf of the economic and social
reconstruction of Nicaragua and for publishing the report
contained in document A/48/318 and Corr.1.
(interpretation
The vision of a world in deep and continuing
transformation - one in which our societies are the principal
factors for change, the beginning and end points of the
essence of man -
the
enormous responsibility of the United Nations, which holds
the future of the world in its hands.
is shocking when we think of
Nicaragua has emerged from a history filled with the
hallmarks of violence into the modern world and the civility
35th
PLENARY MEETING
Friday, 22 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
of the contemporary global village, taking a road strewn with
many difficulties of all kinds. Contemporary sociology and
political science have decided to call this phenomenon a
"transition" - the passage from one state to another.
In the specific circumstances of our own socio-political,
economic and cultural evolution - as recently described by
our President before the General Assembly - Nicaraguans
have been going through a complex stage of transition that
is helping us to move from confrontation to democratic
consensus, from a centralized economy to a social market
economy, from totalitarianism to democracy, from war to
peace.
The Government of Nicaragua, with the assistance of
the democratic political forces and the support of the people,
is making enormous efforts
to overcome its major
challenges:
the aftermath of war, and poverty and natural
disasters. Though we have managed to restore a certain
degree of stability to the country,
is not as solid or
permanent as we would wish. We must urgently improve
the living conditions of a population that needs health care,
education and food - that is, a dignified standard of living.
it
For a number of reasons, the macroeconomic measures
we have taken have not sufficed to give a decisive impetus
to our economic recovery and thus bring our country back
into the world economy. We have been able partially to
service our debt since 1991, but debt-servicing has now
reached unsustainable levels. Without a prompt and drastic
solution to our inherited debt - a solution in which 95 per
cent of its stock is forgiven - Nicaragua’s economic and
social recovery will be virtually impossible.
It must be emphasized that during the decade of
conflict
the direct and indirect military
cooperation received by Nicaragua was of the order of more
in the 1980s,
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86945 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.35
10 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
than $6 billion, representing more than 50 per cent of the
external debt burdening the Nicaraguan people today.
In
other words, more economic assistance was available for the
war than is available today to deal urgently with the
aftermath of
that war and to strengthen peace and
democracy.
While the relationship between economics and politics
may seem obvious, the close links between economics and
democracy are the subject of increasing scrutiny by scholars.
In that connection, we agree with the Secretary-General’s
view, stated in his report on the work of the Organization,
that
My country faces a most complex dilemma in
continuing to pay this inherited debt, undermining the
foundations of its economic and social reconstruction. Yet
over the past three years we have paid the multilateral
financial
institutions more than we have received for
economic and social investment.
Thus, after meeting our obligations to the financial
institutions, our liquid resources to promote the actual
production of goods and services are scarce. During the four
years of the Chamorro Government, of every dollar of liquid
external cooperative finance and subsequent new loans, only
two cents has remained for economic and social investment
after paying for oil imports. These special circumstances -
which must be reversed - have led to a gradual deterioration
of
critical poverty, malnutrition,
unemployment or underemployment exceeding 45 per cent,
precarious health services, and a high dropout rate from school -
to which we must add the natural disasters that beset us in
1992 and 1993.
conditions:
social
To respond coherently to the consequences of the crisis,
in consultation with the
the Government of Nicaragua,
institutions,
United Nations and multilateral
formulated in January 1993 a development
strategy
combining social policies with economic policies and
enhancement of Government offices’ administrative capacity.
financial
gratitude
Nicaragua welcomed with
hope
resolutions 47/118 of 18 December 1992 and 47/169 of
22 December 1992. We deeply appreciate the contributions
of organs and agencies of the United Nations system in
various areas, along with the various initiatives supported by
the international community.
and
In the framework of the United Nations, our President’s
request to the Secretary-General for the establishment of an
active group of countries friends of Nicaragua will play a
key role for our country in an international context
characterized by reduced flows of international cooperation
and by our own need for external cooperation. The historic
effort of our people and our Government to consolidate
democracy cannot succumb; Nicaragua must not become a
delayed victim of the cold war.
"Without peace, there can be no development and
there can be no democracy. Without development, the
basis for democracy will be lacking and societies will
tend to fall into conflict. And without democracy, no
sustainable development can occur; without such
development, peace cannot
long be maintained."
(A/48/1, para. 11)
The deterioration of social conditions has eroded the
credibility of the democratic political institutions we want to
strengthen and institutionalize in my country. The despair
of some minority social sectors has sometimes been
expressed in desperate and violent action.
Still, no viable solution can emerge from the
exasperation of those who one way or another are ultimately
making apologies for violence. To the contrary, history has
consistently shown that without democracy and democratic
institutions
true political
development, just as it has confirmed that dialogue and
political negotiation are the best means of settling disputes.
can be no genuine,
there
My Government’s efforts to make the transition from
war to peace, from totalitarianism to democracy, show the
complexity of our process as well as the indissoluble links
between peace, democracy and development.
The ongoing process of disarming civilians
is
contributing to the demilitarization of our society after a
decade of military confrontation and stark political
polarization. The demobilization of groups, rearmed with
socio-economic and political motivation; the resolute combat
against rural banditry; the demining of large areas that were
the scene of military conflict; the reduction of the army’s
budget and manpower:
these have all contributed to the
pacification of Nicaragua and to confirming that our
President’s policy of national reconciliation is the correct
course.
Other activities include the gradual, effective solution
of the problem of property ownership; the strengthening of
the judiciary; the resolution of conflicts within our National
Legislative Assembly; and the work of
the tripartite
Commission to investigate charges of murder against former
members of the Nicaraguan resistance, demobilized members
of the army and other individuals. President Chamorro’s
35th meeting - Friday, 22 October l993
3
to
continue
professionalizing
and
political will
institutionalizing the armed forces through a bill on military
organization that clearly subordinates the armed forces to the
and
civilian
and
institutionalization of
the national police create better
conditions for Nicaragua to build a State based on the rule
of law that will provide security and guarantee justice to its
citizens.
professionalization
authorities
the
Nicaragua’s three-faceted transition is unique and must
therefore be addressed in a special way.
In our view, that
means not only recognizing the different conditions we face,
but also making every possible effort to sustain and develop
a process that is vital for our people and holds out hope to
our region and to all those who have been supporting us in
our time of trouble.
Thus Nicaragua hopes for unique, special treatment that
will give it flexibility in implementing structural-adjustment
measures, so that without losing the direction or aims of that
necessary adjustment it can have access on preferential terms
to loans giving incentives to social investment and local
production, and so that we can bring into line with our
situation the rate of fiscal adjustment, the lowering of tariffs
and the freeing up of the financial system.
Like many other developing countries, Nicaragua
continues to be plagued by the problem of external debt, and
there must be a new approach to this problem for us to find
stable and lasting solutions. Our country’s external debt of
$10.8 billion places us in a much worse position than any
other high-debt, low-income country. Our prioritized annual
debt servicing - I am referring here to the multilateral
institutions and the Club of Paris - represents 76 per cent of
projected exports, which makes it impossible to generate the
level of investments necessary for our economic and social
development.
Peace in Nicaragua also represents peace in Central
America. On our national stability also depend, to a great
extent, a range of differing types of processes that are all
taking place at once as part of the regional process now
under way towards political and economic integration. The
settlement of
the military conflicts in Nicaragua and
El Salvador and the progress being made in Guatemala
towards actively developing political negotiations with
insurgent groups must be kept up in an interdependent,
overall way.
the
that
We believe
community’s
contribution to these processes now unfolding to the benefit
of our peoples is decisive if we are to establish Central
America as the region of peace, democracy, freedom and
international
development which we proclaimed, with the support of the
General Assembly, in resolution 46/109. This is the only
way to put us definitively and completely on the path of
democracy and social progress that is being taken by other
societies
is ever more global and
interdependent and where the bygone patterns of the cold
war have passed away to reveal the urgency of allocating
material resources to social development and human well-
being.
in a world that
Today we have come before this great General
Assembly of the United Nations to reaffirm that our calling
is as a peaceful, hard-working nation and to repeat our call
for your countries to become part of our effort to consolidate
peace and democracy not only in Nicaragua, but also in
Central America. Nicaragua is in urgent need of that effort
on the part of the international community, and of its
resolute support, to sustain the aspirations of a people that
wants to rebuild its country in peace, justice and democracy.
for
assistance
International
rehabilitating
and
reconstructing Nicaragua is a practical, tangible, realistic and
sound way of contributing to the values that will guide the
progress of humanity into the next century, when the
extreme poverty and want
that resulted from the great
imbalances and conflicts of the twentieth century will be just
a tale told of a past to which the world society of the
twenty-first century will not wish to return unless it wants to
wipe itself out.
Today, my delegation, on behalf of all the sponsors, has
the honour of introducing to this plenary meeting of the
Assembly a draft resolution entitled "International assistance
for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nicaragua:
aftermath of the war and natural disasters" and contained in
document A/48/L.10.
The first, third and fifth preambular paragraphs are
similar to those contained in resolution 47/169 on this same
subject, which the Assembly adopted at its session last year.
recall
In the second preambular paragraph the General
Assembly would
resolution 47/169 of
22 December 1992, and the fourth and sixth introduce into
the draft resolution new elements whose purpose is to
incorporate aspects of particular relevance to the developing
situation in Nicaragua. The most salient points concern the
havoc wreaked on the country and its people by the recent
hurricane; the socio-economic effects of applying adjustment
measures that leave us no room for material growth and
social
investment and have led Nicaragua to request
exceptional treatment, the better to be able to cope with the
crisis it is going through; and the progress the Government
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
of Nicaragua has made in securing a broad social consensus
for the reconstruction and economic and social development.
In the operative part, paragraph 1 has the same wording
as last year’s resolution while paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 contain
ideas that expand on it. Paragraphs 5 and 6 are procedural
in nature.
it
that have beset
Nicaragua needs the international community’s support
and solidarity to overcome the aftermath of the war and the
natural disasters
in recent years.
Unanimous adoption by the Assembly of the draft resolution
we have submitted would send a clear signal of a political
will to support the political and economic processes we are
implementing in my country. Unanimous adoption and the
international community’s support and solidarity would
consolidate peace in Nicaragua, and its democratic process,
and the United Nations community could be proud, always,
of such a magnificent contribution.
to all
the sponsors of
We are grateful
the draft
resolution which are listed in document A/48/L.10, and to all
those which have joined in supporting it. For Nicaragua, the
cooperation and support we have received is of great
importance.
Mr. CORREA (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
Six days ago, in Santiago, Chile, during the seventh summit
meeting of the Rio Group, which was attended by the Heads
of State and Government of
the Latin American and
Caribbean countries of which that political concertation
mechanism is composed, approved a declaration that reads
as follows:
in her
"The Heads of State and Government of the Rio
Group support the appeal made by the President of the
Republic of Nicaragua, Mrs. Violeta Barrios de
Chamorro,
recent address to the General
Assembly of the United Nations, to the effect that
economic cooperation afforded her country should be
increased, and they express their willingness to continue
their resolute support with a view to contributing to
solving Nicaragua’s problems.
"The Heads of State and Government of the Rio
Group urge the international community and the
financial agencies, particularly the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund and the Inter-American
Development Bank to grant Nicaragua treatment in line
with the exceptional situation in that country, as a
contribution to the democratic stability of Nicaragua
and of the whole Central American region."
The declaration by the Heads of State and Government
in the Rio Group reiterates something that had been sought
at the United Nations through the resolution adopted to that
effect, namely that
there is a complete international
consensus that the situation in Nicaragua, by reason of the
special circumstances, necessitates assistance in the form of
broad-based cooperation to enable Nicaragua to make a
definitive recovery and promote sustained development; this
would make its democratic process, and the peace it so
desires, irreversible.
We must weigh the full meaning and consequences of
the words addressed to the Assembly by the President of
Nicaragua when she said:
"The economic problem is our greatest source of
instability, because it creates tensions in the political
and social environment,
jeopardizing national and
regional stability.
If foreign aid arrives late, if strong
conditions are placed on it or it becomes a political
tool, as happened in 1992 and is happening now,
democracy in Nicaragua could collapse."
(Official
Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Plenary Meetings, 8th meeting, p. 11)
We do not want such a collapse to occur, and that is
why we have included our effort in plans for cooperation
with this fraternal country. The Governments of Latin
America cannot stand idly by when any of the countries in
the region, without exception, is in danger of collapse. Our
duty is to help each and every one of them resolve its
problems and crises while avoiding the internal confrontation
and chaos that are so costly for their peoples.
In 1991 the President of the Republic of Chile attended
the summit meeting of Central American leaders held at San
Salvador. On that occasion President Aylwin formally
announced the initiation of a programme of
technical
cooperation with Central America, within the framework of
which our work with Nicaragua is proceeding.
Since that time, Chile’s policy of technical cooperation
has become a cornerstone of its relations with the Central
American region, particularly with Nicaragua. We have
singled out that country, not only because of the particularly
serious nature of its situation, but also because Chile wishes,
through a resolute policy of cooperation, to make up for lost
time in the relations between the two countries. We
therefore appreciate the progress made in the development
of the programmes that have already been established and
which are now being fully executed. Of particular note are
the new projects that are developing, especially in the social
area, to help handicapped children and minors in need of
35th meeting - Friday, 22 October l993
5
special care. We are also studying a request for support in
carrying out a programme to modernize and professionalize
the national police force in Nicaragua.
This cooperation will help to promote achievement of
the priority objectives in Nicaragua: peace, reconciliation,
respect for human rights and the consolidation of democracy.
From the foregoing it will be clear that the agreements
being worked on at present for cooperation in selected
sectors between the Nicaraguan Government and our
International Cooperation Agency are of great importance to
our future relations. Of especial relevance have been the
programmes in support of universities and the training of
human resources
and masters
fellowships.
through post-graduate
Moreover, of special note is Chile’s involvement of the
private sector in this effort. Accordingly, an agreement has
been signed between the Society for the Promotion of
Manufacturing, an entity made up of private entrepreneurs in
our
of
Non-Traditional Exporters,
the execution of which also
involved resources from the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP).
the Nicaraguan Association
country,
and
Similarly, technical assistance in fisheries resources has
been developed through the Chilean Institute for
the
Promotion of Fisheries and the Nicaraguan Institute for
Fisheries. Similarly, through the Organization of American
States (OAS), assistance was provided for the removal of
mines, through a team of instructors-supervisors, a matter of
particular importance to the safety of the population. This
work has been subject to evaluation. A technical group set
up to implement the agreements on bilateral cooperation has
already held its first meeting.
All these tasks are part of a greater undertaking, namely
supporting the enhancement and stability of democracy. Our
country has maintained resolute and unconditional support
for
the process of democratization and pacification in
Nicaragua, and we attach great value to efforts to ensure that
all national sectors can be involved in the political and
institutional life of the country within a constructive and
fully legal framework.
To that end, among other activities pursued in this area,
the Under-Secretaries for Government and for the presidency
accompanied by the Superintendent of
Insurance and
Securities in Chile, attended a seminar in Managua last week
on experiences in the transition to democracy, which was
organized by the Government of Nicaragua and co-sponsored
by the International Organization for Migration and the
Konrad Adenauer Foundation.
these
efforts
Despite
it has become
absolutely
imperative to channel substantial financial resources to the
cooperation that Chile and other countries have been giving
so that
it will be directed to the right purposes and
developed effectively for the benefit of the population.
Efforts in regard to training human resources would be
pointless if these people did not have appropriate conditions
in which to carry out their activities.
Nicaragua is in need of resources in order to revive all
of its areas of productivity, and to that end the international
community and multilateral financial bodies have a broad
spectrum of areas into which to channel their efforts towards
the attainment of that goal.
Experience shows that consolidating peace in the wake
of a conflict needs to be linked to global development efforts
in the political, economic, social and cultural spheres and
resources should be channelled accordingly.
That applies absolutely to the situation in Nicaragua.
The Government of Chile joins in the efforts being made by
the Government of Nicaragua but it must also point out that
the results cannot be perceived immediately. This requires
understanding and support on the part of the international
community and the strenuous efforts of all of the people
towards the common objective of change and growth.
The consolidation of peace begins with practical and
immediate measures to restore the normal functioning of
society, to revive the economy, to restore the land and its
productivity, and to organize the return and resettlement of
displaced persons and refugees. It is also essential to reduce
the volume of weapons in the hands of society at large,
which is one element that leads to instability, and which may
in turn lead to violence. Such steps require an effort on the
part of all the people of Nicaragua, not just of a few, since
they are the ones who will
lay the foundations for
sustainable social, political and economic development.
For its part, international cooperation can help to lend
support to a society that is still wounded but anxious to build
an increasingly sound democracy, a democracy of mature
coexistence.
Mr. ALBIN (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
The Central American region has shown its unshakeable will
to overcome decades of violence, instability and lack. The
process of peacemaking has now spread to the entire region.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
For a very long time there has been a need for the good will
of the countries of the subregion and sectors of their
societies and for international support.
For Mexico, Central America is of priority interest
because we border on the region and have cultural and
historical
links which bind us to it. My country has
therefore undertaken cooperative activities on a continuing
basis in order
the recovery and economic
development of the five countries of the region.
to support
One of the activities that perhaps best reflect this was
the signing in August 1992 of an agreement to liberalize
trade with Central American countries, the final objective
being the creation of an open area for investment and the
free flow of goods and services.
Nicaragua is a country that is today facing serious
challenges. It has been making serious efforts to rebuild its
democracy, to give new dynamism to its economy in a
society which has often been polarized.
In addition to
destructive actions on the part of people, there have been
natural disasters which have worsened the already precarious
economic and social conditions of
The
economy, which has been marked by serious imbalances, has
put Nicaragua into the category of lowest-income countries.
The amount of its official debt is approximately $11,000
million. The per capita debt is the highest in the world.
the country.
In the midst of these difficulties, Nicaragua has begun
a process of political reform directed towards national
reconstruction, peacemaking, reduction of the army, and the
demobilization of resistance. This process has gone along
with consultation, dialogue and the reaching of agreement
with the various political groups.
On the bilateral level, my country is participating in an
intensive programme of cooperation with Nicaragua.
Between January and October 1993, 60 projects were carried
out
poverty,
telecommunications, energy,
training, health,
privatizing ports, agriculture, environment, labour and public
administration.
as
technical
combating
spheres
in
such
the stabilization of
When Mrs. Violeta Chamorro visited Mexico last
August, the President of Mexico reaffirmed his support for
collaborating in
the Nicaraguan
economy. He also expressed his concern over the manner
in which various political forces have sought to resolve their
differences with unlawful acts, which has negative effects on
the efforts made by Nicaraguans to establish peace and
reactivate the economy.
those of
We are pleased to take note of the activities carried out
in
by the United Nations system to help Nicaragua,
particular
the United Nations Development
Programme, as described in the report of the Secretary-
General that was prepared in accordance with resolution
47/169. That document points out that one of the main
problems of the transition is perhaps the lack of integrated
policies and strategies for development and stabilization.
We must recognize that the efforts of the people and
the Government of Nicaragua will be in vain if
the
community of nations and international organizations do not
extend their fullest cooperation to enable Nicaragua to
consolidate its own objectives of democracy and economic
and social development. We urge the international
community and financial organs, in particular the World
Bank,
the
Inter-American Development Bank, to give Nicaragua the
help it deserves in the exceptional circumstances prevailing
there.
International Monetary
Fund
and
the
For our part, I wish to reiterate here the unbending
determination of the Government of Mexico to continue
working in close cooperation with the brotherly country of
Nicaragua, bilaterally or through any mechanism established,
to enable it
to move ahead on the road to peace and
economic and social development. The appeal sent out by
the Nicaraguan delegation to the international community to
collaborate in those efforts is our appeal as well.
Hence, we have co-sponsored the draft resolution
contained in document A/48/L.10, and we invite Member
States to give it their unanimous support.
Mr. YAÑEZ BARNUEVO (Spain) (interpretation from
Spanish): The inclusion of the item entitled "International
assistance for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
Nicaragua: aftermath of the war and natural disasters" in the
agenda of the current session of the General Assembly
makes clear how important it is that the United Nations
continue to follow through in the process of rehabilitating
and reconstructing a country that was mired in a conflict
whose political, social and economic consequences require
comprehensive attention and treatment on the part of the
international community.
Nicaragua is an example of a country in which a
process of peace and national reconciliation, with the support
of the international community, at first had positive results
under the leadership of the constitutional President of the
Republic, Mrs. Violeta Barrios de Chamorro. As President
Chamorro pointed out a short time ago from the rostrum of
the General Assembly Hall, Nicaragua has before it the
35th meeting - Friday, 22 October l993
7
immense task of carrying out a transition from war to peace,
from a centralized economy to a market economy and from
confrontation to democratic consensus.
However, it must be recognized that the international
community, lulled into overconfidence by the initial positive
developments, gave too little attention and too little support
during the period following the settlement of the conflict,
which could be termed the period of "convalescence".
It
was in that period that the political situation deteriorated,
and this caused a parallel deterioration in the economic and
social situation.
The events that have taken place recently in Managua
and other Nicaraguan cities show the fragility of the process
of consolidating democracy and the resulting need for the
international community’s constant, sustained support for
that process in the circumstances prevailing in a country
such as Nicaragua. Obviously, it is up to the Nicaraguan
people themselves to make decisive headway in the process
of national reconciliation, with the participation of all the
political and social forces. They should know, none the less,
that
international
community’s encouragement and backing.
they have
endeavour
in that
the
For the same reason,
Any retrogression in the Nicaraguan process not only
would have a serious effect on the country itself, but could
also have negative repercussions in the Central American
region, which is still emerging from a long period of
conflict.
the advances made in
Nicaragua will mean progress in the shaping of a region of
peace, freedom, democracy and development
in Central
America,
in accordance with the objective stated in
resolution 47/118, adopted at the last session of the General
Assembly.
In that resolution, the Assembly encouraged
initiatives of the Central American countries to consolidate
Governments which base their development on democracy,
peace, cooperation and strict respect for human rights.
The close link between the process of political
reconciliation and that of economic recovery in Nicaragua
has been made clear by the Secretary-General in his report
(A/48/318 and Corr.1) submitted to this session of the
It has also been underscored by the European
Assembly.
Community and its member States, which,
in their
declaration of 26 August
last, urged a genuine national
reconciliation and requested all the political and social forces
to join together,
transcend their differences and work
towards the strengthening of democracy and development in
Nicaragua.
in cooperation with the relevant
the Secretary-General,
organs and organizations of the United Nations system, to
provide Nicaragua all possible assistance to support the
consolidation of peace, in areas such as the settlement of
displaced and demobilized persons and refugees,
land
ownership and land tenure in rural areas, direct care for war
victims, mine clearance and, in general, to promote a process
of sustained recovery and development that will render the
peace and democracy achieved irreversible.
In the economic sphere,
The Secretary-General’s report highlights the advances
that have been made in the political arena. Recent events
indicate, however, that there is still a long way to go before
they are consolidated.
the
stabilization programme has made major improvements
possible through a reduced rate of inflation, and structural
adjustments have expedited the conversion of the economic
system into a market economy. However, these programmes
have not been sufficient
to reactivate the Nicaraguan
economy, which, on account of demographic factors, is still
showing a negative per capita growth rate. All of this has
led to a worsening of
threatening
consolidation of
fledgling democracy.
Particularly worrying is the size of the external debt, which,
according to the Secretary-General’s report, is, on a per
capita basis, the highest in the world.
social conditions,
country’s
the
Spain, both individually and as a member of the
European Community, has been providing all possible
assistance to Nicaragua in this crucial phase of its efforts to
establish peace and democracy and to promote development.
From the 1980s, because of the situation in that country, our
cooperation has been directed primarily to the areas of
health, housing,
infrastructure and services. With the
attainment of peace, our bilateral cooperation has intensified
in the social, labour and technical training sectors, in the
fields of agriculture, fisheries and the environment and, very
centrally, in institutional support, both national and local.
Training and scientific and technical cooperation have been
priorities in Spain’s cooperation with Nicaragua. During the
period 1990-1993, the value of Spanish grants in bilateral
cooperation with Nicaragua reached 2,550 million pesetas.
For all these reasons, Spain urges the Secretary-General
and the United Nations system to continue to give Nicaragua
every possible assistance to consolidate and strengthen the
democratic process and enhance the country’s economic and
social development. For these reasons, too, my delegation
became a sponsor of draft resolution A/48/L.10, which we
urge the General Assembly to adopt.
In resolution 47/169, adopted by consensus at the last
session of the General Assembly, the Assembly requested
Mr. WISNUMURTI (Indonesia):
I deem it a distinct
honour and privilege to speak on behalf of the Non-Aligned
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Movement on this important item, entitled "International
assistance for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
Nicaragua: aftermath of the war and natural disasters". The
Secretary-General’s comprehensive report (A/48/318 and
Corr.1), paints a sombre picture of the situation in Nicaragua
and has rightly drawn our attention to the deteriorating
economic conditions in that country.
At
the
countries
non-aligned
their tenth Summit meeting, held in Jakarta in
September 1992,
declared,
inter alia, unequivocal support for Nicaragua’s ongoing
efforts to achieve its objectives, and expressed the hope that
national dialogue, the deepening of the democratic process
and continued international cooperation would make it
possible to overcome the main obstacles facing that country
in the present circumstances.
Reflecting this decision, the Foreign Ministers of the
Non-Aligned Movement at their meeting earlier this month
called upon the main political forces to continue their efforts
towards a productive dialogue in order to achieve the social
and economic reconstruction of Nicaragua. They also called
upon the international community to maintain its support for
Nicaragua to overcome political and economic problems and
to consolidate its democracy.
Following a decade of civil strife, the Government of
Nicaragua has made significant progress in achieving peace,
reconciliation and national concertation, concertation which
has made it possible to lay the foundations for economic
recovery and social development. However, many obstacles
lie ahead.
The case of Nicaragua is unique. As a
developing country, Nicaragua is indeed vulnerable to
natural calamities such as have beset it recently. We believe
that these calamities, which have exposed the vulnerability
of Nicaragua’s economy and of its environment, have
rendered the nation incapable of advancing its development.
Moreover, after years of turmoil, the nation’s economy is
critically in need of sustained assistance. The situation in
Nicaragua clearly reflects the indivisibility of peace, stability
and development.
Indeed - and this is a highly charged
political, economic and social question - peace cannot
prevail unless such aid is substantial.
The cumulative effects of natural disasters, civil war
and economic crisis have made the situation untenable and
thus made Nicaragua a deserving candidate for concerted
international support and assistance. We therefore reiterate
our
backing
47/169.
Significantly,
they were adopted by consensus, which
reflects recognition of the plight of the Nicaraguan people
and of the need for the international community to give them
the
accelerate
resolutions
necessary
promote
support
47/118
and
for
to
and
rehabilitation and economic and social reconstruction, in
order to overcome the aftermath of the war and the adverse
consequences of natural disasters.
Against this backdrop, we acknowledge the effective
and comprehensive response of the United Nations and the
way in which its efforts have been mobilized.
Initial
rehabilitative measures have already been embarked upon
through the United Nations Development Programme and
various other agencies of our Organization. The medium-
and long-term measures comprehensively covered in the
Secretary-General’s report are indeed essential
to the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nicaragua.
One of the serious problems that must be addressed
urgently is the question of Nicaragua’s external debt.
Although Nicaragua is not considered to be a least-developed
country, we firmly believe that, in view of its economic and
social conditions and its vulnerability to nature, and taking
into account its total debt in relation to population size, the
nation should be accorded special treatment. We therefore
strongly endorse the recommendation implied in paragraph
62 of the Secretary-General’s report.
In this regard, it is
pertinent to note that the Non-aligned Movement is to hold
a meeting - scheduled for later this year - on the foreign-
debt problems of countries of the Movement. This may
provide an opportunity to facilitate ways and means of
resolving Nicaragua’s debt problem.
I should like, in conclusion, to take this opportunity to
express our solidarity with the Government and people of
Nicaragua at this time of great need and to add that we stand
ready to provide our
these broad
international cooperation endeavours.
support
full
for
Mr. FULCI (Italy): Italy wishes to reaffirm its strong
commitment to the peace process in Central America, which
began with the historic Esquipulas Agreements. My country
wholeheartedly supports the Government and the people of
Nicaragua as they develop their democracy and their
economy. Over the past few years, Italy has contributed to
this process - in deeds, and not in words alone - through the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), by
granting $115 million to establish the Development
Programme for the Displaced, Refugee and Repatriated
(PRODERE).
In countries scarred by armed conflict - be it internal or
external - the primary and most urgent need is humanitarian
assistance. But between emergency relief and new social
and economic development, there is a need for rehabilitation,
or convalescence, as was said quite rightly by our Spanish
colleague, Ambassador Yáñez Barnuevo. PRODERE meets
35th meeting - Friday, 22 October l993
9
precisely that need for rehabilitation, or convalescence; it is
a sort of trait d’union between the two major phases.
PRODERE is being implemented in six countries,
is designed
including El Salvador and Nicaragua.
primarily to create the conditions necessary for the social
and economic integration of displaced people, refugees and
those returning to their homes after a war.
It concerns
several
dozen war-scarred municipalities, where
rehabilitation and reconciliation can make a real difference.
It
We feel particularly indebted to UNDP for
the
exemplary way in which it has conducted this initiative,
which has been a genuine success story, as all
the
participants can testify - so successful, in fact, that Italy and
UNDP are seriously considering the possibility of extending
the PRODERE approach to other parts of the world that
have been, or are, afflicted by similar tragedies.
local
PRODERE’s main features are:
first, the programme
is designed to bring together components of humanitarian
relief and development aid; secondly, the entire community
being resettled is, without any discrimination,
involved:
former soldiers, ex-guerrillas,
leaders, government
officials, refugees, returnees and those who remained and
suffered in place; thirdly, local organizations - including
Government institutions, non-governmental organizations and
cooperatives - actively participate in the programme; and,
fourthly, it is the recipient community that identifies its
priority needs, such as housing, health care, sanitation
services and primary education. Agricultural projects and
other income-generating activities are also a key target of
PRODERE.
In short, community participation, sustainable
activities and human-resource development are at the heart
of this unique programme. They are the keys to social
integration, economic growth and institution rebuilding.
From this rostrum, Italy wants to pay a tribute to
Nicaragua for its vigorous pursuit of political reconciliation
and economic reconstruction. But we must remember that
these are not goals that can be achieved overnight. They
require determination, constant struggle and effort, not only
from the interested countries themselves but from all of us.
That is why Italy will continue to offer its unwavering
support for this process on a bilateral basis, through the
European Community and through the United Nations.
Consequently, Mr. President, I have the honour to
inform you that Italy is glad to co-sponsor resolution
A/48/L.10, introduced and so eloquently described by the
Nicaraguan Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr. José Pallais, and
to recommend its adoption by this Assembly.
Mr. MARRERO (United States of America): My
delegation supports the draft resolution before us today
under agenda item 45, entitled "International assistance for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nicaragua: aftermath
of the war and natural disasters", and looks forward to its
adoption this morning by consensus.
My delegation knows that the Government of Nicaragua
has critical need of external assistance to shore up its
economy and to help consolidate its democracy.
The
Government of the United States supports Nicaragua’s goal
of national reconciliation and wants to see the Government
succeed. With that in mind, my delegation believes that
international economic assistance for the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of Nicaragua is essential if the Government is
to continue to proceed along the path of a politically stable
democratic nation.
We anticipate that the pending talks within Nicaragua
will establish a new consensus towards healthy social and
economic policies. We hope that such policies will address
the dire conditions now prevailing in rural areas and restart
productive activity. Furthermore, we look forward to the
Nicaraguan Government’s plans
to invite grass-roots
participation in the national dialogue on economic reform.
United States aid programmes will place emphasis on that
grass-roots participation in the economic life of the nation.
At the same time, and while recognizing how difficult
the problems are, external aid alone cannot sustain or ensure
the success of the Nicaraguan Government.
In the final
analysis, it is the Government and the people of Nicaragua
that must continue to ensure the social and political stability
which in turn inspires the confidence required to generate
investment, both Nicaraguan and foreign.
continue
to watch
attentively
We will
and
encouragingly as the Nicaraguan Government moves to
implement its public commitments to its people.
I should
note that the assistance which my Government can offer
through bilateral arrangements is undertaken in tandem with
that of multilateral and other donor assistance. My
Government
recent meetings of
Nicaragua’s international donors continued support has been
expressed, with emphasis on the importance of national
political reconciliation as the prerequisite for effective use of
international assistance.
is encouraged that at
Mr. MARUYAMA (Japan)
from
Spanish): Five years ago, when presidential elections were
held in Nicaragua in accordance with the democratic process,
Japan expressed its sincere congratulations to the people of
Nicaragua on the birth of a new democracy, through the
(interpretation
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
time
Government of President Chamorro.
forward, Japan has expressed its sustained support for the
Government of President Chamorro, particularly in the light
of its commitment to national reconciliation and its efforts
to strengthen the democratic process in Nicaragua.
From that
Japan has always attached great value to President
Chamorro’s efforts to attain political reconciliation in her
country during her presidential term. President Chamorro
has opted for
realistic policies which give priority to
economic
the
the same time forging a
consequences of war but at
democratic
culture
tolerance,
reconciliation and dialogue.
reconstruction, without
neglecting
political
based
upon
For
that
reason,
The challenge in this effort is to maintain a delicate
balance so as to make progress without endangering the
achievements already attained.
the
Government has sought
to avoid confrontation with the
Sandinistas, and has been obliged to face various difficulties
in administering the country by giving consideration to the
opinions of the opposition, which holds the majority of seats
in the Congress. As regards the taking of hostages by
groups from both extremes of the political spectrum, Japan
welcomes the resolution of the problem, achieved through
negotiations between the two sectors, the Sandinista National
Liberation Front (FSLN) and the National Opposition Union
(UNO). Japan sincerely hopes that this dialogue will prompt
a full development of the tripartite dialogue being pursued
by the Nicaraguan Government with the aim of ensuring that
political stability is firmly established, with the progress of
national dialogue involving all sectors, which is fundamental
for laying the foundations of economic development efforts.
Japan also recognizes the efforts of the Government of
Nicaragua
democratic
institutions, upholding human rights and attending to
problems of social security, as well as finding a lasting
solution to the question of property rights and clear civilian
control over the armed forces. We support the achievements
and we emphasize the need to persevere until
the full
consolidation of democratic institutions has been reached.
strengthening
continue
to
its
We must all recognize the great strides that have been
made in the pacification of the Central American region.
We must also be aware of the vital
influence of the
consolidation of peace and the reconstruction of Nicaragua
on the stability of the whole Central American region.
Accordingly, Japan acknowledges the diplomatic efforts
made by the Latin American countries, particularly by
Central Americans
that common
Japan therefore firmly supports these efforts of
objective.
the Latin American region.
themselves,
towards
through
conducted
the Association
in addition to the efforts of
Regarding support for Nicaragua, we must bear in
mind,
the international
community through bodies such as the United Nations, the
cooperation
for
Democracy and Development of Central America (ADD),
which was set up in 1991. Japan has been taking an active
part in various activities of the ADD since its inception, as
co-chairman
on Economic
Development and also by chairing the Special Meeting of the
ADD in Tokyo last March, with the participation of Foreign
Ministers and Economic Ministers of the Central American
countries.
Japan will continue its active participation in
these multilateral forums.
the Working Group
of
I would like to take this opportunity to express my deep
condolences to the families of the victims of the natural
disasters that have recently struck Nicaragua.
Japan
sincerely hopes that the Nicaraguan people can overcome
these tragedies.
In conclusion, I wish once again to confirm, in this
international forum, that Japan will continue its support for
Nicaragua based on the
two D’s, democracy and
development; we will support the promotion of democracy
and cooperate in the economic reform of this friendly
country in a reliable and sustained manner. The Government
of Japan supports the draft resolution and has the honour of
being one of its co-sponsors.
The PRESIDENT: Before calling on the next speaker,
I should like to propose that the list of speakers in the
debate on this item now be closed.
It was so decided.
(interpretation
Mr. BIVERO (Venezuela)
from
Spanish): Nicaragua’s urgent need for rehabilitation and
reconstruction has been acknowledged by successive
resolutions of this Assembly and in the statements of various
political and economic bodies of the Latin American and
Caribbean region. On 16 October the Heads of State and
Government of the Rio Group, meeting in Santiago, Chile,
adopted a declaration on Nicaragua which is the most recent
basis for our co-sponsorship of draft resolution A/48/L.10,
introduced by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Nicaragua, which a group of countries, including Venezuela,
is today submitting for consideration. The declaration is also
our mandate for recommending the unanimous adoption of
the draft
resolution as a sign of solidarity with, and
commitment to, the people and Government of Nicaragua.
Peace in Central America is a common goal of the
Member States of our Organization. We have made
35th meeting - Friday, 22 October l993
11
numerous efforts to that end and we are sure that we all
unreservedly share the desire to see peace consolidated there.
Nicaragua is a critical element
in the peace process in
Central America.
Its Government has made praiseworthy
efforts to overcome political divisions and the economic and
social aftermath of
Its
President, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, has given an
eloquent account in this Hall of the successes achieved and
the obstacles encountered in the process. We in Venezuela
are convinced that she deserves our solid support.
the country’s recent history.
Our Organization is
Nicaragua is a clear-cut case of
increasingly guided by a
recognition of the direct link between democracy, peace and
development.
this
interrelationship and of the negative effects that can result if
any of these three fundamental objectives are neglected. We
are particularly concerned by the difficulties Nicaragua has
encountered in gaining an appropriate level of international
cooperation to enable it to consolidate the advances achieved
through its programmes of macroeconomic adjustment and
internal reform. The international community faces an
exceptional case which requires measures of support that are
also
and
particularly treatment to which conditions are attached -
must be avoided,
in our view, not only for reasons of
principle but also for obvious reasons of consistency with
the undertaking in which we all play a part, to the extent
that we are able:
the success of democracy and national
reconciliation in Nicaragua.
exceptional.
Undifferentiated
treatment -
Venezuela, along with the other countries of
the
region - in particular in the Group of Three, to which it
belongs, together with Colombia and Mexico - has been
closely following the situation in Nicaragua. So far as it
can, Venezuela will carry out a policy of cooperation with
that country which we hope will help to alleviate its difficult
economic situation and will strengthen the growing links
with its economy, in both the commercial and financial
spheres.
We hope this will not be an isolated effort, and we are
pleased to recommend again that the draft resolution be
adopted by the General Assembly without a vote, as an
immediate, concrete manifestation of the solidarity which we
are sure the Organization maintains and will continue to
maintain with Nicaragua.
Mr. TATTENBACH (Costa Rica) (interpretation from
Spanish): Allow me, in speaking for the first time in the
General Assembly at this session, to congratulate you most
cordially, Sir, and the other officers of the Assembly on the
outstanding manner in which our work is being guided and
to express my delegation’s best wishes for your success.
With regard to the agenda item entitled "International
assistance for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
Nicaragua: aftermath of the war and natural disasters," I
should like, on behalf of the six Central American States, to
begin by recalling that, in General Assembly resolution
46/109 B, adopted as a result of Nicaragua’s first steps to
end the fighting in the region, Central America was declared
a region of peace, freedom, democracy and development.
Therefore, on behalf of the Central American countries I
wish to express our strong solidarity with Nicaragua in
connection with the agenda item before us today.
The San Juan River flows between Costa Rica and
Nicaragua, both a symbol of union and a geographical
boundary, a waterway over which both countries enjoy
navigation rights. For a long time, from colonial days until
the early years of the last century,
that river was an
important channel between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
Given the economic interests of the era,
it also made
Nicaragua a focus of conflict.
It is easy to understand why that waterway between the
two oceans - the only one in the continent prior to the
construction of the Panama Canal - changed Nicaragua into
a region of major political interest, even for the European
Powers. Suffice it to recall that a naval battle was once
waged on the San Juan River - a battle in which so famous
and distinguished a figure as Admiral Nelson participated.
its socio-political
Thus, Nicaragua is a country that, owing to its
geographical position, has always been involved in one way
or another in political and military conflicts. Furthermore,
for the same reason,
to
varying degrees, a constant
influence on its Central
American neighbours. That history of political and military
conflict, which originally had to do with geographic and
economic interests, has extended to geopolitical interests,
most recently as a result of the East-West conflict, the
so-called cold war, which, fortunately, has now come to an
end.
life has had,
We Central Americans have been closely following the
process of pacification and democratization initiated by the
President of Nicaragua, Mrs. Violeta Barrios de Chamorro,
a process summed up in the three-fold transition through
which the country is going, namely, demilitarization,
democratization and a change from a centralized to a free-
market economy.
That three-fold transition, in addition to the natural
disasters that have occurred in Nicaragua over the past three
years in the form of volcanic eruptions, tidal waves and
hurricanes, has left the country in an extremely difficult
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
economic situation and faced with enormous social pressures
that jeopardize its great efforts to consolidate peace and
thereby the region’s political, economic and social stability.
A country with an economy that is experiencing a level
of unemployment and underemployment of over 40 per cent;
a country with an external debt of $10.8 billion that entails
debt-servicing obligations of nearly $1 billion per year when
its exports amount to barely $280 million; a country that is
facing social and political pressures as a result of the
dramatic reduction in its armed forces and the transition
from a totalitarian to a democratic regime: such a country
needs to be governed with the greatest patriotism and care
and with all the necessary moral and material support from
the international community.
That patriotic and prudent Government to which I am
referring is the creation of its President, Mrs. Violeta Barrios
de Chamorro, who has, since assuming office in April 1990,
set the goal of totally pacifying her country, of consolidating
an economic system based on the free market and thereby
establish an equitable economic system, and of laying the
foundation for a deepening and strengthening of
the
democratic process.
Here I would recall the following words used by the
the
report on the work of
Secretary-General
in his
Organization for this year:
"Without peace, there can be no development and
there can be no democracy. Without development, the
basis for democracy will be lacking and societies will
tend to fall into conflict. And without democracy, no
sustainable development can occur; without such
development, peace cannot
long be maintained."
(A/48/1, para. 11)
And I would reaffirm that definitive peace cannot be
achieved without sustained development and that sustained
development cannot exist in so small a country as Nicaragua
it can enjoy
unless, parallel with its domestic efforts,
sufficient
from the
international community and the financial institutions of its
system.
and financial
economic
support
For those reasons we wish to express to Nicaragua our
complete approval of the steps which it is taking to obtain
international support and which have been so ably described
to this meeting of the forty-eighth session of the Assembly
by the Vice-Minister for External Relations, Mr. José Pallais.
The countries of Central America fully support draft
resolution A/48/L.10, and we hope that the international
community represented here will adopt it enthusiastically and
unanimously.
Mr. RICARDES (Argentina)
(interpretation from
Spanish): My delegation is speaking on this item to express
its country’s support for the appeal made by the President of
Nicaragua, Mrs. Violeta Barrios de Chamorro,
in her
statement during the general debate in the Assembly.
In this connection, we believe that the international
community should give increasing priority to the economic
recovery of Nicaragua as part of a comprehensive process of
economic growth and full social development for its people.
in view of
These efforts should be accompanied by assistance from
international financial agencies and regional, interregional
and non-governmental organizations,
the
exceptional situation in that fraternal country. Furthermore,
this is an essential contribution to the democratic stability
of Nicaragua in particular and the entire Central American
region in general. The assistance we are requesting should
include - as set out in General Assembly resolution 47/169 -
activities for the recovery, reconstruction, development and
consolidation of peace of that country. The aim of the
comprehensive effort
to which we have referred is to
strengthen the peace and democracy that have now been
established in Nicaragua.
In that regard, my country wishes to reaffirm its
enduring commitment to finding a solution to the economic
problems of Nicaragua and its readiness to continue
cooperating in the areas open to it with a view to helping in
the reconstruction of the country so as to promote the
consolidation of the atmosphere of peace and détente that
has emerged in the region since the coming of democracy.
In line with its firm commitments to cooperation with
the Republic of Nicaragua, my country has developed a
number of technical cooperation projects between our two
countries.
Among the objectives pursued by these
cooperation projects, may be mentioned the improvement of
human resources, agriculture, forestry, fisheries and energy.
Similarly, the Republic of Argentina has also signed a debt-
cancellation convention with the Republic of Nicaragua as
my country’s further contribution to economic assistance to
a brother nation.
importance
The Government of Argentina also feels that it is of
crucial
for
constitutional democracy in Nicaragua, the only political
system guaranteeing peoples’ basic freedoms and social and
economic progress.
to reaffirm its
support
full
35th meeting - Friday, 22 October l993
13
In conclusion, my delegation lends its full support to
the
the Assembly’s
draft
consideration, and hopes that it will be adopted without a
vote.
resolution
submitted
for
"... giving particular attention to the exceptional
circumstances of Nicaragua ..."
These are the only revisions to the draft resolution.
Mr. JARAMILLO (Colombia) (interpretation from
Spanish): For Colombia, Central America is an area of vital
interest. We have followed closely, with great interest and
all our attention, the developments in that area. Nicaragua
is a fundamental part of the development of Central and
Latin America. That is why we have co-sponsored the draft
resolution on international assistance for the rehabilitation
and reconstruction Nicaragua.
No one can doubt the efforts that have been made by
the people and Government of Nicaragua. We urge the
international community to contribute decisively to the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nicaragua.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item.
the Bahamas, Barbados, Cuba,
I should like to announce that the following States have
become sponsors of draft resolution A/48/L.10: Antigua and
Barbuda,
the Dominican
Republic, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Japan, Mongolia, Nepal,
Norway, Paraguay,
the Philippines, St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, Suriname, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago, the
United States of America and Uruguay.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/48/L.10, as orally revised.
We have stressed in various forums, on our own behalf
and on behalf of the Group of 77,
the importance of
continuity - I stress continuity - in the rehabilitation process
in the aftermath of the war and natural disasters. We are
convinced that peace is built on deeds.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/48/L.10, as orally revised, by consensus?
Draft resolution A/48/L.10, as orally revised, was
adopted (resolution 48/8).
Mr. PALLAIS (Nicaragua)
from
Spanish): I wish to express Nicaragua’s sincere appreciation
for the broad support
that has been given by so many
friendly countries in this debate.
(interpretation
I am pleased to announce that a consensus has been
reached on the draft resolution, and we urge its immediate
adoption after we have taken note of the following revisions
of the text of document A/48/L.10.
In the third preambular paragraph, the word "enormous"
should be deleted.
Following operative paragraph 1,
an additional
paragraph should be introduced to read as follows:
"2. Encourages the Government of Nicaragua to
continue its efforts aimed at reconstruction and national
reconciliation;"
That paragraph will become operative paragraph 2 and the
remaining paragraphs will be renumbered accordingly.
The third and last revision is to operative paragraph 3,
which was formerly paragraph 2. The words "provision
concerning" and "in the case" should be deleted. The
revised section of that paragraph would then read as follows:
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
45?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12 noon
