United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
29th
PLENARY MEETING
Wedensday, 13 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. NDONG (Equatorial Guinea) (interpretation from
Spanish): Mr. President, allow me first of all to express, on
behalf of
the delegation, Government and people of
Equatorial Guinea, our most sincere congratulations on your
well-deserved election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at
its forty-eighth session. Your undeniable
personal prestige and your recognized adherence to the
ideals that inspire our Organization will ensure the success
of our work. Your country, Guyana, is a faithful contributor
to and participant in the United Nations, and offers us today
your great experience and diplomatic skill; these ensure the
success of any decisions that may be taken at this session.
Through you, we should like to extend our congratulations
to the other members of the Bureau in the conviction that
their collaboration will be decisive.
I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the
outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, and his
Bureau for the contributions and guidance they provided to
the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-seventh
session.
I should also like to convey to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the profound appreciation and
gratitude of His Excellency Obiang Nguema Mbasogo and
the Government and the people of Equatorial Guinea for his
dedication and the efforts he has exerted in discharging the
great responsibilities with which he has been entrusted in a
manner that is a source of pride not only for Egypt but for
all Africa.
In carrying out his mission to promote the
peaceful emergence of a new world order and the
maintenance of peace, I assure the Secretary-General that he
will be able to continue to rely on our full cooperation and
support.
To the new States that have joined our Organization we
extend a very warm welcome.
Their presence here
strengthens the United Nations vocation towards universality,
and should contribute to the efforts of the international
community to maintain peace and promote progress and
justice for all nations.
My presence in this world forum should be interpreted
as a clear demonstration of the importance that we attach to
the United Nations,
its principles and its noble task of
constantly strengthening the safeguards over the maintenance
of peace and social and economic progress for all peoples.
This task is of singular importance to Equatorial Guinea,
which is engaged in overcoming underdevelopment and
achieving dignified standards of living for its people.
The common denominator of the many statements that
have been made has been the vast changes that have taken
place in the world since the mid-1980s, a trend towards
transformation the pace of which, far from decreasing, has
accelerated considerably.
With the disappearance of
the East-West bipolar
structure, which has been replaced by dialogue and
cooperation, we find ourselves - and this is no exaggeration -
faced with a new configuration in international relations
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86867 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.29
4 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
by
a
in
characterized
disarmament, at the global and regional levels, and an easing
of some regional conflicts.
progress
certain
degree
of
the United Nations
Equatorial Guinea firmly supports the intensification of
the work of
through preventive
diplomacy. Measures such as the sending of missions of
inquiry,
and the
regional and subregional
strengthening of
organizations can be effective in avoiding conflicts which,
once they break out, could require subsequent, much more
costly intervention for peace to be restored.
early-warning systems
the use of
the role of
also
have
operations
Peace-keeping
undergone
qualitative change and now cover
increasingly varied
activities transcending the traditional sphere. In this respect
I should like to underscore the efforts of the United Nations
in many parts of the world in the humanitarian field, in
providing aid to refugees and in monitoring elections.
the subregional
Progress and efforts at
level are
commendable.
Hence we support General Assembly
resolution 46/37 B, establishing the Standing Advisory
Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which
is working for peace and confidence-building among the
States of our subregion. As a popular saying goes:
"An
ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." With that
Committee we are trying to prevent
the emergence of
conflicts in the subregion by developing measures to
alleviate situations of conflict.
None the less, despite these positive steps and
endeavours, at the global level we look to the future with a
certain degree of concern because we still see certain
positions that prevent equitable economic relations and
impede developing countries from exercising international
free trade. The sound of the machine-gun and the cannon is
still dashing the hopes of many innocent peoples to live in
peace and tranquillity. The present international situation,
we might say, fluctuates between uneasiness and hope. We
hope that the global changes and the end of the cold war
will bring renewed life to countries of the third world.
such cooperation, countries that are now struggling not just
for a standard of living but for their very survival. Poverty,
the sad fate of many States in our world, requires that united
action be taken by the other States in order to remedy the
situation. The gap between rich and poor is widening at an
alarming pace; that disparity can not leave the international
community indifferent. Hence it is necessary to strengthen
the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in order
to meet the new realities.
The problem of preserving the environment and the
struggle against illicit drug-trafficking are questions that
require our reflection. With the 1992 Stockholm Declaration
we laid the foundations of certain universal principles to
preserve the global environment and made efforts to stem
pollution, desertification and deforestation. But the situation
required new initiatives, and these culminated in the
Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio
de Janeiro.
We hope that these results will have positive effects
overall and that it will be possible to ensure sustainable
development and the future well-being of mankind.
None the less, I wish to emphasize the obligation of the
developed countries, which bear the greatest responsibility
for the deterioration of the global ecosystem, towards those
other countries that are today being asked to make enormous
sacrifices by limiting their legitimate right to use the assets
given them by nature. There is a need to seek the necessary
compensation for this situation, in particular by the financing
of alternative projects and through technological cooperation.
Within its modest economic means my Government has
always been, and remains, prepared to take action in order
to improve its national environment as a contribution to the
task of preserving the global environment.
We condemn the illicit traffic in drugs and are prepared
its
any international
aimed at
initiative
to support
suppression.
The industrialized countries must understand the need
to resolve, on mutually agreed terms,
the external debt
problem of underdeveloped countries. The weight of that
debt is another serious difficulty standing in the way of their
achieving a better standard of living.
My country hopes that the new world scene will be
conducive to the implementation of procedures for sincere
international cooperation for those nations that most need
The Government of Equatorial Guinea is unflagging in
its
struggle against
the acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS) pandemic, and it will spare no effort for
its effective control, thanks to the deep awareness of our
people and the assistance we receive in this connection from
international organizations.
To reflect the noble ideals of peace and justice of the
people of Equatorial Guinea, my Government has embarked
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
3
on a progressive democratic process that guarantees to every
citizen of the country the exercise of fundamental rights and
freedoms.
Ninth, Convergence for Social Democracy submitted its
application on 7 November 1992 and was recognized on
5 February 1993.
The firm democratic process begun in the country has
been well-received by the people of Equatorial Guinea and
by those countries that set aside mere rhetoric and concealed
political interests, love Equatorial Guinea and hope that it
will progress.
the people and the
Government of Equatorial Guinea is that our process will be
carried through in a climate of national concord without
upheaval, without disturbances that could threaten the peace
and stability prevailing in the country.
The aspiration of
That is why, following the massive adoption of the new
fundamental law which enshrined our multiparty system, in
the context of Law No. 3 1992 on political parties, the
following political organizations have been made legal.
First, the Popular Union submitted its application on
24 April 1992 and was recognized on 17 October 1992.
Second, the Liberal Democratic Convention submitted
its application on 1 April 1992 and was recognized on 17
October 1992.
Third,
the Social Democrat Party submitted its
application on 8 June 1992 and was recognized on 17
October 1992.
Fourth, the Progressive Democratic Alliance submitted
its application on 9 July 1992 and was recognized on 4
September 1992.
Fifth,
the Social Democratic Union submitted its
application on 8 June 1992 and was recognized on 17
October 1992.
Sixth, the Progress Party submitted its application on
18 May 1992 and was recognized on 17 October 1992.
Seventh,
the
Popular
Convergence submitted its application on 18 May 1992 and
was recognized on 5 February 1993.
Social Democratic
and
Eighth,
the Social Democratic Coalition Party of
Equatorial Guinea submitted its application on 4 November
1992 and was recognized on 5 February 1993.
Tenth, the Equatorial Guinea Popular Action submitted
its application on 28 December 1992 and was recognized on
5 February 1993.
Eleventh, the National Democratic Union submitted its
application on 29 March 1993 and was recognized on 10
May 1993.
Twelfth,
the Socialist Party of Equatorial Guinea
submitted its application on 23 March 1993 and was
recognized on 10 May 1993.
Thirteenth, the Liberal Party submitted its application
on 23 March 1993 and was recognized on 12 July 1993.
In addition to other provisions, such as the law
guaranteeing freedom of association and freedom to
demonstrate, and the law on the right to protest and to
petition, the determination of the Government to establish
democracy peacefully in the country has taken concrete
shape in the signing of a document - called the National
Pact - between the Government and the opposition, which
reflects the combined aspirations of all the political forces
and is a channel
the
democratization process.
for ensuring the success of
Out of our constant desire to give greater political
transparency to the process, we have postponed until 21
November 1993 the legislative elections originally planned
for 12 September 1993. We have done so in order to take
into account and meet the wishes of certain political groups.
The political spectrum for the forthcoming general
legislative elections now looks like this:
there are political
parties that have decided to participate in the legislative
elections, political parties that intend to participate in the
legislative elections, and political parties that have not yet
decided whether to participate in the legislative elections.
The political parties that have decided to participate in
the legislative elections are:
the Democratic Party of
Equatorial Guinea, the Liberal Democratic Convention, the
Social Democratic Union, the Liberal Party and the Social
Democratic Party. This very morning, my Government
informed me that the Party of the Convergence for Social
and People’s Democracy has also decided to participate in
the legislative elections.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The political parties that have expressed their intention
to participate in the legislative elections are:
the Progress
Party, Tomás Boi Cheky Division; and the Social Democrat
Coalition Party, Massoko Division.
With regard to the political parties that have not
decided whether to participate in the legislative elections, the
Government of Equatorial Guinea has received no official
notification of a decision to participate in the legislative
elections of 21 November from the following political
parties:
the Progress Party, Severo Moto Division; the
Social Democratic Convergence; the Progressive Democratic
Alliance; the Social Democrat Coalition Party, Buenaventura
Monsuy Division; People’s Action of Equatorial Guinea; the
National Democratic Union; and the Socialist Party of
Equatorial Guinea.
In connection with the revision of the electoral law
proposed by the opposition political parties, on 19 October
and 13 and 18 November the Government extended an
invitation to these parties to participate in some meetings,
but they did not come to the meetings or give any reason for
not doing so.
In view of the opposition parties’ inexplicable refusal
to participate, and in order to avoid any stagnation in the
political democratization process, the Government used its
legislative initiative, under our Basic Law, to adopt a draft
law, which was sent to the House of Representatives and
approved with amendments by that legislative body. The
text of the law was approved and promulgated by our Head
of State in January 1993.
It should be pointed out that the electoral law now in
force is based on comparative law - mainly the electoral
legislation of Spain, France and Gabon. For that reason, the
Government is firmly convinced that the rejection of the
electoral law by the opposition political parties that have not
expressed their intention to participate in the legislative
elections of 21 November 1993 is nothing but a pretext for
delaying or blocking the process that has been set in motion.
There is no doubt that the implementation of the democratic
process in Equatorial Guinea has been made possible by the
selflessness and determination of His Excellency Obiang
Nguema Mbasogo, who, after freedom had triumphed on
3 August 1979, overthrew the dictatorship and began the real
march of the country towards democracy in a climate of
peace and harmony, which the advocates of violence wish to
destroy with their provocations and their contemptible plots.
peace and stability. We reject those who do nothing but
defame our country and our Government, denigrating the
actions that have been undertaken thus far in the country.
A democracy imposed by foreign interests becomes
corrupt and falls apart. A democracy that denies the
genuine, traditional and sacred values of a people not only
hurts the feelings, the pride and the honour of that people
but is also doomed to failure. "Man is what circumstances
dictate", affirmed the great Spanish philosopher Balmes.
That is why only a democracy that can respond to the sacred
interests of the people of Equatorial Guinea will be viable in
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. In documents A/48/307
of 12 August 1993, A/48/330 of 19 August 1993, and
A/48/357 of 31 August 1993, our Government presented
information on the interference of certain foreign interests in
my country’s internal affairs. From this rostrum, we are
holding the countries responsible for
interference
responsible for the consequences.
that
We reaffirm that only in an atmosphere of peace is it
possible to achieve the progress and well-being to which all
peoples aspire. To the governmental and non-governmental
organizations and friendly countries that, with their support,
have contributed to the efforts of our Government, we
express our deepest appreciation, and we urge them to
continue to lend their support and cooperation at
this
decisive stage in our democratic process.
Intelligent action in this new global society must be
based on the exercise of the firmest solidarity.
If that is
done, we shall be able to say with pride, "We the peoples,
for a better world."
Mr. MATTHEWS (Liberia):
I wish to congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of
the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We are sure
that your vast experience, personal qualifications, and
intimate knowledge of the manifold problems confronting the
international community will
in the
performance of your duties. Please be assured of the fullest
cooperation and support of the Liberian delegation.
serve you well
We extend a deserving tribute to your predecessor,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for the efficient and able
manner in which he handled the affairs of the Assembly
during the past year. His decisiveness and fairness paid off
greatly in producing the many results which are a positive
outgrowth of the debate of the previous session.
We in Equatorial Guinea totally reject the views of the
apologists violence and their attempts to undermine national
Our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, also
deserves special commendation for his persistent and tireless
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
5
efforts in trying to secure a world that is both peaceful and
just and sustained by an equitable economic order. Indeed,
his devotion and singular commitment to the principles and
purposes of
renewed
confidence on the prospects of achieving mankind’s dream
of a stable international environment.
the Organization have brought
We
this
seize
opportunity
the
It is our
newly-admitted Members of the United Nations.
fervent hope that they will make a meaningful contribution
to our common search for global peace and security.
to welcome
to effect
secondly,
to end the conflict;
Over the past three years Liberia’s external relations, in
response to domestic imperatives, have focused on the
achievement of four primary objectives: first, to ensure that
international opinion is sensitized to the serious effects of
the civil war in Liberia and the need for international
support
the
mobilization of humanitarian and emergency relief assistance
for the war-ravaged population;
thirdly, to help sustain the
consensus on the situation in Liberia within the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and to
secure broader international acceptance of the ECOWAS
peace plan as the best possible formula for resolving the
Liberian civil strife;
and, fourthly, to enhance the peace
process itself by neutralizing attempts to resolve the Liberian
conflict through the military victory of a faction, while
encouraging a negotiated political
this
seemingly intractable conflict.
settlement of
In pursuit of these objectives, the Interim Government
of National Unity (IGNU) has participated in 25 peace talks
and a great number of other consultations with the Liberian
factions,
and
international organizations, and foreign Governments to
enhance the prospects for peace in Liberia.
subregional,
regional
leaders
the
of
It is now my pleasing duty to inform the Assembly that
the Interim Government of National Unity, the National
Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL) and the United Liberation
Movement of Liberia for Democracy (ULIMO) signed a
peace accord in Cotonou, the Republic of Benin, on 25 July
1993. The Cotonou Agreement is a significant breakthrough
in the quest for durable peace in Liberia.
By agreeing on a process beginning with a cease-fire
and leading to disarmament, demobilization and then free
and fair elections, we Liberians have all finally decided on
how power will be acquired in our country. The Agreement
is therefore a great victory for the people of Liberia in their
efforts to secure a democratic future.
As my delegation stated on 10 August 1993 during the
Security Council’s consideration of the report (S/26200) of
the Secretary-General on Liberia, the Cotonou Agreement is
also a victory for the leaders and peoples of the member
States of the Economic Community of West African States,
who took a bold and courageous initiative to resolve a
security question in their subregion, with the active support
and cooperation of
the Organization of African Unity
(OAU).
that
On that occasion, we went on to state, and we here
repeat,
the United Nations must also share in this
victory. In this vein we wish to register our appreciation to
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his consuming
interest in the crisis in Liberia. We thank him immensely
for his thorough and incisive reports on Liberia, which
enhanced the decisiveness of the Security Council with
respect
and
866 (1993).
to resolutions 788 (1992), 813 (1993)
We also commend the Secretary-General’s Special
Representative for Liberia, Mr. Trevor Gordon-Somers; the
OAU Eminent Person for Liberia, former Zimbabwean
President
the Rev. Dr. Canaan Banana; and the former
Executive Secretary of ECOWAS, Dr. Abbas Bundu; whose
relentless collaborative efforts helped to make the Cotonou
Agreement a reality.
The people of Liberia will for ever remain grateful to
the gallant men and women of the ECOWAS Cease-fire
Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). Enduring thanks go to the
West African States which have made troop contributions to
the peace-keeping effort: Nigeria, Ghana, Guinea, Sierra
Leone, Gambia, Mali and Senegal.
During the process of negotiating the Cotonou
Agreement, the Interim Government, largely a coalition of
various political parties and interest groups representing the
vast majority of our citizenry who do not bear arms,
demanded the disarmament of all combatants as a sine qua
non for the restoration of peace.
The armed factions
conceded to this demand on condition that a new,
transitional authority, to include the Interim Government, be
organized within a framework acceptable to them. This
concession, hardly an unreasonably high price to pay for
disarmament and peace, was made.
The Cotonou
Agreement, then, divided into a military and a political
component, encompasses provisions attending a trade-off.
The political demands are far-reaching, in that they
require more than a simple reconfiguration of the Interim
Government within the context of power-sharing. The
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Liberian National Transitional Government, being a new
creation, requires the divestiture of power from the current
interim authorities. On the other hand, the warring factions,
divested of their arms and demobilized, will equally cease to
exist as fighting forces.
To strengthen the Agreement, or otherwise reinforce the
confidence of the parties, it was agreed that the installing of
the Transitional Government, and the beginning of the
disarmament process, each being a precondition for the
other, would ensue simultaneously. However, this demand
for concurrent processes harbours the prospective danger that
an achievement lag in either component, military or political,
may tend to undermine confidence in the entire peace
process and thereby threaten the understanding.
What, then, does each phase require, and how much
and in what area has progress been made?
the political phase of
The implementation of
the
Accords has largely been completed, and on schedule. The
Interim Government has complied with all the concessions
required for disarmament so that Liberians may live free
from fear and have a chance of being at peace with each
other.
The legislature,
A five-member Council of State has been formed to
the Transitional
constitute the executive authority of
Government.
the judiciary, and the
Elections Commission are being reorganized or otherwise
made to reflect the inclusive intent of the transitional period.
The Liberian National Transitional Government is waiting to
be installed once the disarmament process begins. Pacta
sunt servanda. What,
is the requirement for the
disarmament process to begin? The following paragraph
from the report of the Secretary-General on Liberia, of 4
August 1993, correctly reflects the specific provisions of the
agreement
The
Secretary-General states:
factor motivating
and the
them.
then,
disarmament
encampment,
level of mistrust
"Given the
existing between
ECOMOG and the NPFL, special measures were
devised to make ECOMOG acceptable to all parties in
overseeing
and
demobilization. It was agreed that ECOMOG would be
expanded to include new troops from countries not
already participating in ECOMOG. These troops would
be drawn from other ECOWAS countries, as well as
from OAU countries outside of the West African
subregion.
In addition, it was proposed that United
Nations military observers would monitor and verify
the cease-fire as well as the implementation of the
encampment,
provisions of the Agreement." (S/26200, para. 7)
disarmament
demobilization
and
in
later,
September
A month
the
Secretary-General, recognizing that these preparations for
disarmament would not keep pace with the political
arrangements, advanced a most constructive proposal in his
report of 9 September 1993 as follows:
1993,
the
the
be
that
crucial
forecasts
government would
"... The Agreement
the
transitional
established
approximately one month after the signing of the
agreement, concomitant with the commencement of
the disarmament process. While this process is
already somewhat behind schedule, the establishment
is
of
transitional government
to
reinforcing national reconciliation.
I therefore urge
ECOMOG to move quickly in commencing the
disarmament process, with monitoring provided by
the advance team of UNOMIL, even before full
deployment of
expanded ECOMOG and
UNOMIL.
In this regard, it is encouraging to note
that NPFL expressed to the planning mission its
readiness to accept troops from among the present
ECOMOG contingent to be deployed in NPFL areas.
With the expected full deployment of the advanced
team of United Nations military observers in the
coming days, the disarmament process could possibly
begin immediately thereafter." (S/26422, para. 40)
to
process
commence,
disarmament
Last week in Monrovia, Dr. Amos Sawyer,
the
President of the Interim Government of National Unity,
publicly assured the Liberian people that
if the armed
factions accept the Secretary-General’s proposal and allow
the
he would
immediately transfer power to the transitional authorities.
However, the unwillingness of any of the armed factions to
avail itself of the proposal need not necessarily be viewed as
reflective of a lack of will or suggestive of bad faith.
Scrupulous adherence to the actual terms of the Agreement
may ultimately enhance the prospects for genuine peace,
however slow and exacting the process may prove to be.
Meanwhile, efforts continue to get the full complement of
additional ECOMOG forces and United Nations observers.
The Government of Liberia wishes to thank the United
States Government for its contribution to the Trust Fund of
the Economic Community of West African States to
facilitate the expansion of ECOMOG and assist the forces
currently in place. We renew our request to other friendly
Governments to respond to the Secretary-General’s appeal
for contributions to the Trust Fund as a means of advancing
the peace process in Liberia.
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
7
We are convinced that the enabling conditions for
disarmament will be expeditiously created and that
the
Transitional Government will be installed shortly. The fact
that the cease-fire continues to hold and that the parties are
largely cooperating with each other is a basis for continuing
confidence in the commitment of the parties.
Our hearts are touched by the great outpouring of
empathy and good will from countries that have contributed
to the well-being of
the people of Liberia since the
beginning of our conflict. Through the specialized agencies
of the United Nations system, as well as many private
volunteer and non-governmental organizations, they have
enabled many Liberians to find life worth living because of
the genuine concern that has been demonstrated. Our thanks
go to all those who continue to make a difference in the
lives of our people.
The Transitional Government, when installed with
authority spanning the entire country, will stand in need of
extensive relief assistance to respond effectively to the
monumental human suffering existing in some parts of
Liberia. Our delegation envisages an upsurge in the demand
for humanitarian assistance, with food and medical supplies
being the obvious priorities. We appeal to the international
community to stand ready to assist the people of Liberia for
a reasonable period, as it will
take time before the
advantages of peace are translated into real improvements in
the lives of the people.
A successful disarmament exercise will be the
long-awaited signal for our people in refugee camps to
return home. Indeed, the Transitional Government will need
the cooperation and assistance of men of good will
everywhere in order to succeed in the awesome tasks of
repatriation, resettlement and rehabilitation. The gruesome
civil war devastated the economy of the country, paralysed
vital social services and destroyed basic infrastructure. It is
significant that the political division of the country has
prevented a coordinated needs survey to fully assess the
reconstruction demand.
It is important, also, that the Transitional Government
has the task of helping to prepare the country for free and
fair elections, to be held under international supervision and
monitoring within six to seven months. This is hardly ideal
that a negotiated
timing, but
settlement could produce.
the international
community has a moral obligation to help the people of
Liberia succeed in this endeavour, since the very thought of
failure attending these exercises is, in itself, a nightmare.
it proved to be the best
Clearly,
The Interim Government has striven, even in the
throes of a civil war, to maintain law and order and operate
with a Constitution which affirms civil liberties and respect
for fundamental human rights. We, as men of conscience,
condemn and stand in total opposition against those who, in
the midst of the war, trained their weapons on helpless
civilians. We therefore thank the Secretary-General for
responding with dispatch to the Interim Government’s
request for the establishment of a commission of inquiry to
investigate the atrocities committed since the commencement
of the civil war. We believe that the Wako Commission
Report has contributed to amassing the evidence required in
order for justice to be done to the perpetrators of the Harbel
area massacre and other massacres.
Liberia’s tragic circumstances, coupled with the
efforts to resolve the conflict, provide useful lessons that
could be most instructive for the international community.
The Liberian peace process has shown that, even in the face
of scarce resources, member States of
the Economic
Community of West African States have contained a security
threat in their subregion by marshalling the requisite political
will to do so. The dispatch and maintenance of a peace-
keeping force in Liberia by the leaders of ECOWAS
represent the finest hour for Africa in its efforts to maintain
peace and security on the continent.
The Liberian experience has also demonstrated that
peace initiatives that are conceived and implemented within
a subregional context, while supported and assisted by
regional and international organizations, are a practical
approach which stands the best chance of success in conflict
resolution. The States closest to the conflict are likely to
have a deeper understanding of, and appreciation for, the
interplay of forces within the milieu.
It is against this
background that the Government of Liberia gave its fullest
support for, and endorsement of, the establishment of a
mechanism for
conflict prevention, management and
resolution within the Organization of African Unity.
We welcome the establishment of the Department of
Peace-keeping Operations in the Secretariat for the planning
and coordination of all United Nations peace-keeping
activities, confident that it will countenance greater regional
involvement in conflict management, buttressed by support
from the United Nations.
On the question of Somalia,
the Government of
Liberia welcomes the bold and courageous efforts by the
United Nations to resolve the tragic situation there and bring
peace to that country. We deplore the killing of United
Nations peace-keepers in Mogadishu, and we support the
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
efforts by this world body to bring to justice those
responsible for such acts. The implementation of the Addis
Ababa Accords, signed on 27 March 1993, at the national
reconciliation conference, offers the best hope for a peaceful
transition to a pacified and democratic State of Somalia. We
therefore urge the Somali factions to respect and implement
that agreement.
Regarding South Africa, we welcome the current
multi-party negotiations in that country as the most inclusive
forum so far convened to end the apartheid system and
create a non-racial, democratic society. We are pleased that,
as a result of these negotiations, a democratic Government
is scheduled to be elected in April 1994.
With regard to Angola, the Government of Liberia
wishes to call on UNITA to abandon its military agenda and
seek to resolve the crisis through peaceful means in
conformity with the Bicesse Accords. In this light, we also
make a special appeal to UNITA to conform to the wishes
of the people of Angola by accepting the results of the
September 1992 elections. We call on it to sign the protocol
of agreement negotiated in Abidjan in a spirit of national
unity and reconciliation of all Angolans.
Last month the world welcomed the historic and
dramatic developments affecting peace in the Middle East,
when the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization (PLO) recognized each other. The signing of
an agreement on Palestinian autonomy means that the first
real step has indeed been taken towards Palestinian self-rule.
It is our sincerest hope that this agreement will soon be
complemented by peace accords between Israel and all of its
Arab neighbours.
by
of
issues
Perhaps no problem, apart from the spectre of a
nuclear holocaust, has elicited more global concern than that
of the environment, given its intrinsic linkage to man’s
In a world
survival and his economic well-being.
characterized
common
concern
and
ever-increasing interdependence of States, a collective
approach is indispensable in meeting the challenges posed by
environmental problems and the international economic
situation. The environmental crisis is now posing a serious
threat to the life-support system of our planet. This is why
my delegation believes it is most important that Member
States maintain the momentum gained at the historic 1992
Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio
de Janeiro, by effective follow-up at
the national and
international levels. We welcome the establishment of the
Commission
Sustainable Development whose
on
responsibility it is to review and monitor implementation of
Agenda 21.
With respect
to the world economic situation,
it
remains our firm belief that, in order to achieve progress in
global economic recovery, issues of long-term significance,
such as the excruciating debt burden of developing countries,
low commodity prices, protectionism and dwindling resource
flow into developing countries, should all form the real
agenda for the setting of priorities to include a permanent
increase in global economic growth. The current gloomy
situation of the international economy, worse now than in
the previous decade, is further accentuated by new risks to
the world economy caused by conflicts, the problem of
refugees and the plight of the world’s children. These
problems pose a real threat to growth and development in
many regions of the world.
In view of what I have said, there is an urgent need,
as a part of the continuing effort to forge a new and fairer
international economic order, for the peace dividends derived
from the easing of bipolar tension to be deployed to meet
the development needs of the world’s most economically
disadvantaged regions. They should not be reserved for the
exclusive use of the already wealthy nations, and they should
not be directed only towards the political and economic
liberalization of a particular region of the world. All must
take into account the fact that economic opportunity and
social
justice are essential preconditions for peace and
security in our global village.
The post-cold-war era has offered the United Nations
new opportunities and challenges, particularly in the
fulfilment of its unique responsibility as the conscience of
mankind. In recent years, the United Nations has taken bold
decisions in peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building,
humanitarian intervention and the protection of human rights.
These assertive approaches have made the United Nations
appear more relevant to the peoples of the world.
It is hoped that, in its honourable pursuits, the United
Nations will continue to be led by men of vision who can
ensure the realization of the noble ideals enshrined in its Charter -
fostering world peace and promoting development and
cooperation amongst all the peoples of our one world.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker
in the general debate.
I am informed that the representative of Azerbaijan
has requested to exercise the right of reply. May I remind
him that statements in exercise of the right of reply are
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
9
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to five
minutes for the second intervention, and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
I now call on the representative of Azerbaijan to
speak in the exercise of the right of reply.
Mr. ALIYEV (Azerbaijan): I have asked to speak in
exercise of my right of reply, under rule 73 of the rules of
procedure, in order to refer to a statement made earlier by
the representative of the Republic of Armenia.
The statement made by the Minister of Foreign
Affairs of Armenia contains many colourful epithets
regarding his country. He appeals for the sympathy of
representatives by declaring that he is the Foreign Minister
of a small country under a total blockade and under constant
provocation by Azerbaijan to be drawn into the Nagorny
Karabakh conflict.
I do not
facts
like to use the high rostrum of
this
Assembly to take up once again a discussion on this conflict.
The
they have been
misrepresented by the Minister.
are widely known, but
How is it possible to speak of Armenia being drawn
into the Nagorny Karabakh conflict when it was that
country’s Parliament which adopted, back in 1989,
the
decision to annex the Nagorny Karabakh region of
Azerbaijan? This decision was taken even though the
international community, the United Nations and the Security
Council explicitly and unequivocally agreed that Nagorny
Karabakh is and must be an integral part of Azerbaijan.
It is no secret that, under the guise of the high
principle of
self-determination and with the aim of
expanding its territory, Armenia initiated, and for over six
years has been waging, an undeclared war against
Azerbaijan. The results of this war are well known. The
Minister himself mentioned in his statement that the conflict
had claimed the lives of more than 10,000 persons and had
caused more than a million innocent people to become
refugees and displaced persons. The Minister failed to
mention, however, that Azerbaijan is the home of the million
displaced persons. He also omitted the fact that the war is
taking place exclusively on Azerbaijani territory. One fifth
of its land has been occupied by the Armenian military
forces, that is, four times more than the territory of the
Nagorny Karabakh region itself, which is the object of
territorial claims by Armenia in Azerbaijan.
Taking into consideration the fact that Armenia is
practically waging an undeclared war against Azerbaijan in
the latter’s territory, the question of a so-called blockade
allegedly imposed by Azerbaijan on Armenia seems illogical.
It is evident that the breaking off of communications and
transport connections is the inevitable result of any military
conflict between two countries. Armenia borders not only
on Azerbaijan, but on three other countries, and it is not in
a state of conflict with them. It is therefore able to use their
transportation lines in order to receive all necessary goods.
However, as a result of the war that was imposed by
Armenia on Azerbaijan, the entire Nakhichevan region of
Azerbaijan is now totally cut off from the rest of the
country.
With regard to Armenia’s interpretation of
the
concept of
self-determination, which was colourfully
described in the statement, I would like to point out that
Armenia became outspoken in this policy only after
expelling the remaining 215,000 Azerbaijanis from the
country that had been their home for centuries. As a result
of this, Armenia had become a unique monoethnic State,
where practically no ethnic or religious minorities exist. No
minorities - no problems.
Consequently, a country such as Armenia cannot be
justified in proclaiming itself the advocate of the right of
self-determination in another country, especially when it is
pursuing unfounded territorial claims in that country - claims
which have been endorsed de jure by a decision of the
Armenian Parliament.
Incidentally,
thousands of Azerbaijanis had been
living in Armenia without any form of autonomy. The
Armenian community of the Nagorny Karabakh region of
Azerbaijan, on the other hand, enjoyed autonomy in the
political, economic, social and cultural aspects of their lives.
There are over a hundred different peoples and ethnic groups
in Azerbaijan, and all of them have equal rights.
In conclusion,
I would like to point out
that
Armenia’s declaration that it is the only democracy in the
region is offensive to neighbouring countries. Presidential
elections were recently held in Azerbaijan that were
monitored by various international observers, such as
representatives of
the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe, the International Labor Organisation,
members of parliament, and representatives of human rights
organizations from a number of countries, and of the
diplomatic corps, and all agreed that the process was fully
democratic.
It is ironic for Armenia to declare itself "an
island of stability in a sea of political chaos and turmoil"
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
(Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth
Session, Plenary Meetings, 24th meeting, p. 24 of
provisional) after it has annexed part of another country’s
territory and uprooted a million innocent people.
maximum international economic cooperation to improve the
global economy and, more particularly, the disadvantaged
situation of the developing countries.
STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT
The PRESIDENT: At the conclusion of a most
I am prompted to make a brief
thrust so that we may be
interesting debate,
observation on its general
adequately oriented in the future work of the Assembly.
In comparison with recent debates, this year’s has
been remarkable - at least in my view - for its vision and
sense of purpose in addressing the global agenda for the rest
of this century and beyond.
I would wish to thank all
delegations which participated for the thoughtful insights
provided through our collective review of the international
political, economic and social situation. More particularly,
I would like to acknowledge with profound gratitude the
warm tributes paid to my region, my country and myself.
Representatives may be assured that I will do my utmost to
satisfy their expectations of the presidency.
It
has
to
that
been
truly
relations,
encouraging
perceive,
notwithstanding the grave uncertainties now prevailing in
international
there exists a widespread
optimism about the Organization’s capacity to satisfy the
expectations and needs of its membership. There seems to be
a renewed commitment, by all States, to the purposes and
principles of the Charter and a ready acknowledgement of
the concept of
interdependence, which must now be
translated into actual cooperation. We must seek to infuse
this unity of spirit into our deliberations as we come to
address the many issues on our agenda.
Indeed, the end of the cold war revealed and released
ethnic and nationalist tensions which had been repressed, and
brought back behaviour which we thought had receded far
into history. There is now stronger support - stronger than
preventive
ever -
for United Nations
diplomacy,
peacemaking and peace-keeping,
reflecting the bold plans
set out
in the Secretary-General’s "Agenda for Peace".
During the coming weeks we shall have the opportunity to
explore further the several proposals which have been made
on how to strengthen further our capacity in this area.
I am especially pleased, however, to see a universal
disposition to complement the "Agenda for Peace" with one
for development in order to address the urgent economic
and social problems which confront the majority of our
peoples. Statements have invariably stressed the need for
Many positive ideas, encompassing the issues of debt,
development assistance, trade and the preservation of the
environment, have emerged from this comprehensive
analysis. These should provide substantial input to the
Second Committee’s consideration of the agenda item on an
agenda for development, which should in turn provide a
basis
of
the
Secretary-General’s report on this important subject.
furtherance
completion
and
the
for
Equally noteworthy has been the eagerness with
which delegations seem prepared to advance our work to
reform and restructure the United Nations to make it more
adapted and adaptable to the times in which we now live.
There is a distinct perception in the House that many, if not
all, of the organs, as presently conceived and constituted, are
ill-suited to prevailing circumstances and the satisfaction of
our many needs. Considerable focus has been placed on the
Security Council, which,
in the eyes of many, requires
enlargement and more transparent operations so as better to
represent
the membership in dealing with the complex
questions relating to the maintenance of international peace
and security. Great
interest has also been evinced in
strengthening the ability of the economic and social bodies,
including their governing councils, to address their respective
agendas. Finally, it has been made clear that the Assembly
would wish me to pursue the effort of my predecessors to
revitalize the Assembly’s role under the Charter.
I have already begun consultations,
through the
chairmen of all regional groups and other interested parties,
with a view to creating - or, in some cases, reviving - as
quickly as possible machinery which would allow necessary
and urgent follow-up in these several areas of interest. All
working groups thus established would be open-ended and
transparent in their operations, while tasked at the same time
to complete their mandates expeditiously.
I hope within a
few days to be in a position to make a further announcement
in this connection.
It would be a pity, I believe, if, as has been the case
over the years, the high level of political will demonstrated
in the general debate were to be allowed to evaporate
without infusing more detailed consideration of issues at the
level of the various subject Committees. The Committees
and working groups should bear in mind the main ideas and
recommendations which we have been privileged to hear
during this debate and should seek to implement
them
wherever feasible.
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
11
I would be less than candid here were I not
to
confess to some disappointment that, despite my occasional
reminders to the Assembly of the need to respect its own
decision to refrain from expressing congratulations to
speakers in the Hall and thus to make the most efficient use
of its time, my pleas went largely unheeded. Also less than
satisfactory was the punctuality record. Admittedly, because
of protocol requirements dictated by the attendance of many
Heads of State and Government and other high-level
representatives, I was myself, on occasion, failing in this
regard. However, now that the debate is over and the
plenary Assembly is about to address substantive issues on
the Assembly’s agenda, I intend to insist on the full
observance of our accepted rules of procedure. May I
this time when our
therefore urge the membership, at
Organization’s resources are scarce,
to demonstrate a
heightened sense of responsibility in the conduct of our
deliberations.
Over the past two and a half weeks we have heard
addresses from 28 Heads of State, 13 Prime Ministers,
2 Crown Princes and 122 Foreign Ministers, among others.
Despite this record number of statements - a total of 175, I
am told - our debate ended on the day scheduled. With
representatives’ cooperation, we can also complete the
programme ahead within the time allotted.
Finally, may I express the hope -
indeed, my
expectation - that deliberations in Committees and statements
in plenary meetings to come will, like the general debate,
rise to the level of events and of our aspirations to peace and
development.
I wish to thank everyone in the Secretariat, including
our conference services and the interpreters - for the very
ready and unstinting cooperation we have received.
May I take it that it is the wish of the General
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 9?
It was so decided.
PROGRAMME OF WORK
I
The PRESIDENT:
should like to remind
representatives that the debate on the report of the Secretary-
General on the work of the Organization is scheduled for
tomorrow morning, and there are now 13 names inscribed on
the list of speakers. I wish to point out that that number of
speakers will not quite fill a three-hour meeting, that is to
say, from 10 a.m.
to 1 p.m. A full meeting has been
allocated to this debate because of members’ concern, as
expressed in resolution 47/233 of 17 August 1993, that the
reports of principal organs should be discussed in depth by
the Assembly. However, the whole purpose of such a
decision would be defeated if only a few representatives
spoke.
This is especially true in the case of the
debate on the report of the International Court of Justice, for
which, up to now, only two speakers have inscribed their
names on the list.
We cannot decide on one way and act another.
Allow me therefore to remind Member States that the list of
speakers for those items is open. I invite them to follow up
our resolutions with appropriate action in the debates in the
plenary Assembly.
AGENDA ITEM 150
OBSERVER STATUS
FOR THE ECONOMIC
COOPERATION ORGANIZATION IN THE GENERAL
ASSEMBLY: DRAFT RESOLUTION A/48/L.l
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
Pakistan to introduce draft resolution A/48/L.1, concerning
agenda item 150.
Mr. MARKER (Pakistan):
I have the honour, on
behalf of the sponsors - Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, the Islamic
Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan,
Republic of
Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan -
to
introduce draft resolution A/48/L.1, on the granting of
Observer status for the Economic Cooperation Organization
in the General Assembly.
I should like to state that this
draft resolution has been sponsored also by Senegal.
The Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) is an
intergovernmental organization which was established in
1985 when its predecessor organization,
the Regional
Cooperation for Development, was
restructured and
revitalized. Its founding members are the Islamic Republic
of Iran, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and Turkey. The
membership of this organization has since expanded to
include seven other members of the region and it now stands
at 10. The new members of the organization are the Islamic
State of Afghanistan, the Azerbaijani Republic, the Republic
of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and the Republic of Uzbekistan.
The Economic Cooperation Organization has the
(a) to expand trade among member
following objectives:
States by providing free access to each other’s markets; (b)
to promote in each member State conditions for sustained
economic
continuous
achieve
growth
in
order
to
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
improvement in the standard of living of the people; (c) to
consolidate cultural affinities and spiritual and fraternal ties
that bind the people of the member States through social and
cultural channels of
to
contribute to the growth of world trade and to strive to
remove any iniquitous trading policies resulting in adverse
terms of trade for the developing countries, by evolving a
common approach in international forums.
thought and action;
and (d)
The
of
are
eight
through
activities
conducted
the Economic Cooperation
Organization
technical
committees, which consider and evolve projects and
programmes of mutual benefit in the fields of economic and
commercial cooperation,
transport and communications,
agriculture, engineering, infrastructure and public works,
narcotics-abuse control, educational, scientific and cultural
matters.
A protocol of preferential
tariff arrangements
involving a 10 per cent reduction has already been signed as
a first step towards the eventual elimination of trade barriers
in the region.
The member States of the Economic Cooperation
Organization are convinced that, as a regional organization
representing 10 members, ECO will benefit greatly by
having Observer status with the United Nations and that it
will also make a positive collective contribution to the
activities of the United Nations.
that
I have the honour to request
the Economic
Cooperation Organization be granted Observer status to the
General Assembly of the United Nations, on terms similar to
those that have been prescribed in respect of other regional
associations of States. The members of the Economic
Cooperation Organization would greatly appreciate the
support of the members of the General Assembly.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.l. May I take it that the
Assembly wishes to adopt the draft resolution by consensus?
Draft resolution A/48/L.l was adopted (resolution
48/2).
The PRESIDENT:
In accordance with the
resolution just adopted I now call on the Secretary-General
of the Economic Cooperation Organization, Mr. Shamshad
Ahmad.
Mr. AHMAD (Economic Cooperation Organization
(ECO)):
I deem it a great privilege and an honour to
represent the Economic Cooperation Organization at the
forty-eighth session of
the United Nations General
Assembly.
May I at the outset extend to you, Sir, my sincere
felicitations on your assumption of the presidency of the
Assembly at this session. We are confident that under your
stewardship this session is assured of a successful and
positive outcome, which will no doubt reinforce the role of
the United Nations and its resolve in facing the persistent
and emerging challenges in the world.
I
thanks
should like
to extend special
and
appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedicated efforts and
tireless endeavours to promote the aims and objectives of the
United Nations. His report "An Agenda for Peace" is
especially commendable for it constitutes an important
initiative towards global stability, which will no doubt be
conducive to efforts to promote the economic progress and
well-being of all nations and regions.
This session is taking place in the wake of profound
changes on the international and regional scenes. While the
confrontations of the past are receding, many new economic
and political imperatives have arisen which demand new
approaches in the outlooks of States and organizations.
Today we are witnessing a renewed focus on multilateral
cooperation for addressing both political and economic
issues.
My presence at this session is motivated by the need
for us to forge closer cooperation between our
two
organizations, which share common interests and ideals. As
representatives are aware, ECO is purely an economic
organization seeking to promote multifaceted regional
cooperation as a solid base for sustained socio-economic
growth of its member States.
Its recent expansion from 3 to 10 full members
makes ECO a major regional grouping and an important
international entity with vast combined potential in terms of
material and human resources.
Encompassing a huge land mass of over 7 million
square kilometres, inhabited by nearly 300 million people,
ECO assumes a special role, not only in the revival of old
cultural and emotional links between the proud inheritors of
a common historical legacy, but also for addressing the
imperatives of the future.
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
13
the Treaty of Izmir,
To best accomplish its objectives as stipulated in its
charter,
the Economic Cooperation
Organization is seeking to establish cooperative linkages
with various international organizations. Our quest begins,
naturally, with the best-established and most prestigious, the
United Nations. I am pleased to announce in this forum that
the ECO attaches the utmost importance to developing a
cooperative relationship with the United Nations and is keen
to benefit
its relevant bodies,
especially in the economic field.
from the experience of
We are happy and gratified at the adoption of the
resolution giving ECO observer status with the United
Nations. On behalf of the members of our organization, I
wish to thank the Members of the United Nations for
unanimously endorsing the resolution. We are confident that
the grant of observer status to ECO in the General Assembly
will facilitate the development of a productive working
relationship between the two organizations, focusing on the
socioeconomic welfare of our region.
several
ECO has recently launched two important action
plans, namely the Quetta plan of action and the Istanbul
declaration on ECO’s long-term prospects. These documents
envisage
areas of
development
and
communications, trade and energy. In the implementation of
these projects, ECO’s efforts would in fact complement the
economic development programmes of the United Nations
and those of its subsidiary bodies in the ECO region.
specific projects
activities
transport
in vital
such
as
and
have
agencies
established
the United Nations
We have already been in contact with various United
Nations
cooperative
relationships with the Economic and Social Commission for
Asia and the Pacific,
Industrial
Development Organization, and the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, which have active
programmes in the ECO region. We are also in contact with
the United Nations Children’s Fund on establishing a similar
relationship. We should be happy to enter into similar
cooperative linkages with other United Nations agencies in
order to benefit from their programmes. These cooperative
linkages with United Nations bodies would beyond a doubt
pave the way for exploiting the countless opportunities and
the combined potential offered by our region’s vast material
and human resources.
In conclusion, I wish you, Mr. President, every
success for the deliberations of this session.
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish
of the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
150?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 153
OBSERVER STATUS FOR THE PERMANENT
COURT OF ARBITRATION IN THE GENERAL
ASSEMBLY: DRAFT RESOLUTION A/48/L.4
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
the Netherlands to introduce draft resolution A/48/L.4.
Mr. BIEGMAN (Netherlands): The Permanent Court
of Arbitration is the oldest intergovernmental institution in
existence that is dedicated to the task of resolving disputes
between States.
It was established in 1899 by the first
Hague Convention for the Pacific Settlement of International
Disputes. Since it has its seat in The Hague, in the Peace
Palace,
resolution
contained in document A/48/L.4 rests with the Netherlands
delegation. I am doing so now also on behalf of the almost
50 countries that had already decided to join in sponsoring
the draft resolution, and of the other 10 that have since
decided to join, namely, Albania, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Kyrgyzstan, Senegal, Suriname and
Ukraine.
introducing the draft
the honour of
Mr. Musuka (Zambia), Vice-President,
took the
Chair.
The draft resolution is a short one. It contains only
two operative paragraphs: after having noted the desire of
the Permanent Court of Arbitration to intensify its
cooperation with the United Nations, the General Assembly
would decide to invite the Permanent Court of Arbitration to
participate in the sessions and the work of the General
Assembly in the capacity of Observer and would request the
Secretary-General to take the necessary action to implement
the resolution.
As stated in the explanatory memorandum annexed
to the request to include the present item in our agenda, the
creation of a permanent institutional relationship between the
Permanent Court of Arbitration and the United Nations will
enable both organizations to strengthen existing ties. This
would have several positive effects, one being that it would
facilitate the active participation of the International Bureau
of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in meetings of the
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
United Nations that are engaged in the discussion of systems
for the peaceful settlement of international disputes, as well
as in the development and implementation of the programme
of the Decade of International Law.
in 1999,
The Court’s activities regarding the Decade of
International Law arise, inter alia, from the fact that the
conference of members of
the Permanent Court of
Arbitration invited the Administrative Council of the Court
to authorize its Secretary-General, in preparation for the
commemoration of the centenary of the First International
to appoint a broadly based
Peace Conference,
Steering Committee.
The Committee will analyse the
historical development and practical application of methods
of dispute settlement, and will also make recommendations
as to whether to revise the Hague Conventions and whether
to improve the dispute-settlement procedures under the
auspices of the Court. Experts from States in different
geographical
economic
development and with different legal systems will sit on the
Committee.
at different
areas,
levels of
More generally speaking, observer status would, of
course, enhance the ability of the Permanent Court of
Arbitration to intensify its cooperation with the United
Nations in all appropriate fields.
The Netherlands firmly hopes that the decision to
grant observer status to the Permanent Court of Arbitration
will be part of a continuing effort
to strengthen the
international system of peaceful settlement of disputes, and
that those countries not yet participating in the activities of
join it by adhering to the 1907 Hague
the Court will
Convention for
the Pacific Settlement of
International
Disputes.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.4. May I take it that the
Assembly decides to adopt the draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/48/L.4 was adopted (resolution
48/3).
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative
of Belgium, representing the European Community and its
members, for an explanation of position on the resolution
just adopted. May I remind delegations that explanations of
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. DEREYMAEKER (Belgium)
(interpretation
First, Sir, permit me to express to the
from French):
Permanent Court of Arbitration, on behalf of the European
Community and its member States, our warm congratulations
on its having been granted observer status in the General
Assembly.
Its admission makes official, and consolidates,
the long-standing relationship between the United Nations -
and even its predecessor, the League of Nations - and the
oldest inter-governmental organization with competence in
the realm of the peaceful settlement of disputes between
States.
For the European Community and its member States,
the peaceful settlement of disputes is a fundamental aspect
of their understanding of international relations. One of the
major objectives of
the United Nations Decade of
International Law is to promote ways and means of
peacefully settling disputes between States. The contribution
of the Permanent Court of Arbitration to the Decade’s work
could therefore prove useful.
When it unanimously adopted last year
the
programme for the activities for the second term (1993-
1994) of the Decade, the General Assembly invited the Sixth
Committee to consider wider use of the Permanent Court of
Arbitration.
It is undoubtedly in order to facilitate such
recourse to the Court that its Administrative Council last
year adopted a series of new optional rules of procedure
relating to the arbitration of disputes between States.
Indeed, at
The European Community and its member States are
pleased at the prospect of seeing the Court take an active
and structured part in the work of the General Assembly.
The Sixth Committee has already benefited from the
experience the Court has acquired during nearly a century of
existence.
its forty-sixth and forty-seventh
sessions the Committee decided to invite the Secretary-
General of the Court to speak on the theme of the United
Nations Decade of International Law, the end of which, in
1999, will coincide with the centenary of the Court’s
creation. We listened with a great deal of interest to the
statements of the Secretary-General of the Court, and were
able to learn of its activities and plans for the future.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker
in explanation of position.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 153?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 157
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
15
OBSERVER STATUS FOR THE LATIN AMERICAN
PARLIAMENT IN THE GENERAl ASSEMBLY:
DRAFT RESOLUTION A/48/L.3
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly has before it a
I call on the representative of
draft resolution (A/48/L.3).
Panama to introduce the draft resolution.
Mr. AROSEMENA (Panama) (interpretation from
Spanish):
is an honour for me to introduce draft
resolution A/48/L.3, by which the General Assembly would
grant observer status to the Latin American Parliament.
It
that
The Latin American Parliament was established on
10 December 1964 in Lima, Peru, by the representatives of
a number of Parliaments of Latin America. The States
which at
time comprised the Parliament agreed to
institutionalize it by a Treaty, also signed in Lima on 16
November 1987. Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela signed the
Treaty on that date. The Treaty is now in force, having
been ratified by eleven Latin American countries.
The Latin American Parliament has also been granted
the
observer status in the Inter-Parliamentary Union, at
invitation of that body.
as
"a
regional,
The Treaty of Lima describes the Latin American
Parliament
unicameral
organization ..." composed of "the national Congresses or
Legislative Assemblies of democratically constituted States
Parties ...", represented by all-party delegations chosen by
their respective Parliaments.
permanent,
In accordance with international
the Treaty
grants the Parliament a separate legal personality and the
privileges and immunities which international law grants to
international organizations.
law,
The Latin American Parliament, which is financed by
assessments paid by the States Parties, has been sitting since
1990 in São Paulo, Brazil.
The Parliament’s objectives include the following:
first,
to promote the integrated economic and social
development of the Latin American community and to
endeavour to achieve, as quickly as possible,
the full
economic, political and cultural integration of its peoples;
second, to defend the full enjoyment of freedom, social
justice, economic independence and the exercise of
representative democracy, with strict adherence to the
principles of non-intervention and the self-determination of
peoples; third, to ensure strict respect for fundamental human
rights and to see to it that they are not infringed in any Latin
American State in any way that damages human dignity;
fourth, to fight for the abolition of all forms of colonialism,
neo-colonialism, racism and any other form of discrimination
in Latin America; fifth, to oppose imperialist action in Latin
America,
recommending appropriate legal norms and
standards that allow Latin American peoples full exercise of
their permanent sovereignty over their natural resources and
the better utilization and preservation of those resources;
sixth,
to promote international cooperation in order to
orchestrate and foster the harmonious development of the
Latin American community for the common good; seventh,
to contribute to the strengthening of peace, security and the
international legal order and to promote world disarmament,
denouncing and combating the arms race and aggression by
those who uphold a policy based on the use of force, which
are incompatible with the economic, social, cultural and
technological development to which the peoples of Latin
America are entitled; eighth, to channel and support, on the
international scene, the demands of the peoples of Latin
America regarding just recognition of their rights in the
struggle for
the establishment of a new international
economic order; and, ninth, to uphold in every way possible
the strengthening of the Parliaments of Latin America in
order to guarantee the constitutional and democratic life of
the States and to promote, by all means available and
without prejudice to the principle of non-intervention, the re-
establishment of those Parliaments that have been dissolved.
The draft
resolution being discussed today is
sponsored by the following Latin American countries:
Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Cuba,
the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, and
Venezuela.
It also enjoys the sponsorship of Portugal and
Spain, from which our own nationalities originated and
countries with which we maintain links of all kinds.
The Latin American Parliament
is a regional
organization ratified by 11 Latin American States that are
also Members of the United Nations, and these States
believe that the Parliament would benefit considerably from
being granted observer status in the United Nations and that
it could contribute to the Organization’s activities in the
fields and within the geographical area of its competence.
Members are no doubt
aware that our multilateral
Organization could also benefit from this contact, since
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Parliaments are the source of national
approve the budgetary appropriations of our countries.
legislation and
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish
of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 157?
Hence, the countries I have the honour to represent
ask that the Latin American Parliament be granted observer
status in the General Assembly on terms similar to those that
have been prescribed in respect of other intergovernmental
organizations already enjoying that status.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now proceed
to consider draft resolution A/48/L.3.
Before calling on the representatives who wish to
speak in explanation of vote before the voting, may I remind
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10
minutes and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. ALONSO (Uruguay)(interpretation
from
Spanish): The delegation of Uruguay wishes to be added to
the list of sponsors of draft resolution A/48/L.3, under which
observer status in the General Assembly of the United
Nations would be granted to the Latin American Parliament.
The Latin American Parliament has played a very
important role in consolidating democratic values in the
fraternal countries that are part of the Latin American
community. In my capacity as a member of the Parliament
of my own country, as a member of the Latin American
Parliament and as Chairman of the Joint Parliamentary
Commission of
the South
(MERCOSUR) I should like to state from my own personal
standpoint what a pleasure it
is for me to be able to
participate in this extremely important decision.
the Common Market of
Through this status the Latin American Parliament,
and through it the parliamentarians of all its member States,
will strengthen their presence in all international forums that,
like the United Nations, seek to strengthen democratic
systems in the world.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.3.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt that
draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/48/L.3 was adopted (resolution
48/4).
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 158
OBSERVER STATUS FOR THE CONFERENCE ON
SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE IN
THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY: DRAFT RESOLUTION
A/48/L.6
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative
of Sweden to introduce draft resolution A/48/L.6.
Mr. OSVALD (Sweden):
I have the honour, in my
capacity as representative of the Chairman-in-Office of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
to introduce draft resolution A/48/L.6 on observer status for
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in the
General Assembly. San Marino and Tajikistan should be
added to the list of sponsors of the draft resolution.
The decision to apply for Observer status for the
CSCE is supported by all participating States of the CSCE,
including Switzerland and the Holy See, which maintain
permanent observer missions at the Headquarters of the
United Nations.
At
in July 1992,
the Helsinki Summit
the
participating States of the CSCE declared their understanding
that the CSCE is a regional arrangement in the sense of
Chapter VIII of the Charter, and that as such it provides an
important link between European and global security. At the
Stockholm meeting of the CSCE Council in December last
year it was decided that the practical implications of this
understanding should be examined. One of the conclusions
reached in this examination was that the CSCE should apply
for observer status in the General Assembly.
With a view to meeting the new challenges in the
CSCE area, the CSCE is elaborating ways and means to
strengthen its function to maintain and promote international
peace and security within its area of competence. This
includes instruments for early warning, conflict prevention
and crisis management, as well as preventive diplomacy and
peace-keeping.
Various types of CSCE long-term missions, focusing
on early warning and conflict prevention, have accordingly
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
17
Europe (CSCE), on which we have just conferred Observer
status in the United Nations General Assembly.
Heads of State and Government of the CSCE have
declared that, in accordance with the terms of the Helsinki
Summit of July 1992,
they regard the CSCE as a regional
arrangement within the meaning of Chapter VIII of the
United Nations Charter. This statement opens the way to
increased cooperation between the United Nations and the
CSCE, the framework for which was set out last May in
letters exchanged between the Chairman in office of the
CSCE - Mrs. af Ugglas, the Foreign Minister of Sweden -
and the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali. The granting to the CSCE of Observer status
in the United Nations General Assembly merely illustrates
the desire for increased cooperation.
During the course of the forty-eighth session of the
General Assembly, we shall have an opportunity to return to
various aspects of the question of cooperation between the
two organizations.
been initiated in areas of the former Yugoslavia as well as
in Estonia, Latvia, the Republic of Moldova, Georgia and
Tajikistan. The CSCE also directs special efforts related to
the conflict
in and around Nagorny-Karabakh. CSCE
missions are supervising the implementation of United
Nations sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro). The CSCE High Commissioner
on National Minorities also has activities in various parts of
the CSCE area.
The so-called human-dimension mechanisms and
institutions of the CSCE are being used increasingly as a
major basis for efforts in areas such as early warning and
long-term conflict prevention.
In all these efforts, close consultation and interaction
with the United Nations is of the utmost
importance -
importance that is reflected in letters exchanged, in May this
year, between the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs as Chairman
of the CSCE Council. These letters concerned a framework
for cooperation and coordination between the United Nations
Secretariat and the CSCE.
Regional organizations and arrangements are playing
role in the maintenance of
an increasingly important
international peace and security.
I am therefore convinced
that the General Assembly will unanimously endorse the
request of the CSCE to be invited to participate, as an
observer, in the work of the Assembly. The Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe will thus join other
important regional organizations that have already been
granted this status.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.6.
Draft resolution A/48/L.6 was adopted (resolution
48/5).
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
Belgium for an explanation of vote.
May I remind representatives that explanations of
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. DEREYMAEKER (Belgium)
(interpretation
from French):
I have great pleasure in conveying the
congratulations of the European Community and its member
States to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish
of the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
158?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.
