United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.40 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 127 (continued)
S C A L E O F A S S E S S M E N T S
F O R T H E
APPORTIONMENT OF THE EXPENSES OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (ARTICLE 19 OF THE CHARTER)
(A/48/414/Add.3)
this meeting,
The PRESIDENT: Before turning to the item on our
I should like to draw the
agenda for
In a
Assembly’s attention to document A/48/414/Add.3.
letter contained in that document
the Secretary-General
informs me that since the issuance of his communications
dated 21, 24 and 27 September 1993 Mali has made the
necessary payment to reduce its arrears below the amount
specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May I take it that the Assembly duly takes note of this
information?
It was so decided.
ADDRESS BY THE CONSTITUTIONAL PRESIDENT
O F
T H E R E P U B L I C O F B O L I V I A ,
MR. GONZALO SANCHEZ DE LOZADA
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the Constitutional
President of the Republic of Bolivia.
9th
PLENARY MEETING
29 September 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
Mr. Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, Constitutional
President of the Republic of Bolivia, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly I have the honor to welcome
to the United Nations the Constitutional President of the
Republic of Bolivia, His Excellency Mr. Gonzalo Sanchez
de Lozada, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President SANCHEZ de LOZADA (interpretation from
Spanish): I should like to extend greetings to the President
of the General Assembly, Ambassador Samuel Insanely of
Guyana, to the former President, Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria,
and to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
I
congratulate them on their active commitment
to the
justice, human development and
principles of peace,
international law.
I should also like to greet the Heads of State and
representatives of Member States who are gathered here in
this historic Hall.
having
the
seventh
rate
highest
Despite
of
hyperinflation in the history of mankind, Bolivia has been a
pioneer in the structural reforms that began in 1985 with the
advent of democracy and freedom - reforms that were
carried out without limiting human rights but by making
major sacrifices.
I should like to take this opportunity to
pay a tribute to the President of our country during that
period, Dr. Victor Paz Estenssoro and, on behalf of all
Bolivians,
tribute to his statesmanlike
leadership.
to pay a special
In retrospect,
this may not seem so great a task:
Reining in the economic crisis and bringing about peaceful
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86635 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.9
13 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
change in conditions of freedom and liberty are activities
that are being accomplished in many countries in Latin
America and elsewhere in the world. The situation in
Russia,
the difficulty of
achieving consensus and legitimacy in governing a society
in crisis, a society in which change is necessary.
reminds us of
for example,
Bolivia’s course has required daring and imagination.
We have not shrunk from calling upon our people to make
sacrifices and shoulder additional burdens. But we are
profoundly alarmed, however, when we see so many
countries embarking on the road to democracy and change
and attempting to achieve stable growth and development
with social
justice and when we then note that no
corresponding efforts are being made in the developed
world.
The end of the cold war lit a beacon of hope, but we
are surprised that
it has not engendered an increase in
international cooperation and solidarity. There was greater
cooperation during the era of confrontation because of the
desire to defend third-world countries against the communist
threat and to replace the cold war with relations built on
solidarity and development. Today, on the contrary, poor
countries are faced with cuts in assistance, the prices of our
raw materials continue to plummet, and protectionism is on
the rise.
Indeed, in real terms the current prices of tin,
tungsten, antimony, coffee, rubber and petroleum are even
lower than they were in 1930, during the great depression.
It is difficult to see on this bleak horizon how we are
going to solve our problems:
the migration from rural to
urban areas, and from cities to the developed world; the
increase in drug trafficking and the phenomenon of poor
people being virtually forced to destroy nature in order to
survive. That creates a vicious circle, with ever-deepening
poverty.
The paradox of our times is that, in a world that is
growing ever richer in overall terms, poverty is on the
increase. There is a wider disparity between the "haves" and
the "have nots". The precarious stability born of internal
social and economic deficiencies must be tackled by all of
us. There is also an urgent need for basic changes in how
we face the problem of solidarity and the development of the
community of nations and human societies.
Developed countries must realize that sooner or later
the present situation rewards no one and injures everyone.
I truly believe that we must have a clear awareness of the
fact that population growth, the doubling of the population,
the destruction of the environment, the production of illegal
drugs and the trafficking in them, the migration from poor
countries to rich countries are problems that will affect not
only those countries but the world at large.
The solution is greater development. We know that
when people’s incomes rise, when women are educated and
when there is social justice, population growth rates also
change.
We know that in order to restore balance between the
environment and society we need educated people who can
put to use their special heritage and knowledge of living in
harmony with nature - as is the case in our country.
Just as we had to learn that nature can punish us when
we harm it, the time has come for all of us, developed and
undeveloped, to become aware that it is unacceptable that
the rich of the world should become ever more wealthy
while the poor are becoming poorer.
As we know, the solution is not just to hand out money
or aid. But there is no other way to achieve our goal if we
do not change old ideas. The motto should be "Trade, not
aid". Yet it would seem that the fate of the underdeveloped
world is "no trade and no aid", which is absolutely
unacceptable to us all if we wish to create a new, more just
and peaceful society.
With the passing of time solutions will be even more
costly and more difficult in human terms and in social and
economic terms. What we need, I believe,
is greater
foresight on the part of those who are guiding the world’s
destiny. They must find solutions that are truly effective.
I am not saying that we should repeat the past. But in
the past there were plans such as the Marshall Plan that
helped donors and recipients alike. We need similar
approaches. We look forward with great expectation to the
free trade agreement among Canada, the United States and
Mexico. We congratulate President Clinton on his
commitment to struggling against the forces of protectionism
in his country and elsewhere in North America to trying to
forge ahead.
As a small developing country, Bolivia views all this
with hope, and as a commitment that we will be able to sell
our products to the developing countries rather than only
sending them people.
We look forward to a speedy and successful conclusion
of the Uruguay Round, as we believe that the freedom of
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
3
opportunity to produce is the only hope for our societies.
The children of the world ask only that their parents be able
to work and bring home their daily bread. But that happens
only when a country - a society, a world - stands together
and gives everyone equal access and opportunity.
We are not asking for special treatment; we are not
asking just for help. We are asking to be allowed to work
and to export, and not to be obliged just to export the most
talented and vigorous people of our societies to the
developed world.
In Bolivia we are trying to forge ahead with projects
using foreign capital and the participation of our people. We
are a very poor people. Our country knows that it needs
technology and capital, and during the coming years we
hope to embark on an ambitious but feasible plan.
This
plan
has
three
pillars:
capitalization,
democratization and popular participation.
First, we wish to invite foreign capital to come to
develop technology and use fresh resources in order to
enrich the heritage of our State enterprises. We do not want
to sell our heritage, and we do not want only the
participation of States.
Secondly, 50 per cent of
those enterprises and
50 per cent of the stock must be owned by all Bolivians so
that these Bolivians can participate in the enterprises and
feel included in the process of economic development.
Thirdly, many people ask "How can we give free goods
to uneducated people who do not know how to read or write,
who have different ethnic and cultural backgrounds?" The
truth is that in Bolivia many people do not know how to
read but do know how to count. They know what it means
to participate. They know what it means to feel they are
taking part
in the fortunes of the country. With their
participation we wish to bring to poor neighbourhoods and
communities the health and education the people there need
so that they can share in management.
The coming millennium will no longer
find that
representative democracy is enough. It must be participatory
democracy. People want to participate and they will do so
very well when it comes to matters that directly affect their
lives and futures.
We believe that with participation of this kind our
societies’ meagre resources will yield greater productivity.
Demand will grow, which will make it possible for our
societies to forge ahead.
But in Bolivia participation is not a mere word. For the
time in 500 years, a man has emerged from an
first
indigenous ethnic group to become Acting President of our
country. To the Bolivian people Victor Hugo Cárdenas is
not only an Aimara Indian, a person from the countryside,
but a great professional and outstanding intellectual. He
typifies our desire that all of our citizens take part in our
society. We want to do away with age-old injustices. We
want to bring about change - to bring people in, not keep
them out. We want to create unity while respecting the
diversity of opinion not only on ecology and the
environment but also on cultural, geographical and racial
problems.
We believe that this determination to include - not
exclude -people is helping build a society in which there is
change with order, and order with change. And although we
are among the poorest countries in Latin America - indeed,
in the world - we believe that we stand as an example of the
fact that it is possible to live with social peace and to regain
justice within the general
stability, growth and social
framework of a democratic society.
In Bolivia, democracy
works because people seek consensus; they seek respect;
and they are accepting of diversity.
This process should allow us to arrive at a situation
conducive to dealing with employment, education and health
care, and, most importantly, the rural sector, where the
greatest degree of poverty prevails and where the people are
among the poorest in the world.
Dynamic growth would, of course, reduce the need to
cultivate coca leaves. We in Bolivia have succeeded in
reducing by 50 percent the amount of land used for the
cultivation of these leaves. We accomplished this without
the guerrilla violence that accompanies narcotrafficking, and
without the cartels that are in place in the country. While
we are undoubtedly making progress in this area, we are
well aware of the fact that the only alternative development
activity to this is light industry for export purposes. There
is no use telling the Bolivian peasant, as I said earlier, to
stop producing drugs and instead plant coffee when the price
of coffee has dropped to half its former price, or to produce
cacao when no one wants cacao - or rubber. Experience of
alternative crops emphasizes the vital importance of enabling
countries such as Bolivia - especially Bolivia - to export
their products to the developed countries in the form of
manufactured goods, rather than having them export the
scourge of harmful drugs to the rest of humankind. We will
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to fight against drug trafficking
continue, nevertheless,
because we have made a commitment not only to our people
but also to humankind. Though we are poor, we are very
happy to see that new efforts are being made to reduce
demand. What we want to do is reduce supply. We wish
to eliminate this business, with all its attendant dangers -
social, moral,
Indeed, we have
chosen the zero-option. We expect to be successful, with or
without help. But we are more likely to be successful if we
enjoy the support, cooperation and understanding of the rest
of the world, which is, after all, affected by this terrible
scourge.
legal and institutional.
it
to be sure, but
Ours is an ambitious project,
is
feasible. We recognize that the principal responsibility for
this plan rests with Bolivians. We are not just waiting for
someone to help us. No, we know what all the peoples of
the world know, that hunger cannot wait, that solutions have
to be found by oneself. But, in all sincerity, I think it will
be very difficult
to overcome these problems without
international cooperation. There must be some signal from
the outside that assistance will not come to an end as
barriers to trade mount.
a great
commitment
Bolivia has made
to the
environment. We have done so because our poverty stems
partly from our neglect of this problem. We have allowed
poverty increasingly to justify destruction of our natural
resources in our daily activities. We do have a great plan -
a plan of international significance, not just to resolve our
balance-of-payments problems, not
to create an
industrial centre that could be the basis of the energy that we
need, but to see to it that environmental pollution is reduced.
That plan calls for construction, with Brazil, of a pipeline
that would bring Bolivian gas to the San Pablo market.
With cheap, non-polluting energy, used in industry and in
cars, we can contribute to fundamentally reducing pollution
in Latin America at
the benefit and
development of Bolivia, Brazil and the entire world.
its source,
just
for
that
the right
Human rights must be the emblem of the new world
to
community, and we must see to it
development within social justice is achievable. It is not just
that we are asking for. We are asking for an
a gift
It has to
opportunity. The United Nations is changing.
change;
After
the great
confrontation of the cold-war period, we must deal with all
the harm this war caused, especially in the Third World.
We have to reorient global solidarity, not just in terms of
assistance, but we must accept a concept that is truly very
simple and logical. Some countries become rich when they
do business, when they engage in trade with other rich
the world has
changed.
countries. To believe that a man is rich because everybody
else is poor is a holdover from the past. The great lesson of
our time is that the only way to generate wealth is to help
people break the shackles of poverty.
recognition of
We welcome the agreement between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization. It marks the beginning of
a new era of peace and of a new spirit of global justice and
dialogue between nations facing historic circumstances. The
mutual
the inadmissibility of acquiring
territory through war is a great stride forward, as is the great
and historic lesson that, even in regions where territorial
disputes so stubbornly persist, civilized dialogue, common
sense and humanity can yield results and can bring people
together rather than keeping them apart.
Recently, in the heart of Latin America, we reunited
two countries - Paraguay and Bolivia - that 61 years ago
were split apart by war and have now decided to forge a
common destiny. This has had a great
impact on us,
because, since the handshake - since the agreement between
the two countries - in our country the veterans of the Chaco
war have marched carrying the flag of Paraguay.
If those
who fought, whose comrades died, are prepared to forget,
how could we not do likewise?
These enlightening examples of how the most bitter
conflicts can be resolved evoke in us a sincere desire that
the same spirit should guide the search for a final solution
to Bolivia’s land-locked status, which has lasted 114 long
"How can you be claiming
years. Many people say:
something that you lost 114 years ago?"
I reply that we
have a great deal of patience; our people waited 500 years
for their lands to be given back to them, for them to win
back their country and their right to participate in society.
I believe that injustice is not prescribed for us; we shall
continue to make our claim, through the use of reason and
never by force. We shall continue to claim our right of
access to the sea until it is granted, until the sea runs dry.
When it does, there will be no further problem and we
shall make no further claims, but I believe that it really
would be an affront to go on blocking this historic coming
together - which two fraternal peoples are demanding - if at
the Government level, at the level of leadership, we continue
to discuss something to which both countries already want
to find a solution.
Solutions are possible; miracles do
happen, but we have seen that miracles are the result of
work and imagination, and in this we are committed, without
aggressiveness, coolly and calmly, to doing whatever we
can, as creatively as we can manage, to find solutions that
will meet the challenge and the expectations of this new
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
5
world in which we are living, and to bring about the change
that we require.
But, at the same time, we have also seen tragedies - in
Somalia, Bosnia, Angola and elsewhere - which have, thus
far, defied our best efforts to bring peace.
In these times of change, we must rely on our own
creativity. We know the importance of one’s own efforts.
But at the same time we want others in this world to stand
by us in solidarity, and at least give us the opportunity to
show what we can do.
And we must move ahead in security along the new
paths required by history, and we ask, and shall try to
ensure, always and with renewed vigour,
the path
chosen is the path of solidarity, well-being, and fraternal
relations between peoples and countries.
that
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I should like to thank the
Constitutional President of the Republic of Bolivia for the
statement he has just made.
Mr. Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada, Constitutional
President of the Republic of Bolivia, was escorted from the
General Assembly Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
ADDRESS BY MRS. KIM CAMPBELL, PRIME
MINISTER OF CANADA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the Prime Minister of Canada.
Mrs. Kim Campbell, Prime Minister of Canada, was
escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of Canada, The Right Honourable Kim
Campbell, and inviting her to address the General Assembly.
Mrs. CAMPBELL (Canada):
It has been an
extraordinary year since the General Assembly met last year.
We have seen breakthroughs in two areas - South Africa and
the Middle East - which have bedevilled the international
community for decades. Bringing both to a successful
conclusion will be hard, but we have good reasons for
optimism. Canada applauds the courage and foresight of the
parties involved, and pledges that it will continue to do its
part in promoting further advances.
It is against this background, of hope renewed and
hopes dashed, that I wish to speak about the United Nations
central vocation:
the defence and promotion of peace and
security and the conditions in which they can thrive. It is a
Canadian vocation as well.
Since United Nations peace-keeping was invented in
1956 by Lester Pearson, we have been there; sweating it out
in the field, taking casualties, doing the tough work for
peace,
in partnership with a growing number of other
Member States. Since 1956, Canada has fielded almost
100,000 men and women in United Nations operations in
every corner of the world. That contribution has been a
costly one for us, not least in lives lost. None the less, it is
a contribution which has been a symbol of pride to most
Canadians, a tangible expression of our national quest for a
better world.
Canadians speak from experience born of commitment.
We see the changes which must be made and the principles
which must remain immutable. The world is hungry for
multilateral solutions to conflict and war. This is our time,
the United Nations moment. We are living through decisive
political change. Cold war certainties have given way, but
in their place we have unpredictability and instability - a
political unease about our future, uncertainty about where
collective endeavours can take us. Most countries feel more
secure militarily, but our citizens, in their personal lives,
often feel less secure about their well-being, for themselves
and for generations to come.
But this broader perspective must not obscure the very
real military dangers which remain: excessive accumulations
of conventional arms; the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction - chemical, biological and nuclear; and conflict
and human misery created by the breakdown of civil and
political society within States and across fragile and often
new borders.
First, we have learned that our
The world has learned some hard lessons in recent
years.
security is
interdependent. Within each specific area of concern -
whether military, economic, environment or health - no
nation can stand alone. We are all affected, positively and
negatively, by developments beyond our borders. And our
own actions, within our own countries, inevitably resonate
throughout the wider community of nations.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
between,
for
example,
economic
Secondly, we have learned that our
security is
indivisible. We cannot escape the connections linking
issues;
growth,
environmental safety and population flows. Deterioration in
any one area can destabilize the whole. We must think
about security more broadly,
in terms which address
fundamental sources of insecurity: questions of economic
development
integrity;
freedom from crime and physical threat; health; membership
in communities which reflect our values,
traditions and
aspirations.
and prosperity;
environmental
Thirdly, we have learned that genuine security is not
It is about striking the right
about control and repression.
balance of interests, within countries and across borders.
Fourthly, we have learned that we have to find more
cooperative ways of addressing security issues, ways which
maximize the relative strengths of many existing institutions.
We foresee a network of collaborative arrangements - local,
regional and global - forming the building-blocks of a new
system of collective security, all hinged on the focal point of
the United Nations.
The Charter of the United Nations itself provides useful
guidance, describing possible relationships between the
United Nations and regional bodies in the pacific settlement
of local disputes. Cooperation between the United Nations,
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European
Community in Europe; between the United Nations, the
Commonwealth and the Organization of African Unity in
Africa; and between the United Nations and the Organization
of American States in Central America and Haiti has moved
us considerably along the path anticipated by the drafters of
the Charter. Moreover, regional organizations are often the
best equipped to deal with local sources of instability and
potential conflict, such as water disputes, demographic shifts
or human rights concerns.
For decades, the cold war hemmed us in. That time is
over. We have it within our grasp to fulfil the promise of
our Charter, to build a global cooperative security system
centred on the United Nations. For it is the United Nations
alone which can provide a universal forum for elaborating
new principles and negotiating new rules and standards.
And it is the United Nations alone which, as a universal
body, can bring the full weight of
the international
community to bear on specific critical issues.
In the last five years alone, the involvement of the
United Nations in various multilateral military efforts has
grown exponentially. Five years ago there were seven such
operations; today there are 16. Five years ago there were
9,000 military personnel deployed with the United Nations;
today there are nearly 80,000, more than Canada has in all
of its regular armed forces. And as we look around the
world today, the prospect of even more operations has to be
seen as inevitable.
The transformation in United Nations operations has not
been simply quantitative of late. The fact is that the United
Nations is now engaged in a range of activities which goes
well beyond the traditional concepts of peace-keeping we
have been accustomed to in the past. Much of
the
Secretary-General’s ground-breaking "An Agenda for Peace"
has moved from prescription to reality, and rightly so. It is
quite right to ask whether and under what conditions the
United Nations should commit its resources to the resolution
of international crises. It is equally right to ask whether the
United Nations has the right tools to do what is asked of it.
(spoke in French)
In the process we have all
The rapid expansion of United Nations operations in the
several years has been both unprecedented and
past
instructive.
learned certain
lessons, some in a very wrenching fashion. We would all do
well to take stock of our recent experience and determine
how we can together improve our capacity to act more
effectively.
Having been an active participant in virtually every
United Nations military operation, Canada has made its own
diagnosis and come to its own conclusions as to some
remedies that should be pursued.
(spoke in English)
To begin with, we must improve our collective capacity
to judge, to determine accurately and dispassionately the
nature of impending threats and the facts of specific cases.
We must also improve our capacity to act, to respond firmly
and effectively to events before they deteriorate into crises.
There are steps we can take now to improve our
collective capacity in the field of preventive diplomacy.
Recent initiatives to strengthen our early-warning system
should be implemented. To do that, the Secretary-General
should be given the resources necessary for independent
political analysis, analysis that he could draw on before
armed conflict
is unleashed and when non-military
intervention can still be effective. Not only must warnings
be timely; they must also have an impact on decisions. The
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
7
Secretary-General must make full use of the provisions of
Article 99 of the Charter to bring to the attention of the
Security Council situations which may threaten peace. This
would itself provide a powerful stimulus to global attention
and necessary preventive action.
The United Nations ability to conduct preventive
diplomacy through the good offices of the Secretary-General
must be strengthened. The Secretary-General’s efforts to
address dozens of conflicts and potential conflicts require
tangible support. The preventive deployment of peace-
keepers to forestall conflict, as we have recently done in the
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, can prove very
useful and in the long run avoid a much larger commitment
of scarce resources.
Experience with the assignment of United Nations
military forces around the world has,
in our view,
demonstrated a number of shortcomings. It is incumbent on
us all to move quickly to respond to them by changing the
way that business is conducted. First, major operations can
no longer be run on an ad hoc basis. The management,
planning and operational capacity of the United Nations has
to be reinforced. A permanent strategic headquarters staff
capable
large-scale,
multidimensional operations has to be put in place. To be
effective, this headquarters would need a comprehensive
information processing and planning capacity.
controlling
or more
two
of
Secondly, the United Nations ability to bring matériel
and personnel speedily to a theatre of operations and to
ensure coordination between sources of equipment and
personnel has to be strengthened. Too often in the past, the
Secretary-General
delay United
Nations-sanctioned operations for want of adequate personnel
or matériel.
had
has
to
The ability to deploy United Nations troops rapidly to
emerging flashpoints has to be upgraded substantially. At a
minimum, Member States
into formal
commitments with the Secretary-General to provide troops
on a stand-by basis and tied to readiness standards, as
Canada has done in the past year.
should enter
Thirdly, United Nations Members have to build and
develop the large cadre of peace-keepers necessary for the
United Nations missions of the future.
Peace-keeping
demands cultural sensitivity, the ability to mediate and a host
of other skills. Training will be required, particularly of a
corps of senior officers who will have to exercise leadership
in complex, difficult and dangerous situations. Training
holds the key to successfully integrating different national
contingents into one operation.
Fourthly, we need to ensure that field operations meet
high performance standards. Work on the development of
a common code of conduct and operating procedures for all
personnel serving under the United Nations flag should be
brought to an early conclusion.
Fifthly, we must also come to grips with the
increasingly serious dangers facing our peace-keepers. We
and others are working to clarify and codify principles and
measures for the protection of United Nations personnel,
particularly those involved in peace-keeping operations.
Canada will be proposing specific provisions for such a
convention to be discussed during the coming General
Assembly session.
In the last several years, a range of innovative proposals
has been put forward with a view to enhancing the capacity
of the United Nations to mount effective multilateral military
operations. Many of these suggestions have been the subject
of extensive debate in Canada, as they have in many other
countries. We have, in fact, been proponents of some of
these suggestions. We fully recognize, of course, that ours
is but one perspective. Actually realizing these necessitates
a much broader level of support by United Nations Member
States.
in the best
Accordingly,
interests of future United
Nations efforts, it is time that a panel of civilian and military
experts with experience in United Nations operations be
charged with assessing these and other proposals which
could further enhance the operational capacity of the United
Nations. Such a report should be finalized and submitted to
the Secretary-General next summer. It should include clear
recommendations on both the merits of the proposals and, as
importantly, how they could be implemented and financed.
The report would in turn would provide us with the basis for
coming to collective decisions on whether or not to proceed
with any of
these. Only in this way can we more
definitively determine not only the potential need but the
requisite support for these proposals.
The agenda for such a review would include:
the
establishment of a permanent United Nations staff college
for the training of military officers; the creation of more
training facilities for United Nations troops; the development
of a network of United Nations material supply depots
stockpiled with equipment for rapid dispatch to new United
Nations operations; the question whether United Nations
Member States would provide at nominal,
if any, cost
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
equipment and matériel which would be made available to
United Nations contingents not having such resources in
their own military establishments; and the creation of a
permanent rapid deployment force under United Nations
command, based possibly on a new United Nations volunteer
force.
There may well be other issues that should be on that
agenda. The key, however, is to have that assessment made.
My own Government is committed to reviewing these and
other related questions in the context of a reappraisal of our
own military capacity, including our participation in United
Nations operations.
Security is more than simply a matter of being able to
deploy adequate numbers of troops on a timely basis.
Modern United Nations missions are drawing on expertise
far beyond that of traditional military peace-keepers. There
is a demand for civilian police, for election workers, for
human rights monitors, for engineers, administrators and
other specialists to rebuild infrastructure. It is not enough to
stop hostilities; the United Nations is now expected to build
the peace as well.
We are moving from a tradition of interposing peace-
keepers between hostile forces to new forms of engagement.
Rebuilding societies to stand on their own will be a complex
and lengthy process. Diplomatic peacemaking, military and
civilian peace-keeping and peace-building pose new sorts of
challenges. It has become obvious, in our view, that a more
integrated and coordinated approach by the United Nations
is now mandatory if we are to cope successfully with many
of the crises which draw United Nations military forces. We
have had a measure of success in this regard in Cambodia,
but far less in other situations, such as Somalia. United
Nations military operations cannot in and of themselves
address or resolve the root causes of conflict. That is
something that can be achieved only through a much more
broadly based effort, be it political, economic or social.
In
effect, we need a capacity to rebuild, over time, countries or
societies which have suffered structural collapse.
An effective system of cooperative security, led by a
reinvigorated United Nations, will cost money; but then,
genuine security always carries a price which is worth
paying. Resources are limited, and we must all share the
burden. This means paying United Nations bills in full and
on time. That is what Canada does, and we expect others to
do the same.
It is difficult to overstate the damage that
non-payment and the build-up of arrears does to the United
Nations system, and to our collective capacity for effective
action.
Burden-sharing means taking part in the activities of the
United Nations, from contributing troops for peace-keeping
missions to providing observers for election monitoring.
Today, Canada is providing just under 4 per cent of all
United Nations forces.
Little less than one year ago,
Canadian troops accounted for 10 per cent of all United
Nations forces. Those are rather remarkable figures when
we consider that Canada accounts for less than one half of
1 per cent of the world’s population, and that our military
establishment represents less than 1 per cent of global
military expenditures. This is not to suggest that we are
seeking a diminished role, one more commensurate with our
relative status in the world.
to question
whether others are doing their fair share.
instead,
It
is,
sharing
also means
Burden-sharing
political
responsibility for shaping and taking decisions, and for
ensuring that decisions and commitments are fulfilled. That
is why we welcome the Security Council’s increasing
attention to drafting clear mandates, sharply defining
objectives and setting deadlines.
Clear and realistic
mandates are necessary if the United Nations is to remain
both credible and effective.
In Canada as
in a number of other countries,
governments are facing difficult fiscal circumstances and
publics that are demanding more effective, efficient and
economical service from government.
The need for
rationalization of government, for streamlining, and for an
end to overlap, duplication and waste is one that my own
Government has addressed in the last several months. Our
efforts
respect will continue. We have a
responsibility to our own taxpayers to ensure that the same
standards and objectives are applied to the international
institutions of which we are members.
in that
Institutions of
the United Nations cannot
remain
immune to the challenges, financial as well as political, of
the late twentieth century. They too must help shoulder the
burden by becoming leaner, more efficient, better focused,
more responsible and more responsive. They must adapt,
just as Member States are doing, to new technologies, to
continuing fiscal restraint, to the challenge to do better with
less. The structures here are not sacrosanct. No position,
expenditure or institution should be free of the scrutiny
under which we in Canada, and others elsewhere, have
placed our own State structures.
We applaud the reforms initiated by the Secretary-
General and we pledge our support for further action. We
urge him to press on, and we urge all Member States to
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
9
support his efforts. Our security, the security of generations
to come, is in the balance.
threat
to international security:
We have a great deal to do. All of our efforts to
reform the peacemaking and peace-keeping function of the
United Nations will be in vain if we are not able to come to
terms collectively with what must be regarded as the most
the
dangerous current
ubiquitous spread of weapons of mass destruction.
In too
many areas of the world, the prospect of conflict involving
nuclear weapons risks destabilizing already tense situations,
and could lead to human disasters of unimaginable
proportions. We must muster the collective resolve to put
teeth into the Non-Proliferation Treaty, disciplining harshly
those who violate its provisions and giving confidence to
those who abide by its undertakings. We wholeheartedly
welcome the priority attached to this issue by President
Clinton, and the practical measures he proposed.
the Non-Proliferation Treaty;
Our own priorities are clear: further progress in nuclear
arms reduction; indefinite extension and universal adherence
to
a
comprehensive test-ban treaty; early progress to bring the
chemical weapons Convention into force; and strengthening
of the United Nations Conventional Arms Register. These
direct
and security must be
accompanied by collective action on the root causes of
insecurity.
investments
negotiation
in peace
of
develop
We must
consolidate
democratic
institutions and the rule of law. Modern history teaches us
that democracies are the least likely States to wage war, the
best guarantors of peace.
law
domestically is the surest way of keeping democracies
democratic; internationally, it is the best way to resolve
disputes before they become crises.
The impartial
and
rule of
We must protect and promote human rights. Security
begins at the level of the individual, and there can be neither
peace nor security while people, singly or collectively,
minorities or majorities, are unable to uphold their dignity
and exercise their inherent rights. The General Assembly
must build on the progress achieved at
the Vienna
Conference earlier this year and agree to establish by the end
of this year the post of United Nations high commissioner
for Human Rights.
We must attack the poverty, deprivation and economic
underdevelopment which so often lie at
the heart of
instability and insecurity. The Secretary-General should
draw up an agenda for development.
It should incorporate
a bold rethinking of how the United Nations can best play its
important role in the economic and social spheres, while
avoiding the duplication of activities best carried forward
elsewhere. The Agenda could help redefine the role of the
United Nations in promoting sustainable development in
close cooperation with other international economic and
financial institutions. We owe no less to the children of the
world as we celebrate the third anniversary of the Summit
for Children.
(spoke in French)
To be lasting, economic growth has to respect the
environment. Hence, we have to follow through on our
collective commitments at last year’s Rio Summit to protect
the environment. The social and economic costs of not
doing so are simply unacceptable, a fact that is all too real
for the thousands of Canadians dependent on the Atlantic
fishery.
(spoke in English)
The brutal collapse of the fishery in the North-West Atlantic
and elsewhere is compelling evidence of the need to address
that crisis urgently. The United Nations must urgently adopt
a legally binding international regime to conserve and
manage high-seas fish stocks.
It is clear, however, that no amount of development
assistance can match the economic growth that could be
achieved through a freer flow of goods, services, capital and
ideas among our Member States.
Indeed, the single most
important step we can take collectively towards improving
the prosperity of developing and developed economies alike
would be to reach, without any further delay, a substantial
outcome to the Uruguay Round of multilateral
trade
negotiations. These discussions have reached a pivotal
stage; we must not lose this precious opportunity. My
Government remains committed to doing its part to reach
that goal and to pursuing other opportunities for trade
liberalization, such as through the North American Free
Trade Agreement. We are convinced that the Agreement
will make the North American economies both more
competitive and more open and will provide a much needed
stimulus to global trade and investment.
Our peace and security are not there for the taking. We
must work for them, and work hard - in our own countries,
in our regions, and globally. We must renew and revitalize
existing structures and, where necessary, build anew. We
have a historic opportunity to make good on the language of
the United Nations Charter, on the thwarted promise of those
early days, to build in our own time a cooperative system of
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
peace and security which respects difference but holds fast
to universal principles of human dignity and freedom. Let
us move forward, together, now.
United Nations Charter, especially the principle of respect
for human rights, motivated the democratic movements in
their struggle for political and economic change.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Canada for
the statement she has just made.
On behalf of
Mrs. Kim Campbell, Prime Minister of Canada, was
escorted from the rostrum.
ADDRESS BY MR. JANEZ DRNOVSEK, PRIME
MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia.
Mr. Janez Drnovsek, Prime Minister of the Republic
of Slovenia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of
the Republic of Slovenia, His
Excellency Mr. Janez Drnovsek, and inviting him to address
the Assembly.
Mr. DRNOVSEK (Slovenia): Allow me, Sir, to offer
you, and the Republic of Guyana, sincere congratulations on
your election as President of the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session. This session is taking place at a
moment of world history which everyone agrees to be
exceptional, so it
it be as
successful as possible. The fact that you are guiding its
work encourages me to hope that it will be so.
is particularly important that
Let me also take this opportunity to express my
gratitude for the contribution of the former Foreign Minister
of the Republic of Bulgaria, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan
Ganev, as President of the Assembly at its forty-seventh
session.
that
The very presence of Slovenia as an independent State
and a Member of the United Nations is adequate testimony
to the fact
the world has fundamentally changed.
Together with a series of other countries that are either
newly founded or have disengaged themselves from the
shackles of limited sovereignty - or both simultaneously -
Slovenia was not, of course, only an object of those changes,
but a protagonist in them. The motive force for these
changes was the democratic aspirations of nations, their
democratic movements and prominent individuals from all
spheres of social life. Many of the basic principles of the
We should not forget that fact today as we watch the
processes under way in the part of the world formerly
known as the East. The tragic events which we perceive as
having resulted from those very changes should not blur the
memories of the movement for the freedom and dignity of
men and women as individuals and as members of
historically, culturally and linguistically defined entities. The
difficulties faced by the new democracies were expected.
Yet they are strengthening democratic institutions and the
effectiveness of democratic mechanisms. On the other hand,
in another - the smaller -part of the East, there is an orgy of
destructive violence caused by inconceivable hatred.
The old terminology,
transferred to the notion of
"countries of the former East", obstructs a real understanding
of current events in the part of the world to which it refers.
Ideological notions should be replaced by terminology that
respects
the cultural and historical characteristics of
individual regions, which in recent history all known politics
and ideologies have tried to obliterate.
The former socialist countries that earlier on had
developed democracy movements are now experiencing
secure democratic development. On the other hand, in those
countries with totalitarian regimes that were suddenly
confronted with the end of the bipolar world and where
democratic movements were barely incipient, the ensuing
ideological vacuum led to nationalism accompanied by
expansionism and grave violations of human rights and of
the rights of minorities. Former Yugoslavia, a typical multi-
ethnic State, a federation composed of
six different
territorially defined members, experienced the consequences
of these distinctions within its former borders, and for that
reason could not survive.
Every region has its own particular characteristics.
Respecting them would to a great extent
facilitate
stabilization and the prospects of peaceful development on
the basis of multilateral cooperation.
It is not just for
Europe in the wider sense that this is valid, although it is
true that the processes of change are most pronounced in this
region, for better or for worse. The changes I am referring
to put seriously to the test most of the principles of
international cooperation and most of
the mechanisms
created to enhance it. The right to self-determination is a
case in point. This right, on the one hand, was denied to
some nations while on the other hand the misuse of the same
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
11
principle for carrying out aggressive expansionism and
land-grabs has been tolerated.
The role of the United Nations has greatly increased
since the end of the cold war, and the Organization is
confronted with a number of issues that have to be tackled
in a new way commensurate to the new atmosphere. Now
it is more or less clear to everybody that we cannot do
without new concepts and new mechanisms within this
Organization to enable it to react in accordance with the
requirements of the time.
It is of crucial importance to
strengthen human rights and democracy within countries and
to reflect this equally in their interrelations.
There are great expectations that the United Nations
will face these issues and will be able to adapt
itself
efficiently. In order to do this the General Assembly should
make proposals in this regard. Let me mention some of the
fields that these proposals could embrace.
a
further
law needs
International
evolution of
substantive provisions and consensual mechanisms for their
implementation. The principle of non-interference in the
internal affairs of States should be reaffirmed, though it
should be sensibly qualified by adequate internationally
defined standards.
International cooperation and the
interdependence of all States are continuously diminishing
the scope of matters which are essentially within the
domestic jurisdiction of States, while the scope of legitimate
international action is being expanded. In this context there
appears to be an opportunity for further protection of human
rights, the rights of ethnic minorities and the environment.
The Conference on Human Rights which took place in
Vienna last June confirmed global standards of respect for
and protection of human rights and recommended the
establishment of a high commissioner for human rights.
Slovenia intends to submit during this session proposals for
enhancing the activities of the United Nations in the field of
human rights, strengthening the Centre for Human Rights
and the establishment of a high commissioner for human
rights.
economic
Economic cooperation is of particular
importance.
Cooperation in the framework of a series of existing
international organizations and integrations must be seen in
the context of its extension to new members. Agreements
on
and
non-members of trading blocs are already being concluded,
although sometimes too slowly. In any case, it is important
that these associations should not close the door to the new
democracies,
the
development of market economies in the new democracies
between members
cooperation
impede
greatly
since
this
could
It is to be hoped that regional Economic
at the very start.
Commissions, specialized agencies of the United Nations and
international financial institutions will use their influence in
order to help remove obstacles.
At the Earth Summit in Rio last year we took part in
the efforts for closer
international cooperation on the
environment. We will render all possible support to the
United Nations to achieve the aims of the Rio Conference,
including sustainable development, and to simultaneously
detect new problems in this field. Of course, success will
elude us if there is no adequate supervision or sanctions.
and
adequate
forward-looking
European security since the end of the cold war has
acquired different faces, and new countries have entered the
European scene. Some military arrangements with purported
defence aims have disbanded, and a number of countries are
looking for new arrangements to safeguard their security.
This represents an opportunity that should not be lost.
Europe should be able to fill the security vacuum with
democratic,
security
arrangements for all, the more so since it is the first time in
history that security is not bound to increased defence
spending. This is encouraging. On the other hand, we are
facing the danger of new outbreaks in different regions.
This situation, more than anything else, requires preventive
diplomacy, which should, by its very nature, be a matter of
coordination for the United Nations, whose views should be
formed in the General Assembly and the Security Council.
Existing security associations, such as the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and the Western European
Union (WEU) should be systematically extended, and care
should be taken to see that there is coordination between
them and decision-making institutions of the United Nations.
The agreement between the United Nations and the CSCE
signed in May this year is encouraging from this point of
view. It may be useful to seriously consider creating forces
for rapid action, wherever timely action firmly authorized by
the Security Council could prevent a crisis.
During the last two years Slovenia has radically and
unilaterally restricted its own military potential. More than
half of the military facilities of the former Yugoslav army on
Slovenian territory have been committed to civilian needs.
However, the Republic of Slovenia remains subject to the
arms embargo which the Security Council imposed on the
former Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, this measure did not
produce the desired effect
in other parts of the former
Yugoslavia; on the contrary, it has prevented the victims of
aggression from effectively defending themselves. It is our
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
view that it is high time the Security Council reconsidered
this measure and adjusted it to realities.
I am sure that I am not alone in the view that all the
new dilemmas that the world is facing also require reform of
the structures and mechanisms of the United Nations. The
General Assembly should more fully utilize its own
competence in this sense for dealing with situations and take
steps to settle international relations matters. The Security
Council, in view of the new circumstances in the world and
the nature of current problems, would appear to need some
modification so as to be able to react more flexibly and
effectively.
It would be wise to increase its membership
appropriately to make it more representative and to
strengthen its responsibility to United Nations Member States
through the General Assembly. Further, strengthening the
professional competence of
the Secretariat could be
envisaged, thereby improving conditions for the effective
operation of the Secretary-General. The current state of the
world,
in which we are simultaneously confronted with
possible dangerous consequences of otherwise welcome
changes and with the well-known mounting problems of
developing countries, of course demands increased efficiency
of existing and perhaps new mechanisms. This means that
it will also be impossible to avoid the question of settling the
regular financing of the United Nations.
Mr. Pursoo (Grenada), Vice-President, took the Chair.
In closing I must unfortunately also touch on a matter
that has already disturbed and concerned the international
community for far too long:
the crisis in some parts of the
former Yugoslavia. Slovenia, despite being near the regions
of armed conflict in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
has not been directly involved in the problems that have
been the cause of armed conflict for the last two years. This
does not, of course, mean that people of Slovenia and the
Slovene Government are indifferent. The Republic of
Slovenia is respecting sanctions and is cooperating in all
efforts by the international community to bring peace to
these countries. We have submitted proposals in order to
alleviate the crisis, find a political solution and cut short the
war and suffering. Unfortunately, the war still rages on.
We are constantly reminded of this by the presence of
70,000 refugees living in Slovenia. Caring for them is no
small burden for the 2 million inhabitants of Slovenia, even
though we have the cooperation of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees. However, international aid for
refugees is decreasing.
In our view, it is crucial to abide by all the principles
on which the international order after the end of cold war
should be based. This would encourage the newly founded
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to follow these principles
and, like other States founded on the territory of the former
Yugoslavia, to seek membership in the United Nations in
accordance with the Charter. The political and economic
interests of all members of the former Yugoslavia can begin
to be met only through negotiations, on an equal legal
footing, on the succession of the former Yugoslavia.
Slovenia supports, and will continue to support, all
initiatives to create a better world that provides adequate
prospects for the coming generations - a world based on the
mutual
the entire international community,
without the horrors of war, poverty and social distress, a
world in which human rights and the dignity of every
individual are standards respected by all Governments.
interests of
I wish the General Assembly every success at
the
current session in its work towards this goal.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the
Republic of Slovenia for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Janez Drnovsek, Prime Minister of the Republic
of Slovenia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Mr. SATTAR (Pakistan): It is with great pleasure that
I extend to the President of the General Assembly the
felicitations of the Pakistan delegation on his election to
preside over the forty-eighth session. His diplomatic skills
and wide experience, particularly in the United Nations, will
be a valuable asset for the success of this important session
of the Assembly.
We express our appreciation and gratitude also to the
previous President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his memorable
contribution in guiding the forty-seventh session of the
Assembly.
A special tribute is due to the Secretary-General of our
organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication
and dynamism. We agree with the Secretary-General that
peace, development and democracy are interlinked and that
"Cooperative global integration is now an inescapable
fact and requirement for all
the world’s peoples."
(A/48/1, para. 13)
Pakistan is happy to welcome the Czech Republic,
former Yugoslav Republic of
Slovakia, Eritrea,
the
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
13
Macedonia, the Principality of Monaco and the Principality
of Andorra as Members of our Organization. We look
forward to close cooperation with them in efforts to
accomplish the aims of the United Nations.
To that objective, and to the noble vision of the
Charter, Pakistan has been committed ever
since its
independence. We have throughout sought to abide by its
principles, and we reaffirm our faith in their timeless
validity. As in the past, so also in the future Pakistan will
extend its wholehearted cooperation to all other States in
common efforts aimed at realizing the ideals that inspired
the establishment of the United Nations.
Nearly half a century later retrospection evokes mixed
feelings. The Organization’s failures and acts of omission
haunt and depress; yet Members of the United Nations have
much to celebrate. Some of the achievements during these
decades have been monumental.
Over 130 nations have emerged from the dark era of
colonialism and alien domination, each bringing its unique
genius to enrich world civilization, and to advance the cause
of human dignity.
The nightmare of a nuclear Armageddon has been
averted. Weapons of mass destruction are being reduced.
Ideological rivalry and confrontation have yielded to peace
and cooperation.
Democracy continues to triumph. People in large parts
of the world have achieved economic and social progress,
and better standards of living in peace and freedom.
In moments of optimism, we even perceive the glimmer
of a new dawn, of a more equitable and tranquil era, when
power will have been civilized, when differences and
disputes between States will be resolved, not
through
aggression or intimidation, but by peaceful means on the
basis of law and justice, as they are between individuals.
That vision appears tantalizingly close, yet it eludes our
grasp. The world community’s progress towards peace and
prosperity is both slow and meandering. We have witnessed
many setbacks and reverses. At such times the vision of
peace seems to recede to the far horizon.
Respect
for
rights has been severely
undermined. Some States have exhibited blatant disregard
and contempt for international norms, allowing and even
fundamental
encouraging their forces to perpetrate barbarous acts that
outrage the conscience of decent people.
Instead of civility and the practice of tolerance being
promoted, chauvinism and the evils of bigotry and hatred are
encouraged in some countries. The consequence has been
pogroms against minorities and destruction and desecration
of their places of worship.
The number of people in the world who have been
forced to flee their homes as refugees has risen to a record
level, straining the resources available for their relief.
The problem of poverty has intensified. A billion
people live in penury, without adequate food and shelter.
For them, life is short and brutish.
Manifestly,
the United Nations has a long road to
travel, and many old and new obstacles to overcome, before
it fulfills the aims and purposes set for it in the Charter. But
even as we count the multifarious challenges, we can draw
some solace from recent successes.
A remarkable transition has taken place in Cambodia,
a transition in which the United Nations Transitional
Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) played a pivotal role. The
commendable contribution of the Secretary General’s Special
Representative, Mr. Yasushi Akashi, and his collaborators,
is a source of satisfaction for the Organization and its
members. Committed to the promotion of peace and
stability, Pakistan is happy to have provided 1,500 personnel
for UNTAC during the transition.
The Declaration of Principles signed by the Palestine
Liberation Organization and Israel is a positive development.
Implemented in good faith, it could go down in history as an
important first step towards peace and coexistence in the
Middle East. Vital to the realization of that aim will be
respect for the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and
an equitable settlement of the outstanding issues. The status
of Al-Quds-el-Sharif remains a crucial issue of interest to us
in Pakistan and, indeed, to Muslims all over the world.
We hope that
the Declaration, evolved with the
commendable contribution of Norway, and the agenda
agreed between Jordan and Israel will give a fillip to the
negotiations for a comprehensive peace in the Middle East,
for which Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and
338 (1973) provide an agreed and necessary basis.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In Afghanistan the accommodation achieved by the
mujahidin leaders, and the formation of a coalition
government, is reason for satisfaction. Consolidation of
peace will allow the Afghan people to enjoy the fruits of
their epic victory. Meanwhile, a programme for
the
reconstruction of this war-ravaged country needs to be
launched immediately. By providing employment, it will
reinforce the peace process. Pakistan is prepared to join in
international efforts for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
Assistance is needed also for the million and a half Afghan
refugees in Pakistan who are still unable to return to their
homeland, pending the creation of conducive economic and
political conditions.
The political evolution in South Africa holds the
welcome promise of peace and freedom for all its people.
They and the world at large applaud the valiant freedom
fighter and statesman, Nelson Mandela, for his sagacious
leadership. Pakistan will respond positively to his proposals
to bring South Africa back into the comity of nations. The
formation of a pluralist, democratic Government is in sight.
Pakistan looks forward to developing close and friendly
relations with the new South Africa.
the
In Somalia,
restoration of
law and order
too, notable progress has been made
towards
and the
rehabilitation of its polity, though, regrettably, the process
has been slow and painful. We in Pakistan are deeply
grieved because our troops have suffered heavy casualties on
account of the misguided acts of a Somali faction. Yet
Pakistan will not abandon the United Nations Mission. Our
contingent will continue to hold high the United Nations
flag, assist relief operations and promote the re-establishment
of peace and harmony in Somalia, for whose people we
cherish abiding goodwill and fraternal affection.
We welcome the progress achieved in Mozambique,
Liberia and Rwanda, and hope that the relevant agreements
will be implemented in letter and in spirit. The unfortunate
developments in Angola must be reversed. We urge the
parties
national
reconciliation. The international community must assist
these countries in restoring peace and normalcy.
concerned
dialogue
seek
to
and
The optimism generated by the end of the cold war has
tragedy in Bosnia and
been blighted by the colossal
Herzegovina. A member of the United Nations has been
carved up by the use of force and its people brutalized
through aggression and cold-blooded genocide. Crimes
against humanity have been perpetrated on a scale not seen
since the Holocaust. The conscience of mankind has been
outraged. Yet the community of States failed to act in
the members of
It has succeeded, instead, in
defence of a small State.
denying the inherent right of a State to self-defence. Indeed,
some of
the Security Council even
obstructed moves to assist the victims of aggression and
slaughter, knowing full well
the perpetrators of
aggression were being aided and abetted by their ethnic
neighbours.
that
With their hands tied behind their backs, the Bosnians
have been forced to negotiate a so-called agreement. They
have been obliged to submit to a diktat in disregard of equity
and even the resolutions of the Security Council. A plan
that would reward aggression and legalize acquisition of
territory by force cannot, and should not, win the
approbation of the world community.
The General Assembly can still act, even at
this
eleventh hour, to salvage the hope that has been invested by
the people of the world in the United Nations.
Its voice
must rise in defence of law and justice, in order to preserve
the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina; to ensure an
equitable apportionment of territory among its different
ethnic components; to strengthen the United Nations force so
that it can keep and enforce the peace; to protect the safe
areas to provide relief against hunger and the rigour of the
approaching winter; and to punish those responsible for the
bestial crimes committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Azerbaijan is yet another victim of aggression.
Armenians have occupied Azeri
territory and expelled
hundreds of thousands of people from their homes. We call
for an end to this aggression and for the withdrawal of
Armenian forces. Also,
refugees need the
assistance of the world community for the relief of their
suffering.
the Azeri
The crisis in Kashmir calls for urgent action by the
United Nations. India has unleashed a brutal reign of terror
and repression in the occupied State in an unconscionable
attempt to bludgeon the Kashmiri people into submission and
to thwart their legitimate struggle for the realization of their
right to decide their own future. This is, of course, an
inherent right, but
in the case of Kashmir it has been
specifically pledged to them by Pakistan, by India and by the
United Nations.
It is sanctified in the resolutions of the
Security Council pertaining to Kashmir.
Internationally respected non-governmental human
rights organizations have graphically documented the brutal
crimes committed by the Indian occupation forces.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
15
Since 1990 Amnesty International has been reporting on
the massive violations of human rights in Kashmir by Indian
forces, on the practice of arbitrary imprisonment, torture and
killings of Kashmiris in custody, and on the perpetration of
rape as a matter of policy.
humanitarian law. Among the worst of these violations
have been the summary executions of hundreds of
detainees in the custody of the security forces in
Kashmir. Such killings are carried out as a matter of
policy ...
as
an instrument of
"Rape is not uncommon and there is evidence of its
employment
says
P. M. Vandarajan, a University of Oxford lecturer, who
visited Kashmir in September 1992.
In his report,
published by the International Federation of Human
Rights, Paris, the author recalls:
terror",
"The infamous mass rape by the Indian Army at
Kunan Poshpora was reported widely in the press, both
in India and abroad.
It is, to date, the most sickening
example by far of the brutal excesses of the Security
Forces against the women of the region".
It is the most sickening, but it is by no means a solitary
incident.
in
the
Also
catalogued
of
"disappearances" of people, and of young men who "are
tortured in Kashmir every day", and of extra-judicial, or
illegal, executions, which "are alarmingly frequent".
report
are
cases
The very titles of the reports issued by international
human rights organizations and by reputable journals depict
the grave conditions in Kashmir. Headlines and titles of
reports issued during 1993 include:
"Heaven on Fire", a
report by Tim Gopsill on behalf of the British Parliamentary
Group; "India’s Shame", a London Sunday newspaper, 17
January 1993; "The crackdown in Kashmir - Torture of
Detainees and Assaults on the Medical Community", Asia
Watch and Physicians for Human Rights; "Extra-Judicial
Executions, Rape, Arbitrary Arrests, Disappearances and
other violations of Basic Human Rights by the Indian
Security Forces in Indian-administered Kashmir", a report by
the International Federation of Lawyers for Human Rights;
"Violations of human rights committed by the Indian
security forces in Jammu and Kashmir", by the same
Organization; "Rape in Kashmir: A Crime of War", by Asia
Watch and Physicians for Human Rights.
The report by Asia Watch, a division of Human Rights
Watch, New York and Washington, and Physicians for
Human Rights, Boston, released in June 1993, concludes:
"In their efforts to crush the militant separatist
movement in Kashmir, Indian government forces have
systematically violated international human rights and
"Methods of
torture include severe beatings,
electric shock, suspension by the feet or hands,
stretching the legs apart, burning with heated objects,
sexual molestation and psychological deprivation and
humiliation. One common form of torture involves
crushing the leg muscles with a heavy wooden roller ...
Tens of thousands of Kashmiris have been killed by
Indian forces in the nearly four years since India began the
brutal repression in January 1990. Many more have been
maimed and incapacitated.
No statistics can illustrate the agony of a people or
portray their anguish and pain. But they do illustrate the
iron resolve of the people to recover their birthright. Now,
in the fourth year, the Kashmiri struggle continues to gather
internal strength. It has been established beyond doubt that
the Kashmiri people have not acquiesced and will not
acquiesce in Indian occupation. They have not accepted and
will not accept Indian rule.
India’s position on the Kashmir question, and its policy
in the occupied territory, constitute a fundamental defiance
of international law and morality. India claims that Jammu
and Kashmir is part of India; this claim is legally and
historically baseless. The future of the State remains to be
determined. The resolutions of the Security Council on this
question, providing for a plebiscite to decide the accession
of
to be
implemented. A member of the United Nations cannot be
allowed to refuse to implement a resolution of the Security
Council.
The resolutions in question were, moreover,
accepted by Pakistan as well as India. Law does not permit
a party to unilaterally renounce an international agreement.
the State to India or Pakistan, have yet
The struggle of the Kashmiri people to recover their
freedom of choice is a righteous struggle for a fundamental
right.
It merits the support of all members of the United
Nations. For Pakistan, a party to the dispute, such support
is a matter of duty as well as right. The Government and
people of Pakistan remain steadfast in their adherence to the
Security Council resolutions and in our strong support for
the Kashmiri right to self-determination. Pakistan calls upon
India to fulfil its obligations under law. We request all other
members of the United Nations to take appropriate action to
halt the Indian violations of human rights in Kashmir and to
16
the
ensure
resolutions.
Recent reports testify to an alarming escalation in
In
human rights abuses by the Indian forces in Kashmir.
order
to investigate this human rights emergency, we
addressed a letter to the President of the Security Council
last week and reiterated our suggestion that a fact-finding
mission be dispatched to Jammu and Kashmir. If India has
nothing to conceal, it should accept our suggestion.
Along with the resolution of conflicts, disarmament
offers a real option for States, large and small, to enhance
their security and expand the frontiers of regional and global
peace. The end of the cold war has removed the threat of
nuclear Armageddon. We welcome the agreements on the
reduction of strategic arms. Even so, thousands of nuclear
weapons will remain in the arsenals of the nuclear-weapon
States. We hope they will act
to further reduce and
eventually eliminate all nuclear weapons. The Geneva
Conference on Disarmament should renew its work on a
programme for nuclear disarmament to be achieved within
a specific time-frame.
Until nuclear disarmament is realized, the non-nuclear-
weapon States have the right to be assured by the nuclear-
weapon States that there will be no use or threat of the use
of nuclear weapons. The disappearance of the rival military
blocs which relied on nuclear deterrence for security against
each other should make it possible for the nuclear Powers to
undertake not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons
against non-nuclear States.
For over 20 years Pakistan has advocated the
conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. We
are therefore happy that negotiations are to open in Geneva
for the conclusion of such a treaty. Pakistan will participate
actively in this endeavour. We have also consistently
supported a global ban on the production of fissile material
which should be realized on a non-discriminatory basis.
force
this
year.
The regional approach has proved to be an effective
avenue to promote nuclear non-proliferation. The concept of
nuclear-weapon-free zones is finally being translated into
reality. The Latin American nuclear-weapon-free zone came
into
for
non-proliferation have also been worked out by Brazil and
Argentina. The dramatic reversal in South Africa’s nuclear
for
weapons programme has
establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa.
In the
Middle East, too, the progress towards peace may create
political momentum for non-proliferation.
arrangements
created the
conditions
Mutual
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
implementation of
the Security Council
Unfortunately, the hopes for non-proliferation in South
Asia received a serious setback when India exploded a
nuclear bomb in 1974. Nevertheless, Pakistan has continued
to advocate efforts to eliminate the danger of proliferation in
South Asia. To that end, we have put forward several
proposals. These include a South Asia nuclear-weapon-free
zone;
the simultaneous signature of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) by India and
Pakistan; mutual verification by these countries of each
other’s nuclear facilities; a bilateral nuclear-test-ban treaty;
a conference with the participation of India, Pakistan, the
United
elaborate
non-proliferation and security arrangements in our region.
Regrettably, these proposals have not yet been accepted.
States, Russia
and China
to
Conventional disarmament can also be promoted most
effectively in the regional context. The Geneva Conference
on Disarmament should elaborate principles to promote such
regional arms control and disarmament in the conventional
field. The United Nations arms transfer Register has proved
to be a successful experiment. Pakistan has provided the
required information on its arms acquisition and sales.
However, this Register may not provide a complete picture
of the dangers to peace in various regions. It is only when
both the transfer and the indigenous production of
armaments are taken into account that a comprehensive
evaluation of arms balances or imbalances can be made.
To promote peace and prosperity, it is essential to
facilitate rather than restrain the application of modern
technology for economic and social development. The
United Nations should consider preparing a comprehensive
study of the impediments placed arbitrarily in the way of the
application of advanced technology for the promotion of
economic and social development
in the developing
countries.
The global recession of the past few years has brought
severe hardship to many of the poorest countries and
especially to the poorest within these countries.
The
growing number of people living in absolute poverty
threatens political stability in many developing countries. A
comprehensive programme for development should be
accorded high priority by the world community.
The forces of protectionism must be resisted. The
Uruguay Round must be concluded by the end of 1993.
Adequate official resources should be channelled to those
developing countries which are implementing far-reaching
economic reform and liberalization measures. The desperate
needs of Africa require urgent attention. A new flow of
official assistance should be directed in particular to the
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
17
eradication of poverty, to human and social development
programmes and to sustainable growth in the developing
countries.
the indefatigable head of
The developing countries need urgently to address the
inexorable and unsustainable growth in their populations.
We greatly appreciate the dedication and efforts of Mr. Nafis
Sadik,
the United Nations
Population Fund. We hope the forthcoming population
Conference in Cairo will devise a comprehensive long-term
strategy to meet the challenge of burgeoning populations. At
the same time,
the needs of the world’s children must
assume priority on national and international agendas.
With the collapse of the Iron Curtain, there are now no
political or ideological obstacles in the way of creating a
truly global economy based on the principles of the market.
We hope that regional economic groupings will produce a
momentum towards global
interaction and
integration, and not the reverse. Pakistan stands at the
crossroads of South Asia, Central Asia, West Asia and the
Gulf, and can serve as a link for mutually beneficial
economic, commercial and industrial cooperation between
these adjacent regions.
economic
The United Nations is the only forum where the nations
of the world can concert their policies to construct the new
structures for global peace and progress. The Secretary
General has pointed in the right direction in his report
entitled "An Agenda for Peace".
It
is essential
to strengthen the mechanisms for
dispute-settlement and the resolution of conflicts provided
for in the Charter of the United Nations. At the same time,
the Security Council must exhibit a more uniform and
consistent resolve to implement
its own decisions and
resolutions. Only thus can the goal of collective security
become a living reality.
Pakistan agrees that an appropriate enlargement of the
membership of the Security Council is required to enhance
its representative character.
Its procedures should also be
made more transparent. The guiding principles for reform
must be democracy and the sovereign equality of Member
States. We cannot contemplate according privileged status
to those countries which have a record of defying the
principles of the United Nations Charter and refusing to
implement the resolutions of the Security Council.
The demands made on the United Nations
for
peace-keeping and peacemaking have increased significantly.
Today there are 80,000 United Nations peace-keepers
engaged in some 17 operations. Their missions are often
difficult and dangerous. Yet the Members of the United
Nations have to accept
the risks and assist States and
communities threatened by more powerful neighbours and
adversaries. Pakistan is among the largest contributors to
United Nations peace-keeping operations, with more than
6,000 personnel committed to United Nations operations at
present.
If the United Nations is to discharge its growing
responsibilities, it must be assured of stable and adequate
resources to finance its activities. The cost of alternatives
would be immensely higher.
The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly
should mark a watershed - a transition from the habits of the
cold war to an endeavour to construct peace and universal
prosperity in a new multipolar era. To succeed in this
endeavour, we
the dangerous
proliferation of national and ethnic conflicts and disputes;
establish the supremacy of human rights, democracy and
freedom; prevent
the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction and move towards nuclear and conventional
disarmament, and arrest the forces of trade protectionism and
mercantilism to foster global and sustainable development.
shall need to arrest
The challenges that the Member States of the United
Nations confront are imposing indeed. Yet, the opportunities
for genuine peace and universal prosperity are also most
promising. With goodwill and cooperation, Member States
can make significant progress at this session towards the
vision of peace, progress and human solidarity envisaged in
the Charter.
Mr. SOLANA (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
The United Nations has embarked on an irreversible process
of profound transformation. Efficiency and flexibility will
be the defining features of this process. But an effective
United Nations must continue to be in the service of peace
and development.
The United Nations of the next century must not be a
mechanism, however efficient, for balancing the interests of
the most powerful. The Organization must move ahead as
the world’s primary instrument for promoting development
and solidarity among nations and among men.
Our Organization is first and foremost a body of
sovereign nations.
It does not and cannot have any other
will than that expressed here by Member States. The drastic
increase in the number of Members over the last four years,
something that had not been seen since the days of
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
decolonization, underscores this characteristic and is also
proof of the confidence that we States place in the United
Nations.
the exercise of that right and ensure that no permanent
member alone can decide or obstruct the Council’s action.
This
of
nations
community
now wishes
to
internationalize certain issues which in earlier times fell
jurisdiction of States.
exclusively within the internal
Mexico,
aware
international
responsibilities, is acting within the requirements of the new
consensuses. But we must repeat time and again that we
reject the idea of international action developing to the
detriment of national sovereignty.
of
its
as
a
country
Transparency in the working methods of the Council
will restore to the General Assembly the primacy derived
from its universality and pluralism. We propose that a
General Assembly working group be established to make
recommendations on all aspects of the Security Council’s
reform.
In recent years peace-keeping operations have increased
the world has not yet
considerably.
managed to resolve its most pressing problems.
This shows that
All the peoples represented here must participate in
forging the Organization of the future. Mexico sees in any
reforms a historic opportunity to strengthen the democratic
life of this Organization.
The question of equitable representation in the Security
Council plays a central
role in the reform of our
Organization. There is a consensus on the need to increase
the number of seats in the Council. Whereas in 1945 there
were 51 Members of the United Nations, today there are 184
of us. For this reason, we should perhaps try, at the very
least, to double the number of seats in the Council. But
simply increasing the membership would not be enough.
The restructuring of the Council must take into account,
first of all, the fact that the Council lacks authority of its
own.
It acts by the mandate of those of us who have
decided, as sovereign States, to delegate our authority to it
for the delicate task of maintaining world peace. The
question of the Council’s composition must be addressed
having regard to the overriding need to guarantee the
legitimacy and transparency of the Council’s actions.
Those who make the greatest contributions to the
maintenance of peace, not necessarily those who are the
largest producers and exporters of the world’s weapons,
should be members of the Council. Carrying out peace-
keeping operations is not simply a question of placing
military contingents at the Council’s disposition. We must
those countries which have
recognize the efforts of all
brought about
international
disputes. The recent frequent recourse to the Security
Council has tended to hide the fact that our first obligation
is to resolve differences by peaceful means.
the peaceful settlement of
A representative body must be democratic. The right
of veto is not democratic, and therefore Mexico has never
supported it. Together, we must seek new ways to control
Nationalisms persist. Xenophobia and racism are on
the rise. Extreme poverty has increased.
Mexico sees peace-keeping operations as an excellent
instrument for containing the effects of conflict situations.
Such operations exist to create the conditions for a political
solution to be reached by peaceful means. They are an
opportunity for peace, but they are not peace itself.
Before the Security Council decides to set up a peace-
keeping operation, all parties to the conflict must have given
their consent. Only in this way can we guarantee the
inviolability of the sovereign rights of States and respect for
their internal jurisdiction.
A clear mandate is also indispensable.
Precisely
because their functions have become diversified, the Blue
Helmets must have clearly delimited fields of activity. My
Government is concerned that the scope of activity of the
members of those forces can be widened in situ, and that
their areas of competence are confused with other collective
actions based on the enforcement measures outlined in
Chapter VII of the Charter.
In Somalia United Nations forces should only ensure
that the international humanitarian aid reaches its intended
beneficiaries. The international community’s support for
peace-keeping operations and humanitarian relief depends on
their impartiality and transparency.
Mexico makes an urgent appeal
to Member States
immediately to lay down parameters regulating all aspects of
the
and functioning of peace-keeping
operations.
establishment
No force can replace political will in finding solutions
to international conflicts. This is demonstrated by the
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
19
agreement between the Palestinian Liberation Organization
and the State of Israel regarding autonomy for the occupied
territories. Mexico congratulates both the parties involved,
as well as those who assisted them in this great success of
political intelligence, of concertation and respect for the
rights of the other side. Weapons are yielding to the rule of
reason. The self-determination of peoples and the right of
every State to live within secure and recognized boundaries -
principles to which Mexico has always subscribed - are
beginning to gain strength in the Middle East.
In view of the uncontrollable spread throughout the
world of the dirty business of drugs, of their consumption,
production and traffic, and all the related illegal activities,
we must give thought to the ineffectiveness of the strategies
we have followed, and we must adopt a new course. We
must intensify our political determination, imagination and
strategic creativity and, above all, international cooperation
in which there is respect for sovereignty and no one claims
preeminence, in order to stop the growth of this terrible
social cancer.
In contrast to the signs of hope we are seeing in the
Middle East, the failure of the efforts to bring peace to the
former Yugoslavia is clear. Peace plans come and go, but
there has been no end to the killing and suffering of
innocent people. Mexico urges all the parties to the conflict
to agree on concrete confidence-building measures which
will allow the conditions for a broad, lasting agreement to be
created.
Mexico welcomes the recent decision by the United
States, France, the United Kingdom and Russia unilaterally
to extend the moratorium on nuclear testing. This decision
will make it possible for the Conference on Disarmament
finally to begin negotiations to ratify a treaty completely
banning these tests. We hope that all the nuclear Powers,
including China, will join the moratorium.
This historic decision, inspired and encouraged from the
beginning by my country, will be a vital step in preventing
the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Mexico stresses the
priority of the negotiations, both on their own merits and
because of the effect
they will have on the next Non-
Proliferation Treaty Review Conference, which will
determine
international
instrument. For Mexico, the complete cessation of nuclear
tests is inextricably linked to the fate of the non-proliferation
regime.
future of
the
this
important
The community of nations must now confront another
danger: drugs. Now the largest illegal business in history,
they are putting an end to human lives, corrupting the forces
of order and harming political institutions, and they can even
affect the stability of States.
We cannot question the merit of the United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances, an instrument which has served to
guide State policies and coordinate international cooperation.
Certain local and national battles have been won as a result
of them. But the war has not been won, and it is now a
world war.
Another central issue of our times is the great migratory
currents which are developing with renewed vigour as the
century draws to a close. The great international migrations
are a result of the polarization of wealth and well-being.
They are a problem which affects the entire world,
exceeding the capacity for action of individual States. We
need new plans for
international cooperation to seek
solutions to the most distressing problems relating to
economic underdevelopment.
Every wave of migration throughout history has its own
explanations, and the explanations are not necessarily related.
However, they always include the search for a better life.
Changes in the world’s structure are both a brake on
migration and an encouragement. In 1989, 1 per cent of the
world’s population - more than 50 million people - lived
outside their country of origin.
In 1992, only three years
later, this figure had doubled. At the beginning of the
1990s, the number of refugees in the world had reached 17
million.
Those countries which, because of their economic
development and social peace, seem to be able to accept new
groups of migrants are today undergoing internal conflicts at
times expressed through manifestations of ethnic and
religious intolerance.
During this period of difficult transition towards a new
ordering of power and balance in the world,
internal
tensions, protectionist tendencies, the global recession and
the disintegration of numerous States have combined to
make certain countries perceive the phenomenon of
migration as a threat to their national security.
Let us keep this phenomenon from overwhelming us by
adopting restrictive measures that are only superficial
palliatives.
Mexico proposes that
the Assembly begin serious
thought on this subject as soon as possible.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The national plans of any State must be based on
policies which make it possible for the inhabitants to live in
a dignified manner in their own country. Only in this way
can we ensure that whole peoples will not try to leave in
search of better economic opportunities. Extreme poverty
has increased in all areas of the world. For as long as the
richest one fifth of the world’s population represents 83 per
cent of total income, we will have failed in our efforts at
economic cooperation.
The countries of Latin America and those of Central
and Eastern Europe have made special efforts to make
internal adjustments to bring about economic reforms that
would have been hard even to imagine a few years ago. The
problem of critical poverty, however, cannot be left to the
In Mexico the State has not
whim of market forces.
abdicated its
Indeed, we have
strengthened our development policies based on solidarity.
responsibility.
social
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has said, time and
time again, that in order to consolidate any programme of
adjustment and economic stability, the promotion of social
programmes is indispensable. He has also stressed that the
expansion, modernization
of
educational programmes was the only way, in the long term,
to increase productivity and raise the living standards of the
people.
proper orientation
and
The convening of
the World Summit
for Social
Development in 1995 shows that the United Nations has
acknowledged the priority nature of
this item on the
international agenda. Mexico is already participating with
enthusiasm in preparations for this important event.
In the course of this year the World Conference on
Human Rights was held at Vienna. The agreements reached
must
lead to a strengthening of already existing legal
instruments. The community of States participating in the
Conference expressed their political determination to
implement these agreements in a non-selective manner, with
objectivity and respect
is a
fundamental aspect of the protection and promotion of
human rights throughout the world. Mexico would repeat
before the Assembly that full respect for human rights
requires us to direct our efforts towards the weakest groups:
those that live in conditions of poverty, refugees, ethnic
minorities, and all those people in need of respect for their
way of life and their culture.
for universality.
This
Mexico’s total trade with the United States of America
and Canada is equivalent to 20 per cent of its gross national
product. For this reason it signed the North American Free
Trade Agreement and parallel agreements. On that basis we
hope to promote, regulate and ensure trade flows, services
and investments among these three countries. In due course
this will be the largest free-trade area in the world: 360
million people with a product worth $7 trillion, a moving
force of principal importance for the world economy.
But Mexico is also a substantial and proud part of Latin
America. We have our cultural links and historic alliances
in Latin America. We give priority to our cooperation with
Central America and with the countries of the Caribbean.
We participate actively in the Rio Group and in the Latin
American Economic System (SELA). We, together with
Colombia and Venezuela, are involved in negotiations on
free trade with the Group of Three, and we hope that these
will be completed this year. With Chile we already have an
agreement which has been in existence since January 1992.
We are also having talks with other countries in the area.
We
in
the
actively
participate
Ibero-American
Conference, which is gaining the kind of standing that befits
an organization of 21 Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking
countries in America and Europe.
As an Atlantic country we feel very close to Europe,
where we have our principal partners and friends. We feel
especially close to the European Community, with which we
have a standing dialogue.
We are also a Pacific country and have significantly
expanded the number of our representatives and our trade
with Asian countries. We appreciate the support that has
been given to us by the countries of the Asia Pacific
Economic Cooperation Council to help us to enter that body
very soon.
We have also been invited by the 24 countries of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD). We appreciate the invitation. We are working out
the details of our entry into this prestigious group.
We congratulate the leaders of South Africa, President
De Klerk and Nelson Mandela, on the agreements that they
have reached and we are ready immediately to initiate full
relations with that Republic.
We recognize and fully support the efforts that have
been made in Haiti. Our Ambassador has now returned to
Port au Prince. We reiterate our offer to the Secretary-
General to give technical and economic resources for the
general recovery of Haiti.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
21
We wish to continue to be respectful friends of each
and every one of the States that are Members of the United
Nations.
President Boris Yeltsin. I join many others in expressing my
full support for his efforts to consolidate democracy in
Russia.
The central strategy of the foreign policies of President
Carlos Salinas de Gortari are diversification and the
deepening of our relations with all regions and countries of
the world.
for
Mexico has already begun preparations
the
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations.
In my country this will not be an occasion for
meaningless celebrations and self-congratulatory gestures.
We are making a serious effort to give serious thought to the
future of the Organization. The first question that we must
answer, however, is: What functions do we want the United
Nations to perform in the coming century? All the rest will
follow by accretion.
If in truth we have an opportunity - as has so often
been said since the end of the cold war - to turn the
Organization into the cornerstone of a truly new, more just
international order, then let us take action.
Mr. KOOIJMANS (Netherlands): First of all, please
convey to His Excellency, Ambassador
Insanally, my
congratulations on his election to the presidency of the forty-
eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly.
This session of the General Assembly is being held at a
point in time in which the United Nations is being asked to
play a constructive role in many fields. The onerous task of
helping to respond to this challenge rests on his capable
shoulders.
I should like to wish him every success in his
task and I pledge the full support of the delegation of the
Kingdom of the Netherlands.
The world is balancing between great hope and
immense suffering. Walls have tumbled not only in Europe.
In the Middle East two courageous leaders, Prime Minister
Rabin and Chairman Arafat, have set out on the road to
reconciliation between their people.
In South Africa
Mr. Mandela and President De Klerk showed similar courage
in breaking with the past and ushering in a new democratic
South Africa. At the same time, we see violence of many
kinds raking the face of the Earth. From Angola to Bosnia
villages are being destroyed and innocent people are
slaughtered in cold blood.
The future of Russia as well is crucial to our hopes. A
democratic Russia at peace with itself and its neighbours is
a major element of international stability. In Russia, too, we
see a courageous statesman trying to break with the past:
The end of the cold war created a historic opportunity
to shape a more just and peaceful world. History will judge
us severely if we let this opportunity slip through our hands.
Strengthening international peace and security involves
a broad range of efforts.
It is now widely recognized that
"security" cannot be viewed in military or political-military
terms alone. A broader definition is called for. Indeed, last
year’s summit meeting of the Security Council emphasized
that non-military sources of instability in the economic,
social, humanitarian and ecological fields can be threats to
peace and security as well. The traditional distinction
between conflicts between States and conflicts within States
is also becoming blurred. Bloodshed within a State tends,
sooner or later, to spill across national borders. This, of
course, raises the issue of sovereignty. How do we define
sovereignty at a time of increasing interdependence and
increasing mutual vulnerability? Sovereignty is certainly an
important principle of international law. But this principle
can never have been intended to shield from the outside
world dictators who massacre their own people. Nor can it
be intended to allow the perpetuation of large-scale suffering
and death in a State that has collapsed into anarchy. At
times the international community can indeed have a moral
duty to intervene. And at times it can be necessary for the
United Nations to take over
the de facto exercise of
sovereignty in such a shattered State to allow it to be rebuilt.
We must hope that this will succeed in Somalia. We can
take heart from current developments in Cambodia, which
prove that such ambitious ventures can succeed.
A number of recent resolutions of the Security Council
have broken new ground by extending international
responsibility to encompass the plight of individual countries
such as Somalia and Bosnia. Thus the definition of what
constitutes a threat to international peace and security has
gradually been widened.
In his recent speech in Quebec, Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali discussed the issue of "conflict
situations within nations". He said:
is
"It
these new conflicts which are most
threatening to international peace today and which
are most damaging to the rights of individuals".
On that occasion the Secretary-General called for "a
new diplomacy for democracy and human rights". I believe
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
that this idea is a valuable addition to our "Agenda for
Peace".
including those of the humanitarian and socio-economic
sectors.
Let me mention here the United Nations Conference on
Human Rights, which opened up new possibilities for
improving the protection of human rights. After a difficult
start, the outcome of the Conference was certainly gratifying.
The Final Document contains important recommendations
for further steps, which should now be implemented.
Thus, the Kingdom of the Netherlands would like to
underscore the urgent appeal of the Conference to the
Secretary-General and the General Assembly to increase
drastically the funding of the United Nations Centre for
Human Rights. It is of crucial importance that in the course
of this session of the General Assembly the post of high
commissioner for human rights be created, and the broad
outline of the mandate established. This session will also
provide us with an opportunity to tackle one of the most
heinous categories of human rights violations - that of grave
war crimes - through the establishment of the International
War Crimes Tribunal. The Kingdom of the Netherlands,
with its rich tradition in the field of international law, is
proud to have been asked to host the Tribunal in The Hague.
The increasing responsibilities that the United Nations
is called upon to shoulder emphasize the twin requirements
of legitimacy and effectiveness. This brings us to the heart
of the debate on enlargement of the Security Council.
Clearly, we must be careful not
to jeopardize the
decision-making ability of the Security Council by making
it unwieldy. However, I would favor extension of the
Council by the inclusion of a few major countries, provided
that
they were willing and able to carry the share of
collective responsibility that went with their membership.
The "Agenda for Peace" invites us to take a broader
It
view of the task of maintaining peace and security.
rightly stresses the need for early warning and early action
with regard to a crisis; or - even better - preventive action.
Developments in the former Yugoslavia and in other trouble
spots of the world have once again confirmed that the longer
a crisis is allowed to fester, the more difficult it is to bring
it under control, and the higher the cost of such action.
the various
I believe that, in this light, we should try to rethink the
interrelationship of
instruments of crisis
management. Diplomatic efforts, economic sanctions and
military pressure should not necessarily be viewed as
sequential but, rather, as an integrated set of instruments.
Peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building
require the full
range of United Nations instruments,
The enormous increase in the number and scope of
United Nations peace-keeping operations confronts us all
with a daunting task. Moreover,
in many cases the
environment
in which these operations take place has
changed: whereas, previously, peace-keeping operations
tended to be conducted in a benign environment, where all
parties benefited from the implementation of a limited
mandate, now peace-keepers often operate in a hostile
climate, where one or more parties frown upon the United
Nations presence and the Organization’s mandate. This
means that many operations these days are fraught literally
with physical danger for United Nations personnel - civilian
as well as military - and that privileges and immunities are
often violated. No longer does the blue flag automatically
command respect, and this directly affects the credibility of
the United Nations. Consequently, mandates now tend to be
stronger than before, and often they are explicitly based
upon Chapter VII of the Charter.
The changing character of peace-keeping operations
requires personnel with different qualifications. Well-trained
soldiers used to be able to do the job; today we require also
specialized units in the field of logistics, staff officers with
experience in multinational operations, mine-clearing experts,
and so on. On the civilian side, police officers, electoral
experts, administrators and human-rights specialists are
indispensable for integrated operations.
Increasing recourse to the United Nations, particularly
when it comes to initiating peace operations, is pushing the
United Nations to the limits of its organizational and
financial resources. This means that in the future the United
Nations will have to rely more on regional organizations and
structures to carry out peace operations and other missions.
The Charter makes
the
Secretary-General has advanced a similar proposal in his
"Agenda for Peace". On one hand, this will relieve the
United Nations of some of its commitments; on the other, it
will enable regional organizations or structures with greater
first-hand knowledge of the conflicts in their parts of the
world to contribute more effectively to resolution of the
underlying problems.
provision
for
this,
and
There are no standard formulas which dictate how these
interlocking institutions should interact, and each case will
have to be looked at individually to determine which form
of cooperation is most suitable.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
23
The Kingdom of the Netherlands has consistently
endeavoured to make a high-grade contribution to effective
peace operations, to which we feel committed as a Member
of the United Nations. The present reorganization of the
Netherlands armed forces is specifically geared to enabling
our country to participate even more broadly, speedily and
effectively in future peace-keeping operations.
The Netherlands believes that adequate preparation and
efficient supervision are crucial to the success of peace
operations and has accordingly made a number of military
officials available to the United Nations.
The final decision concerning possible deployment of troops
will of course always rest with the Netherlands Government.
The growing demands on the United Nations system
can be met only if standards of management, administration
and accountability are high.
The responsibility for
determining and maintaining these standards lies first and
It
foremost with ourselves as Member States.
is our
responsibility to indicate
clear priorities,
to ensure
consistency in the decisions taken by different United
Nations commissions and governing bodies, and to provide
the financial resources required to meet agreed priorities.
As peace operations increase in number and scope, so
does the need for support from the Secretariat.
The
Secretariat should be able to expand - and to contract - in
proportion to the need for peace-keeping tasks. Whenever
expansion is required it should take place at an early stage.
The preparation, planning and budgeting that precede the
actual operation are precisely the elements that are essential
to its success. The budgets currently proposed to the
General Assembly for setting up new peace operations are
inadequate. This not only makes it difficult for the Member
States to reach decisions on the funding of operations, but
also indicates that, at the time the budgets are presented,
there is no complete picture of the way the operation is to be
set up. Obviously,
if the number of peace operations
decreases, the additional staff at the Secretariat will also no
longer be necessary. What I am suggesting here is that any
reinforcement be temporary, flexible and prompt.
Apart from proper planning and training, adequate
staffing and a satisfactory level of supervision - all of which
are indispensable to the success of a peace operation - it is
important that United Nations peace forces be on the spot as
soon as possible after the decision to deploy them has been
made. Otherwise, there is a danger that hostilities will be
resumed
successful
implementation of the Security Council mandate will have
disappeared before the forces are in position. Speed is
therefore of the essence if the use of greater force is to be
avoided.
basis
thus
that
and
the
for
This is possible only if there is a clear picture of the
forces that can be made available to the United Nations at
short notice. In this connection, the Netherlands welcomes
the formation of the stand-by forces planning team, which is
engaged in formulating a concept and drawing up an
inventory of rapid deployment forces. The Netherlands has
undertaken to communicate by the end of 1993 which Dutch
units could be eligible for designation as stand-by forces.
in
Much criticism levelled against
the Organization
indicates a genuine need to improve the functioning and
management of the Secretariat. Part of this criticism has its
roots
their
responsibilities: the failure of Governments to set priorities,
the adoption of resolutions with unclear objectives and the
failure to pay assessed contributions cannot be blamed on
the Secretariat.
the way Member States
discharge
I am convinced that the vast majority of United Nations
staff members are dedicated and loyal international civil
servants. We owe them our respect. In areas ranging from
the direct provision of health care to non-proliferation of
nuclear weapons, many of
them work under difficult
conditions, some even risking their lives.
But despite the quality and commitment of its staff, the
Secretariat should take a long hard look at
its own
management structure. Key phrases such as management by
objectives, transparency and accountability must become
household words in United Nations vocabulary.
Line
managers must be given greater responsibility and should be
held accountable for
the attainment of predetermined
objectives.
Moreover, the Secretariat should respond to criticism in
a more satisfactory manner:
first of all, by ensuring that
justified criticism is acted upon and that corrective measures
are taken without delay; and, secondly, by promptly refuting
false allegations. In short, the public relations of the United
Nations need improvement.
The Secretary-General has taken several commendable
initiatives to restructure the Secretariat. The first changes
were introduced in the political sectors, and this year the
social and economic sectors were reorganized.
This
restructuring has provided a solid basis for improving
effectiveness and coordination. But further measures are
required. It is important to maintain the momentum and to
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
provide clear perspectives for United Nations staff members:
they should not be kept in the dark about their future status
and about the direction of reform. Lingering uncertainty has
affected staff morale and thus staff effectiveness.
I have already said that Member States have a
responsibility to provide financial resources for agreed
priorities and mandated activities. The United Nations
cannot be run on a shoestring. Year after year
the
Organization suffers from long delays in the receipt of
assessed contributions. As a result, mandated activities can
be implemented only in part or after substantial delay.
In
the area of peace-keeping, troop contributors unfortunately
have to be prepared and able to provide long-term advance
financing for peace-keeping operations.
This lack of discipline among Member States forces the
Secretariat to spend a great deal of energy attempting to
solve incessant liquidity problems. The painful paradox is
that the Secretariat’s relative success at shoestring budgeting
seems to contribute to a further deterioration in payment
discipline among Member States. Moreover, the burden of
keeping the United Nations in business now lies unfairly
with those Member States who make their payments
promptly and in full.
A number of Member States appear to make partial
payments as an expression of their dissatisfaction with
certain aspects of the Organization’s work. The United
Nations does not serve an à la carte menu: dissatisfaction
should be voiced in debate and by force of argument, not by
withholding assessed contributions.
We shall be considering the recommendations of the
Volcker-Ogata report on the financing of the United Nations
system during this session. The merits of many of the
recommendations are obvious, but generally speaking they
can only help to alleviate the immediate problems; they do
not go to the heart of the matter. Ultimately, the only
solution to the Organization’s financial problems - and this
cannot be stated often enough - is prompt and full payment
of assessed contributions by all Member States.
While we insist that Member States meet their financial
obligations, we also expect the Secretariat to use its financial
resources in an efficient and effective manner.
Some
Member States have suggested the establishment of new
financial control mechanisms. These proposals may have
merits, but we should not lose sight of the fact that a number
of control mechanisms already exist. I believe that a critical
review of the functioning of the present mechanisms is in
order before we decide upon new structures.
But auditing alone is insufficient. The structure of the
Organization must be such that financial and administrative
mismanagement is prevented. Line managers, for example,
must be held accountable for budgets under their control. In
recent years the Netherlands delegation has presented several
ideas aimed at
the improvement of the management of
United Nations programmes, and these have subsequently
been adopted by the General Assembly.
It
is relatively simple to request
In addition, I advocate greater cost-awareness, not only
among United Nations staff but also, and especially, among
Member States.
the
Secretary-General to undertake new activities, call additional
meetings or produce reports on a variety of issues. But we
must ask ourselves each time whether these requests meet a
real need, as they compete for strained financial and staff
resources.
Although the resources of the United Nations are
limited, genuine priorities must be met.
In this respect, at
this session the General Assembly will face a particularly
difficult task. It will have to determine which activities will
receive priority under the regular budget for 1994 and 1995.
As new priorities emerge, a number of activities will have to
be reduced or even eliminated altogether. We have to live
within our means. The Netherlands believes that additional
resources are needed most to strengthen the capacity of the
United Nations in the area of human rights, to improve the
Secretariat’s capacity to plan and manage peace-keeping
activities and to ensure the effective coordination of
humanitarian and emergency operations.
field,
are
in the
So far I have addressed a number of conditions that
will have to be fulfilled if the United Nations is to respond
effectively to the new challenges confronting it. A sound
financial basis, effective management and the availability of
qualified personnel, both at the Secretariat and in the context
of peace operations
the material
requirements which must be met. However, no less crucial
is the determination actually to implement the resolutions
adopted by the Security Council. Decision-making in the
Council should reflect the combined political will of its
members - acting on behalf of the United Nations Member
States - actually to translate their words into action where
necessary, once the material conditions have been fulfilled.
Too often in the recent past, there has been a failure to take
decisive action despite a declared willingness to do so when
such action was both necessary and justified.
Irrespective of the detrimental effect this can have on
peace operations themselves, it can also cause irreparable
damage in the long term to the standing and credibility of
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
25
the United Nations as a whole. Let me be clear about this:
I am not advocating resort to military action at the drop of
a hat. But if the Security Council draws a line and says that
if the line is crossed military action will be taken, it must be
prepared to fulfil this pledge.
If such a course proves
impossible, then the mandate was not adequately tailored to
the situation. If, on the other hand, the mandate is adequate
but the Council lacks the will to carry it out, its apparent
determination is nothing but an empty threat. Either way,
the credibility of the Organization is dealt a severe blow. If
this occurs too often, we run the risk that the new decisive
United Nations of the post-cold-war era will become a paper
tiger, making decisions that it cannot or will not put into
practice. This must not be allowed to happen.
Now, more than ever, we need a decisive United
Nations and a firm commitment on the part of the Member
States. The United Nations needs Member States that pay
their dues, provide the Organization with the necessary
human resources and have the political will to carry out the
decisions which they have collectively arrived at. The
Member States need a United Nations which is able to
perform those
efficiently and
effectively and which can be made accountable for the
resources entrusted to it.
It is the wish of the Kingdom of
the Netherlands that this forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly will bring us closer to achieving these aims.
tasks, which operates
Mr. KRAVCHANKA (Belarus) (interpretation from
Russian): I wish sincerely to congratulate the representative
of Guyana on his unanimous election to the distinguished
post of President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session. This is an expression of great respect for him and
his country.
I cannot fail to note the enormous amount of
hard and complicated work, deserving of
the highest
appreciation, that Mr. Stoyan Ganev, a representative of the
friendly, fraternal Bulgarian people, carried out in that post.
We welcome and congratulate the Czech Republic,
Slovakia,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Monaco, Andorra and Eritrea, which have this year become
Members of the United Nations.
The end of the twentieth century will undoubtedly go
down in history as a time of tectonic shifts in international
relations. With our own eyes we have seen the huge
tectonic plate of the cold war, with its intense confrontation
between two super-Powers and two ideologies, sink into the
past. Living space for a new world order has been opened
up. What will it look like?
The end of the last century was filled with dire
reflected in a surrealistic quest, and those
forebodings
The
forebodings have, unfortunately, been borne out.
difficult
twentieth century has become the century of
confusion for the human soul and human society, and of the
extreme tension of antagonisms that have many times
brought civilization to the brink of destruction.
Today feelings and expectations are different. At the
end of the century, it would seem, the foundation is being
laid for harmonizing new ways of life in the international
community.
But the establishment of a new world order is not as
painless as one might imagine. Changes in the balance of
power and the dynamism of international relations often
mutate
tense
contradiction and conflict. World Powers, alliances of States
and newly emerged countries are searching for their identity
and rethinking their role in an entirely new world.
unforeseeably
chaotic
into
scenes
of
Not always can an organizing vector or a system of
values, guidelines and ideas inspiring all of us be felt in this
world.
In this situation,
there is a new perception of the
potential role of the United Nations.
I believe that this
organizing role of the United Nations is more lofty, more
significant and more realistic than the one formerly assigned
to it in the post-war decades, which in fact was unfeasible in
the context of confrontation between the super-Powers. It is
precisely this role for the United Nations in a new world that
the Republic of Belarus advocates most actively.
It is at this precise moment that the potential of both
the United Nations Charter and the Organization itself as a
centre for harmonizing and coordinating the action of nations
is being realized. The United Nations, as the Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has emphasized is truly
becoming irreplaceable.
Undoubtedly,
the new role of the United Nations
requires a new level of efficiency in the Organization,
particularly in its main bodies - the Security Council and the
General Assembly. The Republic of Belarus supports the
reforms aimed at helping the Organization adapt to the
fundamentally new realities and making the procedures of its
main bodies more democratic. But in surging forward, one
should not lose contact with the ground under one’s feet.
Reforms, responsibilities and the future are those reference
points on which we believe we should constantly focus our
attention.
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
At
the Security Council
this decisive moment,
is
becoming the centre of attention, like a magic crystal ball in
which one can discern the future. Naturally, reforming the
Council, including expanding its membership, requires an
especially responsible approach. Mindful that in these new
conditions, this most important United Nations body cannot
remain the same as it was designed and created almost half
a century ago, we support a careful search for consensus on
all issues related to its reform. Changes in the Security
Council - especially today, when its work has become much
more intensive - should not hamper the productiveness of its
efforts. To a large extent these efforts depend, in our view,
on well-coordinated activities among all of the Council’s 15
members, on their adherence to the purposes and principles
of the Charter of the Organization and on their highly
conscientious, responsible attitude, proved,
through real
deeds, to the entire international community.
The Republic of Belarus, as representatives know, is
one of the candidates for a non-permanent seat on the
Security Council for 1994 to 1995. Today, on the eve of the
golden jubilee of the United Nations, the fiftieth anniversary
of its creation, it is appropriate to recall that at the time of
the inception of the World Parliament back in 1945, Belarus
was a founding member of the United Nations, having been
among the first to sign its Charter.
It is appropriate to recall here that we have gained a
certain amount of experience through working in the
Security Council from 1974 to 1975. It is also true that we
have been represented in that important body the fewest
number of times compared to our friends and colleagues in
the regional group, but we hope that this injustice will be
redressed at the forthcoming elections.
The new historical conditions which led to the creation
of the Commonwealth of Independent States, with Minsk as
the host city for its coordinating organs, have made us take
a fresh look at our
role and at our possibilities of
participating in the life of the international community. This
is also attested to by the joint support of the Commonwealth
and of a number of friendly States for Belarus’s candidature
for non-permanent membership in the Security Council. For
us, the submission of the candidature of the Republic of
Belarus for membership in the Security Council does not
represent merely a spontaneous political gesture nor a
hankering for pro-forma prestige. Historical circumstances
are such that the experience and the potential of Belarus, at
this very difficult moment in the formation of a new world
order, can be of great
importance to the international
community.
Let us take a look at this experience and potential in
those areas which have become very important
for
preserving global peace and security, as is widely recognized
and attested to even by this current debate.
I deal first with the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction. As representatives are aware, Belarus is one of
the four States that inherited strategic nuclear potential from
the former Soviet Union.
In our case, this is an important
modern arsenal
the European
continent on mobile strategic missiles.
It directly affects
global security,
the nuclear balance and nuclear non-
proliferation. Belarus, however, renounces the prestige of a
nuclear State, the sword of Damocles referred to here by
President Clinton, and has chosen non-nuclear status.
located in the heart of
Having made the appropriate commitments, we are
fulfilling them in practice.
In 1992 we were the first to
remove tactical nuclear weapons from our territory; in fact,
that was done ahead of schedule.
the
Parliament of Belarus virtually unanimously ratified the
Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I) and the Lisbon
Protocol to that Treaty, and also took the decision to accede,
as a non-nuclear State, to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons. In July of this year the instruments of
accession were deposited in Washington, Moscow and
London.
Last February,
the only one,
I wish to emphasize that since May 1992 - that is, since
the signing of the Lisbon Protocol - we have never given
any grounds for anyone to doubt the honesty, logic and
consistency of our actions. Of all the States which are the
nuclear heirs to the Soviet Union, Belarus was the first, and
still
to have rejected nuclear weapons in
practice. Moreover, it did so without any preconditions or
reservations. Thus, for the first time in the history of the
international community, a sovereign State has voluntarily
renounced a real opportunity to possess and develop nuclear
potential. This is truly a large-scale contribution by Belarus
to global security and the non-proliferation of nuclear
weapons.
I wish to emphasize once again that our words
and deeds are not at variance.
Having put forward from this lofty rostrum in 1990 the
idea of creating a non-nuclear belt from the Baltic to the
Black Sea, we have,
to the best of our abilities, been
transforming our territory into part of such a belt. We hope
that in due course our idea will be supported and developed
by our neighbours.
Of great concern to the international community is the
threat of illegal exports from the territory of the former
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
27
technology and
Soviet Union of nuclear materials,
equipment, which can fall
into irresponsible hands.
Responding to this danger, Belarus was the first State of the
region to enter into a large-scale agreement with the United
States to set up a stringent system for export control. Work
on implementing this agreement is already under way.
Weapons are immoral, just as the Moloch of war is
immoral. But the process of disarmament has turned out to
be far from idyllic: a catch-phrase of our century - "Guns
before butter" - has been fulfilled in a most unexpected way,
for the destruction of the guns has done nothing to increase
the supply of butter.
Other initiatives put forward by my country are no less
familiar to the United Nations. After many years of effort
by Belarus,
there has been agreement on international
machinery that has the potential to prevent States from
replenishing their arsenals with new types of weapons of
mass destruction. During this session we intend to continue
our active work in this area.
Taking an authoritative position on these issues,
Belarus, on behalf of and on the instructions of the States of
the Commonwealth of Independent States, intends during
this
joint declaration by the
Commonwealth of Independent States on issues of the
non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their
delivery systems.
session to present
a
I turn now to reductions in conventional weapons. Our
country does not manufacture battle tanks, and never has.
Yet we now have more tanks per capita than any other
European State - another part of the difficult heritage of the
former Soviet Union. When we decided to accede to the
Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe, we knew full well
that Belarus would have to eliminate 1.7 times more tanks
than the United States, 10 times more than the United
Kingdom and 50 times more
That
disproportionate burden is not taken into consideration in the
Treaty, since the Republics of the former Soviet Union had
no opportunity to participate in its preparation.
than France.
At stake, however, was the fate of a highly important
international agreement on which many European countries
had been working for more than 20 years, and so as not to
torpedo all that work and set Europe back many years we
undertook that excessive burden, at great cost to ourselves.
Now, Belarus is making an enormous contribution to
strengthening regional
security by
destroying the weapons of what was the most powerful
military tank district in the former Soviet Union. We are
doing this with extreme difficulty, because of the problems
of the present transitional period.
I would note that this
often results in a lack of understanding among our own
people: during an energy crisis, we are destroying tanks
while we lack the energy resources to carry out our crop-
sowing campaign.
and international
In reducing its conventional weapons, Belarus is guided
by the interests of all, and is entitled to expect reciprocity
from other States in overcoming its difficulties.
On the whole, the heritage of the former Soviet Union
an economy among the most
has been a difficult one:
highly militarized, and large military contingents. Suffice it
to say that at the start of 1992 there were three times as
many soldiers and officers per thousand civilians on our
territory as there were on average in the USSR.
Working sincerely to keep Belarus neutral, our
Parliament and our Government have adopted a policy
intended to demilitarize the national economy, including a
50 per cent reduction in our army over five years and the
development and adoption of a defensive military doctrine.
Having lived over the centuries through the horror of
numerous wars, and having lost in their flames millions upon
millions of its citizens, the Republic of Belarus will do its
utmost to ensure that the firestorm of military confrontation
will never again consume its territory.
I shall deal now with ethnic conflicts.
Acute and bloody ethnic, religious and intercommunal
clashes have become a dangerous feature of the new world.
The deep, often irrational, roots of these conflicts pose an
especially difficult challenge to the entire international
community, for they do not respond to simple prescriptions
for settlement.
In Belarus, profound social transformations
are taking place against a background of unique mutual
tolerance among varied ethnic, cultural and religious groups
within our society. Not a single drop of blood has stained
the soil of Belarus during this difficult time of transition.
We shall continue to do our best so that Belarus, nestled in
the very heart of the European continent, can continue to set
an example of political, ethnic and religious balance.
Mr. Nyakyi (United Republic of Tanzania), Vice-
President, took the Chair.
Belarus is unique in its humanistic spirit, which can
guarantee stability and irreversible democratic reform, and
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
we sincerely offer to the Security Council our experience of
coexistence among different ethnic groups and the centuries-
old tradition of national, cultural and religious tolerance that
is a feature of our country.
I am sure that tolerance can be an important key to the
resolution of any conflict. With international effort, we can
succeed.
It was tolerance in the highest sense of the word
that made possible a recent handshake, which finally opened
the way to what had seemed the impossible: a Middle East
settlement. It is tolerance that will determine the success of
the process under way in South Africa, and it is a lack of
tolerance that is delaying the settlement of the crisis in
Bosnia.
Instability; ethnic and religious clashes; ethnic and
regional separatism; internal political strife:
they have all
reached tragic levels in the post-Soviet areas.
In a number
of cases, they have grown into local military conflicts, and
even wars. The internal stability of Belarus and its position
at the centre - serving as host to the coordinating bodies of
the Commonwealth of Independent States - give Belarus the
potential to be a peacemaking mediator in such conflicts.
For example, we sincerely wish to help settle the
problem of Nagorny-Karabakh. Belarus remains ready to
assist in convening the international conference on Nagorny-
Karabakh, under the auspices of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
to be held in our
capital, Minsk, on a date to be determined by the
participants.
We believe that the neutrality proclaimed by Belarus is
an international asset. This constitutional objective enables
us to adopt a wider, unbiased approach to determining our
positions on various issues. We do this taking due account
of the realities of today’s world and of our place in that
world. We strive to pursue our policies in such a way as to
lay the foundation for a prosperous and neutral Belarus.
Specifically, we are moving towards the development and
implementation of the principles of democracy.
The Belarus Parliament
is in the final stages of
considering our new Constitution, which will consolidate the
irreversibility of the democratization of our State. We are
building a new political structure: new political parties,
national, social and political movements, and hundreds of
civic organizations have been officially registered and have
begun their political activities.
Among these organizations is the League for the
Protection of Human Rights. The evolving human-rights
status of Belarus is up to international standards. As early
as 1991 we ratified the Optional Protocol to the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and recognized the
competence of the Human Rights Committee, in keeping
with article 41 of the Covenant.
Belarus commends the results of the second World
Conference on Human Rights, held this year in Vienna. The
Conference in particular reiterated the obligations of States
to ensure completely and effectively all human rights and
fundamental freedoms without any discrimination whatever
against persons belonging to national minorities. We attach
great importance to this provision.
Belarus has created and is still creating all
the
necessary conditions for national minorities that live in its
territory so that they can fully enjoy human rights. But at
the same time we are far from being indifferent to the
treatment of Belarusians who live beyond our national
territory and will continue in future to follow closely the
situation of more than 2 million ethnic Belarusians who live
in different countries of the world.
Economic reforms are gaining ground in the Republic.
A gradual movement
towards a market economy has
increased the level of openness of the economy and has
limited the State’s monopoly in a number of areas of life.
Concrete steps towards creating a private sector have been
taken. The law on private landed property, which is of
fundamental importance in this respect, has been in force
since 1 September. The adoption of these legislative acts,
like the laws on property, entrepreneurship, and foreign
investment, has created the basis for the further development
of market relations. Right now Belarus is on the threshold
of a wider stage of its privatization.
is
vitally
developing
The Republic of Belarus,
concerned
like other States of this
about
and
region,
strengthening multilateral cooperation in the economic field.
We believe that
there are forms of discrimination and
limitation with respect to the States of Central and Eastern
Europe which should, along with the cold war, become a
thing of the past. Any delay here will be at variance with
the political and economic realities of the world.
Belarus is striving to lift barriers and limitations in the
field of trade and has taken a decision to start negotiations
on its accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT). We also hope that very soon the Uruguay
Round will be successfully completed.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
29
Integration on a new level of economic activity within
the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is especially
urgent for us. Belarus was one of the main initiators for
setting up an economic union within the framework of the
CIS and of concluding an appropriate agreement to that
effect. It is with great pleasure that I state that an agreement
on setting up such an economic union was signed recently,
under the chairmanship of Mr. Shushkevich, in Moscow at
the meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the CIS.
This opens up favourable prospects for the economic
stabilization of the Commonwealth of Independent States and
for the gradual overcoming of the most acute problems of
this transitional stage.
I am convinced that the agreements
reached in Moscow will mark a transition towards radically
new relations, that is, market relations, and will inevitably
lead to the formation on that basis of the eastern European
commonwealth, a geopolitical and economic group of a
market
the same time
consistently and unswervingly, become integrated into
European and world economic structures.
type that will gradually, but at
These new prospects encourage us also because they
will help Belarus, I hope, in the near future to strengthen its
real capacity to pay and settle to a large extent the problem
of our financial obligations to the United Nations.
We are well aware of the acuteness of the financial
situation of the Organization. That is why, despite our own
extremely difficult economic and financial situation, the
Government of Belarus
recently made a contribution
amounting to $3.5 million to the budget of the Organization
and, in effect, has fully settled its arrears.
I wish to assure
Members of the United Nations that we will
continue to do what we can within our very limited
resources. But the United Nations itself through its main
organ the General Assembly must take steps to have the
financial obligations of Belarus strictly match our real
capacity to pay.
In particular the new realities warrant a
decision without further delay on the relocation of our
country from Group B to Group C in the scheme of the
apportionment of expenses for United Nations peace-keeping
operations.
At the beginning of my statement I mentioned the great
hopes for the future which Belarus places on United Nations
activities. However, there is one very special area for us in
which United Nations assistance is vitally important, and that
is the environment and our "eternal wound that does not
heal" - Chernobyl - the most terrible nuclear disaster.
Along with the growth of cancer, especially among
children, of great concern to us recently has been the social
and psychological stress among our people. The birth rate
has fallen dramatically and the number of psychogenic
diseases has been growing rapidly. People are overwhelmed
by a concern about their health and the health of their
children. This has also affected the pace of the Republic’s
transition to new social and economic realities. We call
upon the United Nations, in close cooperation with the
Commission of the European Communities, to continue their
efforts to further study and overcome the consequences of
the Chernobyl disaster. We hope that in the process of
reforming the United Nations system and its Secretariat the
necessary institutional and programme mechanisms will be
worked out to further carry out Chernobyl-related activities
in the interests of the entire international community, taking
into consideration the great significance and uniqueness of
the lessons of the Chernobyl tragedy.
The activities carried out by the new United Nations
Coordinator on Chernobyl, Mr. Jan Eliasson, the beginning
of whose work is greatly appreciated by us, gives us hope
that
the United Nations potential will be used actively
enough to yield tangible practical results.
In the post-Chernobyl era we need moral and
psychological support, sometimes simply compassion.
In
this connection I should like to recall the words of a great
Russian writer, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, who is connected to
Belarus by birth. He once declared that beauty and the
nobility of human relations would save the world. To that
I would add compassion because they in effect are
inseparable since beauty is always noble while compassion
and nobility are always beautiful.
the suffering, of
the peoples of
Belarus, living through the post-Chernobyl nightmare,
having over centuries survived the nightmare of many raids,
invasions and wars, poverty and hardship, understands the
pain,
the developing
countries as no other country does. Poverty, diseases, child
mortality, in many parts of the world cannot leave people of
good will indifferent.
Indeed it is immoral to fail to take
note of this.
I am convinced that the new world order will
entail a fairer distribution of the world’s wealth and it will
be marked by assistance to those who for decades have been
unjustifiably doomed to poverty, stagnation and predictable
backwardness and have had to be content with the remaining
crumbs of
then
redistributed and not in their favour.
the wealth produced by them but
As one of the original members of the Commission on
striving to
Sustainable Development, our country is
30
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
contribute to its work in a way that reflects the ecological
and economic interests of all groups of States in a balanced
manner. We support efforts to elaborate an international
convention on desertification; the search for a solution to the
problems of the small developing island States; and the
search for new and additional resources for developing
countries.
Aware, under the conditions of post-Chernobyl realities,
of the significance of ecological problems in finding a
solution, Belarus has been actively supporting the
implementation of the decisions and recommendations of the
first-ever summit in history held in the interests of the Earth.
The Parliament of the Republic of Belarus has already
ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity and is now
examining the issue of acceding to the Convention on
Climate Change. We support priority consideration of
ecological problems within the context of international
cooperation, and the Republic of Belarus supports the idea
of transforming, in the near future, the Commission on
Sustainable Development into the United Nations council on
ecological security. We are ready to contribute to the
elaboration of its structure and mandate.
The United Nations is moving from the old epoch to
the new one with an imposing baggage. Certain parts of it
have already become obsolete and will be of interest only to
historical researchers; others contain the grains of that new
future role to be played by the United Nations in this quickly
evolving world which I have already spoken about - for
example, a positive and future-oriented experience of large-
scale peace-keeping operations in Namibia and Cambodia.
Standing on the threshold of the third millennium, one can
hardly envisage all of the details of the general picture of the
future world. However, the prospects that lie ahead are what
matters most, and they are clearly visible. From the role of
cease-fire organizer to the role of peace guarantor, from the
role of peace guarantor to the role of co-organizer of life in
the international community, a wise and authoritative
arbitrator whose political will is without doubt recognized by
all:
that is the way we see the role of the United Nations in
the next century. Meeting the challenges of the time,
Belarus is ready to work together with other friendly States,
including, if this is the will of the General Assembly, within
the Security Council of the United Nations.
Mr. POOS (Luxembourg): First of all, I should like to
extend to the President of the General Assembly at this
forty-eighth session my sincere congratulations on his
election. He was unanimously supported for this position
because of his excellent qualities; and his election is also a
tribute to his country, Guyana.
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our Secretary-General, also
deserves our wholehearted thanks and appreciation for his
constant and resolute efforts in implementing the decisions
of our Organization and applying the principles of our
Charter.
The already very broad universality of the United
Nations has been further strengthened - and I welcome this -
with the admission of six new countries:
the Czech
Republic,
the Slovak Republic, Eritrea, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and Andorra.
Mr. Willy Claes,
the Belgian Minister for Foreign
Affairs, yesterday expressed the views of the European
Community and its member States. I shall therefore be able
in this statement to focus on a few matters of particular
concern to my Government.
Three years ago, from this very rostrum, we welcomed
the end of the East-West confrontation and its corollary, the
end of the threat of nuclear annihilation. Throughout the
world, democracy and respect for the state of law were
progressing in a most encouraging way.
But given
developments in the last few years, it would seem that we
should somehow dampen our enthusiasm.
Changes in the balance of forces between the Powers
that dominated the old order have allowed nationalism and
regionalism to develop.
In some cases, this has led to the
destabilization of entire regions following upon rivalries
between neighbors, ethnic tension and religious fanaticism.
Nationalism is of course not in and of itself evil. It is
in some sense a logical manifestation of feelings of pride
and self-confidence which can finally express themselves
after long years of oppression during which free speech was
forcibly repressed.
But once the legitimate expression of this regained
pride of a people is transformed into open hostility towards
everything that is different, then nationalism carries within
itself the seeds of grave danger.
Extreme nationalism can be seen in many places,
whether it be in the territory of the former Soviet Union or
the former Yugoslavia, where it has found its most
It leads to explosions of violence,
intolerable expression.
armed aggression, acts of
terrorism and unspeakable
suffering for the civilian populations.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
31
Ethnic conflicts are proliferating in all regions of the
In Western Europe itself, it can be seen in the
world.
resurgence of racist and xenophobic incidents.
As a challenge to the primacy of law and to respect for
human rights, extreme nationalism constitutes a threat to the
international order.
A clear and coherent strategy is necessary to respond to
this challenge.
First of all, education with regard to tolerance should be
renewed; and, secondly, legal protection for minorities must
be ensured.
The principles and rules drawn up in this area by the
Council of Europe and the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe might suggest some solutions. New
instruments are to be defined next week at the summit of the
Council of Europe. The plan for stability in Europe is part
of this same approach.
Thirdly - and this is the most important action to be
taken - we must do everything possible at the national,
regional
strengthen
democratization and to promote protection for human rights.
international
and
levels
to
It is on the basis of these principles, focused on the free
expression of peoples and the development of democratic
structures, that the United Nations has proposed solutions
and agreements to resolve the conflicts which are being
submitted to it in ever-increasing numbers.
The Government of Luxembourg expresses its deep
satisfaction over the agreement on mutual recognition and
the agreement on the autonomy of occupied territories
concluded between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation
Organization.
We should like to pay tribute to those who forged the
agreements, in particular Prime Minister Rabin, his Foreign
Minister Peres and President Arafat. They have given the
world a lesson in courage and clarity of vision and in
political realism as well.
The developments we have witnessed are of a historic
significance comparable to that of the collapse of the Berlin
Wall. They fundamentally change the facts of the Middle
East; they have launched a process of reconciliation in order
to put an end to an explosive, untenable and unjust situation.
In a region devastated by more than 40 years of war,
violence and hatred, a window is now opening on a more
peaceful and democratic future. The still fragile dynamic
that has been created must be strengthened without delay.
This can first be achieved by the conclusion of peace
agreements between Israel and its neighbours: Lebanon,
Jordan and Syria.
The Government of Luxembourg
encourages the leaders concerned to overcome the last
obstacles and to open the way to normalization of their
relations with Israel.
The Israelis and the Palestinians must then act together
and in good faith, with the solidarity of the regional and
international community to implement successfully the
agreement on autonomy in the occupied territories, the first
step towards a comprehensive settlement.
The first
contributor of funds,
the European Community and its
member States, is prepared to increase cooperation on behalf
of a population that must be helped to emerge from poverty
and build a more dignified and prosperous future. Our
Government will participate fully in that effort.
Thanks to the United Nations, peace was restored in
Namibia and Nicaragua three years ago.
Today in Cambodia the effort led by the United Nations
has enabled the people of an ancient culture, humiliated by
decades of bloody oppression and foreign occupation, to
participate on a mass scale in free and open elections. By
consolidating a State of law and national reconciliation, the
country will be able to rebuild itself.
In Haiti a firm policy of close cooperation between the
United Nations and the Organization of American States
(OAS) has led to an agreement which provides for the
restoration of democracy.
In El Salvador the assistance of the United Nations was
decisive in putting an end to the civil war and recommencing
the construction of a civilian society and the process of
national
in which all
Salvadorians will be able to participate are to be held next
year.
Free elections
reconciliation.
In Somalia, however,
intervention by the United
Nations has demonstrated the limits of armed intervention in
a tribal civil war in the absence of a political agreement and
a cease-fire. Nevertheless, the difficulties encountered in
Mogadishu should not make us forget
the United
Nations made an essential contribution to combating the
famine.
that
32
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In South Africa further decisive progress is being made
towards the definitive abolition of apartheid. I welcome the
agreement on setting up a transitional body to draw up a
provisional Constitution and prepare for free elections in
April 1994.
Only a shared determination and close
cooperation between all the parties will make it possible to
stop the deadly violence which continues to kill and which
jeopardizes the process of reconciliation.
Luxembourg,
itself born as a modern State of an
international treaty guaranteed by the Powers of the time, is
particularly sensitive to the need for security and the need to
preserve the peace.
It has therefore contributed actively to
United Nations peace-keeping operations, sending military
personnel and making suitable financial contributions. My
Government
intends to continue this cooperation in the
future.
Significant progress towards restoring democracy and
towards national reconciliation has also been made in other
countries in Central America and in Africa.
Those
however
achievements,
are
encouraging, and demonstrate the role that our Organization
can play in preserving peace and consolidating democratic
regimes.
imperfect,
The situation in the former Yugoslavia is still extremely
disturbing. Every day we see on television the barbarism
that accompanies "ethnic cleansing" and the bloodstained
dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina -a country which
was once an example of ethnic and religious coexistence.
The agreement between the three Bosnian parties,
which has yet to be finalized, is admittedly complex and far
it has the merit of opening up the
from perfect. Yet
prospect of putting an end to terror and violence.
It offers
a comprehensive arrangement for emerging from the crisis.
Its success, which is far from being assured, presupposes a
real desire on the part of the three parties to reach agreement
and to carry out and abide by what is signed. The European
Community and its member States, where necessary assisted
by the Western European Union (WEU), are ready to
contribute
in
cooperation with the United Nations, the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). Sanctions could be
lifted when the various Security Council resolutions on the
former Yugoslavia have been implemented and when a
satisfactory solution to the problem of minorities has been
found.
to implementation of
agreement,
the
Overall, our Organization’s peace-keeping activities
have reached an unprecedented level. Almost 80,000 Blue
Helmets, military and civilian, are in the field in an
unparalleled number of humanitarian missions and peace-
keeping operations. I pay tribute to all those who serve the
cause of peace and in particular to those who have lost their
lives during these actions. We have a duty to ensure better
security for personnel.
Luxembourg also firmly supports the efforts to step up
United Nations activities
in the area of preventive
diplomacy. These efforts must be increased. Measures such
as fact-finding missions, the use of rapid alert systems, the
establishment of
and a
reinforcement of the roles of regional organizations could all
be very useful in preventing conflict. Once a conflict has
been unleashed it requires a much more costly intervention
to ensure the restoration of peace.
rapid deployment group,
a
New cooperation is developing between the United
Nations and regional organizations, which will increasingly
be called upon to carry out peace-keeping functions at their
level or to support and supplement United Nations activities
in the area of collective security. The WEU, of which my
country currently holds the presidency, is in the course of
defining its role in peace-keeping operations. NATO and the
CSCE are doing likewise.
The preservation of peace and the promotion of
democracy and the rule of law go hand in hand with the
protection of human rights.
Over the years, our Organization has succeeded in
developing and progressively codifying human rights. But
that is not enough; we must also see to it that these rights
are better respected. The annual reports of organizations
involved in the defence of human rights show that we are
still far from attaining that objective.
We are pleased that the Vienna Conference on Human
Rights allowed encouraging progress to be made. The
universality of human rights was clearly affirmed. Specific
proposals were made for ensuring broader knowledge of
human rights, promoting them and respecting them.
It is
now for this Assembly to approve those proposals, including
the establishment of a High Commissioner for Human
Rights.
There is an indissoluble link between respect for human
rights and the promotion of democracy. Within the United
Nations system this link takes concrete form in the
Organization’s growing activities in the area of technical
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
33
supervision of
and international
electoral
assistance
processes. I support the proposals by our Secretary-General
to broaden these
the
establishment of a free press, political parties and an
independent judiciary.
support
activities
to include
The World Summit for Social Development which will
take place in 1995 will, if it is adequately prepared, offer the
international community an opportunity to develop a strategy
to combat poverty and to ensure the better distribution of
wealth.
In this context, I welcome the decision taken by
President Yeltsin to organize free elections in order to ensure
democratic legitimacy for all State bodies in Russia.
The United Nations must also increase its activities in
the economic, social and environmental areas. This will also
require the continued courageous reform of its structures and
working methods.
More than a year ago the Secretary-General issued his
report "An Agenda for Peace", which was designed to
strengthen the Organization’s capacities in the area of
preventive diplomacy and the maintenance and restoration of
peace. Some of the proposals it contains are already being
applied in practice, but others are still pending. We hope
that the current review of the Agenda will lead to specific
results that can meet the Organization’s needs.
We can have no lasting peace while peoples are
subjected to abject poverty and famine and while they have
no hope for progress towards greater justice and equality.
these are the two foci of a single
Cooperation and trade:
In the past few years my
policy, which must be followed.
Government has doubled the
aid it designates
for
development and cooperation. We are in favour of the swift
in the General
conclusion of a balanced agreement
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
Such an
agreement can provide at the world level a new impetus to
trade and economic relations.
the
Following the Rio Conference on Environment and
Development,
on Sustainable
Development must be determined to ensure that
the
commitments entered into at that Conference are followed
up.
new Commission
The world’s population has more than doubled over the
past 40 years and according to estimates will double again
in the next 30 years. The international community must
engage in a thorough analysis of the consequences of that
level of growth - for example, the problems of refugees,
urban concentration, and the enormous constraints in the
areas of food, housing, health and education. That is why
the Conference on Population and Development to be held
in Cairo in 1994 has such importance.
It is not surprising that social problems are becoming
increasingly important at a time when many economies are
facing difficult adjustment processes and others are carrying
out a delicate transition from a planned economy to a market
economy. Moreover, all recently published reports confirm
that there is a disturbing increase in the gap between the
richest sectors and the poorest sectors of populations, both
within countries and between countries.
Reform of the Security Council is a delicate issue
which touches on the very heart of international post-war
cooperation. The Council has now been in operation for
50 years, and the time has come to have a candid and in-
depth discussion of the question. The fiftieth anniversary of
the Organization in 1995 could offer us a good opportunity
to do this.
The second crisis facing the United Nations - and this
point has been emphasized in all the statements made here
so far - is the chronic budget deficit. To put it bluntly, the
United Nations is bordering on insolvency. This is all the
more astonishing in that
the
Organization is about the same as that of a medium-sized
city.
the annual budget of
it
incumbent on them to pay their
The legal obligation that binds all Member States
makes
financial
contributions in full and at the proper time. The credibility
and the operational capacity of the United Nations depend on
this.
In conclusion, let me turn to an old Europe.
In building European union the members of
the
European Community have tried to seize an unprecedented
opportunity for the entire continent to achieve a truly unified
Europe, a Europe of countries that have often made war
against each other in the past.
Without denying the current difficulties, I believe that
the process of integration being carried out by the European
Community can serve as the inspiration for initiatives for
regional integration in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
European unification was thought up and implemented
on the basis of principles that are still
fully valid:
reconciliation between peoples that only yesterday were
34
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
enemies; broad-ranging political, economic, commercial and
cultural cooperation; and the development of a social model
based on pluralistic democracy, the market economy and
solidarity.
Such a model guarantees justice and social
cohesion even if we are never able to make it perfect and it
must be constantly adjusted.
It is on the basis of these common values that all the
peoples of Europe can, for the first time in their history,
build their future together. I believe that at the world level
also, thanks to concerted international action, we will be in
a better position to overcome the obstacles to peace and to
create a world order that is more democratic, more tolerant,
more just and more social - in a word, more in keeping with
the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr. HAN (Republic of Korea): May I congratulate
Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on his assumption of the
presidency of the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth
session. I also wish to acknowledge the excellent work done
by His Excellency Ambassador Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria as
President of the last session of the General Assembly.
I
to
pay
also
tribute
Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication to the cause
of the United Nations and to its reform at this important
juncture.
the
Allow me to take this opportunity to express my
warmest welcome to the new Member States - Andorra, the
Czech Republic, Eritrea, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Monaco and the Slovak Republic. My
delegation wishes them every success and looks forward to
working closely with them in all areas.
We live in an age of historic transition. This is
confirmed by the dramatic changes in the international
situation since the last session. A new world order, which
is fundamentally different from the old one, is taking shape.
We are witnessing a trend towards peace, cooperation and
interdependence,
instead of conflict, confrontation and
ideological bigotry. The most resounding testimony to this
effect emerged in the peace accord between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization signed in Washington this
month.
in
an
find
ourselves
Today we
international
environment that was only a vision to the founding fathers
of the United Nations.
I should like to quote from the
remarks of Mr. Oswaldo Aranha, a distinguished diplomat
from Brazil, who was the President of the General Assembly
in 1947. He said:
"All idea of force is today obsolete and negative. The
old order, based on political power, is trying to survive,
but there is no longer room for predominance through
force. The United Nations stands for the new order,
based on peaceful accord, on understanding, on free
common and equal
discussion ...
responsibility of peoples."
(Official Records of the
General Assembly, Second Session, Plenary Meeting,"
128th meeting, p. 1442)
and on the
Forty-five years after these words were spoken, we
finally stand at the end of one era and on the threshold of a
new one. This may be a second, and perhaps the last,
opportunity for us to fulfil the stated mission of the United
Nations at its creation.
To be sure, the end of the cold war does not mean the
end of all problems. The world worries about the continuing
and even worsening ethnic and religious conflicts. We face
the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction. Environmental protection is another major
challenge to today’s world. Development cannot be taken
for granted. These are monumental issues that require the
collective efforts of all members of
the international
community, and of the United Nations in particular.
We have entered an age of diversity and uncertainty,
but we should not be daunted by this new reality. We may
not be accustomed to it, but we should not be afraid of
living in a pluralistic world. Nations differ in what they
want to achieve and in how they want to achieve it. These
diverse goals, while constituting a possible source of
conflict, should also form the basis for complementarity and
cooperation among nations.
Some say that bipolarity is being replaced by
multipolarity. Yet "pluralistic", rather than "multipolar", is
perhaps more precise a term to describe the emerging world
order. A multipolar world would postulate geopolitics based
upon conflict and balance of power. A pluralistic world, on
the other hand, accepts diversity and encourages cooperation.
Thus, the world has the potential to become more democratic
and harmonious than it has ever been in history.
One of the most noteworthy changes in the aftermath
of the cold war is the strengthening of the United Nations,
particularly in the field of peace and security. The "Agenda
for Peace" report
that Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali
submitted last year provides a solid base on which to
augment the role of the United Nations in this area.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
35
Preventive diplomacy, in particular, is of the utmost
importance, given the enormous human and material costs of
conflicts once they break out. My delegation will continue
its participation in the efforts to translate into a meaningful
reality such initiatives as "preventive diplomacy" and
"post-conflict peace-building".
As the continuing tragedies in Bosnia and Somalia
demonstrate, conflicts fuelled by ethnic and religious
differences, poverty and internal disorder are becoming a
new and major threat to international security.
In response
to increasing demands, 17 United Nations peace-keeping
operations are active in different parts of the world.
However, traditional peace-keeping may no longer be
a sufficient response to current conflicts. We find that the
scope of these operations is widening, ranging from the
supervision of a cease-fire to nation-building. Furthermore,
the timely deployment of peace-keepers is imperative to
temper a conflict at an early stage.
For
this
reason, we believe that
the proposed
mechanism of United Nations
is an
appropriate way to enhance the Organization’s role in
meeting new challenges to peace.
The availability of
stand-by forces will enable the United Nations to provide a
quick and effective response to conflicts.
stand-by forces
I take this opportunity to reaffirm my Government’s
support of
the United Nations Operation in Somalia
(UNOSOM II). We dispatched an engineering battalion in
June, and we urge all the factions concerned in Somalia to
cooperate fully with the United Nations.
Given the
successful precedent set by the United Nations Transitional
Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), I am confident
that
UNOSOM II will also fulfill its peacekeeping mission.
None the less, it is a source of grave concern that the
number of United Nations casualties in Somalia is sharply
increasing. Effective arrangements need to be worked out to
enhance the safety and security of those who are involved in
the United Nations peace-keeping operations there and
everywhere else.
In the domain of peace and security, preventing the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, both nuclear
and biochemical, is another critical task.
The Republic of Korea strongly supports the efforts to
stop nuclear-weapons proliferation beyond 1995 through the
extension of the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty (NPT). We
also support
International Atomic
the strengthening of
Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards as the central device for
ensuring the effectiveness of the NPT.
At
the same time, consistent with the spirit and
objective of the NPT, we urge the existing nuclear Powers
not only to accelerate their efforts to reduce their nuclear
arsenal but also actively to join the efforts
for a
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. That will encourage
non-nuclear countries to adhere and agree to an indefinite
extension of the NPT régime. My delegation welcomes the
commitment of nuclear-weapon States to a continuing
moratorium on nuclear testing.
With regard to chemical and biological weapons, the
conclusion of the chemical weapons Convention in January
was a big step forward. We urge those States that have not
yet joined the Convention to do so as early as possible. The
Convention,
biological weapons
Convention, will serve as a major instrument in preventing
proliferation of biochemical weapons.
together with
the
With the ending of the cold war, disarmament has
moved into the realm of real possibility. Over the past few
years disarmament has gained momentum with agreements
on nuclear-arms reduction and cut-backs in conventional
forces. We have to keep this momentum alive. In the light
of these developments,
the October 1992 report of the
Secretary-General on "New dimensions of arms regulation
and disarmament in the post-cold war era" has offered timely
and useful guidelines for disarmament.
At the same time, we should take note of the ongoing
reassessment of multilateral disarmament machinery. The
Conference on Disarmament is particularly important as the
single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum.
In my
delegation’s view, the Conference on Disarmament should be
appropriately expanded in membership to reflect the changed
international environment.
In
addition,
the United Nations Register
of
Conventional Arms that was launched with the participation
of more than 70 Member States should be implemented on
a universal basis as soon as possible.
As I discuss the issue of disarmament, I need to draw
attention to the Korean peninsula. Despite the worldwide
trends towards peace and cooperation, there is still tension
in Korea.
My Government believes that the solution to the inter-
Korean question should be sought in the context of the post--
cold-war
and
reconciliation
international
order
of
36
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
cooperation. This means active participation by both North
and South Korea in the regional and global order.
We are particularly concerned with the North Korean
nuclear programme. North Korea should cooperate in
removing any suspicions surrounding it by honouring its
non-proliferation obligations under the NPT.
In conformity with the Security Council resolution
825 (1993), the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea must
comply with its safeguards agreement with IAEA. At the
same time, we urge the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea to cooperate with us in implementing the 1991
inter-Korean Joint Declaration of the Denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula.
My delegation is also deeply concerned about the safety
of North Korean nuclear power reactors. The International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the countries concerned
should pay special attention to the safety issue as well as to
the non-proliferation question in relation to the North Korean
nuclear program.
There are several urgent issues of a non-military nature
whose solution requires a global approach. Development
and trade, environment, and human rights are some of them.
The post-cold war
international environment both
requires and enables us to place greater emphasis on
economic and social development. We should now devote
the peace dividend to development efforts. Given the high
degree of interdependence in today’s world, no country is
immune from the consequences of economic difficulties in
other
and
environmental degradation have become a common threat to
the well-being of mankind. These non-military crises are
now the issues to be addressed with a sense of urgency and
collective endeavour by all nations.
Poverty, population problems
countries.
The role of the United Nations in this area should be
strengthened. I welcome the recent initiatives to restructure
and revitalize the United Nations system in the economic
and social field. The structure of the system should be
streamlined for effective mobilization of limited resources.
Meanwhile, I believe a substantial increase in development
resources is necessary to support developmental cooperation.
Developed countries are encouraged to enhance their efforts
in this area.
To achieve a more prosperous world, we need to
strengthen the global free trade regime. The regime of the
General Agreement on Tariff and Trade (GATT) was created
shortly after the founding of the United Nations. The
underlying philosophy was clear: peace and security can
best be guaranteed if buttressed by economic prosperity.
During the cold-war period, this global free trade regime
exceeded early expectations by bringing wealth and
prosperity to those who embraced it. Now that the cold war
is over, the whole world can more fully benefit from it.
Our choice is clear. We must strengthen the free trade
system, by ensuring a successful conclusion of the Uruguay
Round.
Economic development
is closely linked with the
environment issue.
It was at the Rio Summit last year that
the world was keenly awakened to this critical issue. The
Summit emphatically stressed the importance of global
partnership to achieve environmentally sound and sustainable
development towards the twenty-first century.
it
When we deal with environmental problems,
is
important to strike a balance between the North and the
South. The former focuses on the primacy of environmental
protection while the latter emphasizes the development
imperatives. We believe that the Commission on Sustainable
Development is a very appropriate forum for seeking such
a balance and coordinating the implementation of the results
of the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development.
As a member of
the Commission on Sustainable
Development, the Republic of Korea is ready to do its part
in contributing to global action. We hope to help bridge the
divergences between the developed and the developing
countries. We are now in the process of joining the
Framework Convention on Climate Change and other
environmental agreements.
level.
The human rights issue is receiving growing attention
on the international
This may be a natural
phenomenon as the emerging pluralistic world society
facilitates the promotion of democracy all over the world.
At the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna
in June, I had the privilege to report to the forum that human
rights have finally come of age in Korea. I also pledged our
firm support for the international movements to promote
human rights.
The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action are
the most significant results of the Conference. We must take
the necessary follow-up measures.
In five years we will
commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of
the Universal
I hope that our
Declaration of Human Rights of 1948.
generation will be able to meet the expectation set by those
who produced this Declaration.
would explore ways and means of alleviating the current
financial difficulties of the United Nations.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
37
As we pay due attention to the human rights issue, we
should also concern ourselves with the question of refugees
and disadvantaged groups. Armed conflicts and natural
disasters around the world raise the need for humanitarian
assistance and protection of refugees and displaced persons.
The Republic of Korea’s recent accession to the Convention
relating to the status of refugees testifies to its commitment
to this cause.
I attach special significance to the World Summit for
take place in 1995 in
I hope that effective programmes of action
this Conference to tackle major
Social Development which will
Copenhagen.
will be put forward at
impediments to social development.
As the United Nations faces new opportunities and
challenges, it also needs reforms in order to cope with them
better. This is indeed a tall order.
We believe that, with the enormous increase in the
general membership of the United Nations, it has become
necessary to enlarge the Security Council. The question is
how to enlarge
sacrificing its
effectiveness. The creation of a third category, with long-
term membership but without the power of veto, coupled
with the expansion of the non-permanent membership, may
be an answer.
the Council without
Concerning the General Assembly, the simplification of
the committee structure, through the merger of the Fourth
Committee and the Special Political Committee, will
undoubtedly enhance its efficiency. The rationalization of
the agenda may be another measure to help enhance the
capability of the General Assembly.
My delegation also welcomes the Secretary-General’s
measures to reform the Secretariat and supports him in this
complex task. In particular, the recent establishment of the
Office of the Assistant Secretary-General for Inspections and
Investigations is an initial step towards increasing the
accountability of the Secretariat.
I note with concern the report of the Secretary-General
that refers to the financial status of the United Nations. We
fully agree with him that in order to enable this Organization
to meet the demands of its time, the resources provided
should match its political will. My delegation is in favor of
constructive discussions during the current session which
I believe the reform should be based on a proper
understanding of the changed world situation. It should also
conform with the purposes and principles of the United
Nations.
I hope this process will lead to an efficient and
productive United Nations that is truly capable of fulfilling
the aspirations of mankind by the year 1995, the world
body’s fiftieth anniversary.
Given the vital role that the United Nations has played
in the Republic of Korea, we will observe this occasion with
particular dedication. A national committee will be formed
and activities will be coordinated with the Secretariat, with
special emphasis on conveying the message of the United
Nations to Korea’s next generation.
In the Republic of Korea, the new Government has
launched a reorientation of
foreign policy. Our new
diplomacy places emphasis on universal values - peace,
democracy, liberty, welfare and human rights. Globalism is
at the core of the new diplomacy.
Korea is pursuing a more active role in tackling global
issues such as international peace and security, disarmament,
the eradication of poverty, protection of the environment and
efficient utilization of natural resources.
It is through such
engagement in global affairs that Korea seeks to play its due
part in the activities of the United Nations designed to make
the world a safer, more just and more prosperous place.
The Republic of Korea is now participating in the
United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II).
It is
also serving a three-year term on the Economic and Social
Council. We shall actively seek ways to increase our
contribution to international organizations, especially those
within the framework of the United Nations.
In this regard, the Republic of Korea hopes to better
contribute to the maintenance of international peace and
security by having an opportunity to serve on the Security
Council. We hope to receive the encouragement and support
of the world community in these efforts.
Democratization, and harmony between nations, are the
most important trends of the new world order. By drawing
upon them, we have the opportunity to make the future more
peaceful and secure than ever before in the history of
mankind. Our success or failure will depend upon our
understanding of the nature of the new order and our ability
to build on it.
38
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
To be sure, there are dangers also. We failed with the
League of Nations. We often experienced bitter frustration
during the cold war period. Yet, we are on the threshold of
a new beginning. We need to look forward, because the
future is in our hands. We have to prove to ourselves that
we are equal to the task.
Mr. McKINNON (New Zealand): The United Nations
is our Organization; we are its custodians, and we have to
adjust to change. We have a huge responsibility to pass it
on in better shape than we found it. Historians in future
years will acknowledge this period of radical change.
But what are the objectives of this Organization of ours
in 1993? Well, they are not very difficult to enumerate,
because they are set out for us and by us in the Preamble to
the Charter, and they remain as valid today as they were
when they were agreed in 1945.
The first, of course, is peace, because without peace
and security no human society can flourish; then human
dignity, because if we do not treat each other with respect as
individuals, we will not do so as nations; justice, because
unless relations between nations are grounded in law, the
powerful will always be able to triumph over the weak;
social and economic progress, because without the sustained
and sustainable development of our economies, all our other
achievements will be as nothing.
I believe that
to this list we must now add the
maintenance of a clean and attractive environment. We are
learning, painfully, that our planet also has rights. We
ignore them only at our peril.
These are the foundations for the vision of what the
world should be.
In New Zealand, we would say that they
give opportunities to all. When the United Nations came
into existence almost 50 years ago, the vision was sharper
than the reality, but the founders of the United Nations were
certainly not deterred. They were at the watershed in the
affairs of the world. They had just experienced the awful
reality of a global conflict in which millions had died, and
they were determined to do everything in their power to
make sure that such a conflict could never occur again.
They did build well. They embodied their vision not only
in this Organization but also in a whole series of economic,
financial, social and humanitarian institutions, and they gave
it the only strength that counted:
their sheer determination,
as men and women from very different countries, to make
it happen.
Only the utmost patience and perseverance has kept that
dream and that determination alive through most of the
50 years since 1945. Progress has been slow and it has been
halting. Some great things were done, but too often the
Members of the United Nations could agree only at the
lowest common denominator, a reflection of the political
gaps and strains within the United Nations membership.
There are, however, four reasons why I believe that that
long, grey era has closed.
The first is that the cold war, that shadow and threat of
a global conflict, is now over. Freed of that constraint, the
United Nations can operate, as it was intended that it should,
as the ultimate guardian of the security of all its Members,
the ultimate arbiter of world peace.
Secondly, democracy, one of
the most effective
guarantors of peace between nations, is spreading. We
welcome the establishment of democratic institutions and
processes in countries that have for too long been without
them.
The third point is that in the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade Uruguay Round of multilateral
trade
negotiations, the world has a major opportunity to turn its
back on protectionism and lock in the prospects for
economic growth through trade and other forms of economic
integration. Freedom and free trade go hand in hand.
Fourthly, and last, the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro
and Agenda 21 contain a global consensus, a universal
determination to act to preserve our environment.
This combination of developments marks a new
watershed; if we are to keep faith with the founders of this
Organization, we must do what they did in 1945 at their
watershed, and build well, not just for ourselves, but of
course for those who follow.
On the issue of security and peacemaking, the first
point that I raised was that the elimination of confrontation
between the super-Powers has opened up new possibilities
for the practice of collective security and peacemaking. The
unfortunate consequence of 50 years of
super-Power
confrontation is, paradoxically, that we are not yet very good
at working together: like a novice sports team, we are really
rather uncoordinated, sadly lacking in strategy, sadly lacking
in team skills or knowledge of the new rules, and sadly
lacking in collective determination. We cannot correct these
deficiencies overnight, but we must keep on trying to
improve.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
39
The other paradox is that peace has not broken out
simply because the former Soviet Union and the United
States have stopped squaring off against each other. There
have been unexpected consequences: some would liken the
result to taking the lid off a pressure-cooker. Conflicts,
internal and between neighbours, seem to have burst out
everywhere. These consequences,
in human terms, are
horrific.
So here we are, in the United Nations, underresourced,
undertrained and facing an enormous peacemaking, peace-
building and peace-keeping challenge. We really have no
alternative to learning as we go, and I believe that we are
doing so.
During the past year, I have spoken to soldiers and
relief workers in the field in United Nations missions as
widely spread as Somalia and Croatia, and I pay my highest
tribute to their dedication under some of the most adverse
circumstances. United Nations people are trying there, as
elsewhere,
to create conditions where their work will
ultimately no longer be required. They are actually trying to
do themselves out of a job.
The Secretary-General’s document "An Agenda for
Peace" is now in a consolidation phase. The problems are
clear: rising expectations; machinery due for reform; lack of
funds; and the lack of ready, well-trained and well-equipped
forces. Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has already made some
thoughtful proposals, including sending teams to Member
States to help identify in advance resources available for the
United Nations operations. New Zealand is willing to
respond positively to this approach.
Mr. HAN (Republic of Korea), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
The Secretary-General has also made organizational
changes in the Headquarters departments that support peace-
keeping. The revamping of the Department of Peace-
Keeping Operations is a very good start, providing we
recognize that we need more than just a shifting of the
resources.
The new philosophy of peace-building and
peacemaking must work in tandem with the well-tried and
successful peace-keeping philosophy of the past.
On the issue of safety and security of United Nations
personnel, recent peace-keeping operations have highlighted
the risks to United Nations personnel working in dangerous
and unstable situations. That does not help the recruitment
of peace-keepers, and it does not help the recruitment of
contributing countries. The United Nations must have the
means to hold personally responsible and accountable those
who attack or commit other acts of violence against the
United Nations and associated personnel.
Earlier this year the New Zealand Government took the
initial step of calling for all possible measures to ensure the
safety of United Nations personnel. We asked the Secretary-
General to report on the adequacy of existing arrangements.
His report makes a number of positive recommendations.
He has highlighted the need for the General Assembly to
elaborate a new multilateral
instrument on the role the
Security Council might play in setting the appropriate
conditions designed to improve the safety of personnel.
I was very pleased just this afternoon to participate in
a Security Council meeting that adopted a resolution
welcoming the Secretary-General’s report and spelling out
the conditions the Council will impose in the future for the
protection of United Nations personnel. I was also delighted
that
the General Assembly last week agreed to New
Zealand’s proposal to include a new item on the safety of
personnel
the Sixth
Committee will establish a working group to consider the
issue and make urgent progress. I hope the subject will also
be very fully discussed in all other relevant United Nations
bodies.
in this year’s agenda.
I hope that
Of course, any mechanisms for protecting peace-keepers
must also require that parties to any conflict respect the
integrity of those personnel that have been deployed on their
behalf. Such an undertaking should, in principle, form part
of the mandate for any peace-keeping operation. The recent
the Security Council of establishing clear
practice of
mandates for peace-keeping operations at
the outset of
deployment is especially welcome, but there remains an onus
on a host State both to explain carefully to its people the
reason for the United Nations presence and also to take
active steps to ensure the safety of United Nations personnel.
But the purpose of peace-keeping or peacemaking and
peace-building is not solely to deal with conflicts that have
already arisen, urgent though that task is. We must improve
our capacity to prevent conflicts before they break out, and
I should like to acknowledge here the importance and
timeliness of recent
improvements in conflict-resolution
mechanisms and the ongoing work on preventive diplomacy.
I welcome very warmly the contribution made by my
Australian colleague, Senator Gareth Evans, to the debate on
this subject. He has given us much food for thought and
some helpful suggestions for concrete steps we can take to
improve our performance in this area.
40
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Disarmament measures remain a key element in conflict
prevention.
This year, as the international community
moves towards the extension - I hope for an indefinite
period - of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons, the Assembly will have non-proliferation as one
of its major themes. In this regard, North Korea’s continued
evasion of its responsibilities under that Treaty demands a
firm international response.
the launching of negotiations
We welcome very strongly the restraint being shown by
the nuclear-weapon States on testing and their positive
attitude towards
for a
comprehensive test-ban treaty.
It is not before time. New
Zealand has sponsored a draft resolution on comprehensive
test-bans for many years. Its purpose now is on the brink of
fulfillment.
The subject needs to be taken up in the
Conference on Disarmament. Given the importance of the
tasks now on the agenda of the Conference on Disarmament,
membership of the Conference must be open to all who have
the will to participate constructively.
In respect of conventional weaponry, we applaud the
enhancement of controls through the commencement of the
Register of conventional-arms transfers. We now have a
chemical weapons Convention in place alongside the
biological weapons Convention.
both regions will give a new cast
deliberations.
to the Assembly’s
We can also take heart from progress on another front
of long-standing concern to the Assembly. The United
Nations is now three years into the International Decade for
the Eradication of Colonialism. The good news is that we
are already seeing evidence that the goals and objectives of
the United Nations in this area are almost completely
realized. The number of Self-Governing Territories on the
United Nations list is now very small, and many of these are
exploring innovative ways to complete the decolonization
process. The recent United Nations Seminar on Colonialism,
held in Papua-New Guinea in June, confirmed this trend. It
also revealed that in some cases some very small Non-Self-
Governing Territories do not want fundamental constitutional
change thrust upon them.
New Zealand has always been a strong advocate of the
principle that in all cases decisions on self-determination are,
of course, for the local people to make. We are comfortable
with the notion that certain Territories, such as the Tokelaus,
may finally choose to develop concepts of self-government
and free association that further develop models that have
already been successfully employed for other very small
former Territories.
It is timely to consider what similar work can be done
in respect of conventional weapons. As disarmament moves
from the realms of Utopia into the achievable, we must lend
every effort, here in the United Nations and outside it, to
ensure disarmament’s more rapid progress. No sensible
proposal should be discarded simply for outdated ideological
reasons.
In that connection, and consistent with New Zealand’s
principled approach to all matters of decolonization, I am
pleased to confirm that the New Zealand Government and
the people of the Tokelaus have extended an invitation to the
United Nations to send a further visiting mission to the
Tokelaus early in 1994 to meet local leaders and, of course,
discuss recent developments.
I believe, one of
The spread of democratic institutions to every corner of
the globe is,
the most encouraging
phenomena of recent years, and the pace is astonishing. In
the space of just 24 hours last week, the Parliament of Israel
approved a Declaration of Principles on Palestinian self-
government;
the Parliament of South Africa enacted
legislation establishing the Transitional Executive Council to
take charge of that country until a democratically elected
Government is in office; and a constitutional Government
took office in Cambodia.
We welcome these historic events and the promise they
hold for a more just and prosperous existence for the peoples
of those nations. As delegations will remember, the Middle
East and South Africa dominated the political agenda of the
Assembly for many years. These positive developments in
It
Democracy is a sure foundation for peace between
nations.
is the political expression of that universal
respect for human rights to which we are all committed.
The Vienna Declaration and Plan of Action arising out of
this year’s World Conference on Human Rights gives some
direction to steps the Organization can take to strengthen the
observance of human rights.
I believe we should move quickly to approve a high
commissioner for human rights. The United Nations needs
an officer with a mandate to play a constructive role in
preventing, monitoring and alleviating human rights abuses
throughout the world. The Centre for Human Rights should
be given the resources to match the immense task it will
have before it. There is a clear need for an enhanced
programme of advisory services and technical assistance to
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
41
help countries build up their national human rights
infrastructure.
Human rights is also about recognizing the rights of
In this, the International Year for
peoples to self-identity.
the World’s Indigenous People, I would like to support a
proposal
the United Nations declare a decade for
indigenous peoples. We need to build on what has been
achieved, first at Rio de Janeiro and subsequently during the
International Year world wide. This is a long-term task. It
will require a sustained and very coordinated effort.
that
just
task is not
Unhappily, our
to enhance the
observance of human rights.
In this last decade of the
twentieth century, we seem at times to be actually moving
backwards, witnessing the abuse and deprivation of human
rights on a scale that we really believed we had put a long
way behind us. The suffering of millions of refugees
displaced by conflict
is beyond our comprehension but
cannot and should not be beyond our compassion. This
dimension is starkly evident
in nearly every issue now
before the Security Council. Last June, the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees put the
figure at 19 million people - 19 million displaced people
around the world - and it continues to rise.
from Bosnia, Somalia
It is appropriate to pay a special tribute to Mrs. Ogata
and her staff for the way in which they are meeting, often in
dangerous and trying circumstances, the challenges which
this problem brings. New Zealand has responded to these
increased demands by making a special provision for
refugees
by
establishing special programmes for particularly vulnerable
groups, such as women at risk, and by providing aid. We
now have one of the highest per capita resettlement ratios in
the world. But this is, of course, addressing the symptoms,
not the cause. The ultimate objective must be to create or
recreate conditions that allow refugees to return in safety and
dignity to their own homes and homelands.
and Cambodia
Nor can we neglect the need to bring to justice those
who have brought about such suffering. The establishment
of a war crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is
certainly a central pillar in the international response to this
particular conflict. The full achievement of the Tribunal’s
mandate is of the highest priority. At the same time, and in
a broader context, New Zealand also welcomes
the
consideration being given to the creation of an international
criminal court. We would like to see further progress on
this issue made during this session of the Assembly.
Sustainable economic growth for all countries is
essential for stability and peace in the world. A principal
determinant for that is an open, healthy and international
trading system, a system that encourages closer economic
relations and strengthened North-South exchanges. There is
no greater assistance developed countries can give to the
developing countries than to open their markets.
A
satisfactory conclusion to the Uruguay Round of multilateral
trade negotiations would be of immense benefit to us all and
has been mentioned, I believe, by just about every speaker
on this rostrum during this debate.
Progress to that end in the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, of course, has been slow, as we know.
Many deadlines have come and many deadlines have gone
without resolution. We should not be under any illusion.
Come this December, after seven years of negotiations on
the Uruguay Round, either we will have the liberalization of
multilateral trade with a benefit to all or the prospects of
avoiding global economic warfare will have suffered the
most serious setback. The New Zealand Government sees
the purpose of these negotiations being to lock in place
today the politically attainable, and to build on what might
be possible tomorrow.
In preparing for that, we also have
to focus our attention on what is needed to ensure that all
countries are placed where they can reap the benefits of the
future.
We still have much to follow up from the Rio
Conference on Environment and Development. But time is
not on our side. Environmental degradation continues to
pose a serious threat to the planet and its resources, and no
country - no country - is immune from its impact. The
levels of responsibility for environmental damage may differ
from country to country, but we must face up to their
consequences together. We must meet the objectives of
Agenda 21 and the Rio Declaration. All countries should
move to ratify the climate and biodiversity Conventions, a
step that New Zealand took just recently. New Zealand will
contribute to the global environmental facility that is to fund
both of those Conventions. We have begun work to reduce
carbon
a
comprehensive strategy for reducing net greenhouse gas
emissions. We are also making excellent progress on
phasing out consumption of ozone-depleting chemicals.
New Zealand is ready to share its expertise on biological
diversity with other countries to assist them in meeting
obligations under the Conventions.
developing
emissions
dioxide
and
are
I suppose that one of the most useful exercises that we
can conclude here is to draw some lessons from the
experiences and views that I have set out. The most obvious
42
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
economic well-being and a good,
one to me is that, however important it is to deal with the
particularities of human aspirations for peace, respect for the
individual,
clean
environment, one should never lose sight of the connections
between them all. The Secretary-General has pointed out
how peace, development and democracy form a mutually
reinforcing circle, and we agree. Getting the linkages right
can be as important for success as the elements of each.
Peace and security are not likely to be soundly based if
people are hungry. Economic growth cannot last if the
natural resources used to create it are not conserved. People
are not likely to make the effort required by economic
restructuring if the important choices are made for them.
Economic growth cannot be sustained if countries keep
coming up with new pretexts, such as environmental
protection, to justify excluding outside competition from
their own markets.
Human aspirations and human security must be seen in
the round. That is one of the major challenges facing the
membership of this Organization. The work done by the
United Nations in post-peace-keeping situations, I believe,
deserves renewed attention. For those countries where there
is still a need to foster economic, political and social
development, we should look at establishing a partnership
arrangement between the United Nations and the sovereign
Government.
A coordinating body comprising the
Governments and a group of friends of the Secretariat could
help to ensure that the gains of peace-keeping are taken
through to reconstruction.
I believe that we need a new
institutional framework to graduate problems out of the
security area and into a forum more able to cope with the
needs of redevelopment and reconstruction.
The second lesson is that we need to keep looking at
how well the United Nations is fitted to meet the challenges
it is facing and be prepared to change it where necessary.
Membership of the United Nations has continued to grow
and I warmly welcome the newest Member States.
Many speakers have referred to Security Council
reform. The Security Council is in need of early reform.
We support a modest increase in membership and a fresh
look at the institution as a whole. The possibility of some
members representing regional groupings for, say, a 10-year
period is worth considering. New Zealand will continue to
oppose any extension of veto rights.
Another imperative is for the Council’s work methods
to be improved. Wider consultation with the broader
membership of the United Nations is essential. United
Nations agencies are also ripe for restructuring. The General
Assembly has made a good start on itself. We have
streamlined the Committees, but we also must streamline the
overall workload.
It is unmanageable at present.
For several years now, we have been looking hard at
ways to fund new demands on the Organization by making
compensating savings elsewhere. We still need to ask hard
questions about whether all that has been done traditionally
still needs to be done. I welcome the fact that the Secretary-
General’s budget proposals already envisage some major
steps in this area. He has also identified better contracting
as a source of further savings.
At the end of the day, however, all that can be done to
increase efficiency and cut costs will come to naught if the
financial commitment by Member States is lacking. New
Zealand pays its dues on time; most others do not.
I urge
them to do so. Let us certainly go on talking about financial
reform, but let us also secure the financial basis of the
Organization while we are doing so.
But what is the real dream that all of us have? I would
urge all members to keep making, from year to year, real
progress towards satisfying those basic human aspirations I
mentioned at the outset and to do so with a strong, well-
equipped and well-focused United Nations. Specifically, I
want to see a reshaped Security Council, a more tightly
focused General Assembly, better peace-keeping practice, a
Secretariat equipped to handle peace-building and partnership
arrangements, and financial arrangements built on efficiency
and punctuality. Would that not give a point to the fiftieth
anniversary celebrations that lie ahead in 1995, and would it
not make the United Nations of the next 50 years a more
effective, more dynamic and exciting place to do the world’s
business in than the conditions of the last 50 years have
allowed? The deprived of this world expect no less. The
well-off know the world is too small for the huge gap that
now exists amongst all people to remain.
Mr. DOSSOU (Benin) (interpretation from French):
On behalf of the delegation of Benin and on behalf of the
Government and the people of Benin, I should like to extend
my warm congratulations to Ambassador Insanally on his
well-deserved election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at this session. His unanimous election as leader
of our deliberations testifies to his abilities;
is also
represents an honour for his country and draws attention to
the role played by Caribbean countries in the international
arena.
it
I
take
this opportunity to extend my sincere
congratulations to his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
43
ably presided over the work of the General Assembly at its
forty-seventh session.
It is also a great pleasure and a privilege for me to pay
a well-deserved tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
Secretary-General of the United Nations, who effectively and
successfully heads this global Organization and who is
working intensively to restore peace and security to the
various hotbeds of tension throughout the world.
The delegation of Benin solemnly welcomes the new
States that have joined the world community to make their
contribution to respect for the common basic values of the
new society which together, we, the people of the world, are
endeavouring to build.
I welcome the Czech Republic, the
Slovak Republic, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco and the
Principality of Andorra, whose admission enhances the
universality of this Organization.
We are meeting here, as we do each year under similar
to consider together ways and means of
circumstances,
promoting peace and prosperity for all our peoples.
Since the last session of the General Assembly, we
have witnessed many important events that have given the
international community as a whole new prospects and new
challenges in its quest for peace.
We welcome the fact that the confrontation between the
two blocs, which for so long had created political tension,
has today been replaced by the universal values of
democracy and equality in international relations. These
values are interdependent with economic and social
development and with the security of all States.
It is also encouraging to see that renewed confidence in
the effectiveness of the United Nations in settling conflicts
has strengthened the credibility and the capacity to act of the
Organization, opening up new areas in which it is able to
encourage the settlement of a vast range of problems that
afflict humankind.
In just five years, the tasks of the Organization in the
area of maintaining peace have increased and widened
considerably.
Despite positive developments, changes currently under
way that were designed to provide for greater freedom and
encourage the establishment of more just and more dynamic
societies have unfortunately also become the source of new
challenges and even greater uncertainty in international
relations. Each day, in one place or another on our planet,
civil wars, territorial partition, ethnic confrontations and
tribal or religious struggles demand the urgent intervention
of the United Nations.
We can see, therefore, how difficult is the task of the
Organization, which is obliged to respect a fragile balance
between the sovereignty of States and the duty to intervene.
the
political
has
picture
In Europe,
changed
dramatically in just a few years. The hopes born of the
disappearance of the Berlin Wall have been virtually dashed
by another, anachronistic war in the former Yugoslavia and
by the situation in some of the States that emerged from the
disintegration of the Soviet Union, thus threatening stability
and security on the old continent.
In Africa, major civil wars continue to rage. These
wars are responsible for the untold suffering and destruction
which are hampering efforts at socio-economic development
and recovery in our continent.
Africa needs peace and security. Without them the
the
courageous and far-reaching reforms undertaken at
political and economic levels cannot be successful.
The twenty-ninth summit of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) held in Cairo in June of this year provided us
with an opportunity to adopt a mechanism for
the
prevention, management and settlement of conflicts. That
mechanism is an important step forward in the acceptance of
the
to
development. Indeed, conflict management remains a major
concern for our countries, as the massive movements of
refugees that result from conflicts distract us, to our sorrow,
from the paramount task of development.
imperative of peace, which is
so essential
West Africa, which until now has been a peaceful land
of asylum, welcoming refugees from the rest of the continent
and even beyond,
is now living through a particularly
difficult time, with an unprecedented increase in emergency
situations and in the number of refugees, which in less than
four years has risen from 20,000 to 1.2 million.
Here,
I would pay a tribute to the humanitarian
activities and the considerable efforts of the United Nations
to settle conflicts in Africa and elsewhere in the world.
Because of the support of the United Nations,
the
Liberian conflict today offers encouraging prospects for a
peaceful and lasting settlement. The major protagonists in
44
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
They met
representatives of
the Liberian tragedy now seem disposed towards dialogue
in Geneva from 10 to
and agreement.
17 July 1993, with the help of
the
Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity and
the Executive Secretariat of the Economic Community of
West African States (ECOWAS) and of the Acting President
of that Community, to seek ways and means of silencing the
weapons of war and restoring peace to their country. Those
present at
the Geneva meeting successfully prepared a
comprehensive agreement that takes account of all aspects of
the Liberian tragedy.
In Cotonou on 25 July 1993, representatives of the
various factions and of the interim Government of Liberia
signed that peace agreement, thanks to the mediation of Mr.
Nicéphore Soglo, President of the Republic of Benin, and
Acting President of ECOWAS. Benin is pleased by the
willingness of our Liberian brothers to enter into this
agreement and by their spirit of constructive and fraternal
dialogue, without which nothing positive could have been
achieved. Benin continues to believe that dialogue is the
only way of restoring peace to this war-torn country.
We welcome the positive results thus far achieved in
the implementation of the agreement, most notably the
observation of the cease-fire by all the warring factions and
the cessation of hostilities.
In particular, the delegation of Benin welcomes the
unanimous adoption by the Security Council of resolution
856 (1993), which supports the efforts of ECOWAS and
approves the deployment in Liberia of an advance team of
30 military observers to participate in the work of the Joint
Cease-fire Monitoring Committee. We also welcome
resolution 866 (1993), which establishes the United Nations
Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL).
This Mission can be made possible only by a
mobilization of the international community to support the
efforts of ECOWAS by,
inter alia, contributing to the
special trust fund, which would facilitate the dispatch of
reinforcements to ECOMOG by the African States and help
provide for the upkeep of the contingents made available to
ECOMOG by the participating States, as well as by helping
in carrying out
the work of removing mines, providing
humanitarian and developmental assistance and promoting
the healthy evolution of the electoral process.
The three signatories of the 25 July 1993 peace
agreement met in Cotonou from 15 to 18 August 1993 to set
up the Council of State, the transitional executive body. The
25 July peace agreement promises finally to put an end to
the very long, devastating war in Liberia.
From this rostrum, I would like to make an appeal to
all the parties who signed that agreement, urging them to
continue to abide by the commitments entered into during
the Cotonou talks and to work with ECOWAS and the
United Nations for the proper and swift implementation of
those commitments, in order to put an end to the suffering
the national
of
reconciliation process will proceed to its
successful
completion.
the Liberian people and ensure that
Along the lines of the solution under way in Liberia,
we should work to ensure that peace returns to Somalia,
Angola, the Sudan and Mozambique.
In Angola, for example, despite the great hopes and
expectations aroused by the agreements reached in Estoril,
Portugal, we are seriously disturbed and deeply saddened by
the resumption of hostilities following the refusal of UNITA
to recognize the results of the free elections of 29 and
30 September 1992.
Benin welcomes the change in the position taken by the
United States Government, which has now granted
diplomatic recognition to the legal Government of Angola.
This action by the Clinton Administration strengthens the
position of the international community in support of the
verdict of the ballot box rather than the compulsion of the
gun.
In South Africa, developments are encouraging. The
multipartite talks made it possible to reach an agreement on,
the establishment of a transitional executive
inter alia,
council and the holding of
the first democratic and
non-racial elections in the history of South Africa, scheduled
for 27 April 1994.
The Government of Benin supports the courageous and
responsible appeal by the Chairman of the African National
Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, before
the Special
Committee against Apartheid in this prestigious Hall of the
General Assembly on 24 September 1993. He invited the
international community to lift all economic sanctions
against South Africa, except for the arms embargo. Given
the positive development that will lead this country, which
is undergoing a process of
the
principle of "one man, one vote", the time has come for all
Members of our universal Organization to support
the
peaceful transformation of South Africa.
to implement
reform,
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
45
Benin wishes to see the African continent free itself of
all fratricidal and internal wars, of all conflicts that impede
its development.
It is my firm hope that the logic of war
will now progressively yield to the logic of peace and
development in Africa.
Benin, which is dedicated to peace and economic and
social progress, urges the international community to refrain
from any military use of science so that science can be
devoted to development, and international peace and
security.
Turning to the Middle East, 26 years after Israel’s
occupation of the Arab territories, Benin cannot but greet
with joy the historic agreement between the Israeli
Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization
granting autonomy to Gaza and Jericho.
That agreement marks the beginning of a just and
lasting peace that will allow every State in the region,
including Palestine and Israel, to live within secure and
internationally recognized borders guaranteed by the
international community. Our duty is thus to encourage the
two essential parties, as well as all parties involved, to
undertake or to continue the dialogue necessary for a
comprehensive peace in the Middle East.
In the Persian Gulf region the full restoration of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait helped to
reaffirm the fundamental principles governing inter-State
relations. In this connection we sincerely hope that Security
Council resolution 833 (1993), on the demarcation of the
international border between Iraq and Kuwait, will be
respected by all States. Pending issues such as that of the
Kuwaiti prisoners of war must be settled so as to open the
way to fraternity, cooperation and solidarity in that
subregion.
The atmosphere of relaxation of tension which began
with the end of the cold war and which has made possible
a new spirit of consensus, inter alia in the Security Council,
is still rather uncertain for much remains to be done to
consolidate peace.
We must recognize today that the idea of peace can no
longer be based on a build-up of weapons; it must be based,
rather, on concerted efforts on their reduction and complete
elimination. The balance of terror is now yielding to a
meeting of the minds, the hearts and the actions of man.
That
is why the signing of
the United Nations
the Development,
Convention on the Prohibition of
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and
on Their Destruction, in Paris on 13-15 January 1993, not
only helps to strengthen international peace and security but
also offers prospects for international cooperation in the area
of using the chemicals industry for peaceful purposes.
The decision by Russia, the United States of America,
the United Kingdom and France to extend their moratorium
on nuclear testing until September 1994 proves that the
Governments of those nuclear Powers are increasingly
interested in measures that will make it possible to use
scientific and technical developments exclusively for
peaceful purposes.
the rest of
My country joins
the international
community in congratulating the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea on the reversal of
its decision to
withdraw from the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), for that withdrawal from the
Treaty would only have weakened it, given that its strength
lies in its universality.
The determination shown by Member States to move
towards the solution of regional conflicts and the new sense
of urgency over new threats to the well-being of the planet
create a historic opportunity for us to tackle the economic
problems facing all of our countries.
this
Indeed,
forty-eighth session of
the General
Assembly is taking place against a background of general
economic crisis.
In the new economic order which is
characterized by increased trade between three dominant
groups - Western Europe, North America and the Pacific-
Asia zone - Africa is virtually left out.
The developed North seems to have less and less need
of Africa’s products and Africa for its part no longer has the
means to buy the goods and services of the North. What is
more,
the international community does not seem very
anxious to find a better way of dealing with the African
countries’ debt burden.
This situation cannot but lead to a slowing down in
trade on the world market and directly affect African
economies which are already suffering.
In these circumstances our survival necessarily requires
sustained regional integration so that we can be in a better
position to deal with the vicissitudes of the international
economic environment and take up the challenge of how to
develop our own continent.
46
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In his "An Agenda for Peace" the Secretary-General
emphasized the role of regional organizations in establishing
peace and preventive diplomacy. This role naturally extends
to development
too. We cannot overemphasize the
importance of integration for development.
In the case of Africa such integration is a means of
encouraging trade, investment, and research and development
cooperation among African countries.
That is why the Heads of State or Government of the
members of the Economic Community of West African
States
(ECOWAS), meeting in Cotonou from 22 to
24 July 1993, adopted and signed a revised Treaty of the
Economic Community of West African States and reaffirmed
their determination to bring a new dynamism to the process
of regional integration.
If
the development of Africa
is primarily the
responsibility of the Africans themselves,
is no less
important for the international community to recognize the
principle of shared responsibility and full partnership with
Africa.
it
In
this
note
should
connection we
the
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s is not living up to all
the hopes that the African countries placed in it.
It is
necessary further to strengthen national capacities and to
create a climate that is favourable to development.
that
While Benin welcomes the study on the need and the
feasibility of the establishment of a fund to diversify African
commodities, we strongly hope that bolder action will be
taken with a view to implementing the new programme and
ensuring the input of the major financial contributions which
are necessary for the establishment of the fund in 1994.
Hence we must increase the quality and the quantity of
assistance to Africa.
In this spirit Benin will in a few days be participating
in the Tokyo International Conference on African
Development. This Conference,
the
backdrop of the new world economic and political order of
the post-cold-war era, will provide the international
community with a new framework for discussing how to
reaffirm the question of Africa’s economic development as
one of the major concerns of the world today.
to be held against
Our hope, widely shared by African countries, is that
the Conference, apart from adopting a declaration, will
actually lead to specific actions and commitments in support
of Africa.
The African countries also hope that
the Tokyo
Declaration of 9 July 1993 of
the Group of Seven
industrialized countries - which was designed to replace the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank
Structural Adjustment Programme with another mechanism
that would be better adapted to the conditions and realities
of developing countries - will soon take effect.
If this new mechanism is to have some hope of
it will have to be drawn up following
succeeding,
consultations with
actually
experiencing the harsh social consequences of the Structural
Adjustment Programme.
countries
that
the
are
If we are to win this wager for development, to which
Africa aspires, we have to involve women and children, who
represent the majority of the populations of our countries,
and so, above all, we have to educate and train young people
and adults.
In this connection, the Government of the Republic of
Benin is actively preparing for the International Year of the
Family in 1994. We shall also be participating with great
interest in the International Conference on Population and
be
Development,
from 5 to
to
In addition, we wish to make a real
13 September 1994.
contribution to the preparatory work for
the World
Conference on Women, which will be held in Beijing in
1995.
in Cairo
held
The fact that these various conferences are to be held
shows that matters relating to social development are
eliciting unprecedented interest in the world. This can also
be seen from the decision to convene a World Summit for
Social Development in 1995. This renewal of interest is
motivated by the profound changes in the social and political
situation in the world, and the shifting of priorities at the
State level.
Democracy cannot become stronger unless there is at
least a minimum level of prosperity for peoples. One
obstacle to this strengthening of democracy and thus the full
development of human rights is poverty, the poverty in
which the majority of our populations live.
The right to development has been ignored for too long.
It must now be regarded as a priority right, a sacred right.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
47
This right to development is the right to dignity, to personal
development, and is not compatible with the subhuman
status afflicting millions of human beings, particularly in
Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean.
The right
to development
the gradual elimination of
is a human right and a
national right, and that is why we welcome the conclusions
of the World Conference on Human Rights, which was held
in Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993.
That Conference
certainly marked the beginning of a new era which, we trust,
will witness
the current
in which two thirds of
international economic order,
mankind cannot meet
their basic needs and in which
600 million human beings are living in almost absolute
poverty. The elimination of such poverty is one of the basic
objectives of Agenda 21.
The establishment of an
International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, the first of
which will be celebrated on 17 October next, is one step in
this direction.
We can never say often enough that
the major
ecological problems facing our countries today have a
planetary dimension that requires a world-wide approach.
This is why the United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development, held in Rio in June 1992, made
sustainable development one of the major concerns of the
international community.
That Conference marked a turning-point in the way that
we look at our future.
It must now be approached in an
integrated manner as we work on our development policies.
Agenda 21, the basic document that emerged from that
Conference, is an enormous programme of action for the late
twentieth and early twenty-first centuries.
requires
It
Governments
focused on
strategies
sustainable development,
in close cooperation with the
private and public sectors.
to adopt national
of
on
Benin welcomes
the Commission
Here I am happy to draw attention to the major
importance my country attaches to follow-up of the decisions
and recommendations of Rio.
the
establishment
Sustainable
Development, which held its first session here in New York
from 14 to 25 June 1993, and we welcome the work of the
Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for the elaboration
of an international convention to combat desertification in
those
and/or
desertification, particularly in Africa. That Committee has
already met, from 24 May to 3 June 1993 in Nairobi and
from 13 to 24 September 1993 in Geneva.
experiencing serious drought
countries
Pursuant
to the Rio recommendations, on 9 to
13 August 1993 Benin held a national seminar on follow-up
strategies to implement the results of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, including
consideration of chapter 12 of Agenda 21, on how to combat
desertification and the impact of drought. The seminar was
held at a time when the international community and the
development partners of the third world countries were fully
involved in thinking about what strategies should be used to
make this concept of sustainable development operational.
This seminar was proof of
the
Government of Benin to abide by the commitments we
entered into at Rio.
the political will of
The Cotonou seminar recommended,
the
establishment of a national commission on sustainable
development. A drafting committee for a national Agenda
21, the major guidelines for which were decided on by the
seminar, has been set up.
It should finish its work by the
end of this year.
inter alia,
In two years, we shall be celebrating the fiftieth
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations.
The years that have passed since 1945 have been
marked by ongoing,
fundamental change and by a
considerable increase in the membership of the Organization
as well as by a significant widening of the Organization’s
area of activity.
It is thus obvious that the Organization needs to be
restructured to meet our world’s current requirements. This
is why Benin supports the efforts under way to restructure
and revitalize the United Nations in its economic and social
sectors and related areas.
In the view of the delegation of Benin, the reform
should be designed to ensure better coordination of the
activities of the United Nations and wiser utilization of its
human and financial resources.
Benin, while still open to dialogue in negotiations,
endorses the view of the Group of 77, particularly on the
question of how to allocate seats on the governing bodies of
bodies such as the United Nations Development Programme,
the United Nations Fund for Population Activities and the
United Nations Children’s Fund.
In the political area, my country is willing to consider
all proposals that take account of the concerns and interests
of all the various actors, large and small, in the international
political arena at the end of this second millennium.
48
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Reform of the Security Council is a matter of particular
importance to all Member States. Benin will follow closely
any proposal
strengthen the
effectiveness of the Council and avoid transforming it into
a forum for sterile debate or logjams or into an instrument
that benefits only a privileged few.
reform that might
for
Before I conclude my statement, I should like to recall
if we wish to approach the next millennium in
that
tranquillity, if we wish to draw satisfaction from the efforts
made so far along the tortuous and difficult path towards
development, we must do everything possible to give more
sustained attention to the principle of world-wide partnership
and the duty to show solidarity which is necessarily implied
by the new international order
that now governs the
international community.
It is Benin’s wish that mankind, when it draws up its
first balance sheet of this new era, should see a drop in the
number of ills that continue to undermine the twentieth
century, namely poverty, famine, endemic diseases such as
malaria, the AIDS pandemic and its devastating human,
social and economic consequences, illiteracy, environmental
degradation, underdevelopment, and all those other ills that
beset us.
In an increasingly interdependent world, and faced with
this challenge, nations must agree to yield part - only part -
of their national sovereignty to our universal human values,
and to show greater determination to coexist despite cultural,
political, social and economic differences. Only in that way
can the world of
the twenty-first century be a more
hospitable one for people, wherever they may live and
whoever they may be.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the general debate for this meeting.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish to
speak in exercise of the right of reply.
I remind members
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and five
minutes for the second intervention, and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. ANSARI (India): I wish, under rule 73 of the rules
of procedure, to refer to the statement made earlier today by
the representative of Pakistan.
All the water in the East River cannot wash off the
stains of falsehood, prejudice and perversion with which the
Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan defaced
this lofty forum. His eloquence is matched only by his
sophistry, and the two together constitute an impressive
exercise in high-pitched salesmanship of a product whose
shelf-life is ending, if it has not ended.
The representative of Pakistan sought to assume an air
of injured innocence. He would have us believe that he has
been forced into combat without even a sword in his hand.
The truth, however, is that he does not stand in need of a
sword. He is instead making use of every weapon available
in the arsenal of modern-day terrorism. His Government’s
role in recruiting, training, funding and arming terrorists and
abetting their infiltration into the Indian states of Punjab and
Jammu and Kashmir is well known to Governments, the
international media and human rights organizations.
Very recently a report by Asia Watch gave ample facts
and figures to substantiate what
it called "the Pakistan
conduit" being used by these terrorists. The "conduit" is not
for moral support, as is claimed so innocently by Pakistan.
It is instead a well established channel for injecting deadly
hardware into the territory of India. Clinching evidence of
this was provided by the United States Department of State
report on global terrorism for the year 1991, and by a
Department of State spokesman on 8 January 1993.
Matters have deteriorated to such an extent that the
United States Government considered in all seriousness
declaring Pakistan a State sponsor of terrorism. This is
evident from an extract from a letter dated 2 August 1993
which the State Department wrote to the Chairman of the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the United States House of
Representatives, which reads as follows:
"If there is any subsequent resurgence of official
support for those who commit terrorist acts against
India, either directly or through private groups, the
Secretary of State will not hesitate to name Pakistan a
State sponsor of terrorism.
"...
"In any case, the Secretary of State will review this
issue again not later than December this year".
Pakistan’s commitment
this terrorism is "sustainable".
to the cause of promoting
terrorism does not stop at this. It has gone further, to ensure
that
It has done so by
establishing a deep nexus between terrorism and the trade in
narcotic drugs.
The present caretaker Government of
Pakistan published only the other day a list of some of their
more prominent narcotics barons.
It reads like a "Who’s
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
49
If further evidence is needed of
Who" of that noble land.
the Pakistani hand, it is readily available in countries such as
Egypt, Tunisia and Algeria, where Pakistani-trained terrorists
of the Peshawar school have been wreaking havoc.
It would thus seem that the crocodile tears the Foreign
Minister of Pakistan has shed before this Assembly are
really in support of his extraordinary plea that world opinion
should accept Pakistan’s actions as the principal promoter of
narco-terrorism in the world.
From this unacceptable
premise the Government of Pakistan wishes to argue that it
should not only be allowed a free hand to violate with
impunity the basic human rights of ordinary citizens, of men,
women and children, but should also be proclaimed the
protector of the human rights of the very terrorists who are
violating every norm of civilized existence.
The verdict of the jury on this strange plea is clear and
unambiguous.
It is incorporated into paragraph 17 of the
Vienna Declaration adopted after the World Conference on
Human Rights in June this year.
The words of that
paragraph are worth recalling:
"The acts, methods and practices of terrorism in all
its forms and manifestations as well as linkage in some
countries to drug trafficking are activities aimed at the
destruction of human rights, fundamental freedoms and
democracy, threatening territorial integrity, security of
States
constituted
Governments. The international community should take
the necessary steps to enhance cooperation to prevent
and combat terrorism." (A/CONF.157/23, para. 17)
destabilizing
legitimately
and
they cloak a nefarious design aimed at
The Foreign Minister of Pakistan also sought to regale
us today by replaying an old, worn-out gramophone record
on the question of self-determination. It would be charitable
In reality,
to characterize his remarks as half-truths.
however,
the
territorial integrity of India. He conveniently ignores the
fact that the debate on the concept of self-determination was
settled in the United Nations long ago. The concept itself
relates to people under colonial or alien domination or
foreign occupation.
It specifically does not permit action
which would dismember or impair, totally or in part, the
territorial
integrity or political unity of States. This is
spelled out conclusively and unambiguously in paragraph 2
of the Vienna Declaration I cited earlier.
The state of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of
India. The validity of its accession to India, both legally and
through the popular will, is uncontestable. Rather, it is
Pakistan that is the aggressor and is to this day in unlawful
occupation of a part of Jammu and Kashmir. The only issue
that remains to be resolved, therefore, is the vacation by
Pakistan of that aggression.
It
is a matter of history that
in the past 46 years
Pakistan has committed aggression against India on three
different occasions. After each setback it committed itself
to solemn agreements, multilaterally or bilaterally. The
commitments undertaken therein were forsaken soon
thereafter. The excuse in each case was a yearning for
something not legally Pakistan’s, the justification always
pegged to a nebulous principle that it never practised in
regard to its own people in any part of its own territory.
spoke of
The Foreign Minister
the sanctity of
international agreements; he chose not to mention the Simla
Agreement signed between our two countries in 1972, which
has provided the framework for the conduct of bilateral
relations. In that agreement, both countries undertook not to
interfere in each other’s internal affairs, to prevent hostile
propaganda, and also to prevent the organization, assistance
or encouragement of any acts detrimental to the maintenance
of peace and harmonious relations. Both countries further
undertook to resolve their differences by peaceful means,
through bilateral negotiations.
Instead
of
these
provisions,
implementing
the
Government of Pakistan decided, around the year 1984, to
conduct a proxy war against my country through the
organization of large-scale terrorism in the border states of
Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. A report published on
1 February 1993 by the Republican Research Committee of
the United States House of Representatives traces in graphic
detail
in which the Pakistan Government
agencies have involved themselves in the training of
terrorists and their infiltration into India.
the manner
India is thus the principal victim of these criminals;
however, it is not the only one. A report in The New York
Times on 11 August 1993 by its correspondent in Peshawar
attributes to the concerned officials of the United States the
view that
"some of the men, and much of the inspiration, for the
bombing of the World Trade Center in New York in
February and for a second bombing conspiracy ... in
New York in June" ("Where Arab Militants Train and
Wait", The New York Times, 11 August 1993, p. A8)
came from Peshawar. The global dimensions of the matter
are thus evident.
50
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
This, then, is the record.
It speaks for itself. The
conclusion is inescapable that such an approach to relations
with a neighbouring country is contrary to norms of civilized
behaviour, self-defeating and certainly not conducive to
common well-being.
take into account
India, on its part, wishes well
to Pakistan and its
people. Our two peoples are linked by ties of blood, history
and culture and must
the economic
imperatives of a common region. The people and the
Government of
India extend once again the hand of
friendship to the people and Government of Pakistan, in the
expectation that they will see fit to make a new beginning
and give shape to the vision of a great Indian poet,
Mohammad Iqbal, whom Pakistan regards as its national
poet.
I translate the couplet,
"Come, let us lift the veil of otherness, bring together
estranged ones,
Erase the signs of strangeness".
Mr. AKRAM (Pakistan): Let me respond to this
spewing of hatred which we have just heard from the
distinguished representative of India. Not only has he
robbed the people of Kashmir of their land, now he also
wishes to rob Pakistan of its national poet.
Jammu and Kashmir is not an integral part of India.
Security Council resolution 47 (1948), notes the desire of
India and Pakistan that "the question of the accession of
Jammu and Kashmir to India or Pakistan should be decided
through the democratic method of a free and impartial
plebiscite" (fourth preambular paragraph).
This call for a plebiscite was reiterated in Security
Council resolutions 91 (1951) and 122 (1957), among others,
and resolutions of the United Nations Commission on India
and Pakistan, specifically its resolutions of 13 August 1948
and 5 January 1949.
India has refused to implement these
resolutions.
The United Nations maps - the official documents of
the United Nations - all indicate that Jammu and Kashmir is
disputed territory. Kashmir is on the agenda of the Security
Council. The Secretary-General’s latest report mentions
Jammu and Kashmir as a question that has to be resolved
between India and Pakistan. The oldest United Nations
peace-keeping operation,
the United Nations Military
Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP), has
been stationed on the line of control in Jammu and Kashmir
since 1949. So much for Kashmir being an integral part of
India.
The Simla Agreement did not change the status of
Kashmir. The Simla Agreement called for a final settlement
of Jammu and Kashmir through bilateral negotiations or any
other means agreed between the parties. Pakistan has sought
to pursue bilateral negotiations with India. We wrote to the
Prime Minister of India in 1992 at the level of our Prime
Minister. The response was to shut the door in our face.
India has
in bilateral
negotiations.
refused to discuss Kashmir
Territorial
The distinguished representative of India has said that
the self-determination in Kashmir would erode the territorial
integrity of India.
integrity applies only to
territory that is part of States, not to territories which are
disputed, territories whose status has not been determined.
India has been in colonial occupation of Kashmir since 1947.
It deserves to be treated as a colonial Power. A people
struggling against colonial occupation for their right to self-
determination is entitled to struggle by all means possible.
India has attempted to tarnish the Kashmiri struggle by
depicting it as terrorism.
Pakistan condemns terrorism.
Terrorism implies senseless violence against innocent people.
But when a people is subjected to foreign occupation, when
its homes are invaded, its sons are shot and its women are
raped, does it not have the right
to take up arms in
self-defence? As one Kashmiri businessman is quoted by
The Los Angeles Times of 29 August,
"Now it is a question of survival. Now they go into
our homes and shoot our children.
I am a
grandfather, and sometimes I feel I must pick up a
gun."
...
If the Kashmiris are terrorists, then so were all those
brave sons and daughters who struggled against colonialism
by all means at their disposal and won freedom for the vast
majority of the States represented in this Hall tonight. If the
Kashmiris are terrorists, then most of the States represented
here are the products of terrorism.
The recent human-rights Conference in Vienna took
special note of the particular situation of peoples under
colonial and other forms of alien domination or foreign
occupation, and recognized their right to take any legitimate
action, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,
to realize their
to self-determination.
India’s campaign in Kashmir constitutes State terrorism.
The Non-Aligned Summit
in Jakarta described the
inalienable right
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
51
suppression of a people’s struggle for self-determination as
the worst form of terrorism, and what
it means to the
Kashmiris is torture.
I quote a report of the International
Federation of Lawyers for Human Rights:
stop the widespread practice of rape by Indian security
forces. Arson has been a weapon in India’s counter-
insurgency strategy in Kashmir since 1990.
"People, mainly young men, are tortured in Kashmir
every day. ... there is exhaustive evidence gathered by
the local human-rights workers, lawyers and doctors to
support this assertion ... The methods employed are
barbaric, inhuman and unimaginably vicious. Detainees
are beaten with rods or lathis; they are whipped with
flexible cable;
they are subjected to electric shock
treatment ...".
I shall not go any further; it is too beastly to be recounted in
this forum.
Amnesty
International:
"Torture
is
practised
systematically in Jammu and Kashmir."
Rape:
this afternoon we referred to Kunan Poshpora.
On 10 October 1992 the village of Chak Saidapara was the
site of another mass rape by the Indian army. The Asia
Watch report says that as the conflict in Kashmir enters its
fourth year, central and state authorities have done little to
Massacre:
Batekote,
1 October 1992. Nasrullahpora, 13 July 1992. The list is
endless.
Sopura, 6 January 1993.
The representative of India has chosen to speak of
Pakistan in terms that have been borrowed from a lexicon
that one should not use against one’s neighbour. Let me
remind him that
in Pakistan we have a functioning
democracy. No part of Pakistan is under emergency rule,
like Kashmir. Unlike India, we do not have pogroms in
Pakistan. One hundred thousand Muslims have perished in
acts of religious frenzy and communal violence in India
since 1947. In Pakistan we not only profess democracy, we
also practice it. We do not, like India, pretend to be perfect.
But we are certainly better than India, a country which is
fast emerging as the sick man of Asia, riven by internal
dissensions, divided into castes, classes and nationalities,
surging with irrational and murderous forces of Hindu
fundamentalism, ruled by indecision and ambiguity, prone to
bullying its neighbours and with a proclivity to the use of
force; a country which has engaged in 17 different wars
since its independence, the highest number for any State
represented in this Hall.
The PRESIDENT: May I remind members that
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited to five
minutes for the second intervention.
I now call on the representative of India.
Mr. ANSARI (India): We are constrained to speak a
second time.
The representative of Pakistan has added nothing either
to the knowledge or to the perception of this Assembly. His
remarks call to mind another couplet of the poet Iqbal, who,
incidentally, was born an Indian and died an Indian: "He
participates not in serious quest, but opts eagerly for blind
emulation". My delegation considers it unnecessary to add
to this very apt description.
The meeting rose at 9:30 p.m.
