United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
19th
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 6 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.35 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 127 (continued)
S C A L E O F A S S E S S M E N T S
F O R T H E
APPORTIONMENT OF THE EXPENSES OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (A/48/414/Add.5)
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to draw the General
In a
Assembly’s attention to document A/48/414/Add.5.
letter contained in that document,
the Secretary-General
informs me that, since the issuance of his communications
dated 21, 24, 27 and 29 September and 4 October 1993, the
Gambia has made the necessary payment
to reduce its
arrears below the amount specified in Article 19 of the
Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes note
of this information?
It was so decided.
ADDRESS BY MAJOR-GENERAL JUVENAL
HABYARIMANA, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
OF RWANDA
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Rwanda.
Major-General Juvénal Habyarimana, President of the
Republic of Rwanda, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic
of Rwanda, His Excellency Major-General
Juvénal
Habyarimana, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President HABYARIMANA (interpretation
from
French):
I am experiencing a feeling of signal honour and
genuine pleasure, and also at the same time a deep feeling
as I now, on behalf of my country, Rwanda, speak before
this prestigious General Assembly of the United Nations,
which each year considers the fate of our world.
Above all, I should like to associate myself with the
eminent speakers who have spoken before me here,
to
extend to you, Sir, on behalf of the delegation of which I am
the head, our warmest congratulations on your election to the
presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session. We are assured that your personal
qualities and your extensive experience in international
issues will
assist you in discharging this difficult
responsibility. Your personal qualities and your experience
are the best guarantee of the success of the work of the
present session. We also wish to congratulate all the other
members of the General Committee, who, we are sure, will
spare no effort in assisting you in successfully discharging
the difficult task entrusted to you. The delegation of the
Republic of Rwanda will spare no effort
to participate
actively and effectively to ensure a successful conclusion of
the debate on the items on the agenda of this session.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86776 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.19
25 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Moreover, we wish to render a well-deserved tribute to
your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who was always
inspired by the same concern for effectiveness in the cause
of peace, justice and international security. He deserves our
deep gratitude for having guided with wisdom and
competence the work of the forty-seventh session of the
General Assembly.
We should also like to take advantage of this happy
opportunity to warmly welcome the presence here with us of
new Member States, the admission of which is an important
stage towards achieving the universality of the Organization.
The forty-eighth session of the United Nations General
Assembly is opening at a time when the world presents to us
a rather gloomy picture. Here and there are several scattered
islets of peace and prosperity but
they are few indeed.
Moreover, in various corners of the world armed conflicts
and political tensions are ready to explode into open crisis
and economic and social ruin.
In many countries we find
poverty and upheavals in the quest for more balanced
societies, and everywhere there is anguish in the face of so
many challenges which confront the conscience of man and
which spawn fear for the future.
not yet been completely eliminated, recent developments
promise positive and rapid progress.
Rwanda is also most gratified at
the very positive
course of the Middle East peace negotiations, which, thanks
to mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) and to the signing,
in
Washington on 13 September 1993, of an agreement on
Palestinian autonomy in Gaza and Jericho, have just gone
through a very important stage. We hope that this historic
agreement, which lays the bases for reconciliation between
Israelis and Palestinians, will open the way to a lasting
solution to all the issues connected with the problem of the
Middle East and will lead ultimately to peace and calm in
that part of the world.
To that end, we call on the international community to
redouble its efforts to secure positive results for the attempts
now being made to settle the conflicts in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Liberia, Angola, Somalia and all other
countries where peoples are being battered, divided and
plunged into misery by individual or tribal egoism and
ambition or are having their sovereignty threatened by the
inordinate greed of other States.
the
Fortunately, good will
is being demonstrated and
mobilized at
level of States, non-governmental
organizations, and regional and international organizations -
in the forefront of which is the United Nations - to arouse
the universal conscience, extinguish the fires, accompany
political change, allay misery and renew hope and the
enjoyment of life for those for whom the horizon seems
closed and gloomy.
It is an appropriate time and place to pay a sincere
tribute to the world Organization and to its tireless
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for all the
actions undertaken and carried out with skill and designed to
restore peace in regions and countries devastated by war, to
prevent other conflicts, and to assist disadvantaged peoples
or those sorely tried by disasters of all types. To be sure,
the means are limited, but is not this Organization the last
hope of people?
And success nurtures that hope. Thus we welcome
enthusiastically the end of the civil war in Cambodia and the
re-establishment of State institutions in that country.
Rwanda welcomes the progress that has been made
towards a settlement of the conflict in Mozambique and is
following particularly closely the political developments in
South Africa. While the system of apartheid in the latter has
to this day,
in so far as numerous structural
At the level of international economic relations, it is
depressing to note that,
three quarters of
mankind live on the sidelines of economic and social
progress,
imbalances
continue to hamper the efforts of the countries of the South
to achieve self-development and international cooperation.
Indeed, despite the concerted efforts at integration, despite
the internal adjustments still undertaken at enormous
sacrifice, and despite the expressions of good will for
international partnership, foreign debt continues to grow, and
the gap between the economies of the North and those of the
South continues to widen.
The delegation of Rwanda is convinced that if the lot
of mankind is to be improved, the international community
must undertake measures that can promote the emergence of
a new, more balanced and more equitable world economic
order.
In this regard, only a common political will on the
part of all the Members of this Organization can help to
correct the structural imbalances in the global economy and
to open the way to a new partnership in which
interdependence means, first and foremost, a shared destiny
for mankind, in which international cooperation is even more
synonymous with success that benefits all the partners - the
seal of fraternity and the promise of genuine solidarity.
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
3
Rwanda has
always believed that
international
cooperation, if it is to be more effective, must be based to an
even greater extent on intense, transparent, consistent and
concise action agreed with our partners and undertaken
within what must one day be regarded as a genuine contract
of solidarity. Rwanda has always believed that well-planned
cooperation implies the concept of co-management, of co-
responsibility. This means shared responsibility, ongoing
dialogue, transparency of commitments and acceptance of
the right of all sides to make mistakes, so that, to a greater
extent than in the past, cooperation can meet the stakes of
the future. To secure even more genuine cooperation, the
international community must seek effective solutions to all
these challenges that are leading us into institutionalized,
crushing debt.
In addition, the scope of international cooperation can
be widened, and its impact increased, only through genuine
integration of action and of programmes in the context of a
national strategy and with a global vision of authentic self-
development.
attached special
importance to international cooperation, to which it owes so
much of its progress, its development and its achievements.
Rwanda has
always
With regard to the political situation in Rwanda, my
country, as Members know, is emerging from a pointless and
undeserved war, which was imposed on it three years ago,
on 1 October 1990. Allow me, before sketching out the
situation into which this war has plunged the population of
Rwanda and the country’s economy, to emphasize once
again the role of the international community in resolving
crises and conflicts, for the ending of the war in my country
is the result of a miracle of international solidarity.
There is no doubt that this required the good will of the
two parties to the conflict. Wisdom prevailed over ambition,
and hatred yielded to the nation’s need to survive. But the
will of the two parties to pool their efforts was strongly
supported by countries neighbouring Rwanda, among which
the two parties chose, by common agreement, the Republic
of Zaire as Mediator and the United Republic of Tanzania as
Facilitator.
The two warring parties benefited also from the skilled
help of President Abdou Diouf of Senegal, who was at that
time Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, and of
certain friendly countries - France, Belgium, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the United States of America. In
addition, they received most valuable assistance from the
Organization of African Unity and the United Nations. All
these
sent
representatives to Arusha, Tanzania, to take part in the peace
organizations
countries
and
international
negotiations that had begun in Zaire following the launching
of hostilities, that had continued in Tanzania for a year, with
their participation, and that culminated in a peace agreement.
I take this opportunity to express once again to all these
countries and organizations the sincere gratitude of the
Government and people of Rwanda for their highly valuable
contribution to the positive outcome of the negotiations,
which were very trying to all who were involved and which
on numerous occasions would have been on the verge of
collapse had it not been for the tenacity and determination
of the two parties and the wise and firm advice of all friends
present.
This senseless war that befell Rwanda is now subsiding,
thanks to the peace agreement that was signed in Arusha on
4 August 1993. It was bloody and devastating. We mourn
tens of
resulted in
considerable destruction of infrastructure, equipment and
socio-economic and administrative systems, and it left in a
state of dire poverty more than 900,000 displaced persons,
whose property went up in smoke.
thousands of victims.
The war
That war has left us with orphans and invalids of all
ages, widows, helpless old people and hundreds of thousands
of economic victims.
In the regions affected by the war,
misery and desolation hold sway. Education has been
severely jeopardized and the psychological consequences for
the most vulnerable age groups are doubtless incalculable.
This war has destroyed the fragile equilibrium of the
country’s food supply and has exacerbated the famine which
has struck the entire country, because it broke out in the
country’s most
fertile regions, which have not been
cultivated for three years now. The representatives of
international bodies and non-governmental organizations who
visited the camps of displaced persons cannot forget the
desolate sight of the make-shift shelters where hundreds of
thousands of human beings, crammed together in highly
unsanitary conditions, continue to lead lives that are close to
intolerable. Those representatives cannot forget the long
lines of hungry people on the roads, seeking the assistance
sent
them by the international community, which with
difficulty was able to deliver it to them for their survival.
And what can we say of the economy in general?
Already badly shaken, it is today in even worse condition,
following the enormous expenditures resulting from the war
and the destruction it caused. Thus, after the signing of the
Arusha Peace Agreement, the time has come for the long-
term, enormous work of national reconstruction in the newly
regained peace and calm, without forgetting the other, no
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the implementation of national
less important objective,
reconciliation and the continued strengthening of the process
of democratization in the management of the country. We
can already welcome the establishment of a multi-party
system by the constitutional review of 10 June 1991, thanks
to which 17 political parties were agreed upon. Five of
them are at present forming a transition Government which
soon will be expanded to the Rwanda Patriotic Front for a
new transitional period which should lead to pluralist, free
and democratic elections.
since
crisis
On the economic level, Rwanda has been experiencing
a
the 1980s, which has had negative
repercussions on the implementation of the budget and has
been exacerbated not only by the war but also by the
unpredictable nature of external shocks, in particular the
collapse of the international price of coffee, our primary
export.
As it was no longer possible to control the growth of
public expenditures and of the fundamental imbalance in the
balance of trade, in combination with a production system
whose structure is very fragile, my country implemented, in
November 1990, a programme of recovery having the
following priorities:
to relaunch the economy, to achieve
internal and external financial balance, to promote domestic
savings, to encourage the activity of the private sector and
to improve the management of the public sector.
Rwanda’s structural adjustment programme has been
given great technical and financial support by all the donors,
headed by the Bretton Woods institutions. Unfortunately,
the launching of this programme, which the Government
could apparently have carried out without too many sudden
detours, coincided with the attack of October 1990.
From this rostrum, I would like most solemnly to thank
the international community for the support it has accorded
Rwanda both with assistance in the balance of payments and
with development projects. We are even more grateful for
the priority the international community has given to
assistance for those displaced by the war, in answer to the
consolidated
of
Humanitarian Affairs of
the United Nations, whose
dedication is inestimable.
the Department
appeal made
by
Following the war and the new deterioration of the
terms of trade which affected the economy of Rwanda, the
very backbone of our structural adjustment programme is
threatened.
I am speaking here of the liberalization of
external and internal trade which requires a comfortable
currency reserve situation.
The Government of Rwanda has just decided upon the
primary features of its short- and medium-term post-war
economic policy from 1993 to 1996,
items we have
submitted to the international community. This policy
reflects the Government’s commitment to do all in its power
to stabilize the large financial balances and to launch the
process of economic recovery on the basis of
the
fundamental strategy of the structural adjustment programme,
which gives a key role to market forces.
In short, the
positive results of the measures that have been in place since
November 1990 must be capitalized upon, and new measures
required by the deterioration of short- and medium-term
economic prospects, linked to the war, must be planned.
the priorities of
Therefore, in accordance with the contents of the Peace
Agreement,
the expanded transitional
Government are to pursue efforts at economic recovery and
to work on four programmes for specifically post-war
economic development:
emergency assistance to those
displaced by the war in order to help them return to their
property, assistance in the reintegration of Rwandese
refugees, assistance in reconstruction and assistance in the
social and economic reintegration of demobilized military
personnel.
For the repatriation of Rwandese refugees in accordance
with the Dar-es-Salaam Declaration of 19 February 1991, a
donors’ meeting will be organized at the initiative of the
Government, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR). With the war, we saw all types of
destruction, particularly the damaging and/or destruction of
several thousands of hectares of forest which will even
further aggravate the wood shortage. With the end of the
war,
the country will have to dispose of the funds to
demobilize more than 31,000 military personnel. We will
also have to locate throughout the country paying jobs and
training which can facilitate their social and economic
reintegration.
of
and
reconstruction
the preparation for
Within the framework of
the
socio-economic
programmes
reintegration of demobilized military personnel, I have
personally sent a request to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations, on 2 January 1993, and an inter-agency
mission of the United Nations systems and of the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is at present
backing the Government of Rwanda in the preparation of the
document to be submitted to the donors at a round table for
humanitarian emergency assistance.
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
5
Rwanda is trying to manage its meagre resources in an
extremely difficult context. But it remains committed to the
strategy of economic development contained in the structural
adjustment programme it launched in November 1990, with,
as its base, the process of economic liberalization that has
already begun and is giving the private sector a larger role
in decision-making.
By signing the Peace Agreement the Government of
Rwanda firmly committed itself to strengthening the basis of
a State of law in which public freedoms, together with
political rights, justice and equality, will be guaranteed.
In
that Agreement
the two parties have agreed that an
independent National Commission for Human Rights will be
established entrusted with dealing with violations of human
rights perpetrated by any person on Rwandan territory and,
in particular, by State bodies and by persons under cover of
the State or other organizations.
the
Government will move to improve the functioning of the
legal and penal systems, in particular by forbidding arbitrary
and illegal arrests and inhumane treatment of detainees and
by severely punishing the perpetrators of such acts.
Simultaneously,
Since the country’s human, material and financial
means are severely limited, an appeal will be made to
foreign financial and technological assistance, especially in
the area of the training of magistrates and officials of the
Office of the Public Prosecutor and Ministry of Justice
personnel.
In the Peace Agreement the Government of Rwanda has
also reaffirmed its determination to reach a final settlement
of the refugee problem, a goal to which it had committed
itself in the Dar-es-Salaam Declaration of 19 February 1991
at the regional summit meeting which examined the problem
of Rwandan refugees.
The task will be a difficult one for the broad-based
transitional government envisaged in the agreement within
the framework of the Protocols of Agreement on Power-
sharing between the country’s political parties and the
Rwandese Patriotic Front (RPF). That Government will be
set up in the next few days, as soon as the prerequisite
conditions have been met. The task will also be a difficult
one for the people of Rwanda as a whole, who will be the
ultimate authors and beneficiaries of the hoped-for progress
and well-being.
thus look to the international community to support and
supplement our own efforts.
The first contribution we expect from the international
community is the deployment, as rapidly as possible, of an
international neutral
force, as provided in the Arusha
Agreement. On behalf of the people of Rwanda, I should
like to express to the United Nations as a whole, and to the
members of the Security Council in particular, our gratitude
for the historic decision the Organization took yesterday in
adopting the resolution establishing the United Nations
Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), so long awaited
for the implementation of the Arusha Peace Agreement.
The Agreement assigns to that
force the task of
facilitating the implementation of the Peace Agreement,
specifically by supervising implementation of the Protocol on
the Integration of the Armed Forces of the Two Parties and
by providing various kinds of assistance to the authorities
and competent bodies. The Agreement also assigns to
UNAMIR security tasks, including, inter alia, monitoring the
overall security situation in the country and investigating and
reporting on activities carried out by the competent
authorities and bodies in the maintenance of public order;
assisting in ensuring the security of the civilian population;
assisting with mine-clearance operations; assisting in the
identification of arms stockpiles and the neutralization of
armed bands throughout the country, and monitoring the
respect by both sides of the comprehensive cease-fire and
cessation of hostilities, as provided in the Peace Agreement.
Lastly, the Arusha Peace Agreement entrusts the neutral
international force with the tasks of supervising the training
process of the national armed forces, and here I would
mention only the supervision of the disengagement of forces,
supervision of the demobilization of all the military forces
and the Gendarmerie, and participation in the training
programme for members of the New National Army and
National Gendarmerie.
This is some indication of how necessary and urgent
the establishment of the neutral international force is in order
to allow for the creation of the broad-based transitional
government and the reintegration of persons displaced by the
war, the repatriation of refugees and, in a
Nevertheless, despite the will and determination of the
their Government, we must
Rwandan
acknowledge the utter insufficiency of the domestic means
available, given the titanic labour to be accomplished. We
people
and
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
general manner, national reconstruction in conditions of
maximum security.
Another extremely vital contribution we expect from the
international community, and more specifically from the
United Nations system and, on a bilateral level, from the
non-governmental
friendly
organizations, will be that of
financing the priority
programmes to which I referred a few moments ago.
countries
various
and
Today, more than ever, Rwanda needs the attention,
concern and good will of the international community. It is
relying on that community’s generosity to re-establish itself
and to recover from the horrors of war. May that hope be
realized soon.
With the support of the international community the
people of Rwanda hope to pass smoothly through a transition
period that, notwithstanding the guidelines of the Peace
Agreement, could still turn out to be arduous. The people
of Rwanda, however, are relying on the patriotism and sense
of responsibility that their political authorities and the leaders
of the parties in the government and the Transitional
Assembly must demonstrate to consolidate the democratic
gains and lay down, once and for all, the foundations of
peace and national harmony. Once the demons of division
have been exorcised, the people of Rwanda will surely build
a new nation and experience once again uninterrupted
progress.
At this session of the General Assembly elections will
be held for a number of seats on the Security Council.
Rwanda has officially put forward its candidacy to become
a non-permanent member of
that body entrusted with
responsibility for international peace and security.
Its
candidacy was endorsed at the last Summit Meeting of the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) held at Cairo at the
end of June this year. As the Head of State, I ask for the
Assembly’s trust in my country, Rwanda, which has never
yet had a seat on the Security Council. As a State
concerned to carry out its responsibilities, including those on
the international level, Rwanda believes that it can, today
more than yesterday, make its modest contribution to the
maintenance of peace in the world and to the restoration of
peace in troubled regions and countries.
Emerging as it now is from a war that has tried it
sorely, Rwanda is better aware of the price of peace, the
peace it has now regained thanks in particular to the efforts
of the international community.
Those are the reasons that have motivated Rwanda to
put forward its candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the
Security Council: to assist other warring nations to return to
peace, but also to work, together with the other members of
the Council, for the strengthening of peace within its own
borders. Rwanda hopes that it will have your confidence.
An ancient country that was under United Nations
trusteeship throughout the period prior to its accession to
national independence, my country, Rwanda, which has just
emerged from the throes of an unmentionable war and now
yearns to rebuild, relying on the lessons of the past, has
every reason to feel that it has matured, and it assures you
of its unswerving determination to work for the advent of
peace in the world and understanding among nations. On its
behalf, I repeat to the United Nations, our Organization, our
sincerest wishes that it may succeed and flourish for the
happiness of all mankind.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Rwanda for the statement he
has just made.
Major-General Juvénal Habyarimana, President of the
Republic of Rwanda, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Prince MOHAMED BOLKIAH (Brunei Darussalam):
Before making my statement I should like to take this
opportunity to express my country’s deepest sympathy with
the Government and people of India as they mourn the
thousands of lives lost during last week’s earthquake.
I wish to congratulate you on your
election,
Mr. President;
to thank the outgoing President for his
contribution to the work of the United Nations; and to
welcome all the new Members of our Organization.
Much has been expected of the United Nations in the
past year.
Its priority has been to ensure that the profound
political and economic change does not result in global
conflict.
coordinating
international efforts. On other occasions the United Nations
has had to take the lead in these operations. At the same
time, it has continued to take up the challenges presented by
and
the many
sometimes meant
humanitarian
far-reaching
social,
This
has
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
7
environmental problems of our day. These have proved
more and more difficult to contain within national or even
regional boundaries.
In the Middle East, current developments should start
a process that will restore all legitimate Palestinian rights
and should lead to a comprehensive settlement in the region.
The United Nations responsibilities have often been
undertaken under most unfavourable conditions.
I am
therefore pleased that our Secretary-General and the
countries representing the United Nations have always
responded positively to the situations they have faced.
I
hope that they will continue to do this, even after such
distressing events as those which have occurred in Somalia
this week.
I say this because the past year has seen so many
valuable achievements. The success of the United Nations
Transitional Authority in Cambodia has shown what can be
done through responsible regional efforts and patient
multilateral action.
In South Africa, national, regional and
international efforts in support of United Nations resolutions
have brought new hope.
In the Middle East, the United
Nations has been a positive influence in reducing tension
after the Gulf War.
We also welcome the agreement between the Palestine
Liberation Organization and Israel. This is the first step
towards a peaceful settlement of the Palestinian question.
There have also been several
initiatives aimed at
improving the world economy and developing better trading
arrangements in regions. At the same time, the United
Nations has continued to give essential assistance to people
in developing countries.
It has also maintained its peace-
keeping operations in a number of problem areas. The
United Nations has also organized important international
conferences where nations have been able to exchange views
on many matters of international concern. This represents
a considerable contribution to preventive diplomacy and
peace-building. In each case, I hope these achievements will
be consolidated by national and regional authorities.
In Cambodia, we wish the new Government every
success as they go about the task of bringing lasting stability
to their nation. Like all the countries in our region, we look
forward to seeing the Cambodian people enjoying peace and
prosperity again.
In South Africa, I believe conditions now exist for
national leaders to encourage restraint and seek consensus.
The countries in the Gulf region are also in a position
to work towards peaceful solutions to the remaining areas of
difficulty.
In terms of the world economy, objectives have been
set. What we hope to see now is equally clear progress in
strengthening linkages between the North and the South and
in creating conditions
that promote cooperation and
sustainable growth. To do this, we need to improve the
existing mechanisms for preventing economic disagreements
Each nation has a
from turning into open conflict.
responsibility
fair
arrangements
throughout the world.
promote
to
trading
Today’s overall situation presents many challenges.
I
feel
that we can continue to turn them into positive
developments if we note carefully the circumstances under
which the United Nations appears to achieve its greatest
successes. These occur when the special responsibilities of
national Governments, non-governmental organizations and
regional associations are recognized and agreed upon before
the world body is asked to act.
Where those responsibilities have been in confrontation
with each other,
the effectiveness of United Nations
operations has been hindered. This is clearly illustrated in
In those countries, the United
Somalia and in Bosnia.
to guarantee safe and
Nations initially acted in order
effective humanitarian assistance.
There have been
considerable successes in these operations, and I thank those
who have achieved them for their humanitarian work.
However, these efforts and the fact that conflict has not
been allowed to spread outside the regions concerned should
not divert our attention from the deep matters of principle
involved.
That is why we wish to express our strong support for
the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe
that
the United Nations Charter would be severely
compromised if the Organization became a party to any
arrangement which forces a sovereign nation and fellow
Member of the United Nations to submit to aggression. Not
only would this condone terrorism - it would reward it.
In seeking to ensure that the United Nations does not
become merely another factor in a local political equation,
there are a number of proposals for reform. These are
intended to give confidence to Members that United Nations
decisions reflect
the widest possible spectrum of world
opinion. If they also assist in solving the world body’s deep
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
financial problems,
favourably.
I see merit
in
considering them
We all have our different views on how the United
Nations should best operate. Whatever they are, I hope we
will make every effort
to encourage our regional and
subregional associations to play a crucial supporting role.
Ideally, each region will be working on its own agenda for
peace and development which will complement the work of
the world body. The more this is done, the more the United
Nations will be able to act in the way in which it is most
I
effective - as the authority of last resort.
believe we can make considerable progress
towards
establishing what the Secretary-General has described as a
workable international system.
In this way,
Mr. NIASSE (Senegal) (interpretation from French):
The General Assembly’s annual convening in New York is
a world event which, each year, expresses the hope of
nations and peoples to find common ground,
through
dialogue and joint effort, in order to live together their
shared destiny.
In a world that is becoming daily more
diverse and in which peoples are witness to so many
contradictions, is it not here and now, in close friendship and
fraternal dialogue,
that humanity, with its boundless
intellectual and ethical potential, can embark on a process of
self-examination and be reconciled with the universal
conscience, which is also the foundation of our human
calling to live together and in harmony?
It is in that belief that the delegation of Senegal - which
participated in your election, Mr. President, aware of your
brilliant political record and the outstanding role your
country plays on the international scene - extends to you
through me the warm congratulations of my country, our
people and its leaders. We have no doubt about your
mastery of international practice, for we know that your vast
experience as a statesman will make it possible for you to
conduct, with effectiveness, intelligence and skill the work
of this session of the General Assembly. My best wishes
are thus with you in your election and with the task you
have been called upon to accomplish, until September 1994,
from this historic and lofty rostrum.
Your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, former Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria, guided the proceedings of
the forty-seventh session of our General Assembly with a
competence and effectiveness that deserve our appreciation
and gratitude. We wish heartily to congratulate him.
I should like to pay a special tribute to our Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the enormous
the objectives of
energy that he has expended with such foresight and courage
to ensure the implementation of the principles and the
realization of
the Charter of our
Organization. The personal friendship that I have shared
with that eminent citizen of the world for almost 25 years
allows me to reiterate the esteem and admiration that I have
always felt towards him.
I
Finally,
should like to extend my country’s
congratulations to all
the new States Members of our
Organization - the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, the
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Principality of
Monaco, the Principality of Andorra and Eritrea. I welcome
all of them to the United Nations family.
Some 15 years ago, in September 1978, I had the
honour for the first time, in my capacity as the new Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Senegal, to address this Assembly.
As the young head of the diplomatic corps of an African
country, I referred to the many problems then confronting
the international community and which revolved around two
basic focal points.
The first of
these was the accession to political
sovereignty of peoples that had not yet experienced freedom,
that had been denied the full exercise of inalienable rights
inherent to every human being on Earth. Those rights had
been denied them by other men, other peoples, other States
and other nations in the name of a system that was imposed
on them and to which they had been subjected. Hope in
their fellow man was their only defence.
The other focal point of attention was the grave
inequality of conditions for the economic, social, human and
cultural development of nations. Some of these nations had
near-total control of scientific developments,
industrial
technology, transport and communications, the cultural media
and world trade networks. They even controlled the raw
materials that were produced,
in the
underdeveloped regions.
to a great extent,
Mrs. Fréchette (Canada), Vice-President,
took the
Chair.
At
the same time, while the prices of these raw
materials were falling year after year at a dizzying pace,
other nations were forced to buy at a high price and with
reduced resources the consumer goods produced in the
industrialized countries. Those nations were devoting all of
their export income to these transactions and were therefore
unable to invest in order to ensure their own development.
Thus doomed to indebtedness, they lost a significant part of
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
9
their own sovereignty just as they were taking their first
tentative steps onto the international scene.
And here we are today, 15 years later, gathered together
to evaluate, in an outpouring of solidarity, the distance we
have covered.
the twentieth century are so profound that
The fact is that the world has changed - yes, it has
changed - and the transformations that characterize this end
of
the
international community at large feels the need to reform
radically the way the United Nations functions, as regards,
particularly, the composition of the Security Council, the
financial management of the United Nations and cooperation
for development, to mention just a few of the most acute
needs of the present day.
The world has changed. As for the African continent -
to take this as a point of reference - most of the peoples
formerly under
foreign domination have acceded to
independence. States have been created; the structures of an
economy have been established; and political and economic
leaders have been trained and set to work to help these
peoples fulfil their destinies.
But inequalities remain, even though an unprecedented
global crisis today affects the economies of all countries,
including even those of the most highly industrialized
nations.
The world economy seems to have become
dislocated. It has lost its balance. New rules are established
and developed day by day in the quest for new balances and
new solutions. And all this is done in a situation that
increasingly jeopardizes international peace. This situation
could,
to
intolerance, to irritation, to a lack of dialogue - in short, to
inevitable confrontation. Such a threat is unacceptable, and
we must not accept it.
if we are not careful,
lead to impatience,
That is why, together with my colleagues the other
heads of delegations, I would like on behalf of my country -
an African country, a Sahelian country, a developing country
- to join other delegations in repeating to the nations
gathered here that, in spite of all these problems, we do not
have the right to despair.
For it is obvious today that the salvation of humankind
resides in solidarity and in friendship and cooperation
between human beings.
The fundamental and logical
underpinnings of relations between peoples are, more than
ever before, dialogue and agreement, expressed through firm
language that translates our thoughts about the human being
and about life.
It is fortunate that a country such as France - which I
am pleased to mention, together with other industrialized
countries that are supporting Africa - reaffirmed just a few
days ago in Paris, through Mr. Alain Juppé, Minister for
Foreign Affairs, that the West in general and the European
countries in particular must be aware that if the majority of
the populations of the world remain hungry, poor, bearing
the weight of the distortions in the international economy,
and if, in addition, they see their efforts to achieve political
and social democracy destroyed by difficulties of all types,
then there will always be a risk that international peace will
be destabilized.
The industrialized countries must move in the right
direction. They must understand that international solidarity
can be expressed only through the mutual support
that
nations must give each other. In this respect, our continent,
Africa, and many Asian countries should receive this support
in a context of mutual respect. In other words, the proposal
for an "agenda for development" initiated by the Brazilian
delegation, with the support of
to
accompany the "Agenda for Peace" submitted by our
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, deserves the
international community’s attention. This important measure
reflects the concerns of the Head of State of Senegal,
President Abdou Diouf, who, when he addressed this
Assembly last year, on this very date, launched the idea of
a general agreement on solidarity as the foundation for
fruitful international economic cooperation, the driving force
of North-South solidarity in a renewed form.
the Group of 77,
Ancient African wisdom - the ancient wisdom of our
continent -teaches us that human beings, who alone can
change and improve their own environment, are endowed
with prodigious intellectual and moral resources, resources
based on intelligence, imagination and the ability to rise to
a situation in a way that makes it possible for them to fulfil
their destiny. We must
remain united and mutually
supportive.
the
signing
possible
in Washington
In this connection, the delegation of Senegal solemnly
commends the international community for the efforts that
made
on
13 September 1993 of the agreement between the State of
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization.
This
historic event put an end to many decades of hostility and
rancour, which cost
thousands of lives and left many
wounded and many alone, orphaned or widowed - all
because of a lack of understanding which itself led to the
destruction of the conditions for development in the Middle
Eastern countries as a whole. And, what is more, there was
the flare-up in oil prices which began in October 1973 and
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
which led to the inflationary curves that have since then
characterized the global economy everywhere in the world.
build a new world, a world of freedom and peace, of justice
and progress.
It is now up to the international community to work to
consolidate this important step in the direction of a just and
comprehensive peace in the Middle East. In this endeavour,
the United Nations family can rely, as in the past, on the
constant and active support of my country to ensure that in
that holy land Israelis and Palestinians can bring humankind
into harmony with its profound values of tolerance, wisdom
and concord.
During this uncertain period of
transition, border
conflicts, problems between neighbours and religious
tensions bring a return to the conflicts - civil war, genocide,
rivalry among members of the same national community - of
an era we thought past.
Yugoslavia, Somalia, Angola:
there are many examples that show that universal peace, that
primary objective of the United Nations,
is yet but an
aspiration.
That is also the way we view the efforts made to
resolve conflicts that in the past seemed beyond any human
solution.
I have in mind, inter alia, Cambodia, where the
settlement plan designed by the United Nations led to the
holding in May 1993 of general, orderly and democratic
elections, as a result of which a legitimate Government was
established; El Salvador, where, after several years of civil
war, negotiations conducted under the auspices of the United
Nations led to the signing, at the beginning of last year, of
the Mexico Agreement, which initiated a period of transition
towards general elections planned for the beginning of 1994;
Liberia, where repeated initiatives pursued by the members
of
the Economic Community of West African States,
supported by the United Nations and by the Organization of
African Unity, made it possible to conclude, in July 1993, a
new peace agreement which should, as we fervently hope,
lead to a definitive settlement of that fratricidal conflict; and
Mozambique and Rwanda, where similar agreements have
been concluded and where the United Nations has been
meaningfully involved in their practical and complete
implementation.
I also have in mind South Africa, where considerable
progress has been made toward eliminating a system which
the entire world rejected and condemned, and where peoples,
united in fruitful diversity, must work together for the
emergence of a human community characterized by justice
and equality. My country, Senegal, will respond to the
appeal made in this Hall a few days ago by President Nelson
Mandela, when, from this very rostrum, he invited the
international community to take a new approach consistent
with the evolution of the situation in his country.
All of these are excellent examples of the fact that
these new times bear new hopes, even though we still have
grounds for legitimate concern. In fact, despite the victories
that freedom has won, when peoples are liberated peace is
not always the result. The legacy of the collapsing old order
is in fact often an unwieldy one, difficult to manage. On the
ruins of oppression which lasted for far too long we must
The challenge, therefore, is to do all in our power so
that in all parts of the world the freedoms regained will open
the way to peace. My country, Senegal, which has always
and in every way been committed to strengthening peace and
promoting security, feels that working towards this objective
means, first and foremost, affirming forcefully the rule of
law in international relations. Lasting peace and security, in
fact, can be guaranteed only if all nations of the world
comply with the rule of law in their relations with other
nations. That law must be the same for all if justice is to
prevail.
In this context, and in connection with the tragedy of
the fraternal people of Kuwait,
I welcome the happy
conclusions that have been reached by the Iraq-Kuwait
Boundary Demarcation Commission.
The international
community must continue to protect all States from any
external threat to their independence and sovereignty.
My thoughts turn also to Bosnia and Herzegovina, a
martyred State and a State Member of the United Nations.
I believe the international community has endeavoured in
every stage of the evolution of the situation in the former
Yugoslavia to guarantee the territorial
integrity and
sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the international
community has committed itself to enforcing, above all, the
rights of the Bosnian people, a people today undeniably the
victim of
This commitment must be
respected because the very credibility of our Organization is
at stake.
true genocide.
In any event, it is in order to uphold respect for that
commitment
that my country, whose Head of State is
Chairman of the Sixth Islamic Summit Conference, intends
to continue the efforts he has already begun to contribute to
the promotion of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in close
cooperation with all countries that cherish the same ideals of
peace and justice.
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
11
I also have in mind the painful situation prevailing in
Angola. The Bicesse Accords, although freely entered into
by the parties to the conflict, seem today to have collapsed.
By calling into question the validity of
the elections
organized a year ago under those same Bicesse Accords,
UNITA has once again plunged Angola into an atmosphere
fraught with danger and uncertainty. The magnitude of the
destruction and suffering caused by this situation warrants
urgent efforts to arrive at a definitive cease-fire and a
resumption of negotiations. The framework already exists:
the Bicesse Accords, endorsed by the United Nations. The
principles on which any solution to the conflict must be
based are also very clear:
the safeguarding of Angola’s
territorial integrity and national unity and also, above all,
respect for the will of the Angolan people, freely expressed
in the elections a year ago.
On these bases, my country would here like to send out
a solemn appeal to all our Angolan brothers and sisters,
above all those of UNITA, to understand that it is not in the
interests of the Angolan people to continue the fighting. The
interests of the Angolan people reside exclusively in the
national effort
that all must make to restore peace and
harmony to Angola. We Senegalese, for our part, support all
efforts to help them in this regard.
There is also the situation in Somalia, where a great
deal remains to be done to restore peace and organize a
viable State. The United Nations there is on the right path,
conducting the most ambitious and largest operation ever
organized in Africa. My country would like to express its
pleasure once again over the organization of this operation
in a country that is today experiencing a tragic and complex
situation. The infrastructure has been devastated, the State
has collapsed and fratricidal internal strife has engendered
massive displacements of the population.
In the face of this tragic situation and in support of the
Addis Ababa Agreement, which was the result on last 28
March of the Conference on National Reconciliation in
Somalia, the international community, through the United
Nations, gave the United Nations Operation in Somalia
(UNOSOM II) a mandate to continue the disarmament and
to work towards national reconciliation, and at the same
time, and most
towards the strengthening of
political institutions.
important,
We are pleased to note that today, in spite of the
sporadic turmoil of recent months, UNOSOM II has begun
to help the Somali people restore the sovereignty and
integrity of the State.
It is in Somalia’s and the whole
international community’s interests for
continue and that it achieve the desired results.
this mission to
I wish at this point to conclude my statement on a
hopeful note.
There is a clear awareness today that our planetary
community is inextricably interrelated, that it rests on a
natural unity based on scientific and medical discoveries and
the speed of communications. But despite, and perhaps
because of,
this very progress there remains a certain
fragility in the balance of our world.
Our calling as human beings endowed with reason is
therefore to remain united and to ensure together, hand in
hand, the survival of humankind. It is our duty to see to it
that our populations live long and in good health, to see to
it that future generations derive the greatest benefit from the
experiences we have had and that we are having now, so
that, tomorrow, our legacy to them will be a world that has
not been destroyed, a generous nature, a land united on the
solid foundations of friendship, brotherhood, love and peace.
(Viet Nam)
Mr. PHAN VAN Khai
(spoke in
Vietnamese; English text furnished by the delegation): On
behalf of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet
Nam, I should like to extend to Ambassador Insanally warm
congratulations on his election to the presidency of this
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
attained
by His
Excellency
We regard highly the vast efforts made and positive
the
achievements
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
in his
position of lofty responsibility, towards the cause of peace,
international security, development and cooperation among
nations.
In April of this year it was with warmth and high
esteem, and moved by a desire to enhance Viet Nam’s
cooperation with the United Nations, that our Government
and people welcomed the Secretary-General in our country.
We wish to congratulate the new Members of our
United Nations family.
In the year since the previous session of our General
Assembly, the world has offered us a chiaroscuro picture of
opportunities intermingled with challenges, of hopes mixed
with anxieties. The threat of a global war of annihilation
continues to recede, and we are witnessing an increasing
trend towards dialogue and cooperation, in new forms and
through new mechanisms, in different regions and on a
world-wide scale. The progress towards restoration of peace
in a number of places, especially in Cambodia and the
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Middle East, brings glad tidings to the whole world and
demonstrates that in our day and age it is still possible,
through peaceful negotiations, to settle conflicts that were
once fierce and protracted.
However, humanity’s conscience and reason remain
profoundly disturbed by the bloody conflicts which are
inflicting death and pain on peoples and provoking regional
and international
instability, by potentially explosive
tendencies to increase armaments in certain parts of the
world, by the widening gap between the developed and the
developing world and by other important and pressing
problems of a global nature, such as demographic explosion,
environmental degradation, dangerous diseases, transnational
crime, and so on.
In an unstable world whose evolution is fraught with
complexities, the United Nations, while taking account of the
direct responsibility of nations concerned, is facing major
challenges in the discharge of its primary responsibility,
namely the restoration and preservation of peace and
stability. Never before has the United Nations been present
and active in so many hot spots across the continents as it is
today.
In this regard the Secretary-General has given us a
comprehensive approach to the problem in his report "An
Agenda for Peace". (A/47/277)
It is the earnest desire of the people of Viet Nam that
peace, closely linked with national
independence and
sovereignty, be primary components of the new world order.
We endorse the view expressed in the report of
the
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization (A/48/1)
that
and
their
sovereignty
"States
recognized
international order and problem-solving".
para. 13)
indispensable
are
as
building-blocks
increasingly
of
(A/48/1,
Respect for the national independence, sovereignty and
identity of each country, the strengthening of international
cooperation, and the settlement of disputes through peaceful
negotiations and mutual accommodation, considering peace,
stability and cooperation to be the fundamental, long-term
interest of each State and of the international community:
all
these are guiding principles in inter-State relations,
principles that the United Nations and its Member States
must respect. The Security Council is vested with the
primary responsibility for the activities of the United Nations
in respect of the restoration and safeguarding of peace. This
mission, however, devolves not solely on the Security
Council but on all nations. Member States should therefore
have a say in determining the objectives and guiding
principles for decisions and actions undertaken by the
Security Council with regard to international peace and
security. Only by so doing can the United Nations truly be
a universal Organization and a common instrument for the
community of nation-States. The principles of respect for
the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of States, of
non-coercion and non-interference in the internal affairs of
States, of attainment of the consent of the parties concerned,
and perseverance in the settlement of disputes through
peaceful negotiations:
such are the principles that should
govern the Security Council’s decisions.
Today the world is witnessing miraculous advances in
science and technology.
In that world, however, some
hundred countries and with them billions of human beings
are in danger of falling behind in the general advancement
of mankind, while the wealth and property of the world are
concentrated in the hands of a few developed countries. The
gap in development
levels is steadily widening. This,
together with the accumulated external debt burden, has put
developing countries
in
North-South economic and trade relations. This reality
carries potential challenges to security and stability, both
regional and international. We should therefore fully
comprehend, now more than ever, the interrelation between
peace, security and development.
constant disadvantage
at
a
and
"agenda
effective
comprehensive
We support the proposal for the United Nations to work
a
for
out
development", considering the implementation of such an
agenda through enhanced resources as a fundamental factor
for the establishment of a new, sound and equitable world
order. Development programmes of the United Nations and
assistance from highly developed countries to developing
countries, especially poor countries, are undertakings which
do not benefit one side only; rather, they are necessary for
the overall stability and development of the world and the
various regions as well as of each State. We are of the view
that attaching political conditions to development assistance
and cooperation runs counter to the principle of equality and
mutual benefit of wholesome international relations.
On the other hand, poor countries hope that the rapidly
increasing cost of peace-keeping operations will not affect
the ability of the United Nations in the field of development
cooperation, and they wish to see balanced attention on the
part of the United Nations to both the Agenda for Peace and
that for development.
One important direction of the United Nations activities
that reflect the broadening attention given in this regard by
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
13
the international community is the promotion of democracy
and human rights. The World Conference on Human Rights
the close
held in Vienna last June clearly pointed out
relationship between democracy and human rights.
In our
view, one should accord equal importance to, and promote
concurrently, democracy within each country and democracy
in inter-State relations. Respect for human rights must go
together with respect for equality among States as well as
between the United Nations and Member States. The United
Nations itself needs to reform its organization and mode of
operation so as to ensure democracy, justice and equality for
all Member States.
An enlargement in the membership of the Security
Council to enhance its representativeness, the promotion of
greater transparency in the work of this body of authority
within the United Nations system, the strengthening of the
effectiveness of the General Assembly, the improvement of
the relationship among the United Nations organs, together
with perfecting the mechanisms and streamlining the
machinery to ensure better efficiency and effectiveness of
the United Nations activities - all these are urgent demands
facing us as we are approaching the fiftieth anniversary of
this Organization. Together with many other countries -
member States of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries,
in particular - Viet Nam considers human rights to be
primarily the concern and interest of each country,
the
pursuit of democracy and human rights in one country to be,
first and essentially, the responsibility of that country and
nation. At the same time, States may cooperate with one
another in the promotion of democracy and human rights on
the basis of
independence and
sovereignty, the right to self-determination, the right of a
nation to choose its own path of development, in accordance
with the purposes and principles set forth in the United
Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the two basic International Covenants on Human Rights.
We consider using imposed standards of human rights and
democracy as preconditions for inter-State cooperation to be
a manifestation of inequality and lack of democracy in
international relations.
for national
respect
The Vienna Conference identified areas of agreement
and at the same time revealed outstanding differences of
views on human rights. We hope that, proceeding from the
commitment
to the common cause of human rights
protection and promotion, from the recognition of both the
universality and the specificity of human rights, countries
will engage in a dialogue in a spirit of mutual respect with
a view to achieving a unity of purpose in a diversity of ways
and means of implementation in the field of human rights.
The Vienna Conference also put forth recommendations
aimed at consolidating and strengthening the role and
effectiveness of the United Nations in regard to human
rights. To achieve this end, it is our view that we should
make full use of the relevant existing machinery and
mechanisms of
the United Nations and enhance their
efficiency and effectiveness. Taking account of the need to
streamline its machinery, the Organization must carefully
scrutinize and weigh any initiative for the establishment of
new mechanisms.
Viet Nam is a country that has lived through protracted,
devastating wars in which the use of millions of tons of
bombs, ammunition and toxic chemicals has caused
destruction of the environment, misery, loss of life and
serious consequences for several generations now.
It has
been undertaking a process of renewal, overcoming many
difficulties and challenges to achieve stability, development
and integration into the international community.
natural
and
conditions
circumstances,
Located in the most dynamic region for development in
the world, Viet Nam has both assets and difficulties,
opportunities and challenges stemming from its specific
historical
its
geopolitical and geoeconomic position. We are now facing
the acute challenge of how to overcome, soon, our state of
poverty and underdevelopment, and join the mainstream of
progress in the region. The only way is to tap all domestic
resources, which, first and foremost, means bringing into full
play the dynamism and creativity of every Vietnamese, and
at the same time expanding international cooperation in
friendship with all countries based on the principle of mutual
respect for national independence and sovereignty, and on
equality and mutual benefit.
This imperative need impels us to initiate and step up
efforts towards renewal in every sphere of social life; at its
core, this is focused on a market economy and on perfecting
the rule of law in a State that is truly of the people, by the
people and for the people.
The process of renewal focuses on the economic field
with a view to developing a multisectoral economy operating
under the market mechanism, to establishing an economic
system that is open both domestically and externally, and to
improving the functions and management patterns of the
State. Under embargo conditions, and at a point where
sources of major assistance from the countries of the Council
for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) are no longer
available,
the renewal process has helped Viet Nam’s
economy overcome the most difficult hurdle and end the
recession, reduce and maintain control over inflation, achieve
average growth in gross domestic product of 7.2 per cent
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
social. Strenuous efforts have been made to establish the
State’s rule of law through the promulgation of the amended
Constitution of 1992,
the election of the new National
Assembly Legislature, an enhancement of the power and
responsibilities of the elected organs and a stepping up of
the law-making process.
In
our
nation’s
stand for
accordance with
tradition
abolishing prejudice
of
and
humaneness, we
vengeance, and for looking towards the future. Those
previously in the ranks of our adversaries have all been freed
and given full citizens’ rights. All Vietnamese who wish for
a prosperous and strong Viet Nam, and who respect the
laws, will find a place in the great unity of the nation, even
if they are of different political opinions.
The process of renovation and the policy of universal
national unity constitute the prime mover for development in
the country and at the same time bring into full play the
potential of Vietnamese overseas to contribute to the
construction of their former homeland.
Viet Nam has concurrently deployed a foreign policy of
openness, diversifying and multilateralizing its relations of
friendly cooperation with all other countries, thus creating a
favourable international environment
for our country’s
renovation and development.
In that spirit, Viet Nam has actively contributed to the
peaceful solution of
the Cambodian question and has
implemented the Paris Agreements and cooperated with the
United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia. We
have established relations of good-neighbourliness with
Cambodia in the hope that Cambodia will become a country
of peace, independence, neutrality and non-alignment that
entertains friendly relations with other countries.
We wish to congratulate the new Government
in
Cambodia, and stand ready, together with that Government,
to settle, jointly, any questions of mutual concern. We
express the wish that the Cambodian Government and the
United Nations will
take effective measures to protect
Vietnamese residents living peacefully in Cambodia, and to
three years, 1991 to 1993, accumulate
during the past
initially modest levels of domestic savings, and gradually
improve the life of the people.
Viet Nam has been attracting increasing foreign direct
investment and development assistance. On behalf of the
Government and the people of Viet Nam, I should like to
express our sincere thanks to various agencies of the United
Nations system, such as the United Nations Development
Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United
Nations Population Fund, the World Food Programme, the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
the World Health Organization, the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization,
the Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific and others, as well as
many Governments and non-governmental organizations in
the world,
resuming and increasing
development and humanitarian assistance to Viet Nam.
for maintaining,
the
together with
We highly appreciate the timely support extended by
the Governments of France, Japan, Sweden and other
countries,
financial
institutions, for helping Viet Nam settle arrears with the
International Monetary
a
breakthrough initiation of credit assistance from international
monetary and financial
institutions; such assistance is
absolutely essential
for building up socio-economic
infrastructures in Viet Nam.
international
creating
thereby
Fund,
Our appreciation goes also to the many companies,
from nearly 50 countries, that have come to Viet Nam for
investment and business cooperation at this initial stage of
our development.
In our journey towards a dynamic and sound market
economy that is well-managed at the macroeconomic level,
and achieving healthy, rapid and sustainable growth aimed
at achieving the objectives of a prosperous nation, a strong
country and a civilized and equitable society, we still face
numerous difficulties, weaknesses and challenges. At this
increased assistance from the United Nations,
juncture,
international financial
institutions and non-governmental
organizations, as well as cooperation and support from
various countries, is extremely valuable and meaningful.
On the basis of the fundamental approach of having a
socio-economic development strategy up to the year 2000 in
which the human person constitutes both the end and the
driving force, Viet Nam is simultaneously carrying out
economic reforms and a step-by-step renovation of the
political system in order to promote the rights of people and
citizens’ rights, both economic and political, cultural and
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
15
ensure their safety and the same rights and benefits as are
enjoyed by people from other countries who are resident in
Cambodia.
Viet Nam is sparing no effort in building up friendship
and cooperation with neighbouring countries and is
persevering in its policy of peaceful negotiations to find
satisfactory solutions to border and territorial disputes at sea
as well as on land. While working for solutions, all
concerned parties should refrain from doing anything that
further complicates the situation and from the use or threat
of use of force to settle disputes.
The fact that relations between the United States and
Viet Nam have not yet been normalized 20 years after the
end of the war is not normal nor is it in consonance with the
trend of our time. With the desire to close the book on the
past and to look to the future, Viet Nam wishes and stands
ready to normalize relations with the United States on the
basis of
and without
preconditions. This would meet the aspirations and interests
of the peoples of the two countries, and would serve peace,
stability, cooperation and development in the region and
throughout the world.
equality and mutual
respect
Viet Nam still has tens of thousands of people missing
since the war, and their remains have yet to be found; and
millions of war victims need help. We are deeply
sympathetic towards the sentiments of American families
whose loved ones went missing in the Viet Nam war, and
have cooperated, are cooperating and will continue to
cooperate actively with the American Government and
people on the missing-in-action question. We consider this
a purely humanitarian issue.
I am confident that the goodwill and conscience of the
American and Vietnamese peoples,
together with the
immediate and long-term interests of the two countries, will
soon prevail over the existing obstacles so that relations
between the two countries can be normalized.
Allow me to conclude my statement with the hope that
the United Nations will rise to the challenge of seizing the
opportunities and surmounting the challenges so that it truly
becomes an institution to which all Member States entrust
their aspirations and in which their views are heard and their
actions coordinated. For its part, Viet Nam, in its efforts
towards renewal, development and integration with the
international community, will always be a positive factor for
peace, national independence and social progress, and a
sincere and reliable cooperation partner in the region as well
as in the world.
Mr. SEY (Gambia): May I at the outset congratulate
Ambassador Insanally on his unanimous
election as
President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
His long and rich experience makes him suitably qualified
to preside over this session.
I can assure him that he will
enjoy the full support and cooperation of my delegation in
carrying out his mission.
I should also like to take this opportunity to extend to
his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of
Bulgaria, my heartfelt congratulations on the efficient
manner in which he presided over the General Assembly at
its forty-seventh session.
Let me also take this opportunity to pay a special
tribute, once again, to our Secretary-General, His Excellency
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the high quality of leadership
he is providing to our Organization.
It is encouraging to note the growing membership of
the United Nations each year.
It is, in the words of the
Secretary-General, an explosion in United Nations member-
ship.
I should like to extend, on behalf of the Gambia and
on my own behalf, sincere congratulations to Eritrea, the
Principality of Andorra and the Principality of Monaco on
their admission as Members of the United Nations. It is our
fervent hope that they will not only be able to realize their
national aspirations but also contribute to the positive
fulfilment of mankind’s hope for a better world.
India.
It was with deep shock and sorrow that we learned of
the devastating earthquake in parts of
In this
connection, I should like to convey the heartfelt condolences
of the Government of the Gambia to the Government of
India and the members of the bereaved families on the
occasion of this catastrophe. We also commend the laudable
efforts of the Government of India in coping with this
massive disaster.
We are meeting this year against the background of
renewed hope, following the significant developments in the
Middle East and South Africa. Until recently, the Middle -
East crisis and the situation in South Africa posed a real
threat to international peace and security. Today, however,
it can be said with a high degree of certainty that in both
cases the peace process is irreversible.
event of major
The other notable
international
significance has been the World Conference on Human
Rights held in Vienna last June. Coming soon after the end
of the cold war and 25 years after the first International
Conference on Human Rights, this year’s World Conference
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
on Human Rights reflected the hopes and aspirations of
teeming millions of human beings seeking new solutions,
readjustments, changes and improvements to their conditions.
In many ways, the World Conference on Human Rights
symbolized the end of one era and the beginning of a new
one with regard to the promotion and consolidation of a
strong human-rights culture world-wide.
For us in the Gambia, the convening of the World
Conference on Human Rights was a refreshing experience,
given our long-established tradition in the protection and
promotion of human rights. The Conference enabled us to
strengthen our resolve to continue to uphold these much-
cherished values.
In reviewing the outcome of the World Conference on
Human Rights, my delegation is pleased with the adoption
of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, which
will serve as a human-rights blueprint for the next century.
I would urge the Assembly to consider and approve the
document. We regret, however,
the
Conference to agree on the setting up of the office of high
commissioner for human rights. My Government continues
to give its strong support
to this proposal, as we are
convinced that the office, if created, would facilitate greater
coordination of United Nations efforts and provide a more
prompt and effective response to critical cases of gross
violations.
the failure of
The issue of human rights, however, needs to be
addressed fully in all its composite parts. Political and civil
rights go hand in hand with economic, social and cultural
rights. Such problems as poverty, hunger, and illiteracy that
have characterized developing countries constitute a serious
threat to stability and respect for political rights in these
countries. As my President, Sir Dawda Jawara stated at the
Conference in Vienna in respect of political rights and the
right to development,
"We need to remind ourselves of the indivisibility and
the interdependence of both rights and the necessity of
giving equal attention and urgent consideration to both".
It
is saddening to note that at a time when such
internationally recognized values as democracy, human rights
and rule of law are becoming the order of the day almost
everywhere, some seemingly intractable conflicts in other
parts of the world threaten to turn back the hands of time.
particularly alarmed by the dramatic turn of events resulting
in the deaths of some members of the United Nations peace-
keeping force and also of some Somalis. To the families of
all
these fallen servicemen and those of other innocent
victims of the Somali conflict, we extend our heartfelt
condolences. We very much regret
these unfortunate
incidents, but they should, no matter how tragic, neither
dampen the enthusiasm nor weaken the resolve of the
international community to assist the Somalis in their search
for lasting peace and stability. Let us not forget now, in the
heat of the moment, the very positive achievements of the
intervention, which has made it possible to distribute food
among a population that was suffering from one of the most
horrendous forms of famine.
of
all
factions
disarmament
In the present circumstances the need for general and
complete
be
overemphasized, and this must be pursued with renewed
vigour. I should like to appeal to the United Nations and, in
particular, to the United States of America and all those
other countries that have agreed to send troops to Somalia to
continue their assistance so that peace and security can
return to this troubled land.
cannot
We call on all the parties to the conflict to cooperate
fully, to respect all the relevant Security Council resolutions
and to implement without any further delay the Addis Ababa
accord aimed at achieving national reconciliation.
The
and Herzegovina
situation in Bosnia
also
constitutes a major preoccupation of
the international
community. Recent efforts to establish a credible and lasting
peace in the country have yet to bear fruit. The failure, so
far, to resolve the conflict and the persistent disregard of
Security Council resolutions - in particular, resolution 713 (1991) -
make the situation even more desperate. The Gambia
deplores the continued Serbian aggression against
the
It deplores the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
acquisition of territory by force, by means of the heinous
practice of "ethnic cleansing" and other war crimes. My
delegation is firmly of the view that if the international
community is unwilling or unable to protect the defenceless
Muslim population against Serbian aggression, it must be
given the opportunity to defend itself in accordance with
Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, which recognizes
that peoples must be able to exercise their
right of
self-defence. We welcome the establishment of an
international war crimes tribunal as a fitting response to the
atrocities perpetrated in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The situation in Somalia, which appeared to have
improved only about a year ago, has suddenly deteriorated,
generating cause for serious concern. My delegation is
In Angola, the fighting continues with unprecedented
intensity and ferocity. We condemn the naked and brutal
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
17
aggression by UNITA against the Government and people of
Angola. The people of Angola, through the democratic
process - whose principles are the very ones we have been
proclaiming in this Hall - have given their verdict. Their
decision must be respected, and the international community
should provide all necessary support for action against any
force that seeks to disregard or overturn it. We therefore
welcome the recent decision of the Security Council to
impose sanctions on UNITA.
This year - 1993 - has not been one just of conflict,
turmoil and bloodshed. Very notable successes have been
achieved in mankind’s search for peace, and these augur
well for the future.
With the conclusion of the Cotonou Peace Accord and
the installation of a five-man Council of State to lead Liberia
to democratic elections after six months, there is renewed
hope of a peaceful and lasting solution to the Liberian
conflict. We welcome the contribution of the Government
of the United States of America to the United Nations Trust
Fund, and we call on all other donor countries to contribute
similarly so that additional peace-keeping forces may be
speedily deployed in Liberia to ensure full implementation
of
the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) peace agreement.
With respect
to South Africa,
there are now clear
indications that the peace process is on track and that change
is irreversible. My delegation welcomes the agreement
reached in the multi-party negotiating forum to set up a
Transitional Executive Council, following agreement on the
date of the first non-racial, democratic elections.
In this connection, we fully support the recent appeal of
the President of the African National Congress (ANC),
Mr. Nelson Mandela, that sanctions be lifted. The removal
of sanctions would send to all parties a strong, positive
signal that the rest of the international community will not
be found wanting in support and encouragement for the
difficult transition to a non-racial and democratic society.
However, we regret the recurrence of violence, which, if it
is
serious
repercussions
the transitional arrangements. We
therefore call on the South African authorities to redouble
their efforts to stem the rising tide of political violence.
satisfactorily, may
addressed
have
not
for
quest for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. We
extend our heartfelt congratulations to those in the leadership
of the two parties for their courage and foresight in making
limited success possible in a land often
even this
characterized by hate, mistrust and destruction.
It is true
that much remains to be done, but we are optimistic that the
momentum generated by the Israeli-PLO agreement will be
sustained and expanded to enable all parties to the conflict
to strengthen their resolve in the search for a comprehensive
and durable solution in accordance with Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973).
While the recent developments between Israel and its
Arab neighbours provide ground for much optimism, the
situation between Kuwait and Iraq has failed to register
I call on the Government of Iraq to
similar progress.
comply fully with United Nations resolutions and,
in
particular, to ensure the early release of Kuwaiti and other
prisoners.
We have followed with keen interest the successful
conduct by the United Nations of elections in Cambodia.
We congratulate the Secretary-General and his staff, as well
as all the countries that helped to bring stability back to
Cambodia. We hope that the lessons of this exercise will be
consolidated and will be applied to other trouble spots that
may require the assistance of the United Nations.
The threat to world peace and stability emanates not
only from armed conflicts but also from socio-economic
factors. The global economic recession has led to worsening
economic and social problems.
Among the pressing
economic difficulties that continue to face the developing
countries is the problem of external debt servicing, which is
one of the major obstacles to development. In sub-Saharan
Africa,
the debt stock has increased to $185 billion -
equivalent to 110 per cent of that region’s gross domestic
product. As of today, one third of Africa’s total export
earning is paid to the developed countries in the North to
service its debts. This situation cannot be allowed to
continue. More than ever before, there is a need for a
concerted and innovative international effort
to find a
permanent solution to the problem.
It is our view that the
international community - particularly the industrialized
countries - has not given this problem the level of attention
it deserves.
The recent breakthrough in the Middle East
talks,
evidenced by the deal between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) granting limited autonomy to
the Palestinians in Gaza and in the city of Jericho, is a most
welcome development.
It constitutes a major step in the
While Africa’s indebtedness has continued unabated, its
in both agriculture and industry, has
production output,
continued to decline. The combined negative effect
is
aggravated by serious inflation, which has contributed to a
steep decline in domestic savings and investment.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
It is hoped that in
of the areas eligible for GEF funding.
phase II of the GEF there will be an expanded financial base
to allow for greater and more rational disbursements.
It has now become established practice to convene
summit meetings on issues of major concern to humanity.
These summits provide an opportunity to arrive at a
collective decision at the highest level on ways and means
of resolving these difficulties.
It is in this light that we
welcome
the World Conference on Population and
Development and the World Summit for Social Development
to be convened in 1995.
As we move closer to the end of this century, so is the
United Nations moving closer to its fiftieth anniversary,
signalling the maturity of our thoughts and the wisdom of
our actions in seeking global peace and security. As the
primary role of the United Nations is the maintenance of
world peace and security, it becomes imperative in this
post-cold-war era to prepare the world body to carry out its
mandate as stipulated in its Charter, taking into account the
prevailing international political climate.
In this connection my delegation notes with keen
interest the restructuring and revitalization of the United
Nations. We welcome efforts to streamline and rationalize
the work of the General Assembly at the level of both the
plenary Assembly and the Main Committees. These efforts,
it is hoped, will strengthen the decision-making role of the
General Assembly and enhance its effectiveness and
efficiency as the largest and most important organ of the
United Nations system.
the relationship
between the General Assembly and the Security Council
should be redefined and better coordinated.
Furthermore,
As regards the reorganization of the Security Council,
efforts should be made to ensure transparency in its work
and activities. The Gambia would support any proposals for
the reorganization of the Security Council on the basis of
equitable geographical representation.
I wish to conclude by again expressing our faith in the
capacity of the United Nations, strengthened in its authority
and credibility, to face the many challenges that lie ahead.
The
international
commitment
community’s
to
sustainable development in Africa can best be enhanced by
encouraging increased direct foreign investment, as well as
an increased international transfer of financial resources to
the region. This is crucial to any long-term improvement in
Africa’s economic situation.
I should add that the removal of unfair trade practices
would go a long way towards eliminating the need for aid.
This is why we are anxious to see an early conclusion of the
Uruguay Round, which we hope will address the thorny
issue of market access, as this is of major concern to
developing countries.
Finally on this issue we call on the United Nations to
provide the necessary support for the successful implementa-
tion of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s and the work of the United Nations
Inter-Agency Task Force on African Economic Recovery
and Development.
We welcome the initiative of the Japanese Government
in convening the Tokyo International Conference on African
Development and hope it will contribute to the mobilization
of financial and technological resources much needed to
ensure Africa’s development.
In translating the spirit of Rio de Janeiro into action,
the Gambia has already launched its Environmental Action
Plan in order to address the serious environmental problems
facing the country. Coming from a Sahelian country we
remain particularly concerned about the continuous threat
fragile
posed by drought and human actions to our
ecosystem.
the
Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee
the
commencement of the negotiation process for the drawing up
of an international convention to combat drought and
desertification particularly in Africa. The Gambia will
continue to give full support to this Committee.
setting up of
and
We welcome
the
The success of our efforts to implement Agenda 21 and
other programmes approved in Rio and adopted by the
General Assembly will depend to a very large extent on the
availability of funds and the commitment of our partners to
share resources and encourage technology transfer to forge
a truly global partnership between developed and developing
countries in sustainable development.
In this connection we share the view that the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) should be restructured to allow
for the increased participation of developing countries in all
its activities as well as for inclusion of desertification as one
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
19
On behalf of
sympathy and heartfelt
Mr. GURIRAB (Namibia):
the
Government and people of Namibia, I wish to extend our
deepest
to the
Government and friendly people of India on the heavy loss
of life and destruction of property that resulted from the
devastating earthquake.
the international
community will give them a full helping hand.
condolences
trust
that
I
Namibia welcomes all
the newest Members of the
Organization and assures them of its readiness to interact
with them in the spirit of friendship and solidarity.
The President of the Assembly hails from a friendly
country, Guyana, which did so much to spearhead the
struggle of the Namibian people for self-determination,
liberation and democracy. The Government and people of
Guyana spared no effort in manifesting, in word and deed,
their unswerving support
for and solidarity with the
Namibian cause in different world forums.
I know all this
because I have spent many years at the United Nations and
during this time I visited Georgetown, his nation’s capital,
and other parts of Guyana on more than one occasion. The
hospitality and camaraderie of his brotherly people always
touched me very deeply. In his past and present incarnations
in the service of his great country, he and I have
collaborated on various issues of common interest.
It is
against this background of mutual friendship and solidarity,
therefore,
that I congratulate him most warmly on his
brilliant election as President of this challenging session of
the Assembly. His sterling stewardship is already so
effectively manifest that the successful conclusion of our
deliberations is assured.
I also wish to place on record our sincere appreciation
to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of
Bulgaria,
the effective leadership he provided last
session.
for
Our
illustrious
peace-keeping
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, has since his appointment been spearheading
an effective and innovative global campaign aimed at
streamlining and strengthening the role of the United Nations
in
and
humanitarian issues. His "Agenda for Peace" has provided
a useful framework for discussing these and other pressing
issues relating to the maintenance of world peace and
security. Namibia commends the Secretary-General for his
tireless efforts.
operations
economic
and
in
On the threshold of a new millennium, and as we are
about to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, it is an appropriate time to reflect and take stock.
This is a period of great hope and confidence in the efficacy
of the United Nations. New vision and foresight are thus
called for; bold and imaginative decisions are required.
The end of
At its forty-seventh session the General Assembly, in
resolution 47/62, on the "Question of equitable representation
on and increase in the membership of the Security Council",
recognized that in the changing global situation there was a
need to reorganize, revitalize and democratize the Security
Council.
the cold war has created new
expectations that the Security Council will take on larger
responsibilities and a greater role in the maintenance of
international peace and security. But if the Security Council
is to be a credible organ of the United Nations, it must fulfil
these expectations of a changing and demanding world.
It
is with this in mind that
the "Question of equitable
representation on and increase in the membership of the
Security Council" should be addressed. Changes towards a
more representative Council would, no doubt, enhance its
credibility, legitimacy and authority.
Namibia supports the view that the membership of the
Security Council should be increased and more permanent
and non-permanent members added, taking into consideration
equitable geographical representation. Africa itself needs an
effective presence on the Council, as do Asia and Latin
America. The outmoded and undemocratic veto power
should be abolished altogether.
a
is
there
Likewise,
compelling need for
the
restructuring of other organs, such as the General Assembly
itself and the Economic and Social Council. The member
States of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, working
in close partnership with the Group of 77, should involve
themselves
fully in the ongoing discussions on the
restructuring of these vital organs of the United Nations.
Today we are witnessing a new phenomenon in
international relations, characterized by a sense of consensus
deriving from shared interests, in which the credibility and
centrality of the United Nations in dealing with global
conflicts has been greatly enhanced.
Indeed, we have
witnessed the Organization fulfilling its mandate in the area
of the maintenance of international peace and security.
We in Namibia believe that now is the opportune
moment to establish a new role and purpose for a conflict-
resolution mechanism which is appropriate to the post-cold-
war era and to the needs and aspirations of succeeding
generations. The renewed commitment towards conflict
resolution must be transformed into a realistic programme of
action,
relating to preventive diplomacy, peacemaking,
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
peace-keeping and peace-building. Humanity is yearning for
a peaceful,
just and prosperous world. On this score,
Namibia envisages a meaningful partnership and enhanced
cooperation between the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and the Secretary-General of the Organization of
African Unity in the field of conflict
resolution and
humanitarian relief operations in Africa.
Now more than ever, much is expected of the United
Nations in the area of conflict resolution. The Organization
has a golden opportunity to ensure that those expectations
which "We the peoples" set forth in the Charter, are met by
further enhancing its effectiveness.
It
is an accepted fact
that peace and stability are
necessary, albeit not sufficient, conditions for economic
development. Therefore, peace-keeping, peacemaking and
peace-building should go hand in hand with economic
development.
For peace-keeping operations to be effective, Member
States should pay promptly their assessed contributions to
the regular budget and to peace-keeping operations. In this
context, we support the establishment of the reserve fund
aimed at improving the start-up financing of peace-keeping
operations.
In Cambodia, the United Nations Transitional Authority
in Cambodia (UNTAC) accomplished its task satisfactorily.
Namibia was happy to have contributed polling officers and
a staffed contingent of reinforced vehicles, called wolves, to
UNTAC. We did this because it was, after all, in Namibia
that a United Nations peace-keeping operation scored its first
large-scale victory. Namibia will
favourably consider
participation in future United Nations peace-keeping
operations.
Unfortunately, other peace-keeping operations have not
as yet achieved the same positive results. It is our hope that
the United Nations will continue to help resolve the conflicts
in Somalia, Angola, Rwanda, Liberia, Mozambique, Haiti
and Bosnia and Herzegovina, among others.
With regard to Angola, Mr. Savimbi’s rejection of last
year’s election results was a major set-back. It has plunged
that sister country further into a most horrible human
tragedy. The horrendous carnage there continues to claim
about 1,000 innocent lives a day. It is further reported that
from 2 million to 3 million innocent Angolans are at risk of
dying of either direct or indirect effects of this senseless
war.
The international community must exert concerted
pressure on Mr. Savimbi to accept the will of the Angolan
people without any further delay. What is now expected of
Mr. Savimbi is the speedy implementation of the Bicesse
Accords,
the
Abidjan Protocol and last year’s election results, which,
taken together, provide the framework for
resuming
negotiations with the Angolan Government.
the relevant Security Council resolutions,
It is the view of the Namibian Government that the
resumption of negotiations should lead to an early cease-fire,
which will allow the delivery of humanitarian assistance to
the
reconciliation
and
consolidation of the Government of National Unity.
suffering Angolan
people,
To this end, and in the face of Mr. Savimbi’s persistent
intransigence, the Security Council had no other alternative
but to impose sanctions against UNITA. Namibia, therefore,
supports Security Council resolution 864 (1993) which, inter
alia, calls for the prohibition of all sale or supply to UNITA
of arms and related materiél and military assistance, as well
as petroleum and petroleum products, and urges all Member
States to implement these measures. We believe also that if
UNITA continues to flout Security Council resolutions,
additional forms of punitive sanctions should be imposed.
Concerning the situation in Somalia, Namibia supports
the United Nations peace-keeping operation there. My
delegation holds the view that disarming the various factions
would allow the people of Somalia to build genuine bridges
of reconciliation and bring about the restoration of a civil
society.
Under
the present circumstances, and in spite of
provocations by General Aidid’s faction, the United Nations
its
Operation in Somalia should continue to carry out
mandate. Our hearts go out
those
countries whose nationals, including innocent Somalis, have
made the supreme sacrifice in the service of the United
Nations
Any precipitous
withdrawal, however, would be to the detriment of innocent
Somali people and is likely to reverse the whole process.
This should not be allowed to happen.
and human brotherhood.
in sympathy to all
In Mozambique, we are encouraged to note that the
cease-fire continues to hold and that the process appears to
be moving forward.
I can hardly overemphasize that it is
absolutely imperative for elections to be conducted in an
atmosphere of peace, trust and cooperation - and this means
that the armed forces must first be confined to base and
demobilized,
in accordance with the General Peace
Agreement agreed to last year by the two parties.
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
21
the people of South Africa will
Namibia welcomes with satisfaction the
recent
encouraging developments that have taken place in South
Africa. For the first time in the history of that neighbouring
country, all
finally
participate in a free and democratic election on 27 April next
year. We would like, nevertheless, to urge all the people of
South Africa to ensure that this process remains on course,
and we call upon all the parties to participate in the work of
the Transitional Executive Council.
In the same vein, we
call upon them, with the assistance of the international
community, to put an immediate end to the ever-escalating
violence. Violence and the ballot box do not go together.
sanctions
Namibia, along with the other members of the Ad Hoc
Committee on Southern Africa of the Organization of
African Unity, supports the call made by the President of the
African National Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, to lift all
remaining economic
against South Africa.
Namibia further supports the lifting of the oil embargo after
the establishment and commencement of the work of the
Transitional Executive Council, as well as the establishment
or restoration of full diplomatic relations with South Africa,
following the installation of an elected Interim Government
of National Unity, pursuant to democratic elections next
year.
The Middle East, the cradle of some of the world’s
major religions, has witnessed bloody conflicts for the
greater part of this century and has been on the agenda of
the United Nations since its inception. Namibia welcomes
the historic breakthrough represented by mutual recognition
and the declaration of principles signed between Israel and
the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) on Palestinian
self-rule in Gaza and the city of Jericho. Despite their long
enmity, the leaders of the State of Israel and the PLO
summoned the political courage to embrace peace. We can
only hope that the historic handshake between Mr. Rabin,
Prime Minister of Israel, and Mr. Arafat, Chairman of the
PLO, will usher in a new era in that region.
Granted, this is only a first step, but it constitutes a
firm basis for building a comprehensive, just and lasting
peace in the Middle East. However, for this undertaking to
succeed,
sustained
international
financial and humanitarian assistance is
required.
large-scale
infusion
and
the
of
time has now come for the leaders of the United States of
America and the Republic of Cuba to travel
the short
distance of 90 miles
to reconciliation and peaceful
coexistence. We are convinced that this can be done in the
interest of the children of the two countries, who, like those
of South Africa, Israel and Palestine, hope for a peaceful and
brighter future.
Peace and stability in the Middle East are critically
important not only to that region but also to the world as a
whole.
In this context, Namibia associates itself with
Security Council resolution 833 (1993) of 27 May 1993,
dealing with the territorial
integrity of Kuwait and
inviolability of its borders. We reiterate our full support for
the right of the people of Kuwait and its Government to
defend their sovereignty and independence. Namibia is a
small State, and we understand the predicament of small
States.
During the last session, I updated this august Assembly
on the progress made in our bilateral negotiations with the
Government of South Africa on the issue of the transfer and
reintegration of Walvis Bay and the Offshore Islands into
Namibia. Today, I am happy to report that the matter has
finally been resolved. On 28 February 1994, the transfer
and reintegration of Walvis Bay and the Offshore Islands
into Namibia will take place. This will, at last, mark the
completion of
the decolonization of Namibia and the
unification of our nation. I take this opportunity to express
our deep appreciation to the Member States for their
consistent support, over the years, of Security Council
resolution 432 (1978) on Walvis Bay.
I would also like to
thank,
the South African Multi-Party
Negotiating Forum for adopting an important resolution
which speeded up this process.
in particular,
The Rio Earth Summit marked an historic turning-point
in the long struggle to increase international awareness about
the true nature of the global environmental crisis. The
Summit effectively moved a long way towards a better
understanding of how future economic development
is
inextricably linked to sound policies aimed at promoting and
protecting the environment.
the
Encouraged
historic
and momentous
breakthrough in the Middle East
and the positive
developments
in South Africa, and also taking into
consideration
the
of
rapprochement in inter-State relations, we believe that the
emerging
climate
favour
by
in
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
has
To this end, and in line with the provisions of our
Constitution, Namibia
countrywide
programme of tree planting to prevent further deforestation
and degradation of the environment. Naturally, Namibia,
like the other developing countries,
is anxious to see
generous financing and implementing of Agenda 21.
launched
a
Let me now turn to the socio-economic problems we
are facing today. Despite the promise world leaders made
to children at the World Summit for Children here in New
York in 1990, education, health, water, shelter and food
security remain inaccessible to millions of children in the
developing world - and Namibia is no exception.
In Africa, problems of hunger, malnutrition, disease,
and so on, continue to thwart the commitment we made last
year at Dakar during the International Conference on
Assistance for the African Child, to place children first. In
furtherance of this commitment, and convinced that the
problems of the Namibian children can be addressed only in
a comprehensive manner, we have already integrated the
National Programme of Action on children into the overall
National Development Plan. This National Development
Plan constitutes
and economic
development in Namibia.
In this context, primary health
care, education, provision of water and rural development
are among the priorities of our National Development Plan.
the basis
social
for
The 20/20 Vision programme we adopted at Dakar
must be implemented if we are to achieve tangible results by
the year 1995, when we shall review progress made since
the 1990 World Summit, including in particular the fate and
welfare of those children engulfed in war situations.
The recent World Conference on Human Rights in
Vienna has further exposed the unmitigated violence and
other forms of injustice being perpetrated against women
throughout the world. The Namibian Constitution contains
specific provisions on protection of the rights of women and
promotion of their welfare. Furthermore, Namibia is a party
to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women.
It is against this background that we in Namibia have
taken measures to raise women’s awareness of their rights
by translating this Convention into indigenous languages. In
the same vein, we applaud the appointment of the Special
Rapporteur to study the issue of violence against women. It
is with this in mind that Namibia looks forward to the
Fourth World Conference on Women, in anticipation that its
decisions will further advance the cause of women in the
world, especially in Africa.
These are some of the many concerns on the social
agenda of all nations. Thus to us, the appointment of a
United Nations commissioner for human rights makes much
sense, and we support the idea. At the same time, we would
like to urge everyone to ensure that the mandate and status
of such a high-level international civil servant should be
considered carefully and realistically.
In order to meet the acute shortages of housing, the
Government has embarked upon a programme to provide
adequate housing to the Namibian people by the year 2000.
In recognition of this national effort, Namibia was awarded
the Habitat Scroll of Honour for 1993 for our National
Housing Programme, called "Build Together". This award
was received by my distinguished colleague, the Honourable
Mrs. Libertine Amathila, Minister of Local and Regional
Government and Housing, two days ago.
I would like to
echo the words of my colleague by thanking Habitat for this
outstanding honour.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate my Government’s
belief that the United Nations, as a unique international
body, can live up to its lofty ideals of creating a peaceful,
secure and just world for us and for generations to come.
To this end, Namibia pledges its total commitment.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): We
have heard the last speaker in the general debate for this
meeting. A number of representatives have asked to speak
in exercise of their right of reply, and I shall call on them
now.
I remind members that statements made in exercise of
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and to five minutes for the second intervention,
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. GUILLEN (Peru) (interpretation from Spanish):
Yesterday, 5 October, the Foreign Minister of our sister
Republic of Ecuador, Mr. Diego Paredes Peña, made a
statement in which he rightly made extended reference to the
cordial relations between our two countries and to recent
initiatives by the Governments of Peru and of Ecuador in
their shared desire to broaden the ties binding the two
countries for the good of the development of our two
peoples and to bring them closer together.
My Government fully agrees with the comments made
by Foreign Minister Paredes, for we too are motivated by a
desire for an improved climate of respect, cooperation and
friendship between our two countries. Such a climate should
enable us to deal in a unified way with the rich array of
Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993
23
issues and tasks that go to make up the relationship between
two peoples bound by history, geography and culture.
My Government wishes also to stress its devotion to
peace and to respect for the international legal order, as
reflected in its faithful and unflagging adherence to the
principles and purposes enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations. For that reason, the Government of Peru
cannot but agree completely that any difference or
controversy should be resolved by peaceful means as
recognized and prescribed in international law.
for
friendship,
cooperation
In that connection, the President of the Republic of
Peru, Mr. Alberto Fujimori, made a comprehensive proposal
in November 1991
and
integration. By developing and implementing these purposes
and principles and by conforming to the spirit of fraternal
ties inspired by the 1942 Rio de Janeiro Protocol,
that
proposal aimed at establishing an interesting and beneficial
working agenda for Peru and Ecuador with the aim of
identifying once and for all
the
outstanding portions of our common border, of signing a
treaty on trade and navigation on the Amazon and its
southern tributaries, of achieving a broad agreement on
border integration, and of arriving at agreements that would
foster mutual trust and security.
the demarcation of
It
In that context of cordial and beneficial relations, Peru
has proposed deepened bilateral dialogue and direct talks
between the two Governments.
is also prepared to
establish machinery for coordination and consultation, which
hitherto have been lacking. We are convinced that this
diplomatic exercise will provide room for developments that
should greatly promote closer communication between our
two Governments. The bilateral instruments that link us
provide for a system for the settlement of disputes, which
several times has proven valid and effective in properly
overcoming difficulties that have caused it to be invoked.
In accordance with the instruments, machinery and
systems to which I have referred, Peru proposed to Ecuador
the viable and appropriate procedure of jointly asking the
countries guarantors of the 1942 Rio de Janeiro Protocol to
have the Holy See appoint an expert
to complete the
demarcation of the outstanding segments of our common
border.
In that same constructive spirit, which should prevail
between two sister countries, Peru has always maintained
that cooperation and integration between Peru and Ecuador
should prevail in all the geographical areas the two countries
share, from the Pacific and the Andes to the vast Amazon
region - areas that give the relationship between Peru and
Ecuador its special personality and characteristics. The new
challenge of the twenty-first century is without doubt to
devise a programme of sustainable development for the
Amazon region. It is in implementing that programme that
the two nations must find the raison d’être for their new
ties. This would restore the historic association that existed
between our two nations from pre-Columbian times to the
birth of our Republics.
Hence, the Government of Peru was particularly pleased
by the statement by the Foreign Minister of Ecuador that his
country was renewing and reaffirming its determination to
renounce the use or threat of use of force in relations with
my country. We were pleased also because that statement
is in complete accord with Peru’s determination in this
regard,
the bilateral and multilateral
commitments binding the two countries, to consolidate a
climate of détente and mutual trust and to develop a level of
security that responds to our common desire to strengthen
friendship and cooperation between our two nations.
in recognition of
of
the
of
The
Republic
President
Peru,
Mr. Alberto Fujimori, took great pleasure in extending a
warm invitation to the President of Ecuador, His Excellency
Mr. Sixto Durán Ballén, to visit our country whenever the
interests of consolidating friendship between Peru and
Ecuador would best be served.
It was with equal pleasure
that we learned of President Fujimori’s acceptance of the
invitation to visit Peru, whose people and Government will
reciprocate the appreciation and support
the noble
people of Ecuador demonstrated to the President of the
Republic of Peru during his official visit to Quito in January
1992.
that
Mr. EXARCHOS (Greece): A few days ago,
the
representative of Albania, exercising his right of reply in
response to the statement of the Foreign Minister of Greece
before the General Assembly, tried to dismiss our legitimate
concern regarding the unsatisfactory situation of the large
Greek minority in Albania, attributing our understandable
concern to "extreme nationalism for electoral purposes".
(A/48/PV.13, p. 173)
But the unacceptable treatment of the Greek minority
has been highlighted in many reports of international bodies,
very recently by the European Parliament, which,
in a
resolution adopted on 14 July 1993, called upon the
Albanian Government to respect the cultural and religious
rights of the Greek minority in Albania.
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
It is indeed regrettable that certain practices inspired
and implemented by the previous communist
regime
continue to be applied by the present government, such as,
for instance, the arbitrarily designated minority zones.
For its part, Greece, which scrupulously applies the
norms and provisions of
the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
on minorities, expects Albania to act in the same respectful
manner, specifically with regard to educational and religious
freedom.
the basic documents of
Furthermore,
the Permanent Mission of Albania
circulated a press
release, dated 4 October 1993,
misrepresenting the content of a letter addressed by the
CSCE High Commissioner
on National Minorities,
Mr. van der Stoel, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Albania.
Indeed, an inappropriate effort was made to
present the views of the Albanian authorities regarding the
treatment of the Greek minority as the conclusions and
recommendations of the High Commissioner himself.
Greece, which from the beginning of the new era
supported Albania in its first steps towards democratization
and reconstruction, accepts the expression of Albania’s
gratitude in this respect and intends to be a friendly and
supportive neighbour in the future.
At this point, I should like to mention that my country’s
humanitarian and economic assistance was not limited to the
southern part of Albania only, but covered the central and
northern part of it as well. May I add that the attitude and
behaviour of the Albanian authorities towards
the Greek minority will be a determining factor in our
relations.
The Greek delegation took note of the commitment
made before the Assembly by the Albanian Minister for
Foreign Affairs that his Government
"is determined to build a modern State and a civilized
society, based on respect for the human rights of all
strata of
exception or
discrimination ... so that persons belonging to national
minorities can assert
identity".
(A/48/PV.5, p. 154)
the population without
their own national
We are looking forward to seeing those words followed by
deeds.
Mr. KIM Jae Hon (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea): The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea wishes to express its regret at the fact that the
Foreign Minister of Singapore, in his statement this morning,
used impolite and immoral terms when referring to my
country, terms improper to his official position.
My delegation strongly believes that such behaviour
should not reoccur in this Hall.
Mr. HOXHA (Albania): The delegation of Albania will
avail itself of the opportunity to respond to the statement
made by the representative of Greece at a later stage in the
general debate.
The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.
