United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.45 p.m.
ADDRESS BY CHIEF ERNEST SHONEKAN, HEAD
OF STATE AND COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE
ARMED FORCES OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
NIGERIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the Head of State and Commander-in-Chief of
the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Chief Ernest Shonekan, Head
and
Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
of State
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the Head of State and Commander-in-Chief of the
Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His
Excellency Chief Ernest Shonekan, and to invite him to
address the Assembly.
Chief Ernest SHONEKAN:
It is a great honour and
privilege, Sir, for me to address this Assembly under your
presidency. Your election is a tribute to you and to your
great country, Guyana.
furthermore attests to the
international community’s confidence in your ability to carry
out the duties of President of the General Assembly during
the next 12 months.
I have no doubt that, given your
sterling qualities, you will guide this session to a successful
conclusion.
It
21st
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 7 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
I also wish to commend your distinguished predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of
the Republic of
Bulgaria, for the able and outstanding manner in which he
conducted the affairs of the forty-seventh session.
I would also like
to express my delegation’s
acknowledgement of the dedicated manner in which the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has been
directing the work of our Organization during this crucial
period.
On behalf of the Government and the people of Nigeria,
I welcome all the new Member States, fully confident of the
useful contribution they can make in furtherance of the noble
objectives of the United Nations.
The relevance of our great Organization to the solution
of the common problems facing humanity is more manifest
today than at any time in our history. The complexity of
these pressing concerns and the need to act rapidly and with
resolve demand a greater degree of concerted efforts by
members of the international community. Events happening
around us demonstrate the urgency of this imperative. In the
last few years, the international landscape has witnessed
unprecedented transformations and rapid changes. The cold
war has become a thing of the past. Progress has been made
in nuclear disarmament. The wave of democratization which
has been sweeping across the world has not diminished in
intensity or breadth. The search for greater prosperity
through emerging regional economic arrangements
is
spreading.
the
all
In spite of
inherent benefits of
these
developments, no sooner do we succeed in resolving one set
of problems than we are confronted with new and more
challenging ones.
Indeed, the promise of global peace and
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86794 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.21
29 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
security and the vision of a new world order are inhibited by
political and ethnic conflicts, economic and social disorder,
and deepening poverty, particularly in developing countries.
Nigeria, participate in many operations within and outside
Africa.
In this connection, the consequences of feeble gestures
or inaction are just too frightening to contemplate.
It is
therefore necessary to draw attention to the major concerns
so that they can be fully addressed with a view to finding
lasting solutions which are just and beneficial
to every
member of the international community.
In view of the positive changes in the international
political environment, the United Nations has been placed at
the centre of conflict resolution, having been accorded its
rightful place in the promotion and maintenance of
international peace and security.
Unfortunately, our
Organization is being overwhelmed by the avalanche of
conflicts which it
is suddenly called upon to resolve.
Practically all regions of the world are embroiled in one
conflict or another. No region, however, is as afflicted as
Africa, either in the number of conflicts currently raging or
in their unimaginable negative effects on people.
In one
conflict alone - that of Angola - as many as 1,000 people are
reported to be dying each day. Angola is not alone in the
unenviable situation created by civil conflict:
Sudan,
Somalia and Liberia can be cited.
Regional conflicts constitute a key threat
to the
achievement of global peace and security. This is why we
welcome the active and increased involvement of the United
Nations in peace-keeping and peace-building efforts. The
role of our Organization in these areas will continue to
expand as more States call on it for assistance in preventing
or containing conflicts. Member States have the duty to
support fully the work of the Organization in this very
important role. They must be prepared to provide the
Organization with the resources and the personnel it requires
to cope with ever-growing peace-keeping demands. The
price of peace may be high; we must be conscious, however,
that it is a far better bargain compared with the price of war.
In this connection, the recent mammoth and multifaceted
peace-keeping operation in Cambodia gives cause for great
optimism.
expose
its
peace-keepers
The United Nations must direct
its peace-keeping
operations in a manner that does not jeopardize its integrity
or
danger.
Furthermore, it must be made clear to those who commit
acts of aggression against United Nations peace-keepers that
they will be adjudged guilty of crimes against
the
international community. The safety of United Nations
peace-keepers is of utmost concern to countries which, like
avoidable
to
I recall that, while on peace-keeping duty in the former
Yugoslavia, Nigerian troops were subjected to attack
resulting in casualties. The same is happening in Somalia,
where Pakistani, Italian, Nigerian, American and Malaysian
peace-keepers have been brutally killed.
The national
trauma occasioned by the loss of lives in United Nations
peace-keeping missions gives rise to anxieties and doubts.
However, I wish to assure this body that Nigeria will
continue to demonstrate its commitment
to the United
Nations by continued participation in its peace-keeping
operations.
It is in this same spirit of service that Nigeria is seeking
election to the Security Council this year.
I hope that
Member States will give their valuable support to Nigeria’s
candidature.
In Africa, we have also made great efforts to contain
and resolve conflicts in our continent. Nigeria has been
involved in many of these efforts to bring peace to embattled
areas. At the bilateral level, we hosted peace conferences of
the parties to the conflict in the Sudan. We have, through
the Organization of African Unity, joined other African
States to monitor the cease-fire in Rwanda.
In Liberia,
Nigeria has been the moving force in the regional effort to
bring peace to that war-torn country through the Military
Observer Group (ECOMOG) of the Economic Community
of West African States.
troops at
If, as we hope,
intention to withdraw our
Because of positive developments in Liberia, we have
indicated our
the
appropriate time. This decision was based on the successful
conclusion and acceptance of the Cotonou Agreement. All
the parties to the conflict and the international community
accept the Cotonou Agreement as the basis for durable peace
in Liberia.
the accord is faithfully
implemented, a democratically elected Government will have
been installed in Liberia within the time-frame envisaged for
the withdrawal of our troops. While we do not, therefore,
contemplate a premature withdrawal, through this forum I
call upon the international community to bear in mind that
Nigeria has expended and continues to expend a significant
amount in the peace-keeping operation in Liberia. Urgent
international support to the ECOMOG effort has become
crucial. Nigeria therefore welcomes Security Council
resolution 866 (1993) of 21 September 1993, which set up
the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL)
and called upon Member States to support the peace process
in Liberia by contributing to the Trust Fund being
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
3
established by the Secretary-General. Early implementation
will be absolutely necessary to sustain the process.
A cheering development in our continent is taking place
in South Africa, where a democratic Government is now
within sight.
The doyen of South African nationalists,
Nelson Mandela, confirmed the irreversibility of the march
towards an apartheid-free society in his statement in this
Hall two weeks ago. As evidence of his conviction, he
called for the lifting of the remaining economic sanctions on
South Africa. I wish, in the name of Nigeria, to congratulate
South African leaders, black and white, who in the past two
years have shown great statesmanship in the negotiations that
have resulted in the establishment by law of the Transitional
Executive Council.
South Africa has come a long way out of its apartheid-
induced isolation. The international community should assist
the South Africans in completing the process of
full
integration into the international system. To this end, those
responsible for the mindless violence occurring daily should
be unreservedly condemned. All South Africans should
realize that the watchful eyes of the international community
continue to be focused on their country.
Nigeria will
take immediate steps to respond to
Nelson Mandela’s call for economic cooperation with South
Africa. We shall also commence such contacts with the
Transitional Executive Council, when it
is physically
established, as will facilitate diplomatic interaction at the
appropriate time.
The road to democracy and the nurturing of democratic
institutions in Africa have not been smooth.
Indeed, the
democratic enterprise in Africa faces many problems.
Africa’s economic underdevelopment and high level of
illiteracy constitute major impediments to our attainment of
democracy in its modern concept.
But such has been our fascination with democracy as a
value deeply rooted in our culture that we in Africa have
willingly decided to face up to the challenge of putting in
place an enduring system of democratic governance in our
I can say confidently that this is an
respective countries.
enterprise my country has taken seriously. Our programme
of transition from military to civilian rule has not been
without
its difficult moments. However, we have not
allowed them to deter us from our cherished goal. We are
determined not to repeat the mistakes of our earlier attempts
to evolve a system that would preserve the corporate unity
of our country.
the
democratic process could be completed within the shortest
possible period - indeed, by March 1994 - that the Interim
National Government, which I have the honour and privilege
to lead, was seen as the most viable option to ease the
military out of power without bloodshed.
to ensure that
It was,
therefore,
We in Nigeria fully understand and appreciate the
interest and concern shown by the international community
regarding recent political events in our country. After all,
democratization has become a major component of the
emerging new world order. We therefore appeal for the
understanding of the international community in this difficult
period in our nation’s history.
I can assure this Assembly
that we are working very hard to find a just and generally
acceptable solution to our problem. In this connection, I am
happy to state that only yesterday I
inaugurated a
high-powered Commission of Eminent Persons to look into
the circumstances leading to the annulment of the 12 June
presidential election and submit a report within 60 days.
Nigeria has always
respected the purposes and
principles contained in the United Nations Charter and the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Aware that the
human person is the central subject and main beneficiary of
human rights, we fully believe that every citizen should
participate actively, within legal limits, in the realization of
these rights. We welcome the Vienna Declaration on human
rights and will, therefore, continue to be committed to the
freedom of all citizens and institutions that are engaged in
human-rights activities.
One of the sad consequences of human-rights violations
is the incidence of refugees and displaced persons - people
fleeing from insecurity to safe havens, either within or
outside their national territories. Today, several countries,
including Nigeria, cater for the needs of millions of refugees.
We urge the countries of origin of these people to create an
environment conducive to their return. This would help to
reduce the severity of the impact of refugee flows on host
nations, particularly in Africa, which are themselves faced
with excruciating economic difficulties.
Nigeria notes with great satisfaction that the situation in
the Middle East has taken a definite turn for the better. The
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
historic signing of the peace agreement by Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) is a welcome and
important landmark. We are convinced that this will lay the
foundation for peace between Israel and the Palestinians and
will constitute an indispensable element for the peaceful
resolution of the entire Middle East problem. We again
congratulate the Government of Israel and the leadership of
the PLO, whose spirit of conciliation made the agreement a
reality. We also commend the Governments of Norway, the
United States of America and the Russian Federation for
their efforts and their encouragement and support, which
made the peace agreement possible.
The debt crisis remains the most serious obstacle to our
economic development. The various attempts of creditor
countries to address this problem have been limited in scope
and have failed adequately to deal with the debt problem of
middle-income countries. Therefore, while noting with
appreciation the relief provided under the Trinidad, Toronto
and Houston terms, we must emphasize that the fundamental
crisis in the economic development of developing countries
has not been effectively addressed. The fact that the debt of
African countries in 1992 amounted to $275 billion - about
73 per cent of the total output of the African continent -
demonstrates clearly the seriousness of
the situation.
Moreover, when it is borne in mind that debt-servicing
obligations are estimated at about 30 per cent of the value of
our exports, the crippling effect on our economies becomes
apparent. We therefore propose a dialogue involving all the
parties to enable the issues to be properly addressed.
The various dimensions of Africa’s economic problems
are worth repeating, as we who are at the receiving end of
the economic dislocation of varying degrees that affects most
African countries realize the necessity of continuing to draw
our economic plight to the attention of the rest of the world.
This matter must not be regarded lightly. The African
economic crisis, as well as being a major source of the
prevailing social and political turmoil in many countries of
the region, must be seen as a serious threat to the longer-
term prospects for the global economy.
Let me be so bold as to say that the persistence of the
crisis is not due to inaction on the part of the African
Governments concerned. On the contrary - taking the
example of my country - the truth is that our determination
to face up to the challenge of development is obvious from
the policy reforms we have been implementing for nearly
seven years in order
to restructure and revitalize the
economy. These reforms are already yielding some positive
results, but not of the magnitude that we regard as necessary
if there is to be a significant upturn in the economy.
It would not be far-fetched to suggest that the fact that
the economic reforms that have been put in place have
enjoyed only limited success is apparently due to lack of
adequate support
from the international community to
complement our genuine efforts to revamp our respective
economies. For instance, the flow of external finance to
African countries still leaves much to be desired, despite the
efforts made in recent years by countries like mine to ensure
a climate conducive to foreign investment. We therefore
urge a change of heart on the part of our development
partners, as this will be mutually beneficial. We also call on
the United Nations system to mobilize its machinery fully so
that lingering African economic problems may be addressed
effectively.
Today, Africa faces daunting environmental problems
too. Desertification, drought, soil and marine erosion and
shortage of fresh water are new difficulties confronting the
continent. Two fifths of Africa’s land mass has turned into
desert. African countries continue to make efforts to arrest
this threat to our livelihood. However, we do not have
sufficient resources to combat the scourge. We therefore
urge the speedy conclusion of an international convention,
complete with a funding mechanism, to combat drought and
desertification.
In the aftermath of the cold war, appreciable progress
has been made in the field of disarmament. It is comforting
to note that, to a greater extent than during any other period
in recent history, significant efforts have been made by
States to achieve openness and transparency with regard to
security issues. The unilateral decision of the nuclear-
weapon States to halt nuclear
testing was universally
applauded. Needless to say, therefore, we were disappointed
at the breach of the moratorium that occurred a few days
ago. We appeal once again to all nuclear-weapon States to
refrain from resuming nuclear testing and, thereby, enhance
the prospects for the non-proliferation Treaty review and
extension Conference in 1995, which will be crucial to
efforts to halt nuclear proliferation.
Since the creation of the United Nations 48 years ago,
the world in which the Organization exists has undergone
many changes.
These changes are reflected in its
membership, which, since 1945, has almost quadrupled. The
distribution of power and influence in the world has
changed. The institutions of the United Nations cannot and
should not be immune to the changes.
Indeed, in order to
maintain its relevance, the United Nations must reflect the
changes in its environment. We renew our call for a serious
review of some of the institutions of the Organization -
particularly the Security Council. We have always stressed
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
5
the need to expand the membership of the Council by the
admission of additional permanent members so that all
regions of the world would be represented.
It is our hope
that negotiations on this crucial
issue will be advanced
during this session of the General Assembly.
Notwithstanding the several positive developments of
the past few years, the world still faces many challenges. In
addition to the continued disruption of the peace and stability
of many States by raging internal conflicts,
there are
problems that require urgent action. The spread of poverty
and the increasing imbalance between the developing and the
developed countries are two of the more spectacular of these
problems. We are convinced that correction of
this
unacceptable situation is an attainable objective.
However, the solution requires a commitment by all
States to accept and vigorously practise the concept of
international cooperation. My country remains an active
partner in this cooperative endeavour to make our world
safer and more prosperous.
As we look forward to the celebration, in two years’
time, of the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United
Nations, there is in the air much optimism about the future
of the Organization. The new world order, if it is to fulfil
its promise, must be constructed on the solid foundation of
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Thus,
our Organization is bound to play a central role in sustaining
a world of the sovereign equality of States; a world of
respect for fundamental human rights; a world of global
interdependence and of cooperation for development.
Let all Member States demonstrate the determination to
ensure that our world body justifies the expectations of
humanity.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly,
I wish to thank the Head of State and
Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Chief Ernest Shonekan, Head
and
Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
of State
PROGRAMME OF WORK
The PRESIDENT: Before calling on the next speaker,
I should like to inform members that tomorrow morning the
plenary meeting of the General Assembly will start at 9.30
instead of 10.
The Assembly will consider, before continuing the
general debate, the third report of the General Committee.
It will also take up agenda item 38, "Elimination of
apartheid and establishment of a united, democratic and non-
racial South Africa".
Under this item, the Assembly will consider a draft
resolution on the lifting of sanctions against South Africa,
which was issued today as document A/48/L.2.
It is my understanding that broad-based consultations
within and among regional groups have taken place and that
as a consequence draft resolution A/48/L.2 is a consensus
text. It has furthermore been agreed that there be no debate
on agenda item 38 at this stage and that the only speaker
will be the representative of Nigeria to introduce draft
resolution A/48/L.2.
May I point out that the question of apartheid will be
discussed in plenary meeting at a later date during the
session.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. RWEGASIRA (United Republic of Tanzania):
I
am delighted to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of the
Tanzanian delegation, our sincere congratulations on your
well-deserved election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Over the past two
weeks you have already demonstrated your considerable
diplomatic skills and leadership qualities. We look forward
to a productive session under your guidance.
I would also like to extend my delegation’s appreciation
to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for
the leadership he provided to the forty-seventh session of the
General Assembly.
The Secretary-General and the staff he leads have
continued to give of their best to our Organization. Over the
past year they have demonstrated a remarkable capacity to
take on additional
responsibilities despite dwindling
resources. We owe them a debt of gratitude and they have
a right to expect our support as they carry out the work we
have entrusted to them.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
During the past year, the Czech Republic, Slovakia,
Monaco, Eritrea,
the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and Andorra have joined the United Nations as
sovereign and independent States. It gives me great pleasure
to extend to them a warm welcome
and sincere
congratulations and to say how much we look forward to
working closely with all of them in the common endeavour
to make our world a better place for our peoples and for all
mankind.
Another year has passed since we last met
in the
general debate and pledged to intensify our efforts to satisfy
the aspirations of our peoples for world peace and security,
for economic and social
justice and for progress and
development, in conditions of freedom and human dignity.
It is proper that as we start another session, we should take
stock of the progress made towards the realization of these
aspirations.
The problems of southern Africa remained a major
preoccupation of my Government during the past year. My
delegation commends the international community for its
contribution in the search for solutions to the problems of
apartheid in South Africa and the conflicts in Angola and
Mozambique.
Over the last 12 months,
the advance towards the
eradication of apartheid has brought the goal nearer than
ever before. The call by the representatives of the majority
people of South Africa, notably by President Nelson
Mandela of the African National Congress of Azania (ANC),
for the lifting of virtually all remaining economic and trade
sanctions means that the progress made thus far, and the
progress
represent profound and
irreversible change in terms of the Declaration on Apartheid
and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa.
Whatever happens, South Africa will never be the same.
soon to be made,
A very important recent signal suggesting that
the
turning-point is very close was the fixing of 27 April 1994
as election day for all South Africans. My delegation
warmly welcomes this development and urges all concerned
to work to achieve that
important
development, however, has been the enactment last month of
the legislation necessary for
the establishment of an
independent electoral commission, an independent media
council and an independent broadcasting authority as well as
a Transitional Executive Council.
The most
target.
Regrettably, there remain many obstacles on the road.
Violence remains the most serious obstacle impeding
progress towards the establishment of a united, democratic
and non-racial South Africa. With 20,000 murders per year,
according to records compiled by the Southern African
Research and Documentation Centre, South Africa’s
reputation of being the most violent country in the world is
well deserved. The leadership of the democratic forces in
the country must be commended for denying the forces of
death and destruction the satisfaction of derailing the peace
process. But the threat remains real and great, as evidenced
by the brutal assassination of Chris Hani in April and the
storming by a right-wing racist white group of
the
negotiations at the World Trade Centre in June.
International monitoring of the violence has provided
some reassurance to the victims of apartheid violence. The
temerity and audacity shown by the perpetrators of violence
and the blind eye turned to it by some members, including
leaders, of the country’s security forces, argue for a much
larger, higher-profile United Nations presence in South
Africa.
I urge the United Nations to respond positively to
the urgent pleas of the victims of violence for more United
Nations monitors.
Another obstacle is the non-participation by some
groups in the peace process and the threat of violence issued
by some of them.
This is yet another argument for
increasing the presence and raising the profile of the United
Nations, and of the world community as a whole, in South
Africa.
Angola poses a similar but more urgent challenge to the
United Nations.
If it has a conscience, the international
community simply cannot allow the continuation of a
conflict that is estimated to be claiming a thousand lives a
day.
It must act to stop this carnage.
At the same time, we must make every effort to enable
the United Nations to recover from the considerable damage
done to its credibility and moral authority by its inability to
respond adequately and promptly to the grave challenges
posed by Jonas Savimbi. The adoption of Security Council
resolution 864 (1993) on 15 September 1993 has served to
put Jonas Savimbi on notice that the United Nations will no
longer allow his obstinacy and prevarication to continue to
thwart the will of the Angolan people, whose hopes for
peace and an opportunity to improve their lives have been so
rudely shaken by his greed for power. UNITA and Savimbi
must be left in no doubt that there is more to come if they
continue to ignore the pleas of the international community
for a cease-fire, for a return to the Bicesse Accords and for
respect for the electoral verdict of the Angolan people.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
7
We must do all we can to protect and preserve the
integrity and moral authority of the United Nations in
Somalia. Those responsible for the killing of United Nations
peace-keeping forces and for instigating attacks against them
must be left in no doubt about the dire consequences of their
criminal conduct. But it goes without saying that the United
Nations forces must themselves act with maximum restraint.
Because Somalia is such a new experience for the
United Nations, the outcome of its operation there is of
crucial importance to the international community. The
United Nations cannot afford to fail
in its mission of
humanitarian assistance, peace-building and peace-keeping
in Somalia. Nor can it afford serious mistakes. My
delegation therefore welcomes the ongoing debate on how
best to achieve the United Nations mission in Somalia. The
call for the United Nations to refocus its attention on the
original mandate and to pay greater attention to the search
for a political solution, along the lines of the Addis Ababa
Agreement, deserves most urgent attention.
The cease-fire in Liberia, while holding, will remain
fragile while tensions remain high and the end of the crisis
is not in sight. The countries of the Economic Community
of West African States (ECOWAS) must be commended for
undertaking an extremely costly and dangerous peace-
keeping mission in Liberia on behalf of the international
community. They need more than the moral and political
support of the world community. We therefore welcome the
establishment, by Security Council resolution 866 (1993) of
22 September 1993, of the United Nations Observer Mission
in Liberia (UNOMIL), which will work alongside the
precedent-setting African peace-keeping effort under the
auspices of ECOWAS to help resolve the Liberian conflict.
The people of Western Sahara are understandably
frustrated that, five years after the adoption of the United
Nations plan for a referendum in Western Sahara,
the
international community has still not been able to give
This applies equally to UNITA’s obligation to allow
and to facilitate access by humanitarian and relief
organizations to the victims of the conflict. Many relief
personnel have exposed themselves to serious danger in
order to help victims of the conflict. We commend them for
their heroism and compassion. The best form of gratitude,
however, is to ensure that those responsible for this criminal
conduct receive appropriate punishment.
Although different, Mozambique offers some parallels
with Angola, and it
remains to be seen during the
implementation of the Mozambican peace accords whether
the correct lessons have been learned from the Angolan
experience. The delay in the implementation of the General
Peace Agreement is a matter of great concern because of the
obvious threat it poses to the cease-fire. We are pleased to
note that the Security Council has taken the same serious
view of the delay. We are pleased also to note that at long
last the leader of RENAMO, Mr. Afonso Dhlakama, has
been able to overcome the difficulties which until recently
prevented him from meeting with President Chissano. We
welcome the talks between the two leaders and commend
President Chissano
to
accommodate RENAMO. But we are concerned that the
good will and magnanimity of
the Government of
Mozambique are not being reciprocated by RENAMO and
its leadership.
Instead, we observe disturbing signs of its
following in the footsteps of Savimbi.
backwards
over
for
bending
For example, the Government is still not able to provide
administrative services in the areas under the control of
RENAMO. The United Nations has a duty to prevent such
a blatant violation of the General Peace Agreement. But,
more ominously, RENAMO seems to be contriving to create
a situation in which it hopes to persuade the world to accept
the holding of elections before the process of demobilization
and the integration of forces has begun. We must spare no
efforts to enable the United Nations to do all in its power to
prevent
situation from emerging in
Mozambique.
an Angola-type
Regrettably, as the year continued there were more
disappointments than successes. With the exception of
Angola, perhaps the most disconcerting were the setbacks
suffered by the peace efforts in the former Yugoslavia - in
particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina - in Afghanistan and
in Somalia, where the turn of events has led to a wholly
unexpected and unwelcome confrontation between the United
Nations and one of the factions in the tragic fratricidal
conflict plaguing that country.
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to
exercise
their
right
opportunity
to
them an
self-determination.
It is not good enough to tell them that
every effort is being made to overcome the problems which
have prevented the holding of the referendum. After five
years of discussion of the modalities of implementation, they
have a right
the parties have been
negotiating in good faith.
to ask whether all
As Facilitator
Another African conflict-resolution initiative which
deserves urgent United Nations support
is the Peace
Agreement between the Government of Rwanda and the
Rwandese Patriotic Front (RPF), which was signed in
Arusha, Tanzania, on 4 August 1993 after a year of arduous
and protracted negotiations.
in the
negotiations, Tanzania pays tribute to the parties to the
negotiations for their spirit of give and take, which enabled
the negotiations to succeed. We pay tribute to the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) for its invaluable role
throughout the peace process. We also pay tribute to the
observer countries - Belgium, Burundi, France, Germany,
Senegal, Uganda, the United States and Zaire - and to the
United Nations for their encouragement and support. Nor
should we forget
the invaluable contribution of Mali,
Nigeria, Tunisia and Zimbabwe, which provided personnel
for the Neutral Military Observer Group (NMOG II), which
has been monitoring the cease-fire.
As implementation of the Agreement begins, priority
must now be given to the establishment of the neutral
international force. The joint delegation of the Government
of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front currently
visiting the United Nations has been stressing that everything
else hinges on the establishment of that force.
I echo their
appeal for speed in establishing the force. My delegation
therefore welcomes the timely adoption of Security Council
resolution 872 (1993) on 5 October 1993, authorizing the
establishment of the United Nations Assistance Mission for
Rwanda (UNAMIR), and urges its speedy implementation.
Comparisons are inadequate for measuring the suffering
or damage endured by people in a war, but it is difficult to
think of another current conflict in which a whole people has
been subjected to the suffering, inhumanity and indignities
that have been imposed on the Muslim population of Bosnia
and Herzegovina. The inability of the United Nations to
offer any hope to the Bosnian Muslims is one of the greatest
tragedies of our time. It is bad enough that the international
community has failed to put an end to the atrocities which
continue to be inflicted on the Bosnian Muslims. But for the
world
community in these circumstances to continue to deny them
the right
to acquire the means with which to protect
themselves is incomprehensible. The least that the United
Nations can do is to lift the arms embargo on Bosnia and
Herzegovina in order to enable the people to defend their
families and their country.
The agreement
At long last there are signs of an emerging solution to
the long-festering sore of the root cause of the Middle East
problem - the question of Palestine - the persistence of
which has for 40 years posed a serious moral dilemma for
the international community’s sense of justice, fairness and
equality.
signed in Washington on
13 September 1993 between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) on mutual recognition, which
also provides for limited autonomy for Palestinians in the
Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho, has been
rightly hailed as a major breakthrough in the Middle East
negotiations. My delegation joins in welcoming this
development and in congratulating Israel and the PLO on the
courage they have shown in taking this bold step towards the
resolution of the intractable question of Palestine. The first
step is always the most difficult to take. We are, therefore,
hopeful that Israel and the PLO will now be able to move
quickly to advance the process towards a just and lasting
solution to the question of Palestine and thus open the way
towards a comprehensive settlement of
the Arab/Israel
conflict.
For the people of Cyprus - another vexed question that
has defied solution for nearly 20 years - a meaningful new
world order must be one that respects the unity, sovereignty
and territorial integrity as well as the non-aligned status of
that country, and restores a sense of hope to the two
communities for a future of partnership and cooperation in
complete equality and human dignity. It is a matter of great
disappointment that the hopes raised by the resumption early
in the year of negotiations under the good offices of the
Secretary-General proved to be premature.
In Cambodia, the efforts of the United Nations to find
a just and enduring end to the long-running conflict have
begun to bear fruit.
The successful organization and
supervision of
the Cambodian elections concluded an
important and crucial phase of the peace effort. However,
the people of Cambodia are not yet out of the woods. There
is still a lot of healing of wounds to be done. We applaud
the efforts being exerted to enable those who walked out of
the peace process to rejoin it as the phase of reconciliation,
reconstruction and development begins.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
9
There is good news too with regard to the situation in
Central America. There, the situation has continued to
evolve
international
community in its efforts to encourage the region to find
regional solutions to its problems.
positively,
thus
rewarding
the
My delegation welcomes the growing involvement of
the Security Council in the search for solutions to many
conflicts around the world. But the Council’s capacity to
respond to the growing demands for its intervention and the
readiness of the international community to continue to
repose its trust and confidence in the Council will depend on
its ability to institute the necessary reforms.
One such reform that has been called for is the
expansion of the Council to take account of today’s vastly
changed circumstances in comparison with 1965, when the
Council was last expanded.
I need not stress that any
expansion must take account of the need to ensure equity in
geographical representation. This also applies to the call for
consideration to be given to increasing the number of
permanent members.
Another reform relates to the need to address the
problem of selectivity by the Council
in responding to
various conflicts. Unless the Council is seen to treat equally
all challenges to its authority, it runs the risk of losing the
international community’s support and trust, which are
crucial
if the Council’s actions are to be accepted as
legitimate.
In addition, the old problem of the outdated veto is still
with us and failure to do something about it will not make
it go away. The very encouraging practice of reaching
decisions by consensus has reduced the demand for the
abolition of the veto. This has helped, but it is not enough.
So long as the veto exists, the threat of its use will continue
to affect the outcome of debates. One member will always
be able to thwart the will of the international community.
How the Council does its work is also a matter of great
interest and concern to the international community. The
call for transparency is a very legitimate one, but of greater
concern is the growing conviction on the part of a large
segment of the membership of the United Nations that the
Council has been stretching its interpretation of the Charter
to include things not foreseen in Chapter VII, such as
humanitarian emergencies, human rights, ecological threats,
drug trafficking and the like. While the Council must be
enabled to respond to new situations, there is a real danger
that it will allow itself to be guided not by the Charter but
by the dictates of a few Member States.
Disarmament has always been a major preoccupation of
the international community for reasons that are self-evident.
There are far too many weapons around the world - more
than nations need for their legitimate defence. The priority
given to the chemical weapons Convention reflects the
international community’s concern about the great danger
posed to international peace and security by this particular
weapon of mass destruction. Regrettably, nuclear arms,
which pose an even greater threat, have not received the
priority consideration they deserve. While we applaud the
agreements concluded by the United States and the Russian
Federation for sharp reductions in their nuclear arsenals, the
fact should not be overlooked that, even after the START
Treaty, there are today in their stockpiles five times more of
this category of nuclear weapons than existed at the time of
the signing of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons in 1968, and the level is the same as it was when
they began negotiations nine years before the START Treaty
was signed. The reality of the nuclear threat becomes more
evident if we take account of the nuclear-weapon stocks of
the other nuclear-weapon States. That is why we must urge
all nuclear-weapon States to accord the highest priority to
nuclear disarmament.
My delegation has always regarded the non-proliferation
Treaty, despite its flaws, and a comprehensive test-ban treaty
as important international instruments that can advance the
cause of nuclear disarmament.
It goes without saying that
before the non-proliferation Treaty can perform this role, its
inherent flaws - especially its provisions discriminating
between nuclear-weapon and non-nuclear-weapon States -
must be addressed. The two major nuclear-weapon States
have agreed on some reductions in their stockpiles. They
need to go much further and to make clear that the objective
is the eventual elimination of those stockpiles, which means
that they must stop, reverse and eventually put an end to
vertical proliferation. The 1995 Review Conference of the
Treaty will be a success to the extent that it comes to grips
with these flaws.
The most hopeful
recent development
towards a
comprehensive test-ban treaty has been the voluntary
moratorium or restraint on testing unilaterally agreed to by
all the nuclear-weapon States. That is why we welcome the
decision of the United States of America to extend its
moratorium. We very much hope that this extension will
persuade the other nuclear-weapon States to maintain their
moratoriums and that the halt can be used to negotiate a
comprehensive test-ban treaty under the auspices of the
Conference on Disarmament or the Amendment Conference
of the partial test-ban Treaty.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The world economic statistics for the period 1992 to
1993 send mixed signals. Overall, despite strong growth in
a number of developing countries,
there was negligible
growth in the world economy. For much of the African
continent, per capita output has continued to decline, placing
the continent in a precarious situation. The average growth
of gross domestic product in Africa reached a new low of
1.4 per cent in 1992, owing in part to drought, civil wars,
political instability and the long-term effects of deteriorating
terms of trade as a result of the inequitable operation of the
present world order.
The United Nations agenda for the development of
Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the General Assembly at its
last session, seems unlikely to fare any better than its
predecessor, the United Nations Programme of Action for
African Economic Recovery and Development, 1986-1990.
As became obvious during the review of the Programme of
Action carried out in 1990, that initiative fell short of the
continent’s expectations. Nevertheless, Tanzania believes
that both the United Nations and the international community
at
large still have the ability to play a greater role in
assisting the continent to overcome its poverty.
Recovery of investments is crucial to the long-term
improvement of the economic performance of the African
continent.
However, contrary to earlier expectations,
economic reform has not brought a significant increase in
investments. Throughout Africa, it remains far below its
peak level of the mid-1970s as a result of foreign exchange
constraints arising from deteriorating terms of trade and
limited capacity to import capital goods, and because of the
debt burden and debt servicing.
Tanzania welcomes the initiative taken by some donor
countries to address the problem of the debt crisis by writing
off part of the bilateral official debt of the least developed
countries. However, this is only part of the solution to the
problem. Apart from debt-relief measures, Africa needs a
fresh infusion of financial resources to improve the rate of
investment and to accelerate the economic growth of
affected countries.
It
is for
the Government of Japan to organize,
this reason that Tanzania welcomes the
initiative of
in
collaboration with the United Nations and the Global
Coalition for Africa, the Tokyo International Conference on
African Development
in October 1993, with a view to
highlighting the issue of African economic development as
one of the central themes on the international agenda for the
twenty-first century. My delegation hopes that the Tokyo
Conference will come up with concrete recommendations on
measures designed to help the African continent overcome
its problems once and for all, as well as to remind the
international community of its commitment to Africa and the
need to help the continent face the challenges of the twenty-
first century from a position of strength.
We have been walking the road from Rio for more than
a year now.
In Rio we made a strong commitment to
protect our planet by promoting sustainable development
through a global partnership. Though a basic framework to
make the world’s environment healthier in the twenty-first
century was laid out at Rio, we have not, so far, begun
making those commitments a reality. The truth is, the Earth
is environmentally poorer than it was a year ago.
The
on
high-level
Commission
Sustainable
Development has been formed to monitor progress in the
implementation of Agenda 21 and other activities related to
the integration of environmental and developmental goals
through the United Nations system. Allow me to express
my delegation’s hope that
this Commission will be an
action-oriented body which will effectively translate the
commitments made in Rio into a reality, and that it will not
end up being financially strapped, as has often been the fate
of other United Nations institutions.
A milestone reached at Rio was the decision to prepare
an international convention to combat desertification and
drought. The Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for
the elaboration of this convention has already held its first
and second substantive sessions and it
is hoped that,
hopefully by this time next year, a convention to combat
desertification and drought will have been finalized. While
welcoming the progress made during the first
two
substantive sessions, Tanzania wishes to call for maximum
support and cooperation from all countries to ensure the
success of the global convention, which has particular
relevance for Africa. The convention should be looked
upon, not only as a mechanism to attract resources, but also
as a global partnership in combating a global phenomenon
threatening the sustainable development of over 900 million
people worldwide.
There is no end to our expectations in fulfilment of the
United Nations. As the largest world family, it has to take
care of all the members of the family, rich and poor, able
and disabled. The world would be a better place for mankind
if we in the United Nations act expeditiously, judiciously
and fairly. After all, it is the people who constitute the
States that need help.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
11
the forty-eighth session of
Mr. BASENDWAH (Yemen)
(interpretation from
Arabic): It gives me pleasure to convey to you, Sir, on my
own behalf and on behalf of the delegation of Yemen, my
most sincere congratulations on your election to the
presidency of
the General
Assembly.
I have no doubt that you deserve the trust that
has been placed in you by the Member States of this great
international Organization. Your personal qualities, long
experience, sagacity and tact make you eminently qualified
to conduct the deliberations of this session with excellence
and effectiveness. Just as your election attests to your high
standing at the international level, it bespeaks the esteem in
which your country is held by other countries the world
over. We wish you every success in the important tasks
assigned to you and trust
this session will achieve its
important goals so as to strengthen the functioning of the
United Nations
their
effectiveness.
and its organs
and enhance
I should also like to take this opportunity to express our
thanks and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Ganev of
Bulgaria, for the important role he played in guiding the
work and deliberations of the forty-seventh session of the
General Assembly.
I cannot fail to extend my best wishes to the Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts
aimed at strengthening the work of our great Organization,
upholding the principles and achieving the goals of its
Charter. We should also like to express our appreciation for
his annual report (A/48/1) on the work of the United
Nations, in which he deals with the most important items on
the agenda of this session.
We should also like to avail ourselves of
this
opportunity to welcome those States that have recently
joined the United Nations and wish them every success.
Their presence here among us attests to the international and
universal nature of the Organization and contributes to the
attainment of our common goals, in accordance with the
purposes and principles of the Charter.
This is the fourth session in which the Republic of
Yemen is represented by one delegation, whereas in the past
it was represented by two. On 22 May 1990, our country
regained its unity after about two centuries of disunity in the
course of which a power struggle raged between the
occupiers of various parts of the country. This reached its
peak on 30 November 1967, when Yemen was divided into
two States.
Although that miraculous unitary achievement of four
years ago seemed impossible, our people and its wise leaders
were able to bring it about, and other peoples that are still
divided may look upon our example with hope. Our people
fought and made many sacrifices over many generations for
the attainment of that objective. The unity of our homeland
has been characterized by pluralism, multilateralism and
democracy.
Furthermore, on 27 April of this year the Republic of
Yemen crowned its march towards democracy with general
parliamentary elections that were free, impartial and honest.
Representatives of international organizations that defend
democratic ideals participated by following those elections
closely and monitoring their proper procedure. Western and
Arab monitors welcomed that democratic exercise in Yemen,
and The New York Times described the events in our country
as "a true Arab revolution".
In the light of all this, we
believe we are justified in feeling a sense of pride as we
take part
the backdrop of such
achievement by a country that has worked two miracles
which no one thought possible only four years ago.
in this session against
Our success in opting for democracy on the basis of
pluralism and the multiparty system clearly demonstrates that
the seeds of democracy can germinate in any soil once it is
planted and is not the preserve of any special soil. No one
should marvel, however, at the success of democracy in our
country. Yemen, as historians know, was the first cradle of
the practice of "Shura", that is to say parliamentary activity,
from as far back as the days of the Kingdom of Sabã 2,800
years ago. This is attested to in the Holy Koran and other
earlier books of revelation.
Three years have passed since the unfortunate invasion
of Kuwait by Iraq and the second Gulf crisis that ensued.
My country continues to suffer the terrible consequences of
that crisis. One million of our expatriate countrymen had to
return to Yemen as a result of that war, and yet we have not
received any external assistance from any quarter whatever
to lighten the burden of that return. The Republic of Yemen
is and has always been against the use of armed force in
resolving conflicts. We reject the idea of the acquisition of
the territories of others by force. That is why our position
on this situation remains unchanged. We consider that
Kuwait is a sovereign, independent State and not part of any
other State.
Since the Republic of Yemen is an Arab
country that, geographically,
the Arabian
Peninsula, we have been deeply chagrined by what happened
between the two neighbouring, sister countries of Iraq and
Kuwait, and by the resultant deep cracks in the edifice of
Arab solidarity. For that reason, the Republic of Yemen has
is part of
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
continued to urge the Iraqi leaders to carry out all that is
called for in international resolutions.
In that context the
responsiveness and readiness to cooperate demonstrated until
now by the Government of Iraq are cause for optimism and
should lead us to review the sanctions that are now in place.
the
ensuring
territorial
Similarly,
integrity and
safeguarding the sovereignty and independence of
the
Republic of Kuwait are an absolute necessity. None the
less, this can never be achieved in a lasting and definitive
manner unless the two countries reach a mutually acceptable
formula of agreement and the Arab countries, in particular,
as well as the international community as a whole, guarantee
strict adherence to such agreement so that neither of the two
countries may breach it. Such agreement should make it
possible to reassure the State of Kuwait that the events of
2 August 1990 will not recur and also make it possible to
resolve all outstanding issues so as to prevent any future
dispute.
There is no doubt that our Kuwaiti brethren are well
aware of the fact that the sovereignty, independence and
security of Kuwait cannot be guaranteed indefinitely by
dependence on international protection alone but must have
its solid basis in sound and equitable relations between their
country and Iraq in the framework of a climate of security
and fraternal reconciliation in the region.
to
in
Iraq’s
Given
readiness
cooperate
the
implementation of Security Council resolutions, we believe
that the blockade against Iraq is no longer justified. Indeed,
the suffering of the Iraqi people has reached an intolerable
the international
level, and we do not believe that
community is prepared to accept
the death of innocent
women, children and old people because of
lack of
medication. At the same time, my country reaffirms the
need to preserve the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq,
and we ask that there be no further destruction of Iraq’s
economic, scientific and social infrastructures.
Following the establishment of the Republic of Yemen,
my country declared that one of the goals of Yemeni unity
is to contribute to the security and stability of our region and
to promote cooperation and integration between all
its
countries. In pursuance of that objective, relations between
Oman and Yemen have been strengthened and have become
a model to be followed. However, this sound beginning is
but a key, albeit an important key, to the doors which, when
fully opened, will allow movement on the economic, security
and trade tracks towards economic integration and security
cooperation between all the region’s countries especially now
that between Yemen and Oman there are the initial steps
of
are
relations
that Yemeni-Omani
towards easy access for passengers and goods. There is no
doubt
special
significance to the future stability and prosperity of the
region. They represent a practical and important beginning
to the much needed process of putting the Arab house in
order both at the regional and the Arab levels. They are also
relations that pose no threat to the interests of others as they
are open, transparent and well-defined as regards their ends
and means.
Similarly, Yemen’s relations with other sister countries
are based on historic kinship and religious links and on the
fact that we all belong to one and the same Nation. That is
the reason why Yemen has always stood by its brethren in
neighbouring countries and in the Arab world in general and
has always endeavoured to raise such relations to the level
that would enable it to perform its role vis-à-vis Arab and
international issues.
lies at
As regards the border issues between Yemen and Saudi
Arabia, Yemen has been engaged since November 1972 in
talks with our brethren in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in
a climate of goodwill and with a genuine desire to turn a
new leaf. Following initial contacts last year in Geneva, a
joint committee of experts was set up to negotiate the border
problem that
the forefront of the two countries’
bilateral concerns. That committee has held five rounds of
negotiations, the most recent of which was held at T’az two
months ago.
In the meantime, other contacts have been
taking place between President Ali Abdullah Saleh and
King Fahd, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, through an
exchange of letters,
the last of which was the letter I
delivered to His Majesty King Fahd. Notwithstanding the
complexities of the border problem between the two sister
countries, we continue to be optimistic as to the outcome of
negotiations, since both countries are desirous of seeing the
talks crowned with success and since good intentions exist
on both sides. This makes it easier and possible to resolve
problems. Everyone is well aware that factors tending to
rapprochement between the two countries outweigh the
factors of discord.
I can say that my last contact with
King Fahd, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, was
positive and that I found him to be aware of the need for
fraternity and cooperation between our two countries.
The deplorable situation in Somalia demands that, in
addition to what
the international forces are doing to
establish peace and security there and in addition to
international support, further efforts should be deployed to
initiate national reconciliation between the various factions.
We urge the international community to redouble its efforts
the humanitarian level and we invite the factions in
at
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
13
Somalia to rise to the level of their responsibilities and to
to reject
work on a basis conducive to reconciliation,
factionalism and false sensitivities and to see that
the
country’s interests triumph over narrow, factional ones so
that it may be possible to rebuild what has been destroyed
by that cruel war and pursue the path of development and
progress.
resolutions of
to implementing the
Although Yemen previously had the honour of taking
part in the efforts deployed to achieve national reconciliation
through the Conference held in Djibouti two years ago, and
although the national groups in Somalia have not committed
themselves
that
Conference, we shall spare no effort in working for the
desired comprehensive national reconciliation in Somalia. It
is only fair to commend here the role performed by our
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
and the
interest he takes in the Somalia tragedy. Let us pray that
God the all-powerful will guide the leaders of the various
factions in Somalia towards reconciliation so that peace may
prevail over all parts of that sister country and enable it to
work towards reconstruction and development and to resume
its place as an active member of
the international
community.
Any observer who is familiar with the history of the
Arab-Israeli conflict
in the Middle East region will be
certainly aware of the fact that the identity and destiny of
Palestine have been at the core of the Arab-Israeli problem
from the very outset, and the fuse that detonated the terrible
explosion of conflict from as far back as the British
mandate. Since then, the Palestinian cause has continued to
be the focal point of the conflict, which has lasted for
decades and has led to three bloody wars; taken thousands
of lives and caused millions to leave their homes; broken
apart thousands of families; destroyed property; and caused
incalculable losses. Therefore, it is no wonder that the just
settlement of the question of Palestine is the key to resolving
the conflict and restoring peace.
for
stemmed
13 September
Our country’s prompt support
the agreement
between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel in
on
Washington
from our
commitment
to the Rabat Arab Summit Conference
resolution which recognized the Palestine Liberation
Organization as the sole legitimate representative of the
Palestinian people as well as our respect for the right of
every people to choose its own course and exercise its own
will in full freedom. Having said all this, we view the
agreement as an important first step towards a just, lasting
and comprehensive peace in the region, as was stated by the
Council of Ministers of the Arab Nations in Cairo last
month. None the less, this step by itself and in itself will
not bring about peace unless it
is followed by more
significant
the levels of other Arab-Israeli
negotiating tracks. This will depend on Israel’s earnestness
with regard to withdrawal from all the Palestinian and Arab
territories it has continued to occupy since June 1967.
steps at
If we tell ourselves that Israel, at long last, has come to
the realization that it is unrealistic to hold on to the policy
of depending on naked force due to the military superiority
it enjoys, as a means of guaranteeing its continued existence,
imposing its hegemony over the Arab people in Palestine
and the neighbouring Arab States and imposing a peace that
would be tantamount to capitulation - I say that if we tell
ourselves anything of the sort, we shall be indulging in
wishful thinking until such time as Israel demonstrates the
truthfulness of its declared intentions and passes the test by
adopting sound positions in current and future negotiations
with the Syrians,
Jordanians and Lebanese and by
withdrawing from all the territories it now occupies. It must
also accept the establishment of the independent State of
Palestine, which would include Gaza and the West Bank,
with Jerusalem as its capital, while the Republic of Yemen
appreciates the important role played by the two co-sponsors
of the Arab-Israeli negotiations and, in particular, the role of
the United States of America, it hopes that this role will be
such as to prompt Israel to abandon the policy of force and
arrogance which it has pursued out of its feelings of military
superiority, and because of the international support and
protection it has always enjoyed as well as the special
treatment extended to it by the Western Powers.
It is time
the States of the world at large, and in particular the United
States, shouldered the responsibility of curbing Israeli
arrogance, especially after the crimes, killings, acts of
intimidation and terrorization, the bombings, destruction and
atrocities it has perpetrated for decades in Palestine and
other Arab countries.
Those are acts that will shame
mankind for a long time to come and that will torture the
human conscience.
We do hope that the Gaza-Jericho agreement between
the PLO and Israel and the agenda between Jordan and
Israel will be accompanied by Israeli-Syrian agreements and
Israeli-Lebanese agreements in the near future. This should
lead to the return of the Golan to Syria and to Israel’s
withdrawal from southern Lebanon. We also hope that such
agreements will be followed by others that would lead to
Israel’s total withdrawal from all the Palestinian territories,
including Al-Quds and all the other Arab territories that are
still under occupation.
It is also our hope that the Israeli
authorities will finally desist from the arbitrary measures and
acts of criminality against all our brethren in Palestine, in
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
If the battle
Lebanon and in the other occupied territories.
for peace has been joined, it shall not be won unless Israel
shows a great deal of courage, abandons its arrogance and
realizes that this is the most difficult battle of all.
only say that the world’s stance vis-à-vis what is happening
in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a stigma, a brand of Cain
on the brow of the age and of the human race, for all
eternity.
The end of the cold war and the emergence of the
beginnings of a new international order that is beginning to
take shape to rid the world of wars and conflicts require that
lasting, total peace should prevail in the Middle Eastern
region on a fair and stable basis so that its peoples may
tackle the task of development and improve their standards
of living. This requires that all the States and peoples of the
world should take a firm stand in opposing any attempt to
create obstacles in the path of peace, or to impose peace by
force. Our world will not enjoy peace until peace embraces
every part of the globe.
Like many other countries, Yemen has followed with
deep concern the attacks against southern Lebanon and the
Bekaa Valley by Israel in the month of July, in full sight of
the international community. Yemen, while stressing the
importance of respecting Lebanon’s independence, territorial
integrity and sovereignty and safeguarding its right to live
within recognized international borders, condemns Israel’s
continued occupation of southern Lebanon, and demands
unconditional Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon in
implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978).
The international community should take a firm stand in
order
to refrain from these acts of
aggression and to compensate the people of Lebanon for the
enormous losses they have sustained.
to compel
Israel
It is inadmissible, illegal and immoral for peoples, on
the eve of the twenty-first century, to suffer from injustice
and to be exposed to physical liquidation for ethnic or
religious reasons. The most horrendous example of this is
the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The United Nations,
since it was created, has never faced a more serious
challenge than the one that confronts it now in that peaceful
European Muslim country.
It is very difficult indeed to
understand the stance of the international community with
regard to that situation.
In practice, all the slogans have
turned out to be no more than hot air. Developments in
Bosnia and Herzegovina squarely put a heavy burden of guilt
on the shoulders of
the international community and
especially the major Powers, with regard to the collective
massacring of Muslims at the hands of the Serb and Croat
fascists. As long as we, as an international community,
continue to fail
to face up to such a situation, and to
safeguard the right to life of the unarmed people of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, how could we pretend to champion human
rights on this planet? In the most restrained terms, we can
Consequently, this blatant defiance calls for practical
measures by the international community to deter aggression,
to intensify moral support and humanitarian assistance and
to strengthen the steadfastness of the people of Bosnia and
Herzegovina with a view to ending this tragedy. We in
Yemen join the other countries of the world in calling for an
end to this aggression that Belgrade supports, and for a halt
to the genocidal atrocities perpetrated by the Serb aggressors
in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We support the request by the Non-Aligned Movement
for the venue of the negotiations to be moved from Geneva
to United Nations Headquarters here in New York as those
negotiations are now at a critical juncture, and moving them
to New York would strengthen the parties’ confidence,
especially that of the Bosnia and Herzegovina side, which is
the party that has to make the biggest sacrifice.
The World Conference on Human Rights held in
Vienna in June 1993 has studied the question of human
rights, reviewed the fundamental precepts relating to those
rights and underscored the need to implement them and to
provide humanitarian assistance to the victims of war and
natural disasters.
the tragic
situations which afflict people arise from certain crises and
political conflicts that degenerate into armed confrontations.
The use of force and economic blockades that ensue result
in untold suffering for innocent civilians, especially the most
vulnerable, namely, women, children and the elderly, who
are always the principal victims of such wars and blockades.
Unfortunately, many of
The situation in South Africa continues to be cause for
concern for most Member States of this Organization. The
latest news does not justify too much optimism. Over the
past two months, there have been several massacres and
killings. That is why the most recent events should prompt
us - and the United Nations - to monitor this situation
closely so that the goals contained in the 14 December 1989
United Nations Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive
Consequences in Southern Africa may be implemented.
The decision to deploy a peace-keeping force in South
Africa, a decision that has been welcomed by Inkatha, is a
major step in leaving behind the cycle of violence, murder
and massacre in the country, and may well make it possible
to establish a democratic and non-racial regime. Here we
should like to emphasize the importance of having all the
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
15
parties understand the need for peace, especially in view of
the forthcoming democratic, non-racial elections scheduled
for next year. We hope that the elections will be successful,
and that they will mark a positive turning-point.
Just a few days ago, we had the honour of hearing
Mr. Nelson Mandela address the Special Committee against
Apartheid, and we could feel his confidence in the future.
We hope that the dialogue that has now begun in South
Africa will make it possible to establish a democratic, non-
racial regime.
that,
The Secretary-General,
in his annual report on the
activities of the United Nations, declared that political
progress and economic development are inseparable. Yemen
believes
to revitalize economic growth in the
developing countries and enable those countries to continue
their political and economic adjustment programmes, the
donor countries and the industrialized countries must provide
economic and technical support, and the United Nations
must continue to play its role in promoting cooperation
between the developing and the industrialized countries in
order to achieve the objective of economic integration on an
equitable basis.
It is also important to lighten the poor
countries’ debt burdens, to increase financial flows towards
them and to provide them with technical assistance in order
to enable them to continue their programmes of adjustment
and to achieve economic and social development.
Furthermore,
As underscored by the meeting of the Ministerial
committee for the economic development of the countries of
the Non-Aligned Movement held last May in Bali, Indonesia,
the economic situation in the developing countries has
worsened. World economic growth is suffering from a
grave imbalance and the gap between the developing and the
developed countries has widened. The economic recession
has led to the growth of protectionism and declining
development assistance.
the increase in
indebtedness and the burdens of debt servicing have resulted
in capital outflows in the case of the developing countries.
This is a situation that threatens the very existence of those
countries and not only the prospects of economic and social
development. We must refer in this respect to failure by the
industrialized countries to honour their commitments in line
with the agreements, strategies and international resolutions
relating to the inflows of development assistance to the
developing countries, especially those included in the
international strategy for the eighties which called for the
allocation by the industrialized countries of 0.7 per cent of
their Gross National Product
to development assistance.
Instead of implementing those resolutions, the industrialized
countries have resisted every attempt to formulate and adopt
a new strategy for the 1990s. They have also failed to
implement
the programme for the 1990s that had been
agreed upon at the Paris Conference. This has been a real
setback for the economic and social development of the least
developed countries.
the principal
We do say that
responsibility for
development lies with the developing countries themselves,
but national efforts alone are not enough: there must also be
a degree of international support and assistance. National
efforts must be backed up by appropriate international
efforts.
We feel that the international economic system must be
fair and equitable towards the developing countries. This
cannot be the so without political will, wisdom and courage.
A great deal of work awaits the United Nations, and
this is why this session of the General Assembly is of
special importance. The international community must avail
itself of this opportunity to develop a concept of cooperation
between countries, within the framework of the United
Nations, with a view to strengthening international peace and
security and economic stability the world over. This should
also help to strengthen the Organization, because the
Organization is the ideal framework for building that world
of peace and stability on the basis of international legality.
In this connection, the United Nations must implement
the Charter without selectivity or double standards, for the
Charter is the ideal framework for coordinating international
efforts. As the international community must build a better
world within the framework of the United Nations to ensure
peace and development, we, the family of nations, must have
the foresight and resolve to face up to the problems that
arise with the universal character of the United Nations in
mind.
Mr. ROBERTSON (Jamaica): Mr. President, it gives
me great pleasure to see you, a son of the Caribbean,
presiding over the General Assembly at
this forty-eight
session with the skill, competence and wealth of experience
we have come to associate with you. My delegation is
confident that under your leadership this session of the
General Assembly will complete its vitally important agenda.
I
to
express
also wish
predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev
our
appreciation for the most able manner in which he presided
over the forty-seventh session.
your
of Bulgaria,
to
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
take
May I
this opportunity also to welcome
formally to the United Nations the six countries - the Czech
Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Andorra - which
joined the Organization this year.
and
through
globalization
tyranny and ethnic strife.
Today the global community is at a crossroads in
history, poised between the prospect of peaceful economic
progress
technological
advancement and a relapse into conflict fuelled by poverty,
political
This situation has
emerged with the end of the cold war, which has ushered in
ideological détente, and where the threat of nuclear conflict
between super-Powers has receded. This is not, however, a
cause for complacency, because unsupervised economic
globalization coupled with an escalation of political
fragmentation could ignite fierce conflict between economic
blocs and social groups world wide. The present dilemma
is how we can capitalize collectively on the advantage
offered by economic globalization, while avoiding political
fragmentation owing to the resurgence of religious and
ethnic intolerance and chauvinistic nationalism.
Globalization, if not complemented by a comprehensive
global economic framework, could lead to wider disparities
between developed and developing countries,
leaving a
growing portion of the world’s population mired in poverty
as entire productive sectors and economic activities are
marginalized from the dynamic of economic growth in the
world economy. The United Nations is the only forum that
can forge a global institutional consensus, a multilateral
regulatory regime, and commonly subscribe to goals and
understandings that will reduce the tendency to economic
inequities. A shared economic development consensus could
provide the basis for more equitable participation for the less
developed countries.
Whether mankind succeeds in seizing the present
opportunity for peace and economic progress depends
crucially on the United Nations as a mechanism for a new
global dialogue based on genuine partnership between States
with widely differing philosophies, policies and practices.
The United Nations, with severe constraints of financial and
human resources, has
in the past year courageously
attempted to meet these challenges, understandably with
mixed results.
We
therefore wish
the
Secretary-General and his dedicated staff of professionals
who have played a critical role in the search for resolution
of bitter conflicts in every region - conflicts which have
tribute
to
pay
to
inflicted massive human suffering and devastation of the
land.
In Cambodia, elections have taken place and a new
in
Government has been installed.
Cambodia will, we hope, mark the beginning of a new era
of peace and stability in South-East Asia.
That achievement
On the African continent, we welcome the signing of
the Cotonou Peace Agreement on 25 July, and we urge that
all the parties to the conflict in Liberia remain committed to
this Agreement and work with the United Nations and the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
to bring lasting peace to that country. Unfortunately, the
situation in Somalia continues to be tragic and dangerous.
We hope that, through the efforts of the United Nations
Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) and others, there will be
a speedy return of peace to this land fractured and
devastated by civil strife.
Jamaica regrets the continuing
loss of life of members of the UNOSOM forces.
Developments in South Africa are moving in a positive
direction. We welcome
the decision to hold, on
27 April 1994, elections open to all parties which will mark
the transition of South Africa to a democratic and non-racial
society, and we eagerly anticipate the establishment of the
Transitional Executive Council. The call by Mr. Mandela
for the removal of sanctions is a welcome one. Jamaica has
participated in building consensus for the United Nations
resolution to lift sanctions, and it
them
immediately upon the adoption of the resolution.
intends to lift
The situation in the States of the former Yugoslavia is
also an agonizing chronicle of tragic strife, suffering and
abuses. We continue to hope for a just settlement on the
basis of Security Council resolution 859 (1993), which
affirms
the fundamental principles on which such a
settlement should be based.
Jamaica too hails the signing of the peace accord
between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization on
13 September 1993, while fully recognizing that the progress
achieved, despite its significance,
is but an initial step.
Indeed, there are complex matters that will face negotiators
in the months and years ahead.
Nearer to home, in the Caribbean, the Government of
Jamaica and its partners in the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) have placed the resolution of the Haitian crisis
high among their priorities. CARICOM has been actively
involved at the United Nations in the effort to bring the issue
of Haiti before the Security Council, and I express my
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
17
Government’s appreciation to the member States of the Latin
American and Caribbean Group for their support in this
process.
process of structural adjustment, which has created a private-
sector-led, market-driven economy.
We
the United Nations
also commend the Special Envoy of
the
Secretaries-General of
and the
Organization of American States, Mr. Dante Caputo, for his
untiring commitment to this issue. However, in the light of
the grim evidence that dangerous elements are at work in
Haiti, clearly determined to deny the Haitian people security,
democracy and development, the international community
cannot relax its vigilance. President Jean-Bertrand Aristide
is scheduled to return to Haiti on 30 October. His return
will mark the beginning of a long and difficult period of
reconstruction.
support and
commitment of our Organization, as well as of the entire
international community. There is urgency in the call for
economic and technical assistance. Indeed, the Government
of Jamaica has already offered, within our means, to provide
Haiti with some technical assistance.
He will need the full
This new era following the cold war presents mankind
with new opportunities for a more rational and equitable
management of problems at the global level.
I refer, in
particular, to the struggle against poverty and ethnic strife,
human-rights violations and environmental degradation. The
end of cold-war confrontations - political as well as military
and ideological - should not be replaced by economic
conflict. We must grasp the opportunity for constructive
action and now work towards an era of cooperation that is
not distorted by ideological and political tensions.
The
Security Council
on
31 January 1992 concluded with a statement in which it was
said that its members recognized
Summit meeting
"that peace and prosperity are indivisible and that
lasting peace and stability require effective international
cooperation for the eradication of poverty and the
promotion of a better life for all in larger freedom".
(S/23500, p. 5)
We strongly support that view.
For many developing countries, including my own,
market-oriented reforms have been a high priority. We have
made fundamental changes in economic policy, including
monetary and fiscal austerity, trade liberalization, divestment
of public enterprises to the private sector, liberalization of
foreign-exchange markets and general deregulation of
In short, we have undertaken a thoroughgoing
economies.
For countries that are undertaking economic structural
adjustment the social consequences are high indeed. Tight
monetary and fiscal management reduces the capacity to
provide basic social services, such as health, education and
housing. Yet, if human needs are not adequately met, if
human resources are not developed, we destroy the very
basis of sustained development: our people. Migration -
national
clearest
manifestations of social ills. If people do not find economic
security in their native land, they go wherever they can find
it - from rural to urban area; from one country or one
continent to another. So today there are some 35 million
displaced persons. And such people are to be found in every
region.
and international -
is one of
the
The processes of structural adjustment are rendered
extremely difficult in the absence of sustained international
support - either directly, through the sustained infusion of
external resources by way of development assistance and
debt relief, or indirectly, through reduced protectionism in
industrialized countries. Let me give an example related to
debt. Although my Government has managed to reduce the
stock of external debt, debt servicing remains the most
economic
debilitating
development.
financial
institutions, to which much of Jamaica’s debt is owed, refuse
to consider the rescheduling of loans continues to be a major
concern of my Government. The consequence of this policy
is that even those resources generated by developing
countries themselves are not available for the pursuit of
national development objectives, as they are pre-empted by
debt-servicing.
international
on
fact
the
that
constraint
country’s
The
I should like to refer to trade liberalization and trade
arrangements, especially with regard to countries undergoing
structural adjustment.
In my own region, the Caribbean
Community (CARICOM) has put in place mechanisms to
enhance regional trade. At the same time, however, the
Community is faced with the Herculean task of avoiding or
minimizing the likely short-term to medium-term adverse
impacts on its members of the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) when it takes effect. We have had to
make vigorous efforts to ensure that the gains achieved
under existing agreements are not eroded.
Similarly,
conditionality
by
international financial institutions must be designed to be
more
More
specifically, adjustment must take place over an extended
to developing economies.
appropriate
applied
loans
to
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
period, must minimize social distress and must be growth-
oriented.
My delegation therefore attaches great importance to
the formulation of an agenda for development. That process
should proceed with the sense of urgency and vision with
which the undeniably constructive "Agenda for Peace" has
been promoted. Such an agenda must be forward-looking
and must address fully the wide range of issues pertaining to
development, taking into account the specific circumstances
and needs of developing countries and groups of countries.
It must first establish, as its basic premise, the need for a
favourable international economic environment and a non--
discriminatory trading system, the latter being dependent on
a speedy, balanced and comprehensive outcome to the
Uruguay Round of
these
conditions,
the efforts of developing countries to build
self-sustaining economies - efforts often accompanied by
painful adjustment
strategies and difficult economic-
liberalization programmes - will be frustrated.
trade negotiations. Without
The need for a constructive North-South dialogue to be
reactivated has therefore become urgent, and has certainly
become one of the most pressing challenges we face in
elaborating our agenda for development. We were
consequently appreciative of the initiative taken by the
Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement to meet with the
Chairman of the Group of 7 in Tokyo. We regard this as an
encouraging beginning.
The agenda for development cannot be complete if it
does not include consideration of the problem of external
indebtedness and formulation of specific solutions for its
resolution. A review of the role and functions of the Bretton
Woods institutions is therefore necessary. Similarly, the
reality and inevitability of regional economic integration
processes must be confronted in the agenda for development,
as well as the protection of the environment, following the
ground-breaking achievements of the historic United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development last year in
Rio de Janeiro.
The goal of sustainable development provides a holistic
framework for the United Nations and its Member States to
shape a world in which care and respect for human beings
is equalled only by care and respect for the planet which we
inhabit. At the Earth Summit in Rio, we undertook to
implement measures that would safeguard our natural
habitat. Some of the decisions taken in Rio have already
begun to take effect. These include the establishment of the
Commission
the
preparations for the convening of the first Global Conference
Sustainable Development
and
on
the
to stress
importance of
on Sustainable Development of Small Island States. My
delegation wishes
this
Conference, which is to be held in Barbados next year. We
take this opportunity to call upon the Members of the
Assembly to give full support
to the adoption by the
Conference of a plan of action for
the sustainable
development of small island developing States. This will be
the first test of our readiness and commitment to implement
the decisions taken at the Earth Summit.
Equally, Jamaica fully supports the World Conference
on Population and Development, to be held in Cairo in 1994;
the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in
Copenhagen in 1995; and the Fourth World Conference on
Women, to be held in Beijing in 1995.
It gives me great pleasure to allude to the 1982 law of
the sea Convention, which was signed in Montego Bay,
Jamaica, 11 years ago and has now been ratified by 58
countries.
I expect that before the end of this forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly the sixtieth ratification will
be deposited with the Secretary-General, thus setting the
stage for the Convention’s entry into force. There can be no
question that support for the Convention continues to be
overwhelming. Our ultimate goal must be to achieve
universal participation in a Convention which is designed for
mankind as a whole. It is therefore appropriate that all
the
Convention as soon as possible. As the pace of ratification
intensifies, it could serve as a catalyst for deepening the
process of universalizing the Convention by addressing
creatively the manner
the
Convention are to be implemented on an ongoing,
contemporary basis.
in which the provisions of
We must pay a tribute, as well, to the Secretary-General
and his predecessor for the initiative they took to promote a
dialogue aimed at addressing issues of concern to some
States in order to achieve universal participation in the
Convention. The integrity of the Convention as a whole
must be maintained, and our search for universality must
recognize the overwhelming support for the Convention by
the international community as a whole and the need to
preserve its fundamental aspects. Let us therefore in our
noble quest for universality concentrate on the manner of the
implementation of the Convention in those areas of concern
to some States.
If the United Nations is to play an active and dynamic
role in promoting a new global partnership, it must examine
its capacity and capability. For that reason, my delegation
agrees that the reform processes now under way should aim
the
at maximizing the efficiency and effectiveness of
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
19
ourselves to a new dialogue within the United Nations
system to forge a global partnership for peace, democracy
and economic progress.
Mr. AL-SAHAF (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic):
Allow me to begin by extending to you, Sir, my sincere
congratulations on your election as President of the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I am confident that
your solid diplomatic background and rich experience will
effectively contribute to the success of the work of this
session.
More than ever before, our Organization today needs
cooperation between its Member States if it is to save itself
from attempts to divert
its course from the spirit and
principles of its Charter and thereby turn it into a tool for
serving the selfish interests of certain dominant Powers, first
among which is the United States of America.
The world has attached great importance to the end of
the bipolarity that overshadowed the international situation
Organization. Further, my delegation intends to participate
fully in the work of the open-ended ad hoc working group
which will continue to consider the process of revitalizing
the General Assembly. Other discussions related to the
restructuring of
system must be
transparent and informed by the principles of democracy and
the rules of international
law and by those principles
enshrined in the Charter.
the United Nations
My Government wishes to address the issue of the
Security Council in the context of the increased membership
of the United Nations, which rose to 184 this year. The
surging tide of change over the past five years has seen the
responsibilities of the Security Council increase, with the
establishment of 17 peace-keeping operations and the
Council’s further involvement in conflict resolution through
the good offices of the Secretary-General and the dispatch of
fact-finding missions. The time has therefore obviously
come for a review of the Security Council’s composition to
the increased
ensure that
it
membership of
the
democratic principle on which the United Nations is founded -
that is, the sovereign equality of all States.
the United Nations and reflects
is truly representative of
truly representative
The reform process in which we are now engaged
within the United Nations must clearly include the Security
Council, the body charged with the responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security. A Security
Council which is
and functions
effectively has to be a priority for all of us, because peace
and security,
in the military and political sense, are
interwoven with our economic and social security. We in
the Caribbean cannot, and have no desire to, remain aloof
from this debate. We must ensure that a strengthened
United Nations is placed in a position to play a dominant
role in the elaboration of processes of peace and
development and in their implementation based on genuine
interdependence, global partnership and shared responsibility.
We are gathered here because we all have pressing
national concerns and we believe there remains an enduring
faith in multilateralism, which carries the potential for
stronger, more broadly based development over the longer
term, if only all players agree to reaffirm their commitment
and play fully their roles within the global framework of
cooperation.
There is no doubt that this will be difficult, but shared
objectives, shared commitment and shared responsibilities
will ensure a better world for all mankind. As we
contemplate the challenges posed by the present global,
economic and political environment, we must commit
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
until recently and restricted the ability of the United Nations
to address and resolve international problems. The new era,
however, has failed to provide the United Nations with the
opportunity to apply the principles, objectives
and
mechanisms of the Charter. A single Power - the United
States of America - has sought to control the manner in
which the United Nations addresses international issues and
to steer it in accordance with United States interests.
The selectivity and double standard that characterize the
role currently played by the United Nations make it crystal
clear that the United Nations and the Security Council in
particular have become tools that execute the policies of the
Powers that dominate the Organization. The United Nations
is no longer a world Organization capable of resolving the
problems and addressing the crises which beset many
countries and peoples of the world in a manner that is
consonant with the objectives and principles of its own
Charter.
Mr. Kabir (Bangladesh), Vice-President,
took the
Chair.
What did the Security Council ever do to implement its
resolution 487 (1981), on the military aggression perpetrated
by Israel against an Iraqi nuclear reactor devoted to peaceful
purposes? That resolution was adopted 12 years ago and the
Security Council has done absolutely nothing to implement
it.
Indeed, we have reached the point today at which the
Israeli Deputy Defence Minister, Mordechai Gur, can
arrogantly declare, as he did on 6 June 1993, that Israel does
possess nuclear weapons and that it has the capacity to bomb
the Arab States with those devices. At the same time, Israel
continues to adamantly refuse to sign the non-proliferation
Treaty and the United Nations and the Security Council have
done absolutely nothing to halt the Israeli programmes of
mass destruction weapons, which include the production and
stockpiling of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons
together with the means of their delivery, regardless of the
fact that those programmes constitute a grave threat to the
security and stability of the region and the whole world.
While the United Nations is being forced to engage in
a military operation in Somalia under
the pretext of
providing humanitarian assistance, the United Nations stands
helpless and incapable of taking any appropriate action to
put an end to the carnage or to alleviate the bitter human
suffering in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other parts of
former Yugoslavia. This paralysis takes place against the
backdrop of the shifting tides of the positions of the
dominant Powers in line with their own selfish interests and
schemes and their backing away from any measure that
would help in reaching a solution or put an end to this
tragedy.
Because of the climate prevailing in the international
community - a climate of selectivity and double standards -
the gap between North and South continues to widen at the
expense of the interests of the developing countries and Iraq
finds itself in a situation that has never been witnessed
before by any other founding State Member of the United
Nations.
This is due to the complications and unfair
treatment meted to Iraq by the resolutions of the Security
Council under pressure exerted by the United States of
America and its hegemonistic policies towards others.
of
the
interpretation
The most telling example of the hegemony exercised by
the United States of America over the United Nations and of
United States monopoly
and
implementation of the provisions of the Charter, and use of
the mechanisms related thereto in the service of purely
American rather than common international interests, is what
has been done and continues to be done to Iraq at a time
when it has declared its commitment to the resolutions of the
Security Council which it fully implements. In return, Iraq
continues to be subjected to acts of aggression which
threaten its security and territorial integrity and infringe upon
its sovereignty.
Iraq also remains deprived of its natural right to obtain
its needs, including those described in international legal
terms as basic human and civilian needs. Those needs are
essential for the people of Iraq if they are to continue to lead
a normal life.
Iraq also remains deprived of the right to
export its natural resources while its assets remain frozen.
Iraq continues to be denied the right to use its civil aircraft
and ships and continues to be subjected to flagrant military
intervention in its internal affairs, to daily acts of violation
of
its airspace, and to the perpetration of a declared
conspiracy against its political system.
Iraq has endeavoured, despite all
these adverse
circumstances and difficulties, to contain the crises which
certain powers have so skilfully orchestrated in order to
perpetrate further aggression against Iraq and create pretexts
for continuing to impose the iniquitous comprehensive
blockade against it. Within the framework of Iraq’s serious,
continuous attempts to reveal the truth, close the door on the
forces of ill-intent and expose their objectives, and driven by
its desire to find solutions to the outstanding issues through
a serious responsible dialogue based on justice and fairness
and consistent with international law and the United Nations
Charter, Iraq has called, in a letter dated 30 May 1993 from
the Foreign Minister of Iraq to the President of the Security
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
21
Council, for constructive and comprehensive dialogue with
the Security Council within the framework of the legal and
practical interrelationship between Iraq’s implementation of
its obligations and the text of resolution 687 (1991) on the
one hand, and the Security Council’s implementation of its
own obligations towards Iraq according to the provisions of
the said resolution, particularly paragraphs 21 and 22, on the
other.
Iraq calls for the Security Council to adopt fair and just
positions which would reflect the Council’s respect for its
own obligations and commitments as enshrined in the United
Nations Charter, and thereby to respect the sovereignty,
independence, internal security and territorial integrity of
Iraq, lift the unjust blockade that has been imposed upon the
people of Iraq for three years now, and which has inflicted,
and continues to inflict, untold suffering upon them and to
lift all
imposed without
justification on normal, legitimate Iraqi activities.
the restrictions that are still
Iraq has cooperated objectively with all the inspection
teams and missions dispatched by the United Nations, in
order to fulfil its obligations according to the resolutions of
the Security Council, regardless of how unjust and indeed
how extremely iniquitous those resolutions are. In fact many
of the officials of those teams and missions have confirmed
that Iraq has honoured its obligations in implementation of
the Security Council resolutions.
by
May I refer here, by way of example, to the statement
made
the United Nations Special Commission
(UNSCOM) Executive Chairman, Mr. Rolf Ekeus, on
13 January 1993, in which he said, "Iraq’s compliance has
been a success so far, and it would be tragic if the last 5 per
cent of implementation could not to be carried out." Earlier,
on 2 September 1992, Mr. Maurizio Zifferero, the head of
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspection
team, said, "Iraq’s nuclear programme stands at zero now."
Convinced that Iraq has met all its obligations under
resolution 687 (1991), we called upon the Security Council,
both as a collective body and as individual Member States,
just as we had long been calling upon the Special
Commission, to conduct a technical, professional and legal
dialogue with Iraq in order to specify the extent to which
resolution 687 (1991) in general, and section C thereof in
particular, have been implemented, so that the Council may
consider
the
resolution, which pertain to the lifting of the economic
sanctions imposed on Iraq. The dialogue proposed by Iraq
was also meant to strip away all the pretexts that have
continued to be used to mask the illegal and aggressive
implementing paragraphs 21 and 22 of
measures unilaterally taken by certain individual States
against Iraq and its territorial integrity. The most flagrant of
those measures are the so-called "no-fly zones" imposed on
northern and southern Iraq and the military acts of
aggression perpetrated by the United States against Iraq on
17 January 1993 and 27 June 1993.
When the Security Council responded, in July 1993, to
our call for dialogue and sent the Executive Chairman of the
Special Commission to Baghdad to conduct talks with the
Iraqi side, we welcomed the visit and held intensive, frank
and constructive discussions with Mr. Ekeus, through which
we reached an agreement to resolve a number of issues and
to continue our dialogue in earnest on grounds that are just,
fair, logical and consistent with international law and the
United Nations Charter.
and
progress;
to
towards
technological
We presented to Mr. Ekeus, and through him to the
Security Council, a position paper clearly expressing the way
in which Iraq envisages the relationship between Iraq’s
responsibilities
the Security Council and its
resolutions, on the one hand, and the responsibilities of the
Security Council, both as a body and as Member States,
towards Iraq’s firm rights and legitimate demands, foremost
among which are the following:
to respect the sovereignty,
internal security and dignity of the people and State of Iraq;
to guarantee Iraq’s right to development and to industrial,
scientific
implement
paragraph 22 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991),
pertaining to the lifting of the embargo on Iraq now that Iraq
has accomplished what is required of it under the provisions
of section C of that resolution; to work in earnest towards
the implementation of paragraph 14 of resolution 687 (1991),
pertaining to the establishment in the Middle East of a zone
free of weapons of mass destruction and the means of their
delivery and to bring to an immediate end the so-called
"no-fly zones" imposed on northern and southern Iraq, which
constitute an illegal use of armed force by three permanent
member States of the Security Council, aimed at interfering
in the internal affairs of a Member State of the United
Nations.
Iraq reiterated its positive positions and its desire for
dialogue during the meetings held last month here in New
York by the Iraqi high-level technical delegation. We have
also endeavoured to ensure that this positive spirit prevails
in the current round of meetings which started in Baghdad
on 2 October 1993. We look forward to seeing this round
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
succeed in solving all outstanding issues in a complete and
final manner so that the Security Council may begin in
earnest to implement paragraph 22 of resolution 687 (1991)
which states that the Security Council:
"Decides that upon the approval by the Security
Council of the programme called for in paragraph 19
above and upon Council agreement
that Iraq has
completed all actions contemplated in paragraphs 8, 9,
10, 11, 12 and 13 above, the prohibitions against the
import of commodities and products originating in Iraq
and the prohibitions against
transactions
related thereto contained in resolution 661 (1990) shall
have no further force or effect".
financial
In view of these developments, and in order for the
principles of justice and equity and of the mutuality of rights
and obligations between Iraq and the Security Council to
prevail, we hereby call upon all countries of the world to
support our initiative for dialogue and understanding between
the Council and Iraq so that such dialogue may lead without
delay to the lifting of the unjust and iniquitous blockade
imposed on our country, and thereby to put an end to the
methods of coercion,
threats and aggression being used
against our country.
We also call upon the countries of the world to urge the
Security Council, both as a collective body and as individual
Member States, to consider Iraq’s legitimate demands as
expressed in the Iraqi position paper submitted to the
Security Council in July 1993. The paper deals with the
most
Iraq’s
sovereignty, internal security and territorial integrity, the
lifting of the iniquitous blockade, the removal of the "no-fly
zones" illegally imposed on parts of Iraq and abstaining from
any further aggression against Iraq.
especially respect
important
issues,
for
The people of Iraq are being subjected to inhumane
policies and practices that have further aggravated their
suffering which increases from one day to the next. The
domination by the United States and its allies over the
activities of the Sanctions Committee, which was set up in
accordance with Security Council resolution 661 (1990), has
made that Committee hostage to premeditated political
objectives and ill intentions against Iraq and its people. The
Committee has ignored the basic civilian and human needs
of the Iraqi people to the extent that it has refused to allow
Iraq to obtain much needed medical supplies as well as
equipment and educational supplies for its schools. The
Committee has gone as far as to consider paint for school
desks and blackboards as well as ink as proscribed materials
that the Iraqi people should not be permitted to obtain.
In refusing to grant the permission to obtain any of
those essential civilian requirements, it resorts to flimsy
pretexts and unacceptable justifications. For instance, the
Committee has refused to allow pencils and notebooks to be
supplied to Iraq’s schoolchildren, claiming that the quantity
requested was too large. The Committee has also rejected
a request for the supply of medical equipment, beds and
air-conditioning systems for Iraqi hospitals. The reason
given for that refusal was that the end user was not known.
What irony! The Sanctions Committee has refused to allow
water purification materials to be supplied to Iraq, rejected
a request submitted by a company for the reconstruction of
a factory producing medical syringes in Iraq and refused to
allow the importation of spare parts for a baby-food factory
in Iraq under the pretext
that such spare parts would
contribute to the expansion of the country’s industrial
capability.
The practices of a limited number of Member States in
the Sanctions Committee which seems to have inherited the
veto privilege under the cover of general consensus, have
demonstrated beyond all doubt that the embargo is geared
towards
premeditated
persistence and through organized and calculated efforts
driven by political motives that are contrary to all values,
laws and norms acceptable to the international community
now or in the past.
society with
destroying
Iraqi
The war of destruction launched against Iraq by the
United States and its allies, the continued imposition of the
comprehensive blockade and the denial of Iraq’s right to
export its oil and use its frozen assets in foreign banks have
all combined to make Iraq unable to provide even the most
elementary of its people’s basic humanitarian needs, such as
food and medication. The result has been a huge increase in
mortality among children and the elderly, due to the grave
shortage of medicines. On top of all its other difficulties in
various fields, Iraq suffers from, for example, an acute
shortage of medicines for the treatment of cancer, kidney
problems, heart disease, diabetes, blood pressure disorders,
eye diseases, diarrhoea,
tuberculosis and other serious
diseases. Over the months that have elapsed in 1993,
tuberculosis-related fatalities among children have risen by
81 times over the figure registered for the corresponding
period in 1989; and this is but one example.
I do not wish to elaborate on the difficult humanitarian
conditions of the Iraqi people. The reports by the various
missions and agencies of the United Nations have warned
against the dangerous results of the deteriorating food and
health situation brought upon the Iraqi people as a result of
the blockade.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
23
recent of
The most
those reports
is Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) document 237, issued in
July 1993 under the title "Special Warning". This document
depicts the deterioration of Iraq’s food situation as a result
of the difficulties facing the agricultural sector because of
acute shortages of equipment and pesticides and the spread
of agricultural epidemics. The FAO report also points out
that the economic sanctions imposed upon Iraq have led to
the spread of deprivation on a massive scale, thus exposing
the vast majority of the Iraqi population to acute food
shortages and malnutrition, particularly children under five
years of age. The report also states that the economic
blockade has practically paralysed the country’s economy
and led to continued deprivation and the spread of massive
human suffering.
the Iraqi people,
Not content with its military aggression against Iraq on
17 January 1991 or with all the inhuman practices it has
pursued against
the United States of
America has continued to perpetuate direct and unilateral
acts of military aggression against Iraq under various false
pretexts and flimsy justifications.
In addition to the first
colossal aggression of 1991, the United States perpetrated
two further acts of aggression against
Iraq’s civilian
population and civilian installations on 17 January 1993 and
27 June 1993. These two additional acts of aggression
resulted in the loss of many innocent civilian lives among
children, women and elderly people.
force in resolving disputes, yet
As a permanent member of the Security Council, the
United States of America has a double responsibility to
abide by international law and the United Nations Charter.
The United States should be the last country to resort to the
use of
it perpetrated
aggression against Iraq on the basis of unfounded and absurd
allegations that there was a conspiracy against the life of the
former United States President.
In so doing, the United
justified its action by a twisted
States Government
interpretation of Article 51 of the United Nations Charter
that was totally alien to that article’s letter and spirit.
This behaviour constitutes a grave escalation of a policy
that has been and will certainly continue to be a threat to
international peace and security, a policy that violates the
right of States to self-defence, as enshrined in the Charter of
the United Nations. The behaviour of the United States, in
particular its aggression of 27 June 1993, has met with
rejection and condemnation from many countries round the
world, including some allies of the United States itself.
As regards the issue of human rights, Iraq proceeds
from a complete belief in those rights and in the fact that
respect for, and protection of, human rights remains an
unquestionable element upon which the internal structure of
society is established and an element
that contributes
positively to the establishment of peace and justice at the
international level. It is on the basis of such conviction and
Iraq has acceded to many
such understanding that
Iraq has also
international covenants on human rights.
honoured its obligations by submitting regular
reports
regarding the situation of human rights. While we realize
that many positive developments have taken place in the
field of human rights, reflecting the widespread recognition
of their importance, a recognition further cemented by legal
provisions in the various international covenants,
these
developments have not been accompanied, in terms of real
application, by an earnest endeavour to help create the right
climate for the declared legal provisions to be implemented
in accordance with the greatly varying circumstances
prevailing in various States, according to each one’s cultural
background, religious beliefs and level of progress and
development. On the contrary:
it can be seen that the
concept of human rights has become a weapon used by
certain States possessing the means of influence with which
to exert discriminatory pressure on other States for selfish
the
political objectives and interests
than for
realization of common objectives and interests of
the
international community. What is particularly worrying to
us is the neglect shown towards basic rights upheld by the
international community and declared as governing principles
such as
to
their
development,
sovereignty, stability and territorial
integrity as well as
non-interference in their internal affairs.
the right of States to respect
to self-determination,
the right
rather
the right
for
The great challenges facing the United Nations put the
Organization at a decisive crossroads, beyond which we shall
see the will of the international community either totally
paralysed under the influence of dominant Powers, or
searching for an outlet through an endeavour to restore
balance to the mechanisms governing the process of
decision-making and decision-implementation in the various
United Nations agencies, with a view to ensuring the
effectiveness of the Organization and guaranteeing its ability
to resolve international problems in accordance with rules of
fairness, justice and international law, as well as ensuring the
revitalization of the role of the United Nations on the basis
of compatible and unified concepts and criteria and away
from double standards.
The enhancement of the United Nations ability to
maintain peace requires, above all, strict adherence to the
objectives and principles of the Charter, particularly the
principles of the sovereign equality of States, the right of
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to non-interference in the
peoples to self-determination,
internal affairs of States and to observance of the rules of
international law.
Iraq, as a founding Member of the United Nations, is
extremely anxious that the Organization’s name and emblem
remain worthy of respect and continue to be regarded as a
beacon of hope by all peoples of the world. We believe that
membership in the Security Council should go hand in hand
with the new realities brought about by the increased
membership of the United Nations, and that this should be
done in a manner that would bring about a more equitable
and balanced representation of all United Nations Member
States. The Council should abide by the principles of clarity
and openness in its decision-making process; it should also
operate with due regard to respect for the sovereign rights of
all States.
My country supports the thesis put
forth by the
Secretary-General
in his report "An Agenda for Peace"
regarding the importance of the role assigned to the General
Assembly by the United Nations Charter, especially in the
field of the maintenance of international peace and security.
The achievement of the United Nations objectives
requires that
the mechanisms of the General Assembly
should be strengthened within the framework of its spheres
of competence stipulated by the Charter and that this should
be done through discussion and the adoption of resolutions
on subjects of international importance.
The strength and vitality of the United Nations are
closely linked to the extent of participation by its Member
States in the process of decision-making and to their
equitable representation in the various specialized organs and
agencies.
The United Nations Secretary-General, in his report
"An Agenda for Peace", highlights the fundamental fact that
social peace is just as important as strategic and political
peace. He stresses that peace cannot be guaranteed within
the framework of narrow military concept, as there are
several economic and environmental factors that play their
part in the maintenance of peace and that those factors can
themselves become the fuel for the eruption of conflicts and
wars between peoples.
The need to maintain international peace and security
puts the United Nations face to face with the responsibility
of removing the causes of conflict in which economic factors
play the vital role.
If it is said today that the world has put the dangers of
the cold war behind it, we must remind ourselves that our
world faces very real dangers that arise from the grave
deterioration in the world economic situation, particularly the
bitter suffering of the developing countries, their increasing
poverty
development
and
programmes.
frustration
the
of
their
The gap has been growing wider and wider between the
rich industrial North and the poor South which is seeking an
opportunity for survival as it witnesses the prices of its basic
commodities tumble, its foreign trade deteriorate, and its
resources become prey to plunder and extortion.
Peace is a concept that cannot be divided.
It is a
fundamental right for mankind, recognized by all religions
as well as by international covenants. That
indivisible
concept of peace must combine all dimensions, especially
the economic which, if missing, exposes the international
community to grave problems and dangerous conflicts.
To really guarantee international peace and security, we
must realize that this depends on the extent to which the
inherent causes of conflict are removed and that economic
and social development constitute the most
important
foundation upon which to establish international peace and
security.
Once we realize this, we shall find that many of the
causes of instability arise from economic and social factors.
The United Nations should address such factors in all
seriousness and should give them priority in the activities of
its various organs, particularly the General Assembly and its
specialized agencies, in a manner that would heighten the
efficacy of the United Nations and the role it plays in
facilitating cooperation between States in the fields of
economic and social development and in other areas of
international cooperation.
This responsibility should be shouldered by the United
Nations on the basis of the principles enshrined in its
Charter for the enhancement of the factors of economic
development and progress and the
establishment of
multilateral non-discriminatory international economic order
which would be based on respect for the choices made by
countries and peoples and which would encourage respect
for mutual interests and put an end to exploitation and
hegemony.
The United Nations should focus its efforts on the
search for
formulae that would lead to
consolidating the national infrastructures and enhancing the
the practical
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
25
their
capabilities of the poorer and developing countries and help
them overcome
their
development programmes and narrow the huge gap existing
at present between the rich industrial countries and the
developing countries. Such an effort will no doubt serve the
cause of stability, security and peace in the world.
difficulties,
implement
Please allow me first of all
Insanally of Guyana on behalf of
Mr. OULD MOINE (Mauritania) (interpretation from
to extend to
Arabic):
Ambassador
the
Mauritanian delegation its most sincere congratulations on
his unanimous election to the presidency of this forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly.
I am convinced that his
experience and his comprehensive knowledge of
the
workings of the Organization, together with his personal
qualities, will be the best possible guarantee for the success
of this session and the completion of its work with the
results we all hope for.
It
is also a pleasure for me to congratulate his
predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, Minister of Foreign Affairs
of Bulgaria, on the exemplary manner in which he conducted
the work of the preceding session.
It is also a pleasure for me to reiterate to my brother,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our confidence and great respect
for the efforts he has constantly deployed since he assumed
the duties of Secretary-General of the United Nations, to
consolidate the universal reputation of the Organization and
to strengthen its credibility and capacity to act.
the Organization
I should also like to take this opportunity to welcome
the States which have recently acceded to the membership
of
them the
congratulations of the Mauritanian delegation. We are
convinced that their presence in our midst will consolidate
the Organization’s effectiveness in the interest of all its
members.
extend
and
to
to
The past year has not witnessed any tangible
improvement in the international economic situation. A
combination of negative factors such as natural disasters and
the deterioration of commodity prices continues to widen the
gap between developing countries and the industrialized
countries, hence the failure of efforts made by the former to
emerge from the sphere of underdevelopment and poverty.
This situation has continued to deteriorate because of the
crisis provoked by the growing increase of the debt burden,
which is a threat not only to the economic and social
development of developing countries but also to their very
It is now an acknowledged fact that Africa is the
survival.
continent which suffers most
from the deteriorating
international economic situation, in particular because of its
tremendous debt burden. How could one really believe that
countries which have barely enough resources to meet their
own daily needs and the needs of their people might be able
to cope with such obligations?
time for the
international community, and the industrialized countries in
particular, to give thought to the gravity of such a situation
and to consider the possibility of participating more actively
in the quest for realistic and effective solutions to this very
complex and important problem? In this context, I use the
terms "realistic" and "effective" advisedly, because it is these
two attributes which have been lacking in all the attempts
made in this field to date.
Is it not
As for the economic and development situation in
general, for all the conventions, strategies and agreements
aimed at promoting development, that situation has remained
static and in many countries it has actually deteriorated.
Tangible progress could have been achieved in terms of real
development for these countries in general and for the
African countries in particular if the industrialized countries
had honoured the commitments they made in certain
documents - commitments such as the allocation of 0.7 per
cent of
income to official development
assistance and if those countries had implemented the
programme adopted at the Paris 1990 Conference.
their national
In this
struggle for
the development of Africa,
Mauritania remains convinced that the more the sources of
external aid dry up, the greater the need will be for self-
reliance and the mobilization by every country of its own
resources. That is the reason why, despite the adverse
international
climatic
to meet our basic
conditions, we have been able
commitments to our partners in development, whether they
be States or institutions.
situation and the unfavourable
In 1992, our country achieved a 2.5 per cent rate of
growth.
It financed from its own resources 20 per cent of
its investment budget, which amounted to 17.5 billion
ouguiyas. Here I should like to express, in the most solemn
possible way and in the name of the Government and people
of Mauritania, our thanks and our gratitude to fraternal and
friendly States and organizations for
the considerable
assistance they gave us.
It
that
is clear
there is an organic link between
development, on the one hand, and democracy and respect
for human rights, on the other. Indeed, what value could be
attached to prosperity and economic progress if we do not
uphold human rights and safeguard freedoms? What
objective for any responsible Government could be more
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
noble than having its people participate in an effective way
in the management of their own affairs and the mastering of
their own destiny? In contrast to the situation we have just
seen which prevails in the economic sphere, the past year
has seen a tangible improvement and an increased interest in
the field of upholding and respecting human rights. That
improvement and that heightened interest were made evident
in the holding of the World Conference on Human Rights in
Vienna, at which our country was represented by a large
high-level delegation headed by our Prime Minister. That
high-level representation reflected the great importance our
Government attaches to the question of human rights and
demonstrated its unshakable faith in the need to formulate a
universal concept of human rights applicable to all without
any discrimination.
the
implementation of the important results of this Conference
will strengthen the progress of peoples towards prosperity
and stability.
There can be no doubt
that
The importance Mauritania attaches to the events on the
international scene regarding human rights bespeaks the
commitment of our Government to bring our country out of
the emergency rule situation that used to prevail
in
Mauritania as well as in many other countries. To that end,
our Government set for itself, as a priority, the guaranteeing
of fundamental civil rights and the effective involvement of
its people in the management of their affairs and in the
economic and social development policies of the country. In
that respect, I am proud to be able to declare here that there
is not a single political prisoner in our country.
fundamental
freedoms set
The democratic process started with the organization of
municipal elections, which were a sort of school
for
democracy within the context of which citizens exercised
their freedom of expression, freedom of speech, the virtue of
tolerance and freedom of choice. These stages resulted in
the adoption on 12 July 1991 of a constitution which
guaranteed all
forth in the
universal declarations and conventions on human rights. The
constitution guarantees a clear separation of the executive,
legislative and judicial powers. These various institutions
were set up and are currently operating in their respective
spheres of competence within the context of political
pluralism and the freedom of speech envisaged in the
constitution - for the first time in the history of our country.
Seventeen political parties have been set up, and more than
100 newspapers and magazines have been authorized to be
published in complete freedom.
Given our awareness of the need to consolidate this
genuine democracy and to ensure respect for freedoms and
rights of all social groups, a law guaranteeing trade union
and social problems.
pluralism that protects, in a clear-cut manner, all the rights
of Mauritanian workers was enacted in order to protect the
rights of citizens in the face of administrative red tape, and
an independent ombudsman, with the rank of Minister has
been appointed to investigate complaints
relating to
administrative
To deal with
administrative problems and to complete the election of
institutions as set forth in the constitution, the President of
the Republic issued a decree which brought forward the date
of municipal elections.
In the field of social affairs, the
Government, which has always attached special importance
to literacy and to the promotion of the status of women as
well as to women’s involvement in national development
policies, created a department for each of these sectors.
His Excellency the President of the Republic has shown
on more than one occasion the interest he attaches to youth
and children as an essential asset whose role is absolutely
indispensable for the present and future of our nation.
In the health sector, the choice we have opted for,
namely health for all has been based on three essential
first, a continuation of the hygienic efforts and
points:
preventive
secondly,
development of specialized medical services; and thirdly,
making available to citizens essential medicines at reasonable
prices.
in their various
aspects;
care
The satisfaction we feel at the progress achieved in the
field of consolidating democracy and respect for human
rights in our country and for our people is equalled only by
our feeling of concern at the violations to which those same
rights are subjected in other countries and against
the
interests of the peoples in other regions of the world. This
situation is a threat to peace and harmony in the entire
world.
Does it stand to reason that the lives, property and holy
place of religions of peoples could continue to be trampled
and desecrated at the very heart of a continent such as
Europe with its age-old traditions of democracy and respect
for human rights? The atrocities of torture, mass murders
and ethnic liquidation are all crimes which the Serbs in
particular have been perpetrating daily in full view of and
with the full knowledge of the entire world, against the
Muslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This naked defiance
of the entire international community, requires that
the
community as a whole should assume its full responsibilities
and act accordingly. In view of this situation, we call once
again for pressure to be brought to bear by all legal means
on the Serbs and Croats so that they may comply with the
will of the international community.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
27
the
Palestine
representative,
Mauritania has always set as a priority the question of
Palestine.
It reiterates its constant support for the fraternal
Palestinian people under the leadership of its sole and
legitimate
Liberation
It is in that spirit that Mauritania
Organization (PLO).
welcomed the agreement concluded between the PLO and
Israel, because we believe it is an important step which will
lead, we hope, to a comprehensive solution to the Middle
East problem that would enable the Palestinian people to
regain all their legitimate rights, including the right to self-
determination, and guarantee the withdrawal of Israel from
all the occupied Arab territories, including the Holy City of
Al Quds. It should also make it possible for all resolutions
adopted by the Security Council relating to this problem to
be implemented, and it should create conditions conducive
to peaceful coexistence between all peoples of the region.
My country, which has the honour of presiding over the
present session of the League of Arab States, would like to
reaffirm here that Arabs have never been warmongers. To
the contrary,
they have always been a nation oriented
towards peace, and working for peace. Now today, the
Arabs, and the Palestinians in particular, have demonstrated
that for peace they are capable of going beyond hatred, the
pain, the wounds of the past and the many, many sufferings
to which they were subjected during the Middle East
conflict. Could they have made such sacrifices for peace if
that were not the foundation, the very foundation of their
civilization, and one of their primordial values? Could they
have done so if peace were not a way of life and an end in
itself in their traditions? Does not "peace" in their language
mean life? Those whose salutation means "peace" and
whose prayer ends with peace; those who, when they are
transgressed against, react by calling for peace; a people
bearing such values surely deserves the support of the
Organization in bringing about a just and comprehensive
peace after which they aspire.
is the duty of the
international community as a whole to respond positively to
this just aspiration for the recovery of legitimate rights.
It
the world,
In this part of
the Middle East,
the
consequences of the Gulf war are still there to see in every
country of the region. Mauritania, which has always
affirmed and continues
to
international legality and which expressed total rejection of
any violation of the independence of the sister country,
Kuwait and the safety of its citizens, rejects any violation of
the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. We appeal to the
international community to alleviate the suffering of the
children and women of Iraq.
to affirm its commitment
Because of
the moderation,
the sagacity and the
objectivity which have always characterized the postures of
the United Arab Emirates, and also because of the legitimate
position of this country with respect to Abu Musa, Greater
Tunb and Lesser Tunb Islands which belong to it, Mauritania
supports the position of the United Arab Emirates. We hope
that Iran, the sister Muslim country and neighbour, will
respond favourably to the legitimate claims of the State of
the United Arab Emirates.
The Middle East is not the only Arab region which
suffers from tension.
In the Arab Maghreb, despite
sustained efforts which have been made for almost five years
now, aimed at
laying the foundations of a promising
regrouping which would promise prosperity for the peoples
of the region, as we have seen in the practical and important
results reached at
the summit of Nouakchott held in
November 1992, two problems continue to be of concern to
our leaders and our people. The first problem is the
In that respect, the United
question of Western Sahara.
Nations continues to make efforts to smooth out
the
difficulties, which have heretofore made it impossible to
reach a solution. While expressing our hope that these
difficulties will soon be ironed out, we will continue our
efforts together with the United Nations and the parties
involved to reach a just and lasting solution. That solution
would, no doubt, be an important stage towards the building
of an Arab Maghreb, and a factor of stability and
development in the region.
The second problem is the blockade imposed on the
fraternal people of Libya, which is detrimental to the other
Maghreb peoples as well.
In view of the willingness
expressed by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to cooperate with
the United Nations and the parties concerned, we should like
to express our hope that the resolution on the blockade will
soon be revised, and that this question will be dealt with
through dialogue and understanding.
As for the southern part of the African continent, we
should like to record our satisfaction at the new signs of the
disappearance of the last bastion of racial segregation, and
this is a good occasion to pay tribute to the wisdom and
farsightedness of President Nelson Mandela for the path he
has followed in dealing with this question. We express here
our hope that
the measures adopted will be fully
implemented so that a democratic non-racial regime could be
set up so that it may guarantee the rights of all citizens of
this sister African country.
In Somalia, a brother people continues to suffer the ill
If operation
effects of internal divisions, war and famine.
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
"Restore hope", begun last December, resulted in a certain
amount of progress in humanitarian terms, unfortunately, its
political outcome has not been satisfactory to all concerned.
We hope that the international community will step up its
efforts to achieve the objective initially defined for that
operation. We also appeal
to our Somali brethren to
overcome their factional differences and quarrels so that the
Somali nation may survive.
Turning to the question of Angola, we hope that our
Angolan people will
listen to the voice of reason and
cooperate with the United Nations Representative with a
view to ending this fratricidal war, which serves the interests
of none of the parties.
With regard to Liberia, we note with satisfaction the
peace agreement that was signed on 25 July 1993, under the
auspices of the Economic Community of West African
States. We have every hope that the opposing sides will
implement that agreement and put an end to this destructive
war, which has been devastating the country for several
years.
In Rwanda, there are new prospects for peace and
stability as a result of
in Arusha, on
4 August 1993, of a peace agreement between the parties to
the conflict. We can only applaud this positive step while
expressing the hope that it will mark the beginning of a new
era for the people of Rwanda.
the signing,
It is encouraging that Mozambique has returned to a
state of normalcy following the signing, on 4 October 1992,
of an agreement that made possible the initiation of United
Nations operations there. At the political level, President
Joaquim Chissano and the leader of RENAMO met on 23
August 1993, thus confirming their determination to put an
end to the instability that their country has been experiencing
for several decades.
In Asia, the Cambodian people has achieved a major
victory with the holding of the recent elections. All
Cambodians, under the leadership of His Majesty King
Norodom Sihanouk, must now consolidate that achievement
so that harmony may prevail and national reconstruction
begin. There is no doubt that the United Nations and the
international community will stand by the Cambodians, as
they have done in the past.
The United Nations, which has an indispensable role to
perform in the maintenance of international peace and
security, deserves our
The
Organization’s universal character, which is today given
support and help.
full
expression in the membership of 184 independent States,
requires, more than ever, a revision of its structures and its
methods of operation - in particular, through enlargement of
the Security Council.
In that context, we should like to pay tribute to the
Secretary-General for his report "An Agenda for Peace", the
study and implementation of certain aspects of which has
already begun.
In this respect, I am very pleased to
underscore the fact that at its last meeting, which was held
the League of Arab States
in Cairo,
recommended the
cooperation and
coordination between the United Nations and the League.
strengthening of
the Council of
In two years’ time the United Nations will celebrate the
fiftieth anniversary of its founding. My country has the
honour of being involved in the bureau of the Preparatory
Committee for that event, which, we feel, will be a real and
important watershed in the life of the Organization, as well
as an opportunity for its Members to assess the progress that
the international community has made towards achieving the
noble objectives that were set for the Organization when it
was established in 1945. Let us ensure that that assessment
will be positive. Let us do so by redoubling our efforts to
establish justice and peace and to promote the cause of man
- the means and the end of all social- and economic-
development operations. For its part, the Islamic Republic
of Mauritania will continue to move forward in this
direction, in accordance with its unfailing determination to
achieve development - development for man and by man.
Mr. Ssemogerere (Uganda):
I wish, on behalf of the
Uganda delegation, to join those representatives who have
already congratulated Mr. Insanally of Guyana on his well-
deserved election to the presidency of the United Nations
General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His election to
this high office is a tribute to his personal qualities and also
an honour to Guyana, with which Uganda enjoys warm and
friendly relations. Given his wide experience, and especially
his intimate knowledge of
I am
confident that he will successfully guide its deliberations
during the session. In this effort, he can count on Uganda’s
cooperation and support.
the United Nations,
I wish also to express the appreciation of my delegation
to Mr.
Insanally’s predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of
Bulgaria, who presided with distinction at the forty-seventh
session.
Our appreciation goes, equally, to the distinguished
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has
provided dynamic and courageous
leadership to our
Organization. He has come to grips with one of the biggest
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
29
to the international community - conflict
challenges
resolution - and his incisive reports are an inspiration to us
all.
It is with happiness that, on behalf of the people and
Government of Uganda, I express a warm welcome to the
Czech Republic, Slovakia, Eritrea, the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and Andorra as new
Members of the United Nations. We look forward to
working closely with them in our common efforts to fulfil
the objectives and achieve the goals of the Organization.
Allow me to convey to the people and Government of
India Uganda’s profound sympathy and solidarity following
the tragic earthquake that struck that country last week,
causing enormous destruction and massive loss of life.
The ideological
The dramatic end of the cold war created a wave of
optimism.
rivalry and the attendant
confrontation between the major Powers yielded to
understanding and cooperation, and the nightmare of the
nuclear annihilation of the world receded - even if, in our
minds, it was not totally eliminated. We believe that we are
witnessing the dawn of a new era that promises the
beginning of a new order based on peace, justice and equity
- as envisaged in the United Nations Charter - both within
and between nations. Whether we can succeed in attaining
that lofty goal is one of the challenges of our time.
Mr. Khan (Pakistan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the last
However,
the events of
few years have
tempered this sense of optimism. We see contradictory
developments - some positive and others negative. On the
one hand, there are positive developments in disarmament,
the resolution of conflicts, and the emergence of democratic
governance in many countries. But, on the other hand, we
have witnessed the dangers of ethnic and religious
intolerance, which have generated centrifugal forces in many
parts of the world, often with debilitating tolls in human life,
suffering and the destruction of property. I wish to caution
against the danger of making purely ethnic and religious
considerations the basis for forging a modern State. The
challenge is to find democratic solutions for peaceful and
equitable coexistence in a heterogeneous society.
The divide between North and South,
reflecting
affluence on the one hand and widespread poverty and
deprivation on the other, is widening. The same division
between the haves and the have-nots is reflected within
the deterioration of economic
many nations.
conditions
if not adequately
in developing countries,
Clearly,
The
and security.
such developments will pose a danger
In the
addressed, can only lead to despair and frustration.
to
long run,
international peace
international
community should keep at the top of its agenda the urgent
task of ensuring that the positive changes ushered in by the
demise of the cold war equitably benefit all mankind. It is
incumbent upon us to encourage and promote the positive
trends while endeavouring to eliminate or minimize the
negative aspects. Marginalization of developing countries
cannot be in the interest of a better world. We should
muster the will to face the political, economic, ecological
and social challenges that stand in the way of
the
emancipation of the developing countries.
At
the last session of
the General Assembly the
Secretary-General showed the way forward in his "An
Agenda for Peace", when he outlined his views on how the
United Nations should carry out its task of maintaining
international peace and security. He underscored the need
for an early warning system for crisis situations and the need
for timely preventive action, and he suggested peace-building
measures that need to be taken. Uganda supported, and
continues to support, the Secretary-General’s endeavour in
this area.
In our view, a critical pillar of conflict resolution, both
at the international and the regional level, is the political will
of the parties to the conflict and a commitment on their part
to translate that will into practical actions. Where that will
and commitment exist, solutions have been forthcoming,
even to what were perceived as intractable problems.
Another critical element in this regard is the capacity to
enforce solutions where agreements exist. When a group’s
major consideration is military victory, contrary to the
agreements reached, this may call for legitimate international
intervention.
I have in mind, for example, a number of
agreements brokered between the parties by regional
organizations or the United Nations which have then been
deliberately scuttled for no legitimate reason. The situations
in Yugoslavia, Somalia, Liberia and Angola are vivid
reminders of the need for such a capacity.
It is untenable
that the international community should fail to act while
senseless loss of life is perpetuated or chaos obtains in a
country, as was the case in Somalia and Liberia. As many
speakers have stated, sovereignty should not be used to hold
a population hostage. A capacity to intervene in such
situations should be in place. This is the question that we
should ponder in the course of our deliberations, with a view
to establishing parameters for such eventualities.
30
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In our continent, Africa, the contradictory positive and
negative trends have also manifested themselves, both in the
political arena and the economic sphere. In southern Africa,
we are on the verge of achieving the goal the international
community has always sought, namely, dismantling apartheid
and putting in place a democratic and non-racial Government
in South Africa. Here we have an example of political will
and determination, and the capacity to translate that will into
reality.
Uganda welcomes the progress made in South Africa
and the decision to establish the Transitional Executive
Council (TEC), the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC)
and the Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA). These
are vital steps that should pave the way for free and fair
elections next April, which should lead to the establishment
of a transitional Government based on universal adult
suffrage. We salute Mr. Nelson Mandela and other leaders
of the liberation movements and President de Klerk for their
vision and statesmanship, which have made this progress
possible.
the Organization of African Unity (OAU),
With regard to the call to lift sanctions against South
Africa in response to this progress, Uganda’s approach has
always been guided by the position of the people of South
Africa,
the
Commonwealth and the United Nations. We are therefore
supportive of the statement adopted on 29 September in New
York by the OAU Ad Hoc Committee on Southern Africa,
which recommends the lifting of all economic sanctions,
with the exception of those relating to the arms embargo and
nuclear matters, as recognition of the progress made thus far.
We also agree with the Ad Hoc Committee’s call for
vigilance until
is
established and for the establishment of full diplomatic
relations following the installation of an elected interim
Government of national unity.
the Transitional Executive Council
As regards Mozambique, Uganda welcomed the signing
of a peace accord between the Government of Mozambique
and RENAMO on 4 October 1992. We had hoped that by
now all obstacles to the implementation of the accord would
have been settled.
Addressing the Assembly on 27
September, President Chissano, outlined the progress made
in the revival of the country’s economic and social activity
as a consequence of a cease-fire being effectively honoured.
The deployment of
the United Nations Operation in
Mozambique (ONUMOZ) provides an atmosphere conducive
to implementing the provisions of
the General Peace
Agreement. We commend the Government of Mozambique
for the flexibility and statesmanship they have demonstrated.
We call on RENAMO to reciprocate equally and to comply
with Security Council resolution 863 (1993), so that the
people of Mozambique can embark on the important task of
national reconstruction in an atmosphere of peace and
stability.
Uganda deeply regrets the resumption of hostilities in
Angola, which clearly has negative consequences for the
whole region. Remarkable progress had been made,
culminating in the United Nations-supervised elections last
year. Unfortunately, the hopes and aspirations of the people
were dashed by the resumption of hostilities which
interrupted the electoral process. The only way forward lies
in national reconciliation and the acceptance of the rules of
democratic governance. Uganda supports Security Council
resolution 864 (1993), the implementation of which would
pave way for a lasting solution.
It is incumbent upon
UNITA to abide by this resolution.
installation of
In our own region Uganda welcomes the agreement
between the two parties, the Rwandese Government and the
Rwandese Patriotic Front, on a process of national
reconciliation and the
a broad-based
transitional government. Uganda, like other countries in the
region, is ready and willing to support the Rwandese people
in their endeavour to find a lasting settlement of their
problems.
This would also help foster stability and
cooperation in our subregion.
I wish to pay a tribute to
President Ali Hassan Mwinyi and the Government of the
United Republic of Tanzania, to the Organization of African
Unity, and to all those who have been helping the parties to
reach this accord.
The United Nations has a critical role to play in the
implementation of the Rwanda agreements. Both parties to
the conflict requested the United Nations to provide a neutral
force. We are happy to see that this request has received
positive consideration by the Security Council. The Council
has accepted the Secretary-General’s recommendation for the
establishment of a neutral force known as the United Nations
Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR).
In the
meantime, Uganda has agreed to the deployment on the
Rwanda-Uganda border of the United Nations Observer
Mission Uganda-Rwanda (UNOMUR) - as part and parcel
of confidence-building measures - and stands ready to give
additional support as and when requested.
The conflict in southern Sudan continues to be of great
concern to, and a source of anguish for, us in Uganda. The
civil war has escalated rather than abated, resulting in loss
of life, increased refugee flows, and the displacement of the
population to neighbouring countries, Uganda included. We
urge the parties to the conflict to cooperate in support of
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
31
I wish
regional efforts designed to find a lasting solution.
also to appeal to the international community to continue
providing humanitarian assistance and to be supportive of
negotiations for a peaceful settlement.
the Security Council
The situation in Somalia is a vivid example of both
natural and man-made disasters. Uganda welcomed the
decision of
in 1992 to provide
humanitarian assistance to the Somali people and to restore
order in Somalia. The United Nations operations helped to
end massive starvation and brought hope to the people of
Somalia. Uganda is also supportive of the second United
Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II), whose
mandate is to provide an appropriate atmosphere for
continued humanitarian assistance and for reconstruction and
rehabilitation, and to facilitate an overall political settlement.
from,
let alone abdicate,
We were encouraged by the Addis Ababa agreement of
March this year whereby various Somali political forces
agreed upon a programme of disarmament and reconciliation.
It is sad that the situation in Somalia took a dramatic turn
for the worse with the killing of members of the United
Nations peace-keeping force. We regret the loss of life and
attacks on the peace-keeping force.
I wish to express our
sincere condolences to the bereaved families and their
respective Governments. It remains our conviction that these
incidents, reprehensible as they are, should not lead the
United Nations to divert
its
responsibilities towards the Somali people. Much has been
achieved. Normalcy has been restored to much of the
country, although chaos and armed resistance continue in a
number of areas, especially in and around Mogadishu, where
they imperil
international efforts. We call on Somali
political leaders to cooperate with the Intergovernmental
Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD),
the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United
peace
Nations
and
reconciliation
transitional
arrangements, including the establishment of a broad-based
government.
I wish to take this opportunity to commend
United Nations personnel, the countries which have provided
material and financial support, and the volunteers who have
risked their lives in this worthy cause.
achieving
in motion
aimed
setting
efforts
and
in
at
entrusted with the supervision and implementation of the
Cotonou Agreement. We look forward to the full
implementation of this accord.
All this provides an example of the matching of the
political will of the parties to the conflict to the capacity in
the region to implement the agreed settlement.
Equally, the Security Council decision to make it easier
for the United Nations to supplement regional efforts in the
search for agreements and in their implementation is most
welcome. Apart from enhancing the regional capacity for
peace-keeping,
the Security Council decision helps to
engender confidence.
At the OAU Summit held in Cairo in July this year,
African States agreed to set up, within the OAU, a
mechanism for
positive
developments in Liberia and Rwanda, where the OAU and
the pertinent
leaders in the subregion have effectively
discharged this role, are indicative of the potentialities of the
regional mechanism.
resolution.
conflict
The
In the Middle East, the mutual recognition between the
Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, together
with the agreements signed between them, constitute a
breakthrough of historic proportions. This is yet another
illustration of the dictum that where there is a will, vision
and statesmanship, a way forward will be found. This
development holds the promise for concord and cooperation
in the Middle East region as a whole. We welcome the
Declaration of Principles on Palestinian interim self-rule in
the occupied territories.
These arrangements, which
envisage a five-year transition period, are an important step
towards
in
accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and
338 (1973). We commend Chairman Arafat and Prime
Minister Rabin for the courage and statesmanship they have
displayed. We encourage all of them to persevere in the
task ahead and on the journey they have begun. I wish also
to express Uganda’s appreciation to Norway, the United
States,
those who were
instrumental in the reaching of this historic accord.
the Russian Federation, and all
and lasting settlement
comprehensive
a
As regards the situation in Liberia, Uganda supports the
initiative of the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS) for the settlement of the crisis. We
welcomed the Cotonou Agreement signed on 25 July 1993,
which provides for a cease-fire and for the transitional
arrangement
leading to elections early next year. The
ECOWAS Miliary Observer Group (ECOMOG) has clearly
been a stabilizing force in Liberia. That is why it has been
It
Three years have elapsed since the outbreak of the Gulf
crisis. We are glad that the sovereignty of Kuwait was
restored.
remains our hope that, with positive
developments elsewhere in the region, it will be possible for
the people in the Gulf to be reconciled and to solve the
outstanding problems so that harmony and cooperation can
things,
be re-established.
This requires, among other
32
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
compliance with Security Council resolutions relating to the
Gulf War settlement.
Uganda supports the efforts by the Secretary-General to
ensure an overall settlement of the Cyprus problem. Any
settlement, while taking into account the legitimate interests
of the parties, should safeguard the sovereignty, unity and
territorial integrity of Cyprus.
As regards the Korean peninsula, Uganda supports the
aspiration of the Korean people to peaceful reunification.
We encourage them to continue their dialogue towards this
objective.
(UNTAC)
in Cambodia
In Cambodia we have just witnessed the fruitful
completion of the peace process in accordance with the Paris
Agreements. Under the auspices of the United Nations
Transitional Authority
the
Cambodian people have been able to exercise their right to
vote and to decide on their own Government in the general
elections for a constituent assembly. We are happy to see
that a new democratic Constitution, with a constitutional
monarchy has been peacefully promulgated.
I wish to
express the gratitude of the Uganda delegation to the
Secretary-General and the UNTAC personnel who, under the
able leadership of Mr. Yasushi Akashi,
the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General, have contributed
towards a comprehensive settlement of the Cambodian
question. Our appreciation goes equally to Viet Nam,
France, Australia, China, the United States of America and
the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN),
which, at different stages, contributed to the peace process.
It is to us a matter of deep regret that in the former
Yugoslavia, instability, strife and war based on ethnic and
religious differences continue unabated.
In pursuit of the
reprehensible notion of "ethnic cleansing", atrocities are
being committed.
In spite of the grave situation, it has not
been possible for the Security Council and the international
community to act decisively to put an end to the agony and
suffering there. The injunctions of the Security Council
continue to be flouted with impunity. We reject and
condemn the notion of "ethnic cleansing". I wish, however,
to commend the United Nations Protection Force for the
efforts it has made under the most difficult of conditions.
On disarmament, Uganda is encouraged by the progress
achieved in the wake of the demise of the cold war. The
United States and the Russian Federation under START II
have significantly reduced their nuclear arsenals. We were
encouraged by the decision of the United States to extend
the moratorium on nuclear
tests until 1994, by the
declaration of Russia not to resume testing even if others
did, and by France’s commitment not to be the first to
resume.
In spite of the recent set-backs, we hope that this
moratorium will hold. Uganda, however, believes that a
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty is
the ultimate
solution. As a State party to the non-proliferation Treaty,
we shall continue to participate actively in the preparatory
process leading to the 1995 Review Conference. We support
the extension of the Treaty, subject to periodic reviews. We
shall also seek to remove the imbalances in the present
Treaty and to secure increased assistance for developing
countries in the area of the peaceful application of nuclear
energy.
We maintain that there exists an intrinsic relationship
between the disarmament process
and development.
Developing countries paid a heavy price during the height of
the cold war as world attention was focused on acquiring
additional armaments under the doctrines of deterrence.
Many of them were trapped in civil conflict arising from
ideological wars. As the resources devoted to building
armaments are released in the disarmament process, these
should be applied for development both within and between
nations. Unfortunately, at the international level, we have
yet to see the peace dividend being channelled towards
assistance to developing countries.
At the national level, Uganda, after the restoration of
peace in the country, has now embarked on a process of
scaling down its army to a level which the economy can
sustain and which at the same time meets our legitimate
defence needs. This is a bold decision by the Government,
in the long run, should release resources for
which,
development purposes.
I wish here to express our
appreciation to those countries and organizations which have
agreed to assist us in the resettlement and integration of
demobilized soldiers within the civilian community.
in Vienna.
That Conference
This session is taking place in the aftermath of the
momentous World Conference on Human Rights that took
place
reaffirmed the
commitment of the international community to try to secure
the full and universal enjoyment of human rights. We hope
that as a result there will be increased awareness in the
world of the importance of human rights and a determination
to build the requisite capacity at the national and local levels
to ensure their enforcement.
Linked with the human rights issue is the question of
democratic governance and the rule of law. Democratic
governance promotes human rights.
In Uganda, as part of
the restoration of democratic civilian rule, the Constitutional
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
33
Commission has already produced a draft constitution. The
election of a Constituent Assembly, which is to deliberate
and agree on the Constitution, will be held in December this
year or early next year.
Whether
or
anywhere
else,
it
in Africa
the
democratization process may be difficult, but
is an
essential ingredient for peace, stability, the rule of law, and
the full respect and enjoyment of human rights. This is
particularly urgent in developing countries, in Africa in
particular. They are essential aspects and conditions of the
development process. We must therefore bring our full
energies to bear so that the democratization process may
gain momentum.
One of the major objectives of the United Nations,
enshrined in the Charter, is the promotion of economic and
social progress.
In our quest for peace, it is imperative to
address the economic and social challenges, which,
too
often, are the fundamental causes of conflicts in many
regions.
The present world economic situation is very grim.
There has been a prolonged recession in the developed
countries which, in turn, has had a negative effect on the
world economic situation. This has been devastating for the
developing countries, which have had to labour in a harsh
international environment. The crippling external debt is one
of the major obstacles for developing countries. In Uganda,
for example, it is estimated that we shall spend about 60 per
cent of our projected export receipts on debt servicing. The
debt problem has been exacerbated by the unfavourable
terms of trade, especially the collapse of the prices of
commodities, which are the mainstay of our economies.
Coupled with the reduction of resource flows,
this has
hampered our development. Yet, while still experiencing
these conditions, our countries have undertaken structural
adjustment reforms which call for heavy sacrifices on the
part of the population, especially the very vulnerable people.
For these programmes to achieve the desired objectives of
sustained growth, it is imperative that further measures on
debt relief, including debt cancellation, be put in place, more
so in respect of sub-Saharan African countries. There is also
an urgent need to increase significantly the volume of
resource flows in support of development efforts in these
countries. We look forward to the urgent and balanced
conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral
trade
negotiations. We are hopeful that a successful conclusion of
these negotiations would increase world trade and increase
the access of our products to world markets. This should
help to increase our export earnings.
Regrettably, for Africa the critical economic situation
and the trend of marginalization continue.
It is crucial to
arrest and reverse this trend if Africa is to succeed or even
survive in the geopolitical and economic system of the
twenty-first century. We need to enlarge our economic
space.
integration is an imperative if
Africa is to end its underdevelopment and to be integrated
into the global economy.
Forging regional
African integration will create economies of scale,
which are essential for the diversification of the African
economies, making full use of Africa’s natural resources,
increasing self-sufficiency and strengthening the continent’s
position within the global economy.
It is precisely for this
reason that the Organization of African Unity adopted the
Abuja Treaty creating an African Economic Community.
the strengthening of
The Treaty stipulates,
inter alia,
subregional economic groupings.
In this regard,
the
countries of the Eastern and Southern Africa Preferential
Trade Area have resolved to establish a subregional common
market. A treaty to this effect will be signed in Kampala,
Uganda, on 4 November this year. We appeal
to the
regional
international community to be supportive of
integration by providing assistance to put
in place the
necessary infrastructures.
The Rio Earth summit was an important milestone on
the road to forging a global consensus on sustainable
development. Uganda welcomes the adoption of Agenda 21,
which spelled out measures
to be adopted by the
international community. As a follow-up, Uganda has drawn
up a National Environment Action Plan to address our
environmental problems. We welcome the establishment of
the Commission on Sustainable Development and of the
Negotiating Committee for an international convention on
drought and desertification,
in line with the wishes of
African countries.
In spite of the progress made, we notice a reluctance on
the part of the donor community as regards fulfilling the
commitments agreed upon in Rio. This is especially true
with regard to providing new and additional resources.
I
wish to stress that
for us in Uganda the cause of
environmental degradation is poverty. Forests, for example,
are being depleted daily because the people use their trees as
a source of energy. To reverse this trend we need capital to
exploit hydro-electric power or solar energy, both of which
we have aplenty. We urge the international community to
appreciate this problem.
As regards reform of the United Nations, we maintain
our position that we shall support those measures which
34
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
improve efficiency and which do not distort the priorities
that have been agreed on, and which reflect the interests of
all Member States. We are also supportive of the proposals
for the enlargement of the Security Council
to reflect
present-day realities. We reaffirm that an important criterion
to take into account is that a country, big or small, seeking
membership of the Security Council must fully embrace, and
be seen to act in accordance with, the underlying values of
the United Nations mandate for peace, respect for human
rights, democratization and other accepted international
norms.
It is also important that the composition of all
United Nations organs accord with the principles of the
Charter, notably the principle of sovereign equality of
nations and the principle of democracy.
It is with this in
mind that we shall examine all proposals for restructuring
that are before us.
We stand at a historic watershed on account of
contradictory trends which characterize the current transition
to a new world order yet to be shaped and defined. We
have, one hopes, a unique opportunity to construct a firm
foundation for the edifice of a future in which the interests
of all of us can be adequately catered for.
Mr. ABU SALIH (Sudan): Allow me at the outset to
express to Ambassador Insanally my special congratulations
on his election to preside over the General Assembly at this
important session. He represents Guyana, an active member
of the Non-Aligned Movement, of which Sudan is proud to
be a founding member. May I also extend our thanks and
appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev for the
skilful and efficient manner in which he conducted the work
of the previous session.
that
those
attained
especially
The United Nations represents hope for all nations and
nascent States,
their
independence through long struggle. It is a great honour and
pleasure for me to welcome our sister country, Eritrea,
which has joined the membership of the United Nations.
Our two peoples continue to enjoy mutual respect and
esteem, and our Governments are endeavouring to foster
fraternal relations with a view to achieving prosperity for the
brotherly peoples of the two countries, and for the whole
region.
Allow me also to salute the Czech Republic, Slovakia,
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and
Andorra, which joined the United Nations as part of a new
momentum contributing to human endeavours to achieve
stability, prosperity and peace for the world.
I
a l s o
s a l u t e
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l ,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who is leading the Secretariat of
the United Nations at a crucial stage as it faces many
challenges and pressures.
t h e
The Sudan learned with grief and sadness of the tragic
loss of life in the earthquake which struck parts of India. I
extend the deepest sympathy of the Sudan to friendly India
along with heartfelt condolences to the families of those who
lost their lives.
Since the previous session,
important events have
emerged in the international arena. We are now witnessing
accelerated political and social change unprecedented in
history. New international situations and changes occur
every day; we are all trying to keep up with them. Today,
we are experiencing a phase of travail and transition, which
results every day in new, divergent patterns. The most
striking of those patterns is the widening of the gap between
the rich North and the less privileged South.
The trend in today’s world is towards the machinery of
regional groupings. This reflects the fact that the world has
already started to be more inclined to think in a more
collective manner. We hope that this new pattern will be
positive and constructive, giving due respect to the charters
and covenants that are binding on all. We seriously assert
that developing countries are no longer principal partners in
most of the resolutions that are adopted, particularly within
the framework of the Security Council and other United
Nations organs. Had developing countries been allowed
equitable participation, their contribution could have been
more effective in the course of many of these important
events, specially in the field of regional and international
peace and security.
Four years ago we started reviewing the functions of
the United Nations and its various organs. We must place
on record, from this rostrum, our conviction that
this
Organization has a basic role to play in the maintenance of
international peace and security and the achievement of
prosperity for mankind. For the United Nations fully to
perform such a vital role, its governing Charter must be fully
respected. The Charter must also be adhered to by all, and
must be updated to keep pace with the developments that
have occurred since its adoption.
The General Assembly too should be enabled fully to
perform its functions for the maintenance of peace and
security. The General Assembly should be given its due
importance, equal and parallel
to that of the Security
Council.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
35
Selectivity in implementing the provisions of
the
Charter must be abandoned. In this regard, we firmly stress
that the activities of the Security Council must be transparent
and that the Council should adopt a democratic approach in
its decisions.
It is thus inevitable that the question of the
Council’s permanent membership, and the right of veto,
which enables a few States to invalidate the opinion of the
majority, be reviewed, especially at a time when the United
Nations is advocating the values of democracy, participation,
justice and equality.
for
The United Nations and one of its organs, the Security
Council, are currently engaged in serious and active attempts
to settle disputes based on new prospects
the
establishment of
regional and international peace and
security. Let us pause here for a moment. We all aspire to
save the world from the calamities of war and the
destructive consequences of
the prevailing social and
economic situation. Yet, at the same time, we reject double
standards in the resolutions of
the Security Council,
especially in relation to international peace and security. We
are anxious lest the United Nations lose its proper vision in
the heat of events.
The nature of the responsibilities and duties of the
Organization requires strict neutrality.
International peace
and security is a principle that must apply to all. But to see
the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina suffer to the brink of
elimination because of the shaky and defective resolutions of
the Security Council is a situation that should not be allowed
to pass unnoticed. Similarly, the Somali people cannot be
allowed to remain victims of irregularities committed by the
international forces there because of the departure from their
binding original mandate. This is a matter that requires both
change and a strict and immediate investigation. We are still
witnessing the deterioration of the security situation in
Somalia owing to the continuing fighting between the
international forces and some of the Somali factions, as well
as with individuals. This has resulted in many killings and
has caused the international forces to stray from their
original mandate. We have previously expressed our
reservations with regard to the hasty use of international
forces in Somalia without consulting the States of the region
or exhausting the efforts and endeavours being exerted by
those States to find a solution to the Somali crisis.
We are concerned that the continuation of fighting
between the international forces and some of the Somali
factions will shed more blood, complicate the problem and
render it insoluble by the United Nations. Therefore, we
request the United Nations and the forces that are supposed
to operate under its banner to refrain from continuing the
type of actions that would provoke the Somali people and
the country’s factions or affect the structure of their political
future, values and cultural and religious heritage.
We also deem it fitting that the Permanent Committee
on Somalia of the States of The Horn of Africa be given the
necessary time to perform its pioneering function of finding
a solution to the Somali crisis. These States are better
acquainted with the nature and dimension of the problem by
virtue of their special relations with Somalia and its people.
independence or
We will support new international arrangements that
will ensure the enhancement of the performance of the
Organization and establish justice and tranquillity among all.
The arrangements we are hoping for shall not infringe upon
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States or meddle
with their
right of decision-making.
Preventive diplomacy, associated with peacemaking and
peace-keeping, should be motivated by a basic goal, namely,
the elimination of regional and international tension. This
could be achieved by defining the causes of political and
social conflicts in order to eliminate them so that different
societies might enjoy stability, well-being, and peace.
Preventive diplomacy and the subsequent use of political and
military force cannot be applied solely against less privileged
countries and vulnerable peoples.
In brief, we are hoping for a new formula within the
framework of current international arrangements to guarantee
the rights of all and to save the world from the hegemony of
the stronger over the less privileged. We also aspire to a
greater role for the regional organizations of the developing
countries and to their representation in the important forum
of the Security Council, which is entrusted with the task of
maintaining peace and security all over the world.
Along with this understanding of the new role of the
United Nations in protecting and preserving the rights of
States, we call for the lifting of the economic embargo
imposed on Iraq. The Iraqi people have suffered for an
extended period of time from the unfair embargo that is still
imposed on them, despite the exhaustion of the reasons that
invoked it.
Another example of the misuse of this international
Organization is the embargo imposed on Libya without any
legal and justified cause to permit the actions taken against
that country. Libya has already responded to Security
Council
resolution 731 (1992) and shown sufficient
flexibility to settle its differences with the Western States, a
matter that would justify the lifting of the embargo imposed
on it.
36
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The agenda items before this session include important
issues reflecting the accelerated pace of events I mentioned
at the beginning of my statement. However, I prefer to be
direct in touching upon issues of immediate concern to us in
the Sudan because of
the misunderstanding that has
accompanied them.
adamantly reject policies that reflect a double standard in
dealing with human rights, because the Sudan has been
victimized by such policies. We also hope that universality
of human rights will not be construed to justify denial of the
cultural, religious and indigenous specifics of various States
and peoples.
During the forty-eighth session of the Human Rights
Commission, held at Geneva in March 1992, and upon a
motion by the United States representative, the Commission
adopted a resolution appointing an independent expert
assigned to investigate the human-rights situation in the
Sudan and to submit a report to the forty-ninth session of the
Commission in March-April 1993. The States sponsoring
that resolution did not wish to wait for the report of the
independent expert but pushed the matter to the forty-seventh
session of the General Assembly, where a resolution on the
alleged human-rights violations in the Sudan was adopted.
The sponsoring States used all the influence, pressure and
the mechanical majority they possessed to see that that
politically motivated resolution was adopted.
Those who pose as defenders of human rights in the
ignore the terrorist practices of the outlaws in
Sudan
southern Sudan lead by John Garang. They have opted to
keep silent with respect to the atrocities he has committed,
atrocities such as the abduction and recruitment of children
for military operations,
the regular killing of civilian
populations,
the downing of civilian aircraft and the
kidnapping and killing of United Nations staff working in
relief operations. They have also kept silent with regard to
his continued obstruction of all
serious peacemaking
endeavours initiated inside or outside the Sudan. Not only
that, they have received him as a top official dignitary and
extended to him every moral support, despite his gross
violation of human rights.
expert
praised
cooperation
In his
report
in the Sudan or
to the forty-ninth session of
in March 1993,
of
the
the
Commission on Human Rights
independent
the
the
Government of the Sudan and explained that he had had
neither the time nor the opportunity to judge the situation of
human rights
to study the matter
comprehensively. He indicated that the Commission might
wish to extend his mission in order to allow him to complete
his mandate. While we do not conceive of any justifiable
reasons behind his appointment, the Government of the
Sudan nevertheless extended every possible cooperation to
the Special Rapporteur, who visited the Sudan last week and
will submit his report.
Respect for and maintenance of human rights represent
one of the sacred principles that are enshrined in all divine
religions as well as in man-made laws. The Sudan, inspired
by its cultural and civilized heritage, pays due attention to
the issues of human rights. The Sudanese Government and
society respect and observe the human-rights values based
on their religious belief and traditions. Accordingly, we
reject any politicization or manipulation of such a sacred
doctrine as a pretext for meddling in the internal affairs of
States or for imposing a specific cultural trend or option of
civilization on any State. For the same reason, we are of the
view that developmental assistance should not be tied to a
distorted human-rights record. The right to development
itself represents an inalienable human right. We also opt for
equality and fairness
in assessing or monitoring the
performance of States in the field of human rights. We
In this
connection we view General Assembly
resolution 47/142 as a biased resolution that has contributed
to the intransigence of the Garang movement and motivated
it to reject all Government endeavours to achieve a peaceful
settlement through negotiations. We are also convinced that
that resolution lacks any substantive justification, and we
stand ready to provide all the factual information on the
human-rights situation in the Sudan to all who are interested.
Those who accuse the Government of the Sudan of
violating the human rights of its own citizens have also
ignored the giant achievements of the Government, such as
adopting the conferences system along the lines of Shura
and organizing the national conferences to determine the
structure of the political system in order to lay down the
basic foundations of national unity and to look for ways and
means to achieve a real peace guaranteeing fundamental
political, social, cultural and religious rights for all citizens.
As a result, a National Transitional Assembly was
established as the supreme legislative organ of the country,
pending completion of the political structures at both the
federal and the state level and the conduct of the presidential
elections to be held in the country at a subsequent stage.
Many must have learned of the recent decision of the
United States Government to add the Sudan to its own
classification of countries allegedly sponsoring terrorism.
While the United States Government is free to take whatever
decision it deems appropriate, we have the right to question
the facts and findings on which the United States
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
37
it has
enabled the United Nations
However, Sudan has a bright and outstanding record in
this area. Operation Lifeline Sudan is an unprecedented
initiative;
and
non-governmental organizations to provide relief supplies to
affected populations, whoever and wherever they are. Since
the forty-seventh session, continuous efforts have been made
to strengthen the efficiency of Operation Lifeline and its
relief programme, such as the signing of an agreement
between the Government of the Sudan, the United Nations
and the rebel factions in December 1992 to secure the flow
of relief to all areas in need.
In January 1993, another
agreement was signed between the Government of the
Sudan,
the United Nations and the non-governmental
organizations to facilitate and enhance the role of the non-
governmental organizations in relief and rehabilitation. In
March 1993,
the Sudan signed a
memorandum of understanding with the International
Committee of the Red Cross to streamline the cooperation
between the Government and the Committee and to
strengthen the effectiveness of its operations in southern
Sudan. The allocation of 153,000 metric tons of grain by
the Government
to the World Food Programme to be
distributed to the population in need represents a cornerstone
of our contribution to relief efforts.
the Government of
Government has based its decision. While the United States
has the right to enact domestic decisions, the utilization of
such decisions as a prelude to further actions beyond its
territories contradicts international
law and the United
Nations Charter. We cannot understand how a super-Power
which enjoys permanent membership in the Security Council
can enact domestic legislation to justify the pursuit of its
private interests in the territories of other countries. Such
instances are numerous, the most recent of which was the
search in the port of Djibouti of a vessel freighting sugar en
route to sisterly Somalia.
It is our conviction that the motive behind the media
campaign against the Sudan is the alienation of Sudan from
its African and Arab affiliations and the smearing of its
image by erroneously labelling its civilization as terrorist.
This media campaign constitutes a prelude to a siege on
Sudan similar to what has happened to some other countries.
We are known to all as a peaceful nation; we denounce
terrorism in all its forms. Accordingly, the decision lacks the
necessary legal support, contravenes justice and good
conscience and clearly exceeds the role of the United
Nations. As proof of our assertion, it could not generate any
support. Former President Jimmy Carter and a number of
credible institutions and newspapers have expressed their
scepticism and criticism regarding its ethical value.
Likewise, the Sudanese peoples have demonstrated their
rejection and denunciation of that decision. Real terrorism
is when a single super-Power uses it as a pretext and utilizes
its might to terrorize small developing countries for no
reason except that they opted for a path of independent
decision-making and rejected blind proselytism, or merely
for their different views.
Mixing politics with humanitarian assistance is rather
risky, especially in relief work, which is a sensitive matter,
as it directly affects human survival through supplying basic
needs such as food and medicine. This necessitates the
absolute neutrality of the relief donors. Recent years have
witnessed an increasing involvement of politics
in
humanitarian work, which fact led Mr. Cornelio Sommaruga,
President of the International Committee of the Red Cross
(ICRC) to explicitly warn against the danger of mixing
politics with humanitarian work.
Sudan has suffered
tremendously from these attempts to tarnish its image by
intentionally distorting its achievements in relief delivery so
that they are seen as failures, its initiatives depicted as
obstructions and its cooperation as impediment of the inflow
of relief supplies. The reality is that we feel we are unjustly
treated by some States and some media that
tend to
undermine our efforts in relief operation and blemish our
reputation.
The mission of Mr. Vieri Traxler, Special Envoy of the
Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs for the Sudan,
and its positive outcome, stand as another example of the
cooperation of the Government of the Sudan with the
international community. A number of modalities were
agreed upon during that mission to guarantee the full
implementation of all previously signed agreements.
It is
my pleasure to convey to this Assembly that during Mr.
Traxler’s mission to the Sudan a number of steps were taken
to implement what was agreed upon. On the initiative of the
Government of the Sudan, an agreement was reached to send
joint assessment missions, constituted by the United Nations
and the non-governmental organizations working in relief
operations, to about 30 safe locations in the three Southern
States, the Nuba mountains and Kordofan.
It was also
agreed that the town of Malakal and its environs would be
considered a model of relief integrated programmes to be
implemented in other areas after proving successful. This is
in addition to other steps oriented towards strengthening the
efficiency of operations and ensuring relief for
those in
need wherever they may be.
Allow me to acquaint
this Assembly with the
achievements of the Government of Sudan in political,
economic and social fields.
The priority item on my
Government’s agenda is to attain a just and lasting peace in
southern Sudan and to put an end to the war that horrified
38
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
programme for the implementation of far-reaching reforms
in the structure of the Sudanese economy by engaging in a
free-market policy, diminishing the role of the Government
in trade and economic activities, and giving the private
sector its due catalytic role in these activities.
innocent civilians and devastated their lives, the war that
exposed them to the scourges of death, famine, disease and
displacement. This war, which was the by-product of the
colonial conspiracy, has turned the citizens into recipients of
relief and made them dependent on others.
It constitutes a
perpetual squandering of vast resources that could have been
utilized in economic and social development and for the
welfare of the Sudanese peoples in the south and the north.
rebels without preconditions.
Faithful to its earnest endeavours to bring about a
peaceful settlement of the discord in the south, the Sudanese
Government has emphasized since 1989 its readiness to talk
peace with the
The
Government put forward a comprehensive framework for
peace emanating from the recommendations of a national
conference. This approach is based on remedying the
lingering causes of the conflict in the areas of power- and
wealth-sharing, relations between religion and State, adoption
of the federal system of government to meet the aspirations
of different regions for a genuine sharing of power, the
exemption of the south from the application of Sharia laws
and the redistribution and reallocation of resources for social
and economic development on equitable grounds.
In this positive spirit
the Government held several
rounds of negotiations with the rebel movement. The last
meeting took place in Abuja with the mediation of sisterly
Nigeria. The Government, out of its keen desire to bring the
peace talks to a successful conclusion, showed great
flexibility, but it realized, unfortunately, that, owing to the
pressures of foreign interests, Garang’s faction was not the
master of its decision. That was why we could not reach an
agreement in order to alleviate the suffering of our citizens
in the south.
The failure of the second Abuja peace talks did not,
however, weaken the determination of the Government to
continue searching for peace through negotiations. To this
end, the Government started a new round of negotiations,
this time in Sudanese territory, with the other united rebel
factions. The Government also accepted a quadrilateral
peace initiative put forward by four Heads of State members
of
the Intergovernmental Authority for Drought and
Development (IGADD): Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia and
Eritrea. We believe that neighbouring countries are able and
keen to help in resolving this stalemate. Furthermore, the
Government accepted the initiative of former President
Jimmy Carter in mediating between the Government and the
rebel factions.
In the area of economic development, the Government
of the Sudan adopted an ambitious three-year economic
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
39
Economic and monetary regulations were enacted to
encourage investment, especially in agriculture and animal
products. This economic programme reaped its fruits, and
we have registered an increase of over 10 per cent in the
rate of growth of the gross national product, as well as self-
sufficiency in grain and sugar. This programme energized
the economy and led to the inflow of foreign investment,
owing to the free-market policy,
the
infrastructure and the building up of the capacity of human
resources.
the reform of
All these developments could have achieved positive
results, not for the benefit of the Sudanese people alone, but
also for the African and Arab regions, had they not been
forestalled by political machinations in areas of international
trade and economic cooperation, as well as interference in
the work of the international monetary institutions. An
unjust and undeclared economic embargo deprived the Sudan
of development resources from bilateral and multilateral
institutions. This unjust behaviour deprived the people of
the Sudan of their right to development, a right enshrined in
all international conventions.
In the social field, the Government is very attentive to
the needs of the impoverished sector of the population.
Financial support is increasingly extended to them through
Zakat funds and social-welfare institutions. A number of
commercial subsidies were introduced to alleviate the
economic burden of a broad sector of the population.
Salaries in the public and private sectors were increased and
subjected to continuous revision. All this was done in full
compliance with and respect for human dignity, and to
eliminate poverty.
Moreover, in the area of legislation, the Government
excluded the States with non-Muslim majorities from being
subjected to Sharia laws.
In the area of human rights, a Supreme Council for
Human Rights was established, under the chairmanship of
the second-highest ranking official in the State.
Security prevails throughout the country, the rule of law
has replaced chaos, and there have been other great
accomplishments in the fields of education, literacy, health,
environment, and the improvement of the living conditions
relocation to ensure a
of displaced persons and their
dignified life while they await
the elimination
of the
conditions that forced them to become displaced persons.
The position of Sudan has remained clear ever since the
commencement of the Arab-Israeli peace talks: we believe
its 100th meeting in Cairo,
that they should lead to the exercise of Arab and Palestinian
rights based on the provisions of Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). Since
the signing of the Declaration of Principles of self-autonomy
between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and
Israel, the Middle East and the Palestinians’ cause have
The Arab League Council of
entered a new phase.
Ministers, after
issued a
communiqué on this agreement based on Security Council
resolutions. The communiqué emphasized the necessity of
an Israeli withdrawal from all the occupied Arab territories
in the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, Jerusalem, the Golan
Heights and southern Lebanon so as to open a new page in
the history of the Middle East and enable the people of the
region to work for development and prosperity. The Arab
League Council considered the agreement a step forward
towards the establishment of a comprehensive peace in the
region, provided that other steps to complement it were
guaranteed such as a complete Israeli withdrawal from the
occupied Syrian Golan Heights, the West Bank, including
Jerusalem, and the territory in southern Lebanon.
to consolidate
The Arab world has articulated its judgement on this
historic agreement and proved its sincerity about desiring a
just, lasting and comprehensive settlement in the region. At
this critical point in time, we appeal to our Palestinian
brothers
their unity and unify their
determinant objectives. They should close the doors against
any attempts to divide them. The United Nations is called
upon to supervise this peace plan by insisting on the
implementation of all its resolutions based on international
legitimacy. The custodians of this peace plan are also called
upon to ensure an expeditious Israeli withdrawal from all the
occupied Arab and Palestinian territories, in full compliance
with the relevant United Nations resolutions.
The positive developments taking place in South Africa
as a result of the struggle of our brothers and sisters there in
their quest for emancipation, equality and the rule of the
majority stand as proof of the important role the United
Nations can play in accordance with the principles of the
Charter whenever a Member State shows the necessary
political will. My delegation associates itself with the leader
Nelson Mandela
international
Organization to secure the transitional arrangements leading
to the emergence of a democratic, unified and non-racial
South Africa.
call upon the
in his
As an African country, we believe that Africa has
demonstrated throughout history its unique ability to resolve
African disputes through African mediation. In this regard,
the
I salute the Organization of African Unity (OAU),
40
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and Desertification
(IGADD), the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) and all other African subregional organizations,
as well as various African States that have played leading
roles in the peaceful settlement of several disputes in such
countries as Rwanda and Liberia,
thus contributing to peace and stability in Africa. We hope
that peace will soon prevail in Angola, Mozambique and
Somalia so that Africa can enjoy the stability that will enable
it to meet the challenges of construction and development
and move towards prosperity for the African people and
people of the whole world.
The meeting rose at 8.10 p.m.
