United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
5th
PLENARY MEETING
Monday, 27 September 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
Mr. Alfredo Félix Cristiani-Burkard, President of the
Republic of El Salvador, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 127
S C A L E O F A S S E S S M E N T S
F O R T H E
APPORTIONMENT OF THE EXPENSES OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (A/48/414/Add.2)
The PRESIDENT: Before turning to the item on our
agenda for this meeting, I should like to draw the General
Assembly’s attention to document A/48/414/Add.2.
informs me that
In his letter contained in that document, the Secretary-
General
since the issuance of his
communications dated 21 and 24 September 1993 Guinea-
Bissau has made the necessary payment to reduce its arrears
below the amount specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes note
of this information?
It was so decided.
ADDRESS BY MR. ALFREDO FELIX CRISTIANI-
BURKARD, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Republic of El Salvador.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations, His Excellency Mr. Alfredo Félix Cristiani-Burkard,
the President of the Republic of El Salvador, and to invite
him to address the Assembly.
It
to preside over
President CRISTIANI-BURKARD (interpretation from
Spanish):
is a great pleasure for us to salute your
unanimous election, Sir,
the General
Assembly’s work at its forty-eighth session, especially since
you are a worthy representative of a sister country of our
region of Latin America and the Caribbean. Your opening
address, in which you presented your vision of the world,
was rich in ideas and insights into international reality. You
urged that we commit ourselves to promoting the purposes
and principles of the Charter in order to achieve a better
world,
to reflect on our
responsibilities as we strive to meet the global challenges
facing our peoples. Your address demonstrated your
sensitivity and wisdom, which, added to your political and
diplomatic experience in multilateralism, will help us move
forward to change as we endeavour to achieve the objectives
of our Organization.
and you encouraged us
We should also like to express our appreciation to your
predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, the former Foreign Minister
of Bulgaria, for the successful manner in which he guided
the work of
the General
Assembly and in particular for his efforts to bring about the
restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations system.
the forty-seventh session of
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86611 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.5
6 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
We also wish to join in the expressions of appreciation
to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his
dedication and hard work in leading our Organization. We
once again express our support for and confidence in him in
his difficult task of seeking international peace and security.
For the fifth year in a row we have come to this highest
international forum, from which it has been our privilege to
give annual testimony to the progress of a process that,
though it
is unfolding in a small developing country,
represents one of the most complex and exemplary dynamic
forces for peace in modern history.
In 1989, when we first came to speak to the world’s
representatives from this rostrum, the case of El Salvador
was just one more knot in the tangled web of problems left
behind by the sadly notorious cold war as it began
unexpectedly to wind down. A few months earlier, we had
just taken the reins of government with a great purpose born
in the deepest part of our conscience:
to do all that was
humanly possible to find a political solution to the
Salvadorean conflict. That is how we expressed ourselves,
with a solemn promise, to the Salvadorean people on the
first day of our Government. We reaffirmed it before the
United Nations in September of that crucial year of 1989,
only a few weeks before the world witnessed the almost
unbelievable dissolution of one of the greatest ideological-
military Powers on Earth. This led to a new era - difficult,
but also hopeful and promising, for all.
If we wish sincerely to interpret the history of our
country, we must say that the peace process in El Salvador
was a search along various avenues that had been present in
the lives of the people of El Salvador ever since our nation
was born. Our peace process is not a mere expression of the
need to find a sensible and reasonable end to an unjust and
painful war.
In El Salvador, as in so many other countries
with a historical development similar to ours, peace is the
generic name for age-old needs and aspirations, such as
those for democracy, democratic institutions, the rule of law,
political freedoms and rights - in a word, the victory of
civilization over barbarism.
This helped us to understand, as our work for peace
began, that it must be solid and enduring. Otherwise, we
would be making just another effort - like so many in our
past - that would not rise above superficial means or lay the
true foundations of
the country’s political, social and
economic modernization. For us - and this is the aspect that
has enabled our process to succeed - peace is synonymous
with democracy.
We in El Salvador have been delighted to learn that,
from varying perspectives of
ideological and political
thought, our peace process is considered exemplary. In this
forum of nations, we should like to point to some of the
factors that, in our opinion, have allowed us to set that
example.
First of all, we believe that the solution achieved is
strictly in keeping with the nature of the conflict. Given that
it was a conflict with historical and social roots, its eruption
was eminently political,
linked to the inadequacy and
dysfunctioning of the traditional Salvadorean political system
and the political-ideological confrontation of the super-
Powers. The solution had to be political, without winners or
losers, and to aim at the creation of a new scenario involving
a system of pluralistic participation. The peace agreement
is a plan of commitments to expanding, developing and
guaranteeing democracy in El Salvador. That was what we
needed. That is why it was implemented in an irreversible
manner, despite momentary problems that were merely
mishaps along the way.
Secondly, the conflict led to violent confrontation in the
country. The exhaustion from the war and the impetus
towards a process of democratization created the conditions
for the emergence in El Salvador of a culture of tolerance,
understanding and reconciliation - in a word, a culture of
peace. This concept has not emerged in El Salvador alone;
it is a growing concern throughout the world. With the
support of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, we are striving to promote a culture
of peace, for which we appeal for the firm support of the
international community. Without a culture of peace, which
will help to remove the ever-active remnants of the culture
of violence, it will be impossible to establish the new world
order demanded by our times, a new moral order between
men and nations as the foundation for this new world order
of competitive but respectful and harmonious coexistence,
which we can glimpse as an achievable reality as we pass
into the new millennium.
Thirdly, we must recognize that the peace process in El
Salvador was continually and effectively followed by the
international community, represented by the Security Council
and the Secretary-General of this great world Organization,
by a group of countries that had close ties to the situation in
El Salvador in a variety of ways, and by a widespread
general interest in observing the ways and means used to
resolve a conflict such as the one that afflicted El Salvador
for such a long time. We have no doubt that without this
international attention a solution to the problem in El
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
3
Salvador would have been much more difficult and
complicated.
El Salvador is a living example of how the transition
from a world dominated by a confrontational bipolarity to
one determined by the logic of specific situations is taking
place. We do not doubt for one instant that the engine of
the world process is changing:
from abusive and heartless
ideology to pragmatic and ordered rationality. There have
always been many problems and conflicts in the world, but
for a long time the international drama seemed to be an
increasingly absorbing confrontation of ideologies. This
distortion, aggravated by the real problems that existed,
impeded their solution.
It is true that since the cold war
painful and cruel situations have erupted, such as the one
now experienced in the former Yugoslavia. But ideological,
strategic and geopolitical bipolarity artificially created some
conflicts and stifled others, also artificially. Reality is, of
course, a better guide than all the fantasies of the ideologies.
We in El Salvador do not speak of these matters with
the tranquillity of analysts or the scientific patience of
academicians. We speak of war because we have physically
endured it. We speak of
the worldwide ideological
confrontation because, during what we now know was its
last phase, El Salvador was one of
intense
battlegrounds. And we also speak of peace because we are
building peace on the basis of an agreement of great
institutional
significance, conceived and structured to
strengthen democracy in El Salvador and throughout Central
America.
its most
struggle
between
stagnation
authoritarian
We have already expressed what this peace means to
us. And now we would like to emphasize that we are well
aware that peace is a process. Being a process, it cannot be
static, but must evolve. In this as well, El Salvador sets an
example. Countries such as ours were for long caught up in
the
and
revolutionary radicalism. This is a pivotal moment
in
history, because it
is giving us all a lesson in the
pre-eminence of an ancient but under-valued concept:
evolution.
"Everything changes," said the pre-Socratic
philosopher. But the natural rhythm of that change has
always been a kind of historical
riddle. With many
certainties remaining, and in the healthy absence of the
magical formulas that have so tormented the world during
our century, we are perhaps on the way to understanding that
the natural rhythm of change can also be summed in another
classic phrase: "Without hurrying, but without pausing."
With evolution as our guide once again, we have no
reason to hurry. The rhythm of transformation occurs in a
way that cannot be resisted. We see this in the changing
international, political and economic relations of our time.
An almost spontaneous restructuring has followed the
removal of so many straitjackets. And this restructuring has
brought to light what has always been most important:
the
real problems. As the East-West conflict has disappeared,
almost no one speaks about the North-South conflict or
alternative
serious problems of
inequality, critical poverty and dependence have not been
resolved. They are still with us. And they are a challenge
for this new order which we are trying to create on a more
rational and reasonable foundation.
alignments, but
the
In this new scenario, the United Nations has a central
role which was until recently unimaginable. The great
dynamic of universal peace cannot be led by a single
country, nor even by a privileged group of countries. The
cooperation, understanding and support of all countries is
needed, as is an instrument which will make peace processes
viable and monitor and support them. That instrument is
this Organization, and this special dimension of its work has
expanded and been emphasized in recent years. El Salvador
has the honour to have been one of the first countries to
benefit from the new United Nations system of peace-
keeping efforts. All the work of active mediation and then
active monitoring - unprecedented in international law -
which the United Nations has been putting into practice in
El Salvador, is not some theoretical artifice, but an exercise
derived from the necessities of a real situation. The dynamic
of the Salvadorian process has shaped the role of the United
Nations in our country. We Salvadorians have learned much
from our close relation with the world Organization, and we
are sure that it too has learned very important lessons from
its continuing participation in the achievement, maintenance
and development of peace in El Salvador.
Our view of the United Nations has been enriched as
shared with the world Organization the
we have
responsibility of carrying out the peace plan in El Salvador.
Thus we understand more clearly that the United Nations is
also evolving. Its original form was a product of the end of
the Second World War; it must now open itself up to new
realities. Organs, such as the Security Council, and even the
Secretary-General now have roles and responsibilities which
demand changes. The composition of the Council and the
veto mechanism within it, which were a result of the deep
mutual
be
fundamentally revised to adopt them to times of cooperation
and exchange. The Secretary-General’s field of activity
should also be reconsidered, because there is far more
executive work to be done today than in the past. All these
are unavoidable challenges that now face the Organization,
period, must
post-war
distrust
the
of
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to which we owe so much and which we wish to see ever
stronger and more efficient.
The United Nations has room for the whole world. In
successive addresses here, we have emphasized the
importance of the principle of universality. We understand
that this principle cannot in any way provide a means of
interfering in the internal affairs of States; at the same time
we believe that there are realities of today’s world that
cannot be disregarded. We have therefore supported
consideration of exceptional situations, in keeping with the
experience with parallel representation of divided countries
at the United Nations. It should be possible to resolve this
matter within the framework of understanding and openness
that now characterizes international relations.
El Salvador, for the first time in its history, is in the
vigorous mainstream of modernization, a dynamic that
concerns all countries during these times of change. Our
contribution cannot be material, because we lack resources
and wealth, but we have earned the capacity to speak with
the moral force of a people raising itself up from its own
rubble with the unexpected serenity that
results from
prolonged suffering.
If we in El Salvador can testify to
anything, we can testify that it is possible to move from
irrationality to the deliberate construction of historical
rationality. In proceeding along this long path we need the
international community’s political, moral and financial
support, in keeping with the resolution that the General
Assembly adopted last year for the reconstruction and
development of El Salvador.
We must reincorporate ex-combatants in institutional
and productive life through programmes such as the transfer
of land for farming. Also, there are many new institutions
emerging in our country, such as the civilian national police,
which is one of the most ambitious experiments in public
security in the world. We need timely technical and
economic support to build the structures of peace more
swiftly. We would like to be able to wipe from our minds
the discouraging evidence that it is easier to find the money
for war than for peace. The culture of peace - which is a
world-wide challenge - must also become evident in this
fundamental change in priorities.
We are here for the last time because our presidential
mandate comes to an end on 1 June 1994.
It has been an
immense honour for us to come here every year to report on
the progress in a process that is of such great concern to the
people of El Salvador, and yet is also of such concern to
Central America and the international community because of
its positive effects on regional stability.
thing is that what
The country that we are talking about today is very
different from the one that we were discussing in 1989, and
the important
is surprising in the
difference is how positive and how full of hope it is. The
credit is not ours. We did our work and exercised our will.
The credit goes to a people that, from being a footnote to
history, has won, by dint of sacrifice, a place of honour in
this changing scene that we are seeing emerge at this close
of the century.
All the political and social forces in El Salvador have
worked together to bring about the emergence of the new
country. The friendly countries that are closest to us by
reason of history and geography can testify to this. We have
made a successful effort to bring order to our economy, and
we are laying the foundations for the continued constructive
advance of full democracy - political, economic, social and
cultural.
El Salvador expresses its concern over the continued
existence of conflicts that are devastating some parts of the
world. The tragic cases of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of
Somalia cause us great distress. However, we have
confidence in the force of reason, which always finds a way
to achieve even the most difficult goals.
And there is good news too, such as the extraordinarily
important agreement on mutual recognition between Israel
and the Palestine Liberation Organization, which has thrilled
the world. We have also seen an opening up in South
Africa for reason to prevail, and the situation in Haiti
becoming clear, albeit with difficulty. All that gives us
comfort, and reminds us that we are in a period of enormous
surprises. The world is ridding itself of many oppressive
spectres, and this gives us the strength to believe in the great
potential of the international system.
present
If we had to prepare a list of all those to whom we
would give thanks for their contribution to peace in El
Salvador, we would always leave out a few, but we cannot
fail to mention the extraordinary work carried out both by
the previous Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar,
and
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, and also their body of collaborators and
advisers, without whose participation and support
is
unlikely that we would have achieved the goal of putting
El Salvador on the road towards genuine peace.
The
Security Council has always been very mindful of the peace
process in our country, and the Council’s active even-
handedness also deserves our highest praise.
the
it
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
5
On behalf of El Salvador, I give thanks to everyone.
El Salvador is a living example. We hope that we will
continue to be an example of stability, respect for human
rights, national concord and progress. We therefore call on
the world to give us its attention and support, and, most of
all, we ask God to shed his light on El Salvador, on the
United Nations and on all men and women of good faith on
this Earth of ours, which is a common inheritance that must
be shared by all mankind.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of El Salvador for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Alfredo Félix Cristiani-Burkard, President of the
Republic of El Salvador, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
ADDRESS BY MR. JOAQUIM ALBERTO CHISSANO,
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Mozambique.
Mr. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, President of the
Republic of Mozambique, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Republic of Mozambique, His
Excellency Mr. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, and to invite him
to address the Assembly.
President CHISSANO: It is with satisfaction that my
delegation and I would like to congratulate His Excellency
Ambassador Samuel Insanally, on his election as President
of the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General
Assembly.
I wish him success in discharging his duties.
My delegation is available and ready to cooperate with him
in the task of ensuring a successful conclusion to this
session’s deliberations.
To His Excellency Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria we extend
our congratulations on the wonderful work he did as
President of
the General
Assembly.
the forty-seventh session of
I should like to take this opportunity to address my
special appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-
Ghali, the Secretary-General of our Organization, for his
unflinching dedication in the search for solutions to the
many problems that affect humankind.
I wish to reiterate
our gratitude and appreciation for his personal commitment
and dedication to the cause of peace and stability in my
country.
To the new Member States which have just joined this
great United Nations family we express our congratulations
and our readiness to work with them to fulfil the objectives
enshrined in the Charter of the Organization.
When I last addressed the Assembly, in 1990, I had the
opportunity to say that my Government had begun direct
negotiations with RENAMO with a view to putting an end
to the long war of destruction and destabilization.
For my Government
the dialogue had as it main
objective - besides ending the war - to restore peace,
normalize life and promote understanding among all citizens
of Mozambique. These conditions are essential
if the
process of national reconstruction is to gain root and prosper.
It is worth indicating here that, for reasons alien to the
Government, the dialogue with RENAMO was complex and
too long. We wish to express our appreciation and thanks
to the international community for its unwavering support,
which helped us to conclude the negotiations successfully
and sign the General Peace Agreement
in Rome on 4
October 1992.
For Mozambique the signing of the General Peace
Agreement represents an important step in the life of its
people. With it, hopes for the Mozambicans to rebuild their
country in a peaceful and harmonious environment were
renewed. The fact that almost one year has elapsed without
any major breach of the cease-fire is reason for joy.
We are witnessing the revival of economic and social
activity in the country. The refugees have begun to return.
Displaced people are resettling in their areas of origin or in
other areas of their choice. The reconstruction of roads,
bridges, schools and health centres is under way in spite of
the shortage of financial and material resources with which
the country is confronted.
The flow of people and goods is increasing as the roads
are reopening to traffic. We are witnessing a normal
movement of people all over
in
RENAMO-occupied areas. There is a growing interest on
the part of foreigners in seeking investment opportunities in
Mozambique.
the country, except
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The challenges ahead of us are enormous. The war of
destabilization that ravaged the country for more than 16
years has caused economic and social damage amounting to
about $20 billion. As a direct consequence of this war, 6
million people were displaced or became refugees in
neighbouring countries; more than 500,000 children became
orphans and an equal number were traumatized. In addition
to this, 3000 primary schools and about 1000 health centres
were destroyed in rural areas. Together with this, power
lines, sugar plants, tea factories - among others - bridges and
mines were destroyed.
Many agricultural and industrial activities of primary
importance were paralysed, thus reducing considerably our
capacity to export. Unemployment was aggravated. These
are the problems we are endeavouring to solve as we
proceed with the implementation of the General Peace
Agreement.
forces and their
economic and social reintegration require a tremendous
effort on our part. As can be seen, these challenges cannot
be met successfully without the support of the Assembly.
The demobilization of
The Government of Mozambique has approved a
national reconstruction plan the main objective of which is
to reactivate the economic and social life of the population
so that people may go from a situation in which they survive
on emergency aid to one of rehabilitation and sustained
development. Thus, the aim of the plan is to put an end to
the structural poverty of the population by giving it the
means it needs to relaunch productive activity and to become
self-sufficient. We believe that in the medium term this plan
will contribute to a rapid expansion of essential services in
rural areas as well as to that of overall economic and social
activity in the country in general.
for
in
action
On humanitarian assistance, it is worth noting that with
the support of the United Nations we drew up a consolidated
programme
process,
demobilization of military units, supply of emergency aid,
re-establishment of essential services, and institutional
capacity-building in the country. Humanitarian assistance
will be required for some years to come until the whole
process of resettlement of the population is completed.
repatriation
the
In spite of
these challenges the Government has
proceeded with the implementation of the economic recovery
programme, with the assistance of the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Economic
Community (EEC) and other partners. After a decline in the
gross domestic product last year we expect a slight growth
of about 4 per cent this year thanks to peace and the good
climatic conditions we are enjoying in the country.
We are convinced that the success of present efforts
and of the large national reconstruction plan will, to a great
extent, depend on the creative spirit, determination and hard
work of all Mozambicans. On the other hand, the success
of this same project will also depend on the generous
support of the international community.
We appeal to our partners to provide timely assistance,
inasmuch as the delays we are observing in delivering
assistance already committed have, in many cases, been
partly responsible for the weak performance of the economy,
particularly in the industrial sector.
that have contributed funds,
We would like to take this opportunity to recognize and
express our thanks to the United Nations, and to all those
countries
resources and
personnel to the United Nations Operation in Mozambique
(UNOMOZ). We equally thank them and the many non-
governmental organizations that have been operating in the
country for their assistance in successfully meeting these
challenges.
We have spoken about encouraging developments in
Mozambique. However, we regret to say that the other face
of the situation in the country is a source of serious concern.
After the international community succeeded in catching
up with the initial delay in setting up the UNOMOZ
operation, RENAMO found new pretexts to further protract
and delay the implementation of the Peace Agreement.
In
its dilatory manoeuvres RENAMO is moving from
precondition
the
preconditions have nothing to do with the General Peace
Agreement or are a blatant breach of it.
though many
precondition,
of
to
From the very inception, RENAMO delayed sending
personnel to fill its positions in the commissions for the
implementation of
the General Peace Agreement. At
present, RENAMO is
stating reservations concerning
Security Council resolution 863 (1993) on Mozambique, to
which my Government fully subscribes. As members know,
that
for urgent
implementation, without further preconditions, of the process
of assembly and demobilization of forces and of beginning
the training of the new army.
resolution calls, among other
things,
On the consultations for the adoption of the draft
law, RENAMO is raising difficulties that can
electoral
hardly be understood, particularly with respect
to the
composition of the National Electoral Commission. The
organization and holding of multiparty elections is a
Government responsibility. The Government cannot excuse
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
7
from that
responsibility at a moment when the
itself
Mozambicans and the international community as a whole
are anxiously waiting to see the free and fair multiparty
elections that are to be held not later than October 1994.
We cannot postpone the elections indefinitely. RENAMO
must be made to understand this. The Government will
continue to engage in consultations, and will spare no effort
to make sure that the elections are held at the proper time.
The overview we have just presented compels us to
make some observations on the situation in Angola and
South Africa, given the affinities of the regional situation as
a whole. We are deeply concerned over the resumption of
hostilities in Angola because they not only represent a
serious threat to peace and to the future of the country but
also threaten to perpetuate tension and instability in the
whole region of southern Africa.
implementation of
We continue to believe that compliance with the
Bicesse Accords, respect for the election results and the
unconditional
the relevant Security
Council resolutions constitute a valid platform in the efforts
towards a lasting peace in Angola. We are hopeful that
dialogue will prevail in the search for the best solutions to
the conflict in Angola.
Within that context, my Government fully subscribes to
Security Council resolution 864 (1993). Strict observance of
the spirit and letter of that resolution by UNITA is a
fundamental condition for an end to the protracted and
devastating war which is responsible for the great suffering
the Angolan people today. We also believe that
of
compliance with that
resolution will certainly lead to
humanitarian assistance being channelled to the people in
greatest need.
I would like to take this opportunity to
reaffirm my Government’s readiness to cooperate with the
United Nations in the implementation of that resolution.
We have followed with great interest the talks within
the framework of the Multiparty Negotiating Forum in South
Africa. We would like to commend the decision taken by
that organ, specifically regarding the creation of
the
Transitional Executive Council soon to be established as a
decisive step in preparing for the first multiracial elections
in the country’s history.
The end of the apartheid system and the formation of
a democratically elected Government will greatly contribute
to peace and stability in the region, thus enhancing the
prospects for even more prosperous economic cooperation
within the context of the Southern African Development
Community (SADC). The peoples of southern Africa have
high hopes for that organization of regional economic
integration as a special
forum for harmonizing their
economic and social development programmes. The region
possesses enormous economic potential yet to be explored,
and continues to call for investment in order to become a
viable, more
the
international arena.
competitive
economic
partner
in
On the Middle East, we welcome the signing of the
agreement between the Israeli Government and the Palestine
Liberation Organization in Washington on 13 September
1993. This agreement constitutes a historic and important
landmark on the road to the solution of the issues in the
Middle East conflict.
a
common
The question of East Timor, whose people shared with
Mozambique
remains
unresolved. We encourage the ongoing dialogue between
Portugal and Indonesia under the auspices of the Secretary-
General, aimed at finding a solution that will safeguard the
right of the Maubère people to self-determination.
colonial
history,
We are also convinced that, through dialogue, the other
conflicts still prevailing in Africa and other continents will
come to satisfactory solutions.
The world economy continues to be characterized by
stagnant growth with an increasing disparity in development
levels. Various factors on the international scene led to this
state of affairs. External debt constitutes one of the main
obstacles to the economic growth of developing countries.
The external debt burden is aggravated by the deteriorating
prices of basic export goods and by weak foreign investment
in productive areas which could have a positive impact on
the balance of payments and on domestic savings. We
believe, therefore, that the international community should
pay special attention to the external debt of the developing
countries and take necessary, adequate measures aimed at
finding a definitive solution to this crisis.
Moreover, we have noted a decline in financial
assistance to the developing countries; such assistance is
being diverted to other countries, in Europe, at the very time
when we are experiencing a reduction in the flow of official
development assistance. This affects the economies of low-
income countries.
Notwithstanding the enormous efforts undertaken in the
structural-adjustment process during the last decade, the
economic and social situation in Africa remains very serious.
The real economic growth rate in African countries remains
far behind the population growth rates. Per capita income
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
and other development factors continue to decrease, and
remain among the lowest in the world.
It is therefore imperative
fragility of the States involved.
that the international community take cognizance of these
difficulties and adopt measures in support of those efforts.
If the alarming economic situation I have described is
not addressed by the international community, and reversed,
the peace dividends resulting from the end of the cold war
and from the progress of the democratic process world wide
will not benefit all the peoples of the world.
It is in this context that we support the efforts to
produce a solid consensus on a development agenda to the
benefit during this session of the General Assembly.
We also believe that a speedy conclusion of the
Uruguay Round of negotiations would contribute to a
solution of the problems relating to international trade that
affect the world economy.
The new challenges we are facing today lead us to
believe even more in the United Nations as the most
privileged forum for harmonizing the global interests of all
peoples of
fostering an
in conformity with the noble
international environment
principles and objectives enshrined in its Charter.
the world, with the aim of
In conclusion, I should like to highlight the importance
of peace-keeping and humanitarian assistance in the world,
and especially in my own country. In this regard I appeal to
Member States to redirect their efforts and resources in order
to strengthen further the United Nations.
to look after
issues in this area.
With regard to environment,
the Republic of
Mozambique has established a National Commission for
Environment
The
implementation of "Agenda 21" in Mozambique has a legal
basis within the Republic’s Constitution, which contains
provisions relating to the management of natural resources
and environment in general. The National Commission for
Environment is at present working on harmonizing measures
aimed at integrating environmental aspects into economic
and social programmes, and it is also producing a National
Plan for Environment Management, whose main objective is
the promotion of the country’s sustained development.
In
order
international obligations in this regard,
Mozambique is making the necessary preparations to adhere
to the main international Conventions and other agreements
on environment.
to fulfil
A brief appreciation of the international situation shows
that the era of bipolarity has given way to the beginning of
an era characterized by dialogue in international cooperation,
particularly in joint efforts to face the problems affecting
peace,
international security and economic and social
development.
Solving the problems we face today requires the
cooperative
on
complementarity and mutual benefit
relations,
based
promotion
of
interdependence,
between nations.
In various parts of the world significant steps have been
taken bearing testimony to the prevailing political will for,
and commitment
and social
democratization. However, these efforts are faced with
social problems deriving from the institutional and economic
to, political,
economic
To this end, we should like to appeal to all Member
States to channel material and financial resources to the
United Nations
the guardian of
international peace and security may continue to be
strengthened.
so that
role as
its
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Mozambique for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, President of the
Republic of Mozambique, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
Agenda Item 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
ADDRESS BY HIS SERENE HIGHNESS PRINCE
ALBERT, CROWN PRINCE OF MONACO
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will now hear an address by His Serene Highness
Crown Prince Albert of Monaco.
His Serene Highness Crown Prince Albert of Monaco
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome His Serene Highness Crown Prince Albert of
Monaco, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
9
CROWN PRINCE ALBERT (interpretation from
French): For me this is a very special occasion, for it is the
first time I address, on behalf of my father, the Sovereign
Prince of Monaco, and on behalf of my country,
this
prestigious world Assembly of the States Members of the
United Nations.
I wish to tell members of the tremendous joy of all
Monégasques and inhabitants of the Principality of Monaco
when my country joined this great world Organization.
I
should like to take the opportunity once again to thank the
members of
the General
Assembly for their favourable consideration of Monaco’s
application for membership of the Organization.
the Security Council and of
I wish the Assembly every success in its work. A
number of its agenda items are of particularly vital historic
and political significance. The decisions we take will
undoubtedly have far-reaching and long-term consequences
for the future of the world community.
I wish also, to congratulate you, Sir, very sincerely and
warmly on your election to the presidency of the General
Assembly. My congratulations also go to the members of
the General Committee. I have no doubt that your skill and
lengthy experience will enable our work to proceed under
the best possible conditions.
Like all countries that put their trust in international law
and cooperation, the Principality of Monaco, in its relations
with other countries, has always relied on respect for
international norms and documents.
Its Princes have always been fully aware of the fact that
the maintenance of peace necessarily entails respect for the
sovereignty of States and the development of friendly
relations among peoples.
Prince Albert I of Monaco, when he created the Peace
Institute at
the end of the last century, was even then
inspired by that philosophy, which led to the founding, in
1919, of the League of Nations and, in 1945, of the United
Nations. On 5 February 1934 Prince Albert’s successor -
Prince Louis II, who was profoundly touched by the
hardship and suffering caused by the First World War - set
up the Medical-Legal Commission of Monaco, whose sober
reflection and work which continue today, gave inspiration
to the drawing up of the 1949 Geneva Conventions of the
International Red Cross.
My country’s commitment
to peace is therefore a
tradition of more than 100 years - a tradition observed by its
Princes, whose dynasty will shortly celebrate its 700th
It is also a political aspiration that has only
anniversary.
grown in strength with the passage of time.
It will always
be adhered to with both conviction and determination in the
General Assembly of the United Nations.
In this spirit, I should like to refer in particular to a
resolution of the International Olympic Committee, of which
I am a member, which unanimously recommends observance
of a long-standing tradition of the Olympic movement - the
principle of the Olympic truce.
The Government of Monaco supports this initiative,
which was signed and endorsed by the National Committees
of 184 countries and was officially addressed to our
Secretary-General on 9 February this year. An international
year of sport and the Olympic spirit would undoubtedly
afford an opportunity to launch this project.
Perhaps it is by constantly repeating certain initiatives
of this nature - albeit modest ones - that we shall be able
gradually to create the just and lasting peace to which we all
so deeply aspire.
Did we not, a few days ago, receive from the southern
shores of the Mediterranean news giving us immense hope
of peace? Though it may be tenuous, we are at one with
those who inspired it and with those who are today
endeavouring to make it a success.
It is our earnest wish
that they will succeed.
Peace is not just the silence of guns. Indeed, there can
be no doubt that the establishment of genuine peace can flow
only from greater respect for justice, human rights and
fundamental freedoms. For this very reason, the work and
the conclusions of the Vienna Conference on human rights
warrants our very close scrutiny.
I
should like to emphasize that
Finally, echoing a wish expressed by my father,
Prince Rainier III, when he addressed the Earth Summit in
Rio de Janeiro,
the
Government of Monaco has set for itself the priority of
protecting our environment, both natural and cultural, so that
it may provide a healthy, enriching and balanced life for all.
The Principality has undertaken major efforts to combat, in
particular, all types of pollution that attack and contaminate
the Mediterranean.
My country is more than ever resolved to encourage all
initiatives in this area, including the establishment, on its
own soil, of institutions dealing with coordination and the
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
adoption of a General Assembly resolution that would
proclaim 1998 the international year of the seas and oceans.
in conclusion,
to reiterate that
I should like,
the
Principality of Monaco - in full respect for the rule of law
in domestic affairs and for
treaties and law in the
international order; having neither armed forces nor military
arsenals; and bearing no enmity to anyone at all - is fully
prepared to assist
its actions,
undertaken sometimes with great difficulty, aimed at
maintaining and rebuilding peace.
the Organization in all
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I should like to thank His
Serene Highness Crown Prince Albert of Monaco for the
statement he has just made.
His Serene Highness Crown Prince Albert of Monaco
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Mr. MOUSSA (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic): It
gives me pleasure to convey to you, Sir, and to your friendly
country my sincere congratulations on your election to the
presidency of
the General
Assembly.
I wish you every success in carrying out your
responsibilities in light of the current developments and
changes in the international situation.
the forty-eighth session of
On this occasion, I should also like to pay tribute to
your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the constructive
efforts he made and the positive role he played as the
President of the past session.
Since the end of the cold war, reference has been made
to a new age. The implications of this have given rise, not
only to hopes and aspirations, but also to caution and
apprehension. Although there was overall satisfaction that
the era of confrontation, the arms race and polarization had
come to an end, and while there was cause for hope that an
era of justice, cooperation and disarmament was about to
dawn, there has been grave concern over the great injustices
that we have witnessed in Bosnia; over the attempt at
political suicide in Somalia; over the illogical and irrational
wars in many parts of the world; and over the multiple
criteria used in addressing various problems.
Side by side with concern, there has been increasing
despair and frustration over the continued deterioration of
in most
economic
conditions
countries,
particularly in Africa.
It must be acknowledged, however,
that international developments, judged fairly and considered
closely, are still in flux, and that the world situation is still
developing
dynamic. We truly hope that such dynamism is moving
towards the strengthening of the positive factors and the
rectification of the negative ones, in order that the political
outlook worldwide might change and that everyone might
embrace the new world order with satisfaction and a will to
participate rather than with despair and frustration.
Fortunately, this session begins amid increasing feelings
of optimism in view of the ongoing progress towards a just
solution to the question of Palestine and of the steady
progress towards a solution to the problem of South Africa.
At the Israeli-Palestinian level, a major step has been
taken through mutual recognition by Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization. This means mutual recognition by
the two peoples of each other and mutual acceptance of the
idea of coexistence with one another. This also opens the
door to serious and substantive negotiations which would
provide an unprecedented opportunity to achieve a just
settlement to the problem that has cast its shadow on the
Middle East - indeed, on the whole world - since the end of
the Second World War.
If what has been achieved represents the first step
towards such a settlement, it will undoubtedly lead to the
establishment of a positive relationship that would deal with
issues such as withdrawal, self-determination and refugees
until the historic and comprehensive settlement between
Israel, Palestine and the Arabs is finalized. This may be the
real meaning behind the statement of the Israeli Prime
Minister at the signing ceremony in Washington, D.C., when
he said: "Enough", and when he said that the time for peace
has come; and also of President Yasser Arafat’s statement
that the Palestine Liberation Organization has turned a new
leaf in its relations with Israel. And God bless the memory
of the late President Anwar El-Sadat, who said: "No more
wars".
Sixteen years ago, Egypt made a breakthrough towards
the outer reaches of the future and shook off the shackles of
the status quo by realizing that wars neither create peace nor
resolve conflicts and that only reason and dialogue provide
the effective means of tackling problems, no matter how
insurmountable or intractable they may seem. Peace was
therefore initiated by Egypt, a peace founded on the solid
foundation of respect for international legality and on the
resultant responsibilities in a balanced manner that ensures
justice for all.
The peace process initiated at the Madrid Conference
in October 1991 is now bearing fruit after unrelenting
efforts, and we are encouraged by the initial outcome we
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
11
saw recently on both the Palestinian-Israeli and the
Jordanian-Israeli tracks and look forward to similar results
on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks. Both countries rightly
call for complete withdrawal from their territories within a
context based objectively on the principle of land for peace.
In order to put an end to the legacy of wars and enmity,
Egypt, which has devoted a substantial part of its efforts to
Middle East issues, calls upon all the peoples of the region
to look to the future and to reflect upon our relations in the
period following the settlement of the conflict.
It calls on
them to reflect upon the future of the region and its
development to ensure optimum utilization of the ample
expertise available and optimal investment of the rich human
resources at our disposal and of
the valuable natural
resources with which it has been endowed.
Egypt calls on these peoples to reflect upon the most
suitable social contract for our region so that they might
maintain their respective unique, intrinsic characteristics and
achieve harmony and integration among the region’s
common elements, so that social and cultural stability may
prevail and the region may achieve comprehensive cultural
integration in a genuine era of comprehensive integral peace.
Finally, Egypt calls on the peoples of the region to
develop a system of relations based on equal security, the
non-use of force, a balance of armaments and the elimination
of all weapons of mass destruction in a context of
transparency and peaceful relations.
In the same vein, Egypt calls on all States in the
Middle East, and particularly on Israel, to accede to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to
take the necessary practical measures to prohibit and
renounce the possession, the use or the threat of use of
nuclear, chemical and biological weapons so that the Middle
East may become a zone free of these weapons as called for
in President Hosni Mubarak’s initiative of April 1990. We
consider this to be an indispensable prerequisite for security
and stability in the Middle East.
Mr. WALOSOWICZ (Poland), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
Side by side with the considerable optimism generated
by what has been achieved in the context of the Palestinian-
Israeli conflict, there has been progress in another area, that
for far too long has been a hotbed of serious historical and
international conflict, namely, the conflict in South Africa,
between a people calling for its rights to equality and
freedom and a regime that was based on repression and
apartheid. Egypt, an African state with an African people,
feels glad to see positive developments in South Africa, the
most important of which is the agreement on the formation
of a transitional Executive Council that would lead towards
democracy and equal rights.
The Council consists of
representatives of majority as well as minority groups and
would work within a framework of cooperation, co-existence
and understanding. Despite the many obstacles and the great
challenges that still lie ahead, the start has been encouraging
and developments are promising.
In this regard, we
recognize the role played by President De Klerk. We also
pay tribute to the role played by Nelson Mandela and his
companions across the political spectrum in South Africa in
turning a new leaf towards a common future.
The twenty-ninth African Summit Conference was held
in Cairo last June. It gave the countries of the continent an
opportunity to evaluate its progress on the thirtieth
anniversary of the establishment of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU). The meeting produced the Cairo
Declaration, which reflected the imposing record of the
struggle of the peoples of the African continent over the past
three decades. The Declaration also put forward the member
States’ vision for the future and their conception of the
manner in which they may adapt to the successive and quick
international changes
in shaping their conditions and
relationships. The Cairo summit discussions established
many landmarks that would guide the direction of African
activities in the coming years. They noted the options
available to the continent and the challenges it has to face.
The continent has expressed its determination to eliminate
poverty, desertification and indebtedness and to initiate a
comprehensive development process for its countries and
peoples and to improve their economic and political
conditions.
it
is prepared to shoulder
Despite the numerous problems of Africa, the continent
its
has demonstrated that
responsibilities in facing up to the challenges posed by those
problems. Most prominent among its decisions in this
regard was the decision to establish an African machinery
for resolving disputes. In that regard, the African States are
have set forth a new mode of international cooperation and
collaboration in shouldering responsibilities, notwithstanding
all
the difficulties facing the continent because of its
continued low share in the world gross national product and
the increasing cost of debt servicing. Such a situation,
though restraining the continent’s endeavors and weakening
its capabilities, has not debilitated either its will or its
determination.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The Cairo Summit was an expression of a determined
attitude towards the indispensable need to make a number of
adjustments to African policies and plans. It showed that the
time has come to take the difficult decisions required to
bridge the gap between Africa and the developed world -
indeed, between Africa and many countries of the third
world itself.
that
Mention of Africa leads to a discussion of
the
developments in the Horn of Africa. This is all the more
important owing to the fact
the developments and
interactions in the Horn of Africa are closely related to the
security of the Middle East and of Africa in general. Hence,
we welcome the independence of Eritrea and its accession to
membership of the United Nations. We also express our
deep regret at the situation in Somalia. In this regard, Egypt
is fully cooperating with the international community, which
has moved effectively to put an end to the famine that
beleaguered that country and to the armed conflicts that have
shaken its very existence.
In the meantime, Egypt
sympathizes with the people of Somalia in their aspiration
after a secure future based on a national reconciliation that
will serve the interests and meets the aspirations of all the
Somali people and not merely the ambitions of a certain
leader or faction. As a result, immediately after being elected
Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, President
Hosni Mubarak, inspired by Egypt’s keen interest in the
implementation of Security Council
resolutions on the
situation in Somalia, coordinated efforts with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of
the OAU to create the climate that would make it possible
to achieve continued progress in the efforts designed to
enable that brotherly country to begin the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of its infrastructure and to permit its people -
torn by conflicts and dissension - to clear the debris of
discord and to reunite. That can be done only by helping
the Somali people to achieve a comprehensive national
reconciliation that would allow all its elements to express
their will freely, without any repression or apprehension and
without being blackmailed by power-seekers who instigate
policies of destruction and annihilation.
is a
responsibility that the Somali people, who fell prey to tribal
disputes and personal ambitions, must shoulder, and the time
has come to put an end to that situation from an exclusively
national perspective.
This
Moving from Somalia to Angola where the situation
has been aggravated by UNITA’s disregard for the will of
the majority of the people, expressed in free elections, Egypt
calls for absolute support for Security Council resolution 864
(1993) which was adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter,
and which condemned UNITA and urged all States to refrain
from providing any form of assistance to it until it respects
the provisions of the "Acordos de Paz" as well as the will of
the people of Angola and the resolutions of the United
Nations.
Africa’s problems are not confined to those of South
Africa, the Horn of Africa or Angola. They also extend to
numerous African States whether in the form of civil wars,
such as the one in Liberia, with its impact on its neighbours,
or in the form of internal political dissension, like that
prevalent in many African States at the present time, in
addition to all the development-related problems and the
pangs of democratization. Nevertheless, Africa is ready,
with determination and political will, to go beyond those
problems and to embrace the twenty-first century and, all
total confidence, steadfastness and determination, to be an
active partner
the desired new
international order.
in the formulation of
I
by
of
the
some
began
reviewing
positive
developments in international relations that gave us reason
to look toward the future with hope. However, there have
been other recent developments in the world which give rise
to concerns and fears. Those developments have posed an
essential question among a number of thinkers: What kind
of a world order do we need, and would such an order,
whose foundations would be laid today, be an extension of
the past, with its notions and policies, but in some new form,
or would it be a mere reflection of the present with all its
imbalances, contradictions and double standards? Or, rather,
would it be a real and genuine development towards a future
that may take us into the twenty-first century?
Living in just peace and prevailing stability is the prime
demand, without which none of our aspirations will be
attained. Peace is not a passive or abstract concept. It is the
expression of the active and conscious will of all countries
and peoples, small or large, to manage the common life on
this planet, with all
its peoples, entities and groupings,
according to commonly agreed principles, values and
guidelines.
Certain principles underlie our concept of living in
conditions of peace and security, the most important of
which are the following:
first, respect and support for
legality to maintain the reverence for and
international
predominance of the law we have all accepted; secondly, the
principle of equal rights and obligations to relieve frustrated
peoples and to encourage them to utilize their expertise and
efforts in joint and integrated action for the benefit of all.
All men are required to abide by the same rules in their
international relations and to have a balanced share in
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
13
regional and international responsibilities within a framework
that gives priority to public interest.
Mr. Walosowicz (Poland), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
community that stood against Iraq’s Government when it
committed aggression against Kuwait? And if we approve
the demarcation of the Iraq-Kuwait border, why do we allow
the Serbs to expand at the expense of the Bosnian people
and their territorial rights?
Thirdly, the same standard should be applied in judging
all cases that are similar in nature. The same provisions
should be applied on a universal basis without selectivity or
bias to ensure stability and security, reward compliance and
punish and deter those who breach the accepted norms of
international legality.
Fourthly, the principle of peace for all in the context of
should be
corresponding and balanced commitments
respected.
Fifthly, the right to development should be respected
to developing countries,
and joint
particularly to the least developed among them.
assistance made
Respect for these principles constitutes direct and active
implementation of the rules of international legality. It also
represents a sincere response to the will of the international
community. Their violation would threaten our efforts to
agree on a more just and humane international order and
would greatly harm the credibility and progress of such
efforts.
I have to state here in all frankness that Muslim
and many others, have witnessed the
communities,
manifestations of
repression and bias in a number of
international policies. This has become apparent in the
hesitation and inconsistency witnessed in addressing the
question of Bosnia and certain other issues. There is no
doubt that a great deal of the suspicions of the Muslim
world could have been dispelled if the Bosnian problem had
been dealt with according to the established principles
enshrined in the United Nations Charter
relating to
aggression, occupation, war crimes and crimes committed
against humanity. All of those crimes have been committed
against the people of Bosnia. This will not be forgotten by
those who have witnessed that tragedy unfolding under their
very eyes, day in and day out.
Instead of addressing the
problem in accordance with the principles of the Charter, the
blockade has been tightened around the people of Bosnia and
all manner of procrastination and stalling has prevailed.
Egypt rejects this flagrant manipulation of the norms of
justice. Such manipulation rewards the aggressor for his
aggression. Egypt rejects this gross breach of human rights.
How can anyone justify this hesitation in the face of Serb
aggression against Bosnia on the part of the international
The protraction of the Bosnian problem without a just
solution acceptable to its people weakens the credibility of
many international policies and developments. The only
positive development in this regard may be the establishment
of the International Tribunal for the prosecution of war
criminals who have practiced ethnic cleansing.
These
prosecutions should target those who advocate or condone
such practices
and
that bespeak cultural decadence
criminality in those who perpetrate or advocate them.
identity. We view it
The issue of human rights is one of the major questions
that face us. We in Egypt believe that the human rights
issue is universal both in content and nature. When we deal
with this issue in Egypt, we look at
through the
perspective of the cultural and historical heritage which is
part of our national
through our
deep-rooted history extending through the millennia; through
our ancient Egyptian civilization;
Islamic
deeply impressed upon our
civilization, which is
consciousness;
our
the
Mediterranean civilizations; and through the legacy of the
ages of renaissance and enlightenment
in contemporary
Europe, which have had their effect on philosophy and
modern thought in Egypt.
through our
it
through
interaction with
The essence of this interlocking and integrated cultural
heritage is the assertion of the individual human being’s
value, recognition of his role in working for revival and
progress, and upholding his right to freedom of thought and
creativity in line with Islam’s sound principles which uphold
man’s personal and social
Those principles
maintain a balance between rights and duties as well as
between the individual and society, so that neither may
encroach on the rights of the other and so that all may live
within a framework of a meticulously formulated social
contract.
freedom.
As we see it, the main aim of human rights is to protect
the real
interests of the individual, his family and his
homeland, as well as his fundamental, essential and genuine
right to live in safety and security. This is the primary right
from which all other rights should emanate. All these rights
must be protected from those who try to violate or deny
them through terrorism or intimidation. All communities of
the world are now in the same struggle against terroristic
practices, whether they emanate from racial chauvinism, the
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
radical right, doctrines of "ethnic cleansing" or religious
fanaticism.
these doctrines follow practices that
constitute gross violations of human rights, and should be
defied.
All
In view of our firm stand in favour of safeguarding and
maintaining human rights - foremost of which is the right to
life and security - we are aware that real democracy is the
best guarantee of stability, security and social peace. All
political freedoms and rights, individual or collective, will
remain forever incomplete if they are not complemented by
economic, social and cultural rights. We believe that it is
not an overstatement to say that the right of the individual
and of the community to development and economic and
political progress is closely related with their political and
cultural rights in general. They reinforce each other and
neither can proceed on its own.
One of the challenges now facing us is the need to
demonstrate our collective ability to bring about a real
change in the world economic order that would transcend
narrow interests and considerations and rise to the level of
real world
sustainable
development for all and the protection of our common
Such a challenge requires us frankly to
environment.
express
our
views
international
developments that give cause for concern with regard to the
future.
partnership
concerning
striving
current
for
in
The current world economic situation pivots on the
centrality of the decision-making process which remains in
the hands of the industrialized countries, with all that that
entails with regard to the economies of developing countries.
Furthermore,
the current recession in the industrialized
countries
reflected directly in the depression and
is
increasing unemployment and poverty rates that plague the
developing countries.
This situation is exacerbated by the protectionist
measures put in place by rich countries in trying to face up
to their economic problems. Developing countries find
themselves helpless before such measures. They can only
plead and hope. And this takes place at a time when most
of the developing countries are in the throes of implementing
rigorous programmes of economic reform.
the
liberalization of trade constitutes a fundamental resource for
development
the developing countries,
protectionism deprives those countries of the opportunity to
reap the fruits of their agonized efforts in the area of
economic reform and liberalization and severely hampers the
integration of their economies in the world economy.
in the case of
As
the
find
countries
developing
So far, we find nothing in the Uruguay Round of
multilateral trade negotiations that augurs well for the future.
Today,
themselves
marginalized by side deals in which they do not participate.
Such deals are characterized by ambiguity rather than
transparency. They jeopardize the interests of developing
countries. On the other hand, the developments of the last
two years have demonstrated that the international monetary
system is no better than the trade system. Conflicting goals
of monetary and macro-economic policies in industrialized
countries have led to a state of chaos in foreign exchange
markets, destabilizing the world economic order, with all
resultant adverse effects on developing economies.
The Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro was an important
milestone on the road of constructive dialogue between
North and South for a world partnership to counter the
dangers facing our planet.
In spite of the meagre progress
that has been achieved in the implementation of the Rio
resolutions, we still perceive a marked difference between
the perspectives of
the developed and the developing
countries. The developed countries focus mainly on the
symptoms of the crisis, which represent a major threat to
their life styles and their welfare, even though it was those
very countries which contributed to the deterioration of the
environment.
By contrast, many developing countries continue to
from environmental pollution for which other
suffer
In their attempt to solve
countries are largely responsible.
problems of debt, declining commodity prices and trade
barriers as well as the problems of sustainable development
and
protection,
Governments found that they were facing a real impasse
leading to low productivity and declining growth rates which
in turn led to more poverty.
environmental
requirements
the
for
In the long run, the divergence between these two
perspectives may hinder comprehensive world action to deal
with the world environmental crisis.
In order to surmount
this dilemma, all parties are called upon to shoulder their
responsibility for lending credibility to and promoting the
acceptance of the slogans of interdependence and world
partnership.
In this regard, it is important to address an integral
aspect of the equation for achieving development and
preserving the environment: the population problem, which
threatens both sides of that equation. We are all aware of
the extent of this problem, which completely absorbs the
yields of development and will ensure the continued
destruction of the environment.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
15
The International Conference on Population and
Development, which Cairo will host in September 1994,
represents an opportune occasion for
the international
community to address population issues from the appropriate
developmental perspective and from the perspective of their
relationship to issues of economic and social development.
We in Egypt, as the host country, shall exert every
effort to ensure the success of this important conference, and
we are confident that its outcome will represent a sound
context
international cooperation in the field of
population and development.
for
It
Our discussion of the conditions and circumstances of
the Third World leads us
to a broader and more
comprehensive discussion of the political movements and
groupings with which the various developing countries are
associated, despite their different orientations and stages of
development.
is high time for us to stop and ask
ourselves what these groupings have achieved and what can
be done to further their legitimate goals. We need to reflect
on this issue in a frank, constructive and objective manner.
It has become apparent
the challenges facing the
developing countries have changed substantially. We are on
the threshold of new international conditions and challenges
which have different economic, political and security effects.
that
In Egypt, we have already begun to study this issue,
taking into consideration the positive and the negative effects
of the past decades at the political, economic and social
levels in the Third World, and the implications for changing
priorities and areas of concern. We have come to the
following conclusions:
Firstly,
the so-called Third World represents the
majority of the world population and the majority of world
countries.
It has the major share in the production of
primary commodities, and it has vast market potential. This
Third World is fully entitled to be a full-fledged partner in
the ongoing restructuring process at the world level.
Secondly, in order to be able to do so, the Third World
has to mould a political collective will, and this can only be
achieved through democratic open discussion between its
States.
Thirdly, this, in turn, can only be achieved through the
establishment of a political system or movement that would
include all these States.
Fourthly,
negotiation and partnership within a
the ultimate aim should be dialogue,
framework of
cooperation, collaboration and integration,
confrontation or conflict.
rather
than
Today, I propose that the developing countries embark
on a dialogue aimed at establishing a grouping for the Third
World, a grouping within which the developing countries
would deal with the political, economic and social aspects of
various world issues,
a grouping to coordinate their
positions and shape their contribution towards the laying of
the foundations of the new world order which we hope will
prevail during the 21st century.
The developments we have just reviewed, and the
successive changes we are witnessing, strengthen Egypt’s
belief in the pivotal role of the United Nations in managing
international
relations in line with the principles and
provisions of its Charter.
Egypt attaches great
importance to increasing the
effectiveness of the United Nations and preserving its
credibility. We are aware of the nature and number of the
challenges that face the international Organization, perhaps
for the first time. These urgent challenges were suddenly
pushed to the surface of international relations by historical
developments that were never imagined by the founding
fathers or the drafters of the Charter. We all agree that the
momentum that characterized the past few years was so
pressing and rapid that there should be a comprehensive
review of the United Nations mechanisms and structure, if
we are serious in our effort to adjust the international will to
the facts of our age, and if we are eager to maintain the
credibility and effectiveness of the United Nations.
In this connection, and with reference to the envisaged
structural changes, I would like to state that Egypt, as one of
the States which took part in the formulation of the Charter,
and as one of the founding states of the Organization, is
mainly concerned with the continued presence of the United
Nations and its principles, message, prestige and credibility
to serve the causes of international peace and security
without interruption.
Needless to say, the burdens of the United Nations in
the post-cold war era are far greater than they were during
the cold war itself. If the collective will of the international
community agrees to make structural changes in the
membership of the Security Council, for example, Egypt -
role within the
which is undertaking an effective
international order
regional and
international relations and in establishing the concepts and
principles on which we all agree,
in addition to its
participation in numerous peace-keeping operations on
in the formulation of
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to
several continents - has the right and the potential
contribute in a responsible manner
to the proposed
institutional restructuring of the United Nations. Egypt has
the desire and determination to take part both in the process
itself and in setting the standards and values to be used in
the process. Egypt believes that it has now gained the
requisite standing to be included within the framework of the
ongoing discussion and within the new membership.
We must open the doors to a better future in whose
creation all of us will participate to achieve the 21st century
world for which we hope. This is the time for collective
formulation of a new solid and stable world order. This is
the great challenge that
faces us all at a time of
unprecedented opportunity.
Mr. BEN YAHIA (Tunisia)
(interpretation from
Arabic):
I am particularly pleased to offer my warm
congratulations to Ambassador Insanally, both on my own
behalf and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of
Tunisia, on his election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I am delighted to see
him directing our work and I am convinced that in the
choice it has made,
the General Assembly intended to
honour his country, which has been devoted to the cause of
peace and international cooperation.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank his
predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the contribution he made
to the work of the forty-seventh session and for the great
skill he evinced at that time.
It is also a pleasant duty to pay tribute to the Secretary-
General of the Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for
his efforts and the determination in implementing the
objectives and decisions of the United Nations aimed at
resolving conflicts throughout the world. His is far from an
easy task, particularly since those conflicts have multiplied
and the activity and role of the United Nations today have
increased as well.
I should also like to congratulate the new Member
States that have acceded recently to membership of our
Organization and to welcome their delegations here present.
I am quite certain that they will make their own valuable
contributions to what is being done by the United Nations to
promote peace and cooperation between nations.
means of strengthening our Organization and its new fields
of action, particularly on the basis of preventive diplomacy
and on building relationships of trust and cooperation
between States.
Starting from 7 November 1987, Tunisia has been
engaged in laying the foundations of a modern and advanced
State capable of adapting to the changes that have taken
place and continue to take place in the world. Tunisia hopes
that after the era of dogmatism and ideology, the world will
be able to evince greater maturity by putting more vigour in
striving for cooperation between nations and solidarity
between peoples.
One of the signs of such maturity is undoubtedly the
dynamic peace process in the Middle East. There can be no
doubt that the premisses of peace in the Middle East which
are now attracting the attention of the entire international
community are an indication that an end to decades of
confrontation, destruction and suffering is now in view.
The historic mutual recognition between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization and the declaration of
principles
relating to the occupied territories are all
important signposts along the road towards recognition of the
legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, and are a cause
for hope that a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle
East is in the offing.
Tunisia, while welcoming these developments, would
like to voice the hope that Israel will show the necessary
courage to reach agreement with the Arab parties concerned
in order to achieve a just and lasting peace that will
guarantee that all the peoples of the region will live in
security and stability, and that in the place of strife and
conflict there will be good-neighbourliness.
Devoted as it is to the universal values of peace and
justice, Tunisia will continue to endeavour to give impetus
to this dynamic peace process in the Middle East with a
view to undoing the knot of the crises and conflicts that
beset the world today.
In line with this stance, Tunisia has made a point of
being associated with the efforts of
the international
community and with the work of the United Nations in the
service of peace, security and stability.
After the spectacular upheavals that
the world has
undergone, the current session provides us with a propitious
opportunity to take a close look at the circumstances and the
prospects offered by these changes and to consider ways and
It is in this context that we should view Tunisia’s
participation in the operations involving supervision of the
elections in Cambodia, despite the enormous difficulties that
were encountered.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
17
Also, Tunisia recently responded to the United Nations
appeal to take part in the Somali operation; unfortunately,
the situation seems to indicate that a return of peace in the
short term seems rather unlikely.
Tunisia also responded to the United Nations appeal to
be associated in United Nations efforts in the Western
Sahara, the purpose of which is to lay the groundwork for
holding a referendum.
Regarding the tragedy of the people of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Tunisia once again appeals to the conscience
of the world to work determinedly towards seeking a just
settlement based on law and international legality rather than
on the basis of fait accompli politics, so that a swift end may
be put to this tragedy, particularly as winter is near.
Since it remains faithful
to its Arab and Islamic
identity, and since it also belongs to the Maghreb, Tunisia
will do everything it can to strengthen the ties of
brotherhood and cooperation in order
to achieve our
objectives so that we may be able to realize the aspirations
of our peoples of a better future.
It is in this spirit that
Tunisia and Algeria have recently concluded an agreement
on the demarcation of the borders between our two fraternal
countries. The agreement will be deposited shortly with the
United Nations.
In this context, we should like to express our sincere
hope that all
the problems in the Gulf region will be
properly and rationally resolved, including the boundary
disputes between Iraq and Kuwait and between the United
Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and that this
will be achieved by peaceful means in line with existing
agreements and the norms of international
in
keeping with the new spirit which now inspires international
relations as well as with the aspirations of our world after
peace and stability in this particularly sensitive region.
legality,
to make progress
Tunisia’s efforts on the Arab Maghreb’s level in its
capacity as current president of the Arab Maghreb Union
aim at creating the necessary conditions that would enable
us
in building the Maghreb and
strengthening its role in the international arena. Building the
edifice of the Maghreb is part and parcel of the current
development of
relations, which favours
regional groupings. We for our part are doing everything we
can to ensure that the Arab Maghreb Union keeps pace with
events in a way that will make it possible to establish
fruitful relations in the international context and more
particularly with the
regional Arab, European and
Mediterranean groups so that, as a group it may serve as an
international
instrument of peace and cooperation and a bastion of
security and stability.
The dispute between Libya, a member of the Arab
Maghreb Union and three Western countries is a source of
deep concern for us. Tunisia has worked hard within the
Maghreb framework and at
to find a
negotiated and honourable settlement that would safeguard
the interests of all parties and spare the region the risk of
any escalation of tension and instability.
the Arab level
Tunisia has always worked for strengthening peace and
It is our hope that in future Africa
cooperation in Africa.
will
the profound
international political and economic changes that have taken
place, so that it may devote its efforts to development.
reap the beneficial
side-effects of
Tunisia, which has welcomed the process of change in
South Africa, and looks forward with optimism to seeing the
April 1994 elections restore this great African country to a
place worthy of its standing within the African family, calls
upon all political parties to respect the agreement that has
been concluded, and to implement it in good faith so that the
peoples of Azania can see an end to racism and the advent
of a new era of democracy.
The establishment, at the most recent Summit of the
Organization of African Unity, of machinery for
the
management and settlement of conflicts in Africa is also a
source of great satisfaction. In our view, this is evidence of
the determination of the African Heads of State to turn the
page once and for all on wars and disputes and to embark
upon a new era based on dialogue and fruitful cooperation.
Henceforth, Africa will have to rely essentially on its
own resources. However, it does need the support of the
international community so that its efforts may succeed in
achieving the goal of African development and African
stability.
Attention should be drawn to the suffering of many
African States as a result of upheavals and conflicts such as
those witnessed by Somalia, Liberia and Angola, which have
now become sources of major concern for
the entire
international community. The international community must
not remain unmoved by such events, which undermine whole
States and sap their potential. We believe that
the
international community is capable of contributing genuinely
to national reconciliation in those countries, and that by so
doing it will make it possible to eliminate all the other
sources of tension in the continent.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The profound changes in international relations have
undoubtedly imparted a global dimension to the problems of
the world.
International solidarity and cooperation in the
new shape they have taken, have become an absolute
necessity whether the issue in question has to do with the
maintenance of peace, disarmament, the upholding of human
rights, or with addressing problems
relating to the
environment, demography and development.
On November 7th, Tunisia charted for
itself an
unswerving course in that area and boldly has taken several
decisive steps toward laying the foundations of a State that
functions under the rule of law, through institutions that
uphold fundamental freedoms.
Thus the concepts and
principles of human rights, freedom, pluralism, the rule of
law and State institutions, have become constants on which
all Tunisians unite around their President Ben Ali, in order
to devote themselves to laying the foundations of our
society.
Tunisia has spared no effort to ensure the success of the
International Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, to
facilitate the successful elaboration of a common approach
and to identify the appropriate machinery to ensure respect
for human rights.
My country remains convinced that development,
combatting poverty, the settlement of disputes that arise from
foreign occupation, the elimination of racism and fanaticism,
are all absolute imperatives in defending human rights of
people, ensuring the stability of States and enabling their
peoples to progress.
In this respect, I should like to highlight one particular
scourge namely the dangerous phenomenon of extremism
and terrorism, especially that type of extremism which dons
the garb and mask of religion while, in spirit and action, it
constitutes a total negation of democracy and human rights.
Tunisia, which unmasked in time the doublespeak of
that type of extremism, has been able, through an overall
strategy of political,
and social
achievement, to contain this phenomenon and thwart its
designs. Consequently, our country now enjoys safety,
stability and continued progress.
economic,
cultural
We have listened with great attention to President
William Clinton when he spoke this morning of the risks
which continue to threaten security and stability throughout
the world, particularly extremism - racial extremism above
all - and religious extremism, which breed hatred and
terrorism. Tunisia continues to appeal to the international
to contain this
community to intensify its
phenomenon which sows anarchy and chaos in the bosom of
the international community and hampers the development
process.
efforts
It is high time for the international community as a
whole to give serious thought to this phenomenon, to define
its various forms and manifestations and to devise an
international course of action and a legal framework to
combat it. We should also look for just foundations that
would reinforce the laws of asylum now in force in all
States.
It is obvious that while the right of asylum acquires a
humanitarian character and is essentially a part of State
sovereignty, the granting of asylum should be in accordance
with certain ethical rules and principles which must be
respected.
Tunisia believes that the right of asylum is one of those
common human values which must not be used for the
purposes other than those for which they were created.
to work for genuine disarmament.
The persistence of old problems and conflicts which
drag on in various parts of the world, delays in development
which plague a considerable segment of mankind highlight
the fragility of peace and security. Consequently, it is
essential
It was in
keeping with this thinking that Tunisia acceded to the Non-
Proliferation Treaty, the Treaty banning the development of
biological weapons and signed, in January 1993, in Paris, the
Convention on the Prohibition of
the Development,
Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction.
I hardly need to recall that the concept of security
transcends the purely military aspects and embraces various
elements that encompass political stability and economic
security. This means we have to draw up an agenda for
development as a necessary prerequisite for the success of
An Agenda for Peace.
The right of both present and future generations to live
in a healthy environment is today at the very centre of the
concerns of the international community and is one of the
main concerns of my country.
To this end, Tunisia adopts a policy that combines
preventive and remedial environmental programmes. That
policy has yielded so far, many tangible results, in areas
such as the conservation and safeguarding of natural
resources, the protection of fisheries and coastlines, and the
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
19
improvement of the quality of life. Ratification of the
international conventions which followed the Earth Summit
and the creation of a national Commission on Sustainable
Development are all tangible facts which reflect Tunisia’s
commitment to the implementation of the decisions of the
Rio de Janeiro Summit.
It goes without saying that steps taken at the national
level can only be viable to the extent that the international
community succeeds in identifying the interrelationships
between the problems of the environment and those of
development.
In this connection, there is need for a new approach in
addressing the issues of North-South relations. This means
moving towards strengthening of a multilateral economic
system in order effectively to respond to the priorities of the
poorer countries.
Tunisia has constantly given concrete expression to
cooperation between the North and the South in its various
aspects because it is convinced of the interdependence of the
interests of the two groupings and the link between the
growth and volume of assistance provided by the countries
of the North. That is why it would be judicious to formulate
a new approach to international cooperation which would
encompass development assistance, trade, investment and the
transfer of technology.
To avoid a North-South schism, the developed countries
must take account of the economic problems of the countries
of the South, especially those problems that relate to the
development process as well as the problems relating to the
restructuring of their economies and to indebtedness.
We cannot deal with international trade without taking
up one vital question, namely the necessity of establishing a
link between the transfer of technology to the developing
countries and capital flows.
In this connection, it must be recalled that indebtedness
and debt-servicing, in the case of the developing countries,
in most cases is the main obstacle that impedes further
development and hampers full participation in the world
economy.
Although Tunisia has always honoured its financial
commitments I should like in this connection to reiterate
some proposals we made earlier on this subject:
in
particular regarding the rescheduling of debt by creating a
special fund to finance job-creating development projects.
There is no doubt that such projects, in addition to their
direct return which would be beneficial to the recipient
countries, will have the effect of settling populations in their
original regions and thus contribute to reducing migratory
flows to wealthier countries.
In this very Hall, President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
proposed a contract for peace and development that in our
estimation, would strengthen the existing capabilities and
enhance potential in the States of the North and of the South
alike.
In his recent address to the European Parliament at
Strasbourg in June 1993, President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
further proposed organizing a conference on the development
of the Maghreb States with a view to establishing a new
political, economic, social and cultural partnership between
the Maghreb and the European States.
Before concluding, I wish to touch on the question of
the restructuring of the organs of the United Nations. I want
again to welcome the initiatives of Mr. Boutros Boutros-
Ghali to adapt the universal Organization’s structures to the
ongoing changes in international relations, to rationalize the
activities of the United Nations system and to reorganize the
methods of its functioning. The elements of the proposed
reform package should be carefully considered and discussed
by all Member States with a view to making the
Organization’s new structure more efficacious.
The projected reforms - whether involving enlargement
of the Security Council, redeployments in the Secretariat or
cuts in spending - deserve our attention to the extent that
they take account of
the developing
countries. We think the reforms should emphasize the
principle of equality among Member States and guarantee
decision-making balance among the Organization’s various
organs, and particularly with respect to the Security Council
and the General Assembly.
the interests of
Let me conclude by reiterating my wishes for the
success of the work of the forty-eighth session; we count on
it to realize the hopes of the peoples of our world.
ADDRESS BY MRS. GRO HARLEM BRUNDTLAND,
PRIME MINISTER OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mrs. Gro Harlem Brundtland, Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Norway, was escorted to the rostrum.
economic development
undertake together.
the two parties have agreed to
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Kingdom of Norway, Her
the Prime Minister of
Excellency Mrs. Gro Harlem Brundtland, and inviting her to
address the General Assembly.
Mrs. BRUNDTLAND (Norway):
It gives me great
pleasure to congratulate Ambassador
Insanally on his
election to the high office of President of the General
Assembly.
I should also like to welcome the new Members of our
Organization:
the Czech Republic,
Monaco, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and
Slovakia.
Andorra, Eritrea,
The historic and courageous breakthrough in the Middle
East tells us that even the deepest trench can be bridged.
Conflict has tormented that entire region for most of this
century.
It has brought super-Powers to the brink of war.
It has placed enormous burdens on the United Nations itself.
It has deprived families of their dear ones and held people
under the ominous spell of fear.
Now we must seize the moment. Now we are at a
turning point for the United Nations as well. Now we must
answer the clarion call and mobilize our collective political
and financial resources to help move the peace process
forward.
The time has come to let the divisive, acrimonious
Middle East debates and decisions of the past fade into
history. Israeli and Palestinian leaders have made reality of
the seemingly impossible. We would fail abysmally in our
duties should we falter now in our efforts to support the
process of prying peace out of the knot of conflict, a process
which men and women of vision have dared to think, dared
to do.
Due to our long-standing relations with the parties, both
our friendship with Israeli leaders and the mutual trust we
have established with the Palestine Liberation Organization
(PLO), Norway was privileged to contribute to these
defining dramatic events.
In this spirit, we shall go to Washington on 1 October,
committed to help in building peace. For the peace process
to succeed, it must be consolidated and stabilized by the
The fruits of peace must become tangible and real for
the women, men and children of Gaza and the West Bank.
The process of implementation could change the perspectives
and expectations of the parties, convert interdependence into
a sense of community, and make possible solutions and
visions which today seem beyond reach.
The economic situation in Gaza and on the West Bank
is dramatic and calls for immediate and extensive economic
aid. Now we must respond to the just but unfulfilled
aspirations of the Palestinians: for job opportunities and for
schools, hospitals and universities. Now we must assist in
building houses,
roads and water supplies, and make
reconciliation pay, so that new generations of Israelis and
Palestinians may grow up without fear, as good neighbours,
in a life of dignity.
the United Nations itself,
A period of healing is needed in which all peace-loving
countries,
the Bretton Woods
institutions, other financial institutions and the European
Community join financially - and substantially - in a
coordinated, immediate investment-for-peace programme. I
pledge and confirm that Norway’s assistance will be
substantial and that we shall be honoured to play a
continuing political role should the parties so desire.
A period of renewal and change must also embrace
South Africa and our relations with that country. South
Africa is in desperate need of peace and reconciliation.
Fixing a date for democratic elections in April next year is
a beacon of hope that the post-Apartheid system will finally
gain the democratic legitimacy which the South African
Government cannot claim today.
Until the day when black South Africans can enjoy the
human rights of which they have been oppressively deprived,
until the day when violence is ended and joint political
control has been established over the military and police
forces, until that day South Africa will remain a country in
imperative transition.
The outside world and the United Nations must, in
time, recognize the potential of post-apartheid South Africa -
at peace with itself and endowed with immensely rich
natural and human resources - for the whole region of
southern Africa. Education and training are needed for
generations which are now ready to assume an equal role in
the economy of their country. We must now act forcefully,
encouraging proponents of peace and transition, and
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
21
discourage the shrill voices of hatred and interposition so
that one day - soon - the South African man and woman
may be free at last.
all sides who are without a voice and without a choice, those
who are victimized and whose only hope is the assistance
we can provide from the outside.
We must never lose hope that peace can be achieved.
But our hope has been severely tested by the protracted
atrocities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There seems to be no
limit
to the brutality that human beings are capable of
mobilizing in the service of a nationalistic goal. Such acts
have been committed in the name of a doctrine - the
doctrine of the ethnic state - and thus prolong the sinister
existence of doctrine as a source of war and contention in
this century.
Ethnic nationalism is a threat to peace and stability
everywhere. The ethnic mosaic of Europe does not lend
itself to such reduction. A doctrine of the ethnic state is a
prescription for war. Our task is to build communities
which include rather
than exclude and to make all
multi-ethnic regions safe refuges of enlightened diversity.
A military victory in which aggression appears to pay
in Bosnia will be noted in those parts of the world where
different nationalities are sharing territory and political
organization.
In the former Soviet Union alone, ethnic
tensions are reaching critical mass or have already erupted,
as in Nagorny-Karabakh and Abkhazia.
The authority of
the United Nations is seriously
undermined if there is vacillation on where and how to use
the "Blue Helmets". We should admit that there have been
failures along the way and learn from experience. Our main
thrust must be to aim for a negotiated solution based on
known elements. The alternative to a negotiated settlement
is continued bloodshed. The alternative to peace is war.
Norway fully supports the efforts of Thorvald Stoltenberg
and David Owen. All parties must now cease hostilities and
allow time for the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina to
heal so that we can start slowly to build a foundation for
peace.
Let us be inspired by the Israelis and the
Palestinians, and let us all send a message to the parties in
Bosnia: enough! Peace is possible.
is long overdue.
The time for a settlement
The
situation is already disastrous, and another winter of war is
bound to take a severe toll of lives. Norway is among the
major providers of humanitarian assistance to the area.
International attention is focused on the terrible ordeal of the
Muslims, but there are Croats and Serbs who suffer greatly
as well. We should be even-handed in our humanitarian
assistance, making a clear distinction between, on the one
hand, warlords and war criminals and, on the other, those on
It
is
absolutely imperative
to improve on the
coordination and cooperation between United Nations
peace-keeping operations, United Nations humanitarian
agencies and non-governmental humanitarian organizations.
Somalia is an obvious case in point. For Norway it is a
priority issue to move such coordination forward. We shall
convene a conference before the end of the year with the
aim of improving our capacity to organize real peace
operations incorporating both humanitarian and military
tasks.
We
should all
support our Secretary-General’s
proposals for a necessary strengthening of the Department of
Peace-keeping Operations. The management organization
for United Nations peace-keeping operations here in New
York is manifestly inadequate. The result is that troop-
contributing nations exercise direct control, which radically
reduces coherence and effectiveness.
The situation is
aggravated by the Security Council’s propensity to make
ambitious decisions but fail to provide the Secretariat with
the means to implement them. Failing to provide financial,
human and technological resources undermines both peace
and the authority of the United Nations.
troops and equipment
We know what needs to be done. We must focus on
the following: There must be realistic mandates for new
United Nations peace-keeping operations whose goals and
means must be clearly defined. We must have proper
stand-by arrangements for
from
Member States, and Norway is prepared to contribute in
concrete terms to a collective stand-by effort. We need
improved training and analysis of past experience; our
training facilities should be linked in a consortium for United
Nations peace-keeping training.
There must be an
immediate and substantial increase in the United Nations
reserve fund for peace-keeping; moreover, a unified peace--
keeping budget must be introduced which allows the
Secretary-General to obligate at least 20 per cent of the
estimated cost of peace-keeping operations once they have
been approved by the Security Council. We need improved
financing for peace-keeping operations
and financial
discipline among Member States.
Indeed,
the whole financial situation of the United
Nations is disgraceful. As the eighth-largest contributor to
the United Nations system in absolute terms and by far the
largest in per capita terms, we find it exceedingly difficult to
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
understand how so many countries fail
obligations.
to honour their
The Secretary-General has said that "the Organization
lives from hand to mouth." (Statement by the Secretary-
General to the Fifth Committee, 26 August 1993). The
permanent members of the Security Council have a special
responsibility. But we should also ask ourselves if countries
should be eligible at all for the Security Council if they have
not paid their contributions.
The post-cold-war patterns of risks and uncertainties
have brought about a wider recognition and understanding of
the need to address the serious economic and social
inequalities in the world and their implications for global
security. Core issues such as environment and development
used to be seen as side issues by the prime movers of
international affairs. There is a new hope that this could be
changing.
The Secretary-General points out in his report that
long be
social, educational and
without sustainable development peace cannot
maintained and that political,
environmental factors must all be part of development.
Unsustainable production and consumption patterns still
prevail and can be counteracted only by changing how and
in which fields our economies continue to grow. If current
forms of development were employed, a further fivefold to
tenfold boost in economic activity would be required over
the next 50 years to meet the needs and aspirations of 10
billion people.
Currently, the vast majority who are poor make only a
minimal claim to our natural resources, while the more
voracious North is consuming in a few decades what it has
taken the planet billions of years to accumulate. The
Norwegian Minister of the Environment raised the issue of
production and consumption patterns in the industrial part of
the world at
the Commission on
Sustainable Development. Early next year Norway will host
a meeting on these issues as a contribution to the next
session of the Commission.
the first session of
The rapid population growth in many parts of the world
is a ticking time-bomb. Ninety per cent of this increase is
taking place in developing countries, many of which are
unable to feed their present populations. We may soon be
facing new famine of a magnitude dwarfing even Malthus’
gloomiest predictions. There may be mass migration and the
destabilization of countries and regions as people compete
for ever-scarcer land and water resources.
The International Conference on Population and
Development, to take place in Cairo in September 1994,
must address the complex root causes of the population
explosion.
reached at
The agreements
the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development in Rio last
year, however imperfect, set a sound, ambitious agenda for
action to ensure sustainable development. Yet, I regret to
say, the momentum generated in Rio has been allowed to
lose some of its force.
that
The world will not forget, and our children will long
remember,
the industrialized countries committed
themselves in Rio to providing new and additional funding
to combat climate change and safeguard biological diversity.
So far, however, contributions have been small-scale.
The aid fatigue continues despite enormous needs and
a more fertile ground for development in countries which
have made sacrifices and taken the bitter but crucial
medicine of structural adjustment, and despite the reduction
of military budgets to levels where countries again should be
deemed creditworthy.
Far, far more serious, and not only for the developing
world, is the gambling with the Uruguay Round holding the
prospects of global free trade hostage to narrow national
interests. For most countries, strongly dependent as they are
on international trade, an agreement, even if each and every
provision may not be ideal, is absolutely necessary.
I urge
the major parties to live up to the expectations created at the
Group of 7 meeting in Tokyo that before the end of the year
the deal will be closed.
Environment and trade must be the next agenda item.
We should be more outspoken about conflicting interests and
more receptive to the fact that we do not have the option to
go our separate ways.
We must develop a sound, scientific basis for managing
our natural resources in a sustainable way. In a politically,
culturally and socially diverse world, science and knowledge
can be the only basis for sound and lasting cooperation in
this field.
And while we reduce our strain on finite natural
resources, the environmental agenda is constantly widened
by the unveiling of the ecocide almost committed by the
former Communist countries.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
23
The nuclear threat is not confined to that inherent in the
remaining arsenals of nuclear weapons.
Increasingly, our
security is threatened by the enormous deposits of nuclear
waste on land and at sea.
Large-scale international
cooperation is required to eliminate this threat.
Nuclear weapons have not disappeared, and the capacity
to make them is broadly present. Proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction and the means of
their delivery
constitutes perhaps the greatest threat to international peace
and stability. It is a matter of utmost priority to broaden and
deepen the non-proliferation regime to comprise a broader
pattern of commitments and cooperative behaviour. In this
connection, Norway urges the nuclear-weapon States to
redouble their efforts to conclude a comprehensive test-ban
treaty. We expect that they will refrain from any testing
while negotiations proceed. We also urge North Korea to
submit fully to the safeguard regime of the International
Atomic Energy Agency and to adhere to the Non-
Proliferation Treaty.
Development without democracy and respect for human
rights will never be sustainable. Democracy is indispensable
for promoting and upholding respect for human rights, for
social and economic development, for peace and security,
and for liberating the human creativity which is so vital to
any social and economic development.
I urge this Assembly to create the post of high
commissioner for human rights and to agree on a quantum
leap in the allocation of resources for the United Nations
human-rights activities. This is a modest price to pay for
strengthening the basis for peace and stability.
The lines between foreign and domestic policies have
long since vanished. Narrow-minded forms of nationalism
will not serve us. We must move towards an inclusive
enlargement where the powerful are just and the weak
secure. Only the United Nations can provide the framework
of a better-organized world, which today is too fragmented
and uncoordinated. More and more causes are common, as,
indeed, is our whole future.
The Middle East breakthrough gives us the hope that no
challenge is too difficult and the belief that we can make
this world a civilized place.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Norway for the statement she has just made.
On behalf of
Mrs. Gro Harlem Brundtland, Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Norway, was escorted from the rostrum.
Mr. EVANS (Australia):
I warmly congratulate
Ambassador Insanally, on his election as President of the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. As a fellow
Commonwealth member with Guyana, Australia is very
pleased to serve in the Assembly under his presidency.
This session of the General Assembly will deal with a
It will do so at a
particularly heavy and important agenda.
time when hopes for, and expectations of,
the United
Nations have never been greater - but when, at the same
time, many doubts have been raised about the capacity of the
United Nations system to cope. We will be relying very
much, Mr. President, on your wisdom and your experience
as you preside over our deliberations.
Mrs. Fritsche (Liechtenstein), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
The world is a rather less happy place than we all
hoped it would be after the end of the cold war. Economic
and social deprivation continues to be a harsh daily reality
for many of our countries and our peoples. Not even the
most advanced countries are immune.
The developed
Western economies are limping, with low growth rates,
historically high unemployment rates, increasing disparities
as a result between rich and poor, and a continuing inability
so far to reach agreement - either between themselves or
with the rest of the world’s trading nations - about the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade liberalization
measures so necessary to give a new kick-start to world
trade and economic growth.
In the non-Western world, rates of growth have been
extraordinarily uneven. The spectacular advance in some
regions, in particular East Asia, has been in stark contrast to
the continuing terrible deprivation and poverty in others.
Some States have simply been unable to cope with exploding
internal economic, political and social problems, and for all
practical purposes have collapsed, leaving the international
community to respond, somehow, to the humanitarian crises
that have followed so often.
In security terms, the end of the cold war has seen the
end of the super-Power nuclear-arms race and has relieved
us of the immediate threat of nuclear devastation. We have
seen major achievements in nuclear-arms reduction; and for
the first
the nuclear age a
comprehensive test-ban treaty, which would ban all nuclear
tests in all environments for all time, seems within our
time in the history of
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
reach. We could help to make it even more so by adopting
by consensus a resolution in this Assembly supporting the
negotiation of that treaty. A very great deal, of course,
depends on the current moratorium on all nuclear testing
being maintained. We in Australia very strongly support
what President Clinton said in that respect this morning.
This year we signed at
last, after 20 years of
negotiation, the chemical weapons Convention. But much
remains to be done to bring this and other instruments into
effective operation. And there are still too many countries
unwilling to submit
themselves to the disciplines, more
important and more necessary now than ever, of the nuclear
non-proliferation Treaty.
The threat of conflicts between States has certainly not
diminished with the end of the cold war.
If anything, the
removal of the cold-war gridlock - the discipline imposed by
the super-Powers on each other and their
respective
supporters - has created more room than ever for States to
manoeuvre. Some are beginning to do so, and some are
bound to seek to do so in the future. Some of the emerging
economic Powers have yet to acquire political or military
profiles commensurate with their new wealth, and the
process of adjustment certainly has ample potential
to
generate regional tensions. Should those tensions escalate
into conflict, the unhappy reality is that proliferation of more
sophisticated conventional weapons and proliferation of the
capacity to develop weapons of mass destruction make any
prospect of major regional conflict an alarming one for the
world as a whole.
The release of cold-war pressures has been associated
with another major new development of security concern
with which we are all now disturbingly familiar:
the
resurgence of ethno-nationalism, often taking a violent form.
Some ethnic groups are being prepared to pursue their
claims for self-determination within the framework of
existing States, arguing essentially for minority human rights
protection - claims of right which, on first principles, we
should all be prepared to acknowledge and support. But
many other such groups have made clear that they will be
satisfied by nothing less than their nations becoming States,
causing the fragmentation of existing States in the process,
and creating some very real dilemmas for the international
community as a result. Again, the proliferating availability
of weaponry of every degree of sophistication has given a
sharp new edge to these concerns.
Looking out upon a world with all these characteristics,
it is easy to be pessimistic and fatalistic. But I do not think
we should retreat into that habit of mind. For everything
an
enormously
but
there is
that has gone wrong over the last few years,
something else that has gone right. To match against the
awful continuing tragedy in the former Yugoslavia, we have,
for example, this month’s peace agreement in the Middle
East - of course, only the first step in what remains a long
journey,
one
notwithstanding. And to match against the continuing chaos
and uncertainty in Somalia, and the at best very limited
success of the United Nations operation there, we have now
the unquestioned success of the United Nations operation in
Cambodia - and the end at last to more than 20 years of
what has been a real twentieth-century tragedy involving
bloody war, civil war, genocide, invasion and civil war
again.
encouraging
A terrible conflict continues in Angola, but peace is at
hand at last in Mozambique; and in South Africa the final
death of apartheid is imminent, as testified last week in this
place by Nelson Mandela. Military regimes have given way
to democratic ones throughout Latin America. Many
problems remain to be solved in the former Soviet Union,
but Governments that can credibly claim to reflect the will
of their peoples are in place throughout Central and Eastern
Europe.
The military regime in Myanmar, or Burma,
continues to resist the obvious mood of its people for liberty
and democracy, but elsewhere in the region traditionally
monolithic government structures - driven in many cases by
economic imperatives - are beginning to show signs of
flexibility and responsiveness.
But while I do not believe that we should be unduly
pessimistic or fatalistic about the condition of the world
around us, nor can we afford to be complacent. There is
much more that we can and should be doing to reinforce and
strengthen the international community’s capacity to govern
itself better, and in particular
to better guarantee the
maintenance of peace and security in the post-cold-war
world. It is on this subject - the role of the United Nations
and the international community generally in securing peace
in the world of the 1990s and beyond that I want specifically
to focus my remarks today.
A little over a year ago, following a unique meeting of
the Security Council, Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali
published "An Agenda for Peace".
It was and remains a
remarkable document, one which poses most of the questions
we need to address if we are to have a fair chance of
maintaining international peace and security in the world of
today and the foreseeable future.
time, a
worldwide debate has taken place on the issues described in
"An Agenda for Peace", which has involved not only
Governments and officials, but has reached out to embrace
Since that
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
25
universities, foundations, non-governmental organizations
and many organs of the public media as well. This debate
generated resolutions at
the last session of the General
Assembly, several worthwhile changes to some procedures
and structures within the Secretariat, and the prospect of
further changes to come.
It cannot be said, however, that the issues raised by
"An Agenda for Peace" are now all settled, either in theory
or in practice. We still do not have even a completely clear
and consistent shared vocabulary to define the ways in which
it is possible for the United Nations and other organs of the
international community to respond to security problems:
"peacemaking", for example, means different things still to
different people; so do "preventive diplomacy" and "peace
building"; the conceptual boundary between "peace-keeping"
on the one hand and "peace enforcement" on the other is not
drawn in the same way by everyone who uses these terms.
Nor do we seem yet
to have clear and universal
agreement even as to the kind of problems which justify a
security response by the international community. Should
we recognize,
for example, a humanitarian right of
intervention and, if so, in what circumstances and to what
extent? When does an economic or social problem become
the kind of security problem which justifies the mobilization
of the response strategies spelt out in Chapters VI and VII
of the United Nations Charter?
Even when it comes to applying a very familiar
response to a new problem - for example, establishing a
peace-keeping operation like the 30 which have now been
initiated since 1946 - there does not yet seem to have been
developed a commonly accepted check list of criteria to
guide decision-makers in determining when precisely the
operation should be set in train, how it should be structured,
managed and resourced, or how long it should continue.
Every situation, of course, has its own characteristics, but is
it really necessary for decisions on these matters by the
Security Council or others to be made on so evidently ad
hoc a basis?
When it comes to thinking about how the United
Nations - and others in the international community,
including regional organizations - might best be structured,
organized, managed and funded to most effectively address
the international peace and security agenda, it is not clear to
me that we have yet heard the last word in that debate.
at the United Nations, but a good deal more remains to be
done if the United Nations in particular, the only fully
empowered body with global membership that we have, is
to be as effective as we would all want it to be.
It is much easier, of course, to ask all these questions
than to answer them. Identifying problems is always easier
than defining acceptable solutions. But I believe that we all
have a responsibility to each other and the international
community to try to answer these questions and to keep on
working away at the answers until we find common ground.
So it is in that spirit that I put before the Assembly today a
detailed study of these questions, which tries to answer them
in a way which might help us find a little more of that
common ground.
The study, in the form of a book entitled Cooperating
for Peace, has been distributed, I hope, to delegations as I
speak. I do not pretend for a moment that this says the last
word on any of the enormously complex and sensitive issues
with which it deals. It is simply an Australian contribution
to the debate which was so thoughtfully and constructively
initiated by the Secretary-General last year.
The study seeks to do three things in particular. First,
it suggests ways of bringing a little more clarity - to the
extent
this is presently lacking - into the concepts and
vocabulary that we use in defining security problems,
defining possible responses and matching responses to
problems. Secondly, it suggests specific criteria that might
be applied by decision-makers in deciding what, if any,
response is appropriate to a particular new security problem.
And, thirdly, it suggests a priority list of areas in which
further United Nations reform might usefully be pursued. In
the short time that remains to me I shall try to give a quick,
outline sketch of what we are trying to say in each of these
respects.
just something for academics to wrangle about.
First of all, on the issue of concepts and terminology,
it is perhaps worth making the point at the outset that this is
not
It
If decision-makers do not share the
matters in practice.
same basic way of looking at issues and the same basic
vocabulary in defining them, there is a very real risk that
they will talk past each other - or, at the very least, find it
very much harder to produce responses which are timely,
properly graduated, effective in practice, affordable and
broadly consistent from one case to the next.
An extraordinary amount has been achieved in the
tumultuous period since 1989 in responding to the new
demands and challenges that have been unceasingly hurled
Just as importantly, the choice of words can sometimes
significantly influence the way in which we think about
matters of substance. To give just one example: If we use,
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
as many people still do, the expression "peace-making" to
describe military enforcement action, then, simply because
this is such an innocuous and constructive sounding
expression, there is a danger that we may over time become
a little more relaxed than we should be about taking such
action. It is much better, I suggest, to confine the expression
"peace-making" to diplomatic-type activity to resolve conflict
and to reserve the expression "peace enforcement" to
describe the always dangerous, always messy, and what
should always be the last-resort, activity of applying military
force.
In the study we define security problems, in more or
less escalating order of seriousness, as "emerging threats",
"disputes", "armed conflicts" and "other major security
crises." We make the point that security is not strictly or
solely a military concept and that threats to security, as
many speakers in the general debate have already said, can
these days come very much from factors such as exploding
population pressures, environmental degradation, mass
involuntary movements of people and the illicit narcotics
trade, among other things.
Equally, we define possible responses to security
problems, again in escalating order of severity, in terms of
"peace- building," "preventive diplomacy," "preventive
deployment," "peace- making," "peace-keeping," "sanctions"
and "peace enforcement." We are at pains to emphasize that
it is only as a last resort that security solutions should be
seen as coming out of the barrel of a gun. We give much
more emphasis than has been common elsewhere to the
concept of "peace-building," which we define in the study as
extending not just to post-conflict economic development
and institution-building strategies, but to a whole variety of
preventive strategies, both within particular countries and in
the form of international treaty-type régimes addressing both
military and non-military threats to security.
In defining criteria for embarking on peace operations -
whether peace-keeping or peace enforcement - the most
crucial consideration is that there be a clearminded focus on
the objectives of the exercise and the likely effectiveness of
the operation in achieving those objectives. No operations
of this kind should ever be embarked upon for the sake of
being seen to be doing something. Although it is not always
possible to analyse or predict with certainty, it should always
be possible to avoid embarking on operations which are
manifestly likely to be ineffective and which, as such, put at
risk the most crucial United Nations resource of all, its
credibility.
In the case of peace-keeping we suggest in Cooperating
for Peace that there are seven basic conditions for ensuring
an effective operation: clear and achievable goals; adequate
resources; close coordination of peace-keeping with any
ongoing peacemaking activity; a capacity to be and to be
seen to be absolutely impartial as between the parties who
have been in conflict; a significant degree of local support
for the peace-keepers; evident support for the operation from
external Powers that may have been involved previously in
supporting one side or the other; and a "signposted exit",
that is, a clearly designated termination point, or set of
termination criteria.
When it comes to peace-enforcement operations, our
suggested criteria for determining involvement are quite
complex and vary according to whether one is talking about
an operation in response to cross-border aggression, as with
Iraq and Kuwait; about one in support of peace-keeping
for United Nations
operations,
involvement
about peace
enforcement in support of humanitarian objectives, as in
Somalia. Without going into all the necessary detail now, I
think the basic considerations always come down to the
following: widespread international support; clear and
achievable goals; adequate total resources to meet those
goals; and clearly defined termination or review points.
the
in Bosnia-Herzegovina; or
basic
rationale
If
the United Nations is to play with maximum
effectiveness the central role it needs to play in maintaining
international peace and security, then further change, further
reform in the United Nations system, really is necessary.
Some of that change is bound to be painful for some people,
but that is the way of change. Putting it simply and starkly:
Unless the United Nations develops a comprehensive
capacity to address today’s and tomorrow’s problems - not
yesterday’s - there is a very real risk of the United Nations
gradually losing, with Governments and peoples around the
world, the credibility it needs to survive.
In the study we identify a number of priority areas for
change. The first is to restructure the Secretariat to ensure
that
the Secretary-General has an effective chain of
command exercising authority over major United Nations
operations and to consolidate and coordinate in a more
orderly and manageable way the present
sprawl of
departments and agencies. We support the proposal that the
Secretary-General create a new senior structure at United
Nations Headquarters under which he would have four
Deputy Secretaries-General responsible, respectively, for
peace and security, economic and social operations,
humanitarian operations and administration and management.
Each such Deputy Secretary-General would have full
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
27
executive responsibility for the operational issues falling
within his or her portfolio, subject only to direction by the
Secretary-General. This would be a big change, and it is not
the first time it has been proposed, but it is the one that,
more than anything else, would create the conditions for
more orderly and effective management
the
United Nations system.
throughout
But overwhelmingly, of course,
The second priority need is to resolve once and for all
the United Nations critical funding problem. Various
adventurous
ideas have been canvassed for external
funding - money coming from sources other than Member
States - and we suggest that at least one of those ideas,
namely, a small
levy on international airline travel, be
further explored.
the
problem is one that has been created by Member States,
including the richest of our number, and it is entirely within
our ability to resolve by meeting our assessed contributions
for regular budgets and peace operations in full and on time.
It is an abuse of good management principles and of basic
common sense to be forcing the Secretary-General to spend
so much of his time pleading for debts to be honoured.
In
that respect I echo the sentiments expressed a few minutes
ago by Mrs. Brundtland.
If the bulk of current arrears were to be paid by the end
of this year, the United Nations finances would be in a quite
healthy position, with the Working Capital Fund, the Peace-
keeping Reserve Fund and the Special Account all
replenished and the Organization in a position to meet all
outstanding troop-contribution costs.
The third priority is to improve the management of
peace operations, both at Headquarters and in the field.
Some very significant and useful steps have already been
taken in this regard in the context of the creation of the new
Department of Peace-keeping Operations, but more remains
to be done, including in particular the development over time
of a properly constituted General Staff to plan and manage
the military dimensions of such operations.
The fourth priority is to give special attention to the
machinery of preventive diplomacy,
again both at
Headquarters and in the field. These efforts have been
largely ad hoc in the past, although the Department of
Political Affairs is gradually building a core of appropriate
expertise. Quite apart from anything else,
there is an
overwhelming cost advantage in doing more to stop disputes
becoming armed conflicts. We estimate the cost of keeping
100 well-qualified, experienced practitioners of preventive
diplomacy in the field for a year to be $21 million; compare
that with this year’s peace operations budget of $3.7 billion -
and compare it, moreover, with the $70 billion that it is
estimated to have cost the United Nations coalition to fight
the six-week Gulf war.
The fifth priority is to rethink the whole system of
humanitarian relief coordination. Despite advances that have
been made with the creation of
the Department of
Humanitarian Affairs, we think some basic structural
problems remain. We propose that they be addressed in a
radical way by the creation of a new disaster-response
agency, combining the relief and basic rehabilitation
functions of
the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations
Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the World Food Programme
(WFP), which would work in turn directly to the suggested
Deputy Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs.
the Office of
The sixth priority, as we see it, is to take various steps
to raise the profile within the United Nations system of
peace-building. This is, after all, the point of intersection
between the Organization’s peace and security role and its
economic and social role, and it should be given recognition
and emphasis as such. The pursuit of peace and security has
to include the satisfaction of basic human needs, as well as
the direct prevention, containment and settlement of armed
conflict. Much of the United Nations system is in fact
already concerned with peace- building in the form of
activities such as international law-making, disarmament,
economic and social advancement, sustainable development,
democratization and institution building. But much more
can be done, organizationally,
to link these activities
together, to recognize their security significance, and to
ensure that
they are pursued with a sense of common
purpose.
The remaining priority, a very large subject in itself, as
we all know, is to regenerate the Security Council - not
because it is now working ineffectively, but because its
manifest lack of representativeness is beginning to impact
upon its legitimacy. The Security Council is the linchpin of
the whole United Nations peace and security system, and it
is in no one’s interest that its credibility should be allowed
to gradually erode. The outstanding questions about the size
and shape of the Council should certainly be resolved by the
time of the United Nations fiftieth anniversary in 1995.
This,
the
achievement of a whole range of necessary organizational
reforms.
remains an ideal
indeed,
target date for
Running right through the study - and underlying all the
suggestions we have been making about structure and
process - is a single sustaining idea, that of cooperative
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
is
inclusive rather
security. This embraces two perhaps rather more familiar
ideas, common security and collective security. But the
overall flavour of cooperative security can perhaps best be
captured by describing it, in a little more detail, as an
approach that emphasizes reassurance rather than deterrence;
that
favours
multilateralism over unilateralism or bilateralism; that does
not rank military solutions over non-military ones;
that
assumes that States are the principal actors in the security
system, but also accepts that non-State actors have an
important role to play; that does not particularly emphasize
the creation of formal security institutions but does not reject
them either; and that above all stresses the value of creating
habits of dialogue.
than exclusive;
that
A good deal of the spirit of cooperative security is in
fact
to be found in the Charter of the United Nations.
Paragraph 4 of Article 1, a provision much neglected in the
past, designates the United Nations as a "centre for
harmonizing the actions of nations" - not the sentiments of
nations, but the actions of nations.
In Articles 55 and 56
Member States pledge themselves to create the
"conditions of stability and well-being which are
necessary for peaceful and friendly relations among
nations".
Underscored in that context are the promotion of higher
standards of living, the solution of economic and social
problems and respect for human rights.
Too often during the cold war we looked past these
obligations and concerns, because we were preoccupied with
military means of survival. But the threats that concerned us
then no longer exist; and what was written in San Francisco,
before the cold war froze our capacity to deal with many
other kinds of threats to security, should now be seen as a
compelling guide.
Our survival in the 1990s and beyond will depend on
our developing a new understanding of what constitutes
security and what contributes to it.
It will depend on our
capacity to think clearly about how to react to new security
problems as they arise. It will depend on our willingness to
rethink and to reshape our institutions, including the United
Nations, so that they can cope with new realities. But,
above all, it will depend on our all developing and sustaining
a real commitment to cooperating for peace.
Mr. ESSY
(interpretation from
French):
I should like to pay tribute to the wisdom of the
Assembly in electing Ambassador Insanally to preside over
(Côte d’Ivoire)
this session, thus highlighting the outstanding role of his
country, the Republic of Guyana, and beyond it that of Latin
America in international relations.
I also wish to congratulate the members of the Bureau
and to extend to the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev,
our warm congratulations on the excellent work done during
his mandate.
i n
I should also like to reaffirm the full confidence of
C ô t e d ’ I v o i r e
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l ,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. President Houphouët-Boigny,
who has met him several times this year, greatly appreciates
his impartiality and ability and his great devotion to his
duties to the international community.
t h e
Finally, my delegation congratulates and welcomes the
States admitted since the last session to our Organization,
which is thus moving ever closer
to its objective of
universality.
Mr. Musuka (Zambia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
times of solidarity,
The substantial transformations that have taken place in
the world since 1989 have given rise to profound changes in
international relations. All
the points of reference that
allowed us to analyse these relations with certitude have
disappeared. The new atmosphere of confidence and the
spirit of understanding, and at
that
prevail in relations between States and peoples give grounds
for hope and the rapid advent of a new international order
that will be more stable, more just and more able to meet the
aspirations of peoples for shared happiness in a world that
hungers for bread and thirsts for truth. Today’s world is
moving towards a convergence around certain values,
the
including the primacy of respect for human rights,
imperative
and
disarmament and the leading role of law in international
relations. Such development can only give rise to great
hopes by opening up the possibility of correcting past
mistakes, sharing the benefits of progress with all and
ensuring the fullness of peace.
development
democracy,
need
for
With the beginning of real disarmament and the recent
signing of the Convention banning chemical weapons, the
relationship between war and peace is today undergoing a
clear qualitative change. Unfortunately, however, we must
recognize that
from
satisfying our hopes for justice and lasting peace.
the international
situation is
far
Indeed,
the bipolar world seems,
paradoxically, to have opened the door for new threats to
the collapse of
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
29
it
international peace and security. The accumulation of poorly
bandaged wounds, blind ambitions and feelings of rivalry
and hatred built up over decades has re-emerged in various
regions of the world in the form of extremely devastating
and brutal fratricidal conflicts. Thus, Europe, whose level of
socio-economic development did not prevent
from
destroying itself twice in less than thirty years, is today still
in the grip of a terrible conflict in the former Yugoslavia.
That anachronistic and indescribably barbarous war has
justified the creation, for the first time within the United
Nations system, of an international penal tribunal, under
Security Council resolution 827 (1993). So too, Africa,
pushed aside by the disappearance of the bipolar world, has
been torn by numerous internal conflicts with unfortunate
consequences for the entire continent, which needs, rather,
stability and peace within African States, between African
States and between Africa and the rest of the world in order
to deal with the imperative needs of its development and
economic integration.
The situation in Somalia continues to be of great
concern, despite the presence of the United Nations peace-
keeping forces, for the spectre of anarchy, intolerance in all
its forms and violence continues to hover over that country.
We hope that the tireless and commendable efforts of the
international community to re-establish peace in that country
will, within the allotted time, lead to a positive conclusion
and the reconciliation of all its sons and daughters.
We also hope to see very soon a resolution of the
conflict in Liberia. Recent developments in that brotherly
and neighbourly country, which led to the conclusion of the
Cotonou Agreement on 25 July 1993, tend to make us more
optimistic about the rapid restoration of peace.
Côte d’Ivoire has always wished fervently to see the
re-establishment of peace in Liberia and has, in addition,
acted along these lines, as the Yamassoukro Accords attest.
We are gratified by the formation in that country of a
transitional government
in the form of a State council
entrusted with the organization of general elections. We
welcome the firm determination of the political elements in
Liberia to work for the ultimate collapse of the wall of
hatred and enmity between Liberian brothers and thus to lay
the foundation for a future of peace and prosperity for all.
In this context it is urgent that the international community
commit itself further to finding the necessary means for the
rapid deployment of new contingents to reinforce the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
Military Observer Group (ECOMOG) in Liberia to promote
the effective implementation of
the
Cotonou Agreement, particularly with regard to the entry
the provisions of
It
that
is equally urgent
into force of the Council of State, disarmament and the
cantonment of factions.
the
international community come to the assistance, within the
framework of Chapter VIII of the Charter, of States or
regional organizations, participating in peace-keeping efforts
in Liberia.
It is also necessary that the question of the
delivery of humanitarian assistance be rapidly resolved to
allow for the regular supply of those regions of Liberia
where famine is raging in order to prevent the incursions of
armed bands in search of food that attack border villages and
hamlets. Here we should like to congratulate all the non-
governmental organizations that are making every effort,
with courage, tenacity and dedication, to save human lives
in that strife-torn country.
It is also fitting to welcome the conclusion of the
International Conference for the Protection of War Victims
held at Geneva from 3 August to 2 September this year,
organized by the Swiss Government and the International
Committee of the Red Cross. That Conference allowed for
a reaffirmation of the provisions of the major treaties of
international humanitarian law aimed at the protection of
populations during armed conflicts and for sensitizing public
opinion concerning the valid bases of those provisions and
the plight of civilian victims.
Concerning Angola, progress made at the outset in the
application of the Bicesse peace agreements in May 1991
now needs to be maintained, and efforts must be made and
encouraged, both in the Security Council and in African
forums, for the achievement of a just and lasting peace.
Côte d’Ivoire knows only two paths for the settlement
of conflicts:
resort to force or resort to negotiation, that is
to say, dialogue. Recent events in the international arena
have consecrated the value of dialogue, which has always
been advocated by President Félix Houphouët-Boigny, for
the peaceful settlement of all conflicts. They clearly indicate
how dialogue, conducted by responsible individuals, can,
regardless of the nature of the conflict, serve as an extremely
useful instrument for peace.
In South Africa, the recent developments in the political
situation are most encouraging, despite the uncertainties of
the moment resulting from the escalation of violence. For
this reason we welcome with satisfaction the joint statement
of the political parties of South Africa concerning their
intention to organize free and democratic elections in April
1994. We also welcome the establishment of an executive
transition council that, for the first time in three centuries of
white domination, after the first multiracial elections will
involve the black majority in political matters.
30
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
We send out an urgent appeal
to those elements
opposed to democratic changes in South Africa to refrain
from acts likely to jeopardize the sensitive negotiation
process, which would delay South Africa’s return to the
family of nations. We welcome the new spirit inspiring the
South African leaders, particularly Mr. De Klerk and Mr.
Mandela, a spirit that led to the historic request made by the
African National Congress (ANC)
to the international
community to lift the economic and diplomatic sanctions
slapped on South Africa. We also welcome the agreement
reached between the South African and Namibian
Governments concerning the transfer of the port of Walvis
Bay and the surrounding islands to the jurisdiction of the
Namibian Government.
world public opinion fully to appreciate this other activity of
the United Nations which is too often ignored.
If the conflicts born of the cold war are now beginning
to find solutions, it is none the less clear that we have
entered upon a period of uncertainty, questioning and
instability, with the re-emergence of a number of secondary
conflicts that had been effectively frozen or repressed during
the cold war and that are essentially of ethnic, tribal or
religious origin, as illustrated by the wrenching events in
Nagorny-Karabakh, Abkhazia, and the former Yugoslavia.
It is becoming clear as well that in today’s world there are
fewer and fewer identifiable enemies and more and more
problems that are very difficult to identify.
of
Israel
to the Arab-Israeli conflict.
In the Middle East we can finally discern, after so
many years of war and built-up hatred, the prospect of a
settlement
The mutual
recognition
the Palestine Liberation
Organization (PLO) and the signing in Washington on 13
September of the historic agreement on Gaza and Jericho
convince us that the process begun in the Middle East is
now irreversible, despite the obstacles that might arise on the
road to peace.
and
This is the moment to hail the courage, lucidity and
self-abnegation of the high Israeli and Palestinian officials
who have risen above circumstances and resolutely chosen
peace. Their ardour in working for peace after such a
lengthy period of war has been recognized and saluted by
the international community.
It is quite fitting that the
members of the jury for the Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize,
established by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, unanimously awarded the Prize for
1993 to those illustrious leaders of Israel and Palestine.
As for the situation in the Gulf, where peace is still
precarious, we reiterate our unswerving support for the full
implementation of all resolutions on this conflict, particularly
Security Council resolution 687 (1991) of 3 April 1991, as
well as resolution 833 (1993). We call on the parties
concerned to respect these provisions. We believe that this
resolution is a major asset in assuring security and stability
in the region.
In Asia, we welcome the outcome of the conflict in
Cambodia, where the United Nations undertook one of the
most ambitious and complex peace-keeping operations it had
ever conducted. We congratulate the members of the United
Nations Secretariat and the States that supplied various
contingents for the success of this operation, which allows
The United Nations remains the indispensable recourse
for confronting these conflicts. Here, we solemnly wish to
state our full support for the proposals of the Secretary-
General contained in "An Agenda for Peace".
The strengthening of preventive action by the United
Nations must prompt us
to pursue the process of
restructuring and revitalization of its bodies to allow it to
cope with these new challenges. Given the dominant role of
the Security Council
in peace-keeping and international
security, the question of equitable representation in that body
should allow for a lengthy reflection so as to find a solution
acceptable to all - in this case, the expansion of the Security
Council to accord with the growth in the number of our
Organization’s Members and in the complexity of the
problems submitted to it.
Such an expansion should be based on rigorous and
objective criteria which we need to define together, bearing
in mind the imperative need for effectiveness in the taking
and implementation of Security Council decisions. The
United Nations, as a reflection of universal values, cannot
stand outside the trend towards democratization which is
sweeping across the world.
The World Conference on Human Rights, held in
Vienna last June, was of pivotal importance, allowing for a
reaffirmation of human rights. If we can rightly be gratified
by the fact that this Conference recognized the right to
development as a fundamental human right to the disastrous
economic situation in numerous regions of the world, and
particularly in Africa, should remind us here of the need for
a general awareness of the fact that human rights cannot
flourish in a context of poverty and misery.
In looking back over the economic situation, we note
that global economic activity in 1992 was characterized by
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
31
a slow recovery, growing by only 1.1 per cent. This weak
recovery is primarily the result of a moderate growth in the
global production of the industrialized countries, as well as
a noticeable drop in the total production of those countries
which formerly had planned economies. Unfortunately,
these trends continued in 1993, and thus we are seeing a rise
in unemployment and the emergence of serious social
tensions throughout the world.
These not very optimistic elements observed in the
industrialized countries can only have negative consequences
for other countries, particularly those of the developing
world, among which the African countries remain the most
vulnerable.
We can therefore hardly be surprised that in the last
United Nations Development Programme report on human
development in 173 countries, 41 of the 53 African countries
are among the 50 last countries in the classification. These
pessimistic conclusions were reaffirmed in the reports of the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
We are aware of the causes of this serious recession.
Aside from the drop in economic activities in numerous
industrialized countries, those causes are the collapse of
commodity prices - for minerals, mining and agriculture -
and the subsequent exacerbation of the foreign-debt burden
on our economies, which in turn limits our investment
capability. Additional causes that should be noted are the
general inadequacies in economic management as described
in the World Bank study entitled "The African Capacity-
Building Initiative". All these factors taken together have
led to the present crisis in our countries, manifested above
all by a drastic drop in economic growth and an intolerable
rise in unemployment, particularly among our young people
- the driving force of our countries.
The image this brief sketch of the African economic
and social climate projects is hardly encouraging.
In the
face of such a situation, we believe that prospects for seeing
the advocated solutions succeed lie primarily in a consistent
approach to them.
Our States have had the political courage to embark
upon deep-rooted economic reforms and our peoples have
progressively become aware of the need for the adjustment
effort. Thus in Côte d’Ivoire, for several years now, we
have been implementing a set of measures of economic
policy aimed at creating the conditions for economic
recovery.
The stabilization phase of this process has
primarily tended towards putting our public finances on a
sounder footing, which is basic to the revival of our
economy and its integration into a larger collective within
the region and throughout the continent.
The extension of the democratic process in Africa is
evident. But it is also clear that there can be no democracy
without economic development, nor genuine sustainable
development without democracy. One of the primary
conditions of this development for our countries is just
remuneration in primary commodities - mineral, mining and
agricultural.
Statistics show that Africa represents only 2 per cent of
inter-African trade
the value of world trade, and that
represents only 5 per cent of the value of the region’s total
external trade. These data remind us once again of the
economic urgency for Africa to achieve genuine economic
integration within the continent.
In West Africa, this exercise has already begun, in
particular within the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS), whose treaty has just been revised, and
above all within the West African Monetary Union
(WAMU), with the upcoming establishment of the West
African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU).
From our point of view, such an exercise in structuring
and harmonizing the institutional and legal framework of
economic integration should be carried out and should
rapidly be extended to all regions of Africa in order to pave
the way for the building of the African Common Market,
which we all so wish to see.
It is also appropriate to note the great hopes we place
on the establishment of the African Import-Export Bank,
whose primary objectives will be to increase the level of
African exports and of inter-African trade. We should also
note the significant progress made in laying the groundwork
for an expanded cooperation between our States in several
areas, such as those of business law, the insurance industry,
and the establishment of a body for regional statistics.
We wish here particularly to emphasize the extremely
important role played in the area of financing by the African
Development Bank in implementing the objectives of
integration in Africa. We must hail the will this institution
demonstrates in its efforts to establish positive correlations
between actions implemented within the framework of
structural adjustment programmes and the objectives of
regional economic integration. This step by the African
Development Bank affects the central elements of the
development strategies of African countries.
32
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
It goes without saying that such integration can be
implemented only in an environment which is one of peace,
stability and security. We therefore welcomed the creation,
within the OAU and ECOWAS, of machinery for the
prevention, management and settlement of conflicts.
We must
recognize that our efforts at
regional
integration will remain futile as long as the global economic
environment remains unfavourable and as long as our
partners in the developed countries lack the necessary
political will resolutely to tackle our countries’ problems in
this interdependent world of solidarity.
At a time when the marginalization of Africa is
increasing, we welcome the positive initiative of
the
Government of Japan to hold, several days from now in
Tokyo,
on African
Development, which will allow the developed countries to
better grasp the specific problems of Africa.
International Conference
the
We must acknowledge, however, that any assistance
offered by the international community will be only a small
contribution, given the magnitude of the development needs
of the African continent. This assistance will be effective
only if consistent and lasting solutions are found to our
problems within the
an international
cooperation even further based on interdependence and
solidarity, in particular in the areas of international trade,
foreign debt, the environment, the war on drugs, and the
important question of raw materials, to avoid confining our
countries to the exclusive role of purveyors of raw materials
and allow them also, through the transformation of these
products, to become consumers in trade relations.
framework of
More specifically, the Rio Conference, by adopting
Agenda 21, reached a consensus on the planetary level
concerning the need for immediate and bold international
cooperation in the area of sustainable development and the
environment. In applying Agenda 21, Côte d’Ivoire, for its
part, has established regional environmental committees to
draw up its white book on the environment, which will help
it zero in on the objectives laid down in the Agenda.
In this context,
the elaboration of an international
convention on the struggle against desertification is of
critical importance for Africa, and we continue to place our
hopes in the work of the Intergovernmental Negotiating
Committee on that convention.
Ultimately, given the importance and complexity of the
areas affecting the question of
is
indispensable for the international community to openly
the environment,
it
support the development efforts of the African countries by
granting them adequate financial resources and by helping
them strengthen their scientific and technical capacities.
Concerning the question of drugs and its financial
ramifications, the gravity of these issues requires that the
international community give them serious thought. The
most recent studies of this phenomenon indicate that Africa
has become one of the major centres for this illegal traffic.
At the same time, we note that local consumption of hard
drugs,
in particular heroin and cocaine, are notably
increasing in numerous African countries.
This represents,
therefore, a global scourge against
which individual States are doomed from the outset, for the
ravages of drugs spare no continent and no country,
regardless of how powerful they may be.
Africa is the weak link from which the international
drug trade profits. Thus, given the extreme vulnerability and
the precarious nature of the means available to the African
continent to combat this danger, the international community
should supply - specifically through the United Nations Drug
Control Programme, with which my country is fruitfully
cooperating - the needed financial resources.
Since the end of the bipolar war, history has speeded
up. We are the privileged witnesses of political events of
the highest importance, events that will shape international
relations along the lines of a rapprochement among nations
and will therefore contribute to the strengthening of peace
and global security, essential foundations for the building of
a more just world order and one of greater solidarity.
However, despite the dynamics of peace, which promise
better tomorrows, we must admit that the ideas of peace and
security can no longer be limited solely to the political field,
for the truth is that peace and security can be genuine only
if economic development and social progress are ensured for
all.
The effective globalization of the economy as well as
the ever-increasing interdependence of nations today requires
also an acceleration of history on the level of international
economic relations, for the world must become aware of the
fact
there can be no lasting peace, no universal
prosperity,
if the greatest part of humankind is on the
sidelines of economic development and social well-being.
that
In such a context, therefore, the North-South dialogue
must be reactivated with the goal of seeing that further
means are established to eradicate underdevelopment and
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
33
poverty, which today represent the greatest threat of our era.
For peace does not coexist well with poverty, as President
Felix Houphouët-Boigny often says.
would stand only a limited chance of ever being actualized,
but the down side would be to risk undermining the trust
invested by the public in our Organization.
The capability of the international community to grasp
this danger and to find rapid and lasting solutions will
determine our joint survival.
Mr. HANNIBALSSON (Iceland): Let me begin by
congratulating the President, on his election to his high
office. I wish him every success and pledge to him the full
support of my delegation.
the forty-seventh session of
It gives me pleasure to welcome the new Member
States which have joined the Organization since the
beginning of
the General
Assembly - the new Member States of Andorra, Eritrea, the
Czech Republic, Monaco, the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, and Slovakia. With 184 Member States - and
even more prospective Members - our Organization is able
to claim for itself a higher degree of universality than ever.
In extending the reach of the United Nations, we serve
the basic goals for which our Organization was brought into
being; for the rule of law, freedom and the dignity and worth
of
the human person are ideals common to all men,
irrespective of their cultural or geographical surroundings.
But the simple reach of the United Nations must not be
confused with its comprehensiveness as an institution.
Therefore, as we recommit ourselves to the basic objectives
inscribed in the United Nations Charter almost 50 years ago,
we must also maintain the flexibility necessary to readjust
our structures and working habits accordingly.
The question how to maintain the cohesiveness of the
United Nations amidst the myriad - and at times conflicting -
demands being made of it presents itself nowadays with
particular force. Changes on the world stage have taken
place with almost dizzying speed in the last four years. The
most important of those changes, the passing of the cold
war, has created new opportunities for the United Nations
and has raised expectations among the peoples of the world
at large. At the same time, the world itself has in many
ways become more unpredictable, placing serious obstacles
on the path of long-term planning.
To escape this quandary, there is a need to take a
balanced view of what the United Nations can and cannot be
expected to do. We must moderate ambition with reality.
We must not divorce the words we use from the actions we
are willing to take.
If we do, we may indeed succeed in
building a Platonic city in speech, a United Nations which
On the bright side, a number of recent developments
have helped the United Nations in translating its basic vision
into reality. Breakthroughs have taken place in regional
conflicts which have been a thorn in the side of the
international community for several decades. Governments
have increasingly come to recognize the growing threat to
the ecosystem of our planet. The protection of human rights
is no longer seen as the exclusive domain of the nation
State. Last but not least, mankind has moved further away
from the brink of nuclear Armageddon.
Those are considerable accomplishments. But this is
none the less hardly the time for members of the community
of nations to congratulate each other. There are regions of
the world where terrifying carnage is still taking place before
our very eyes. Deterioration of the environment, while
highly uneven in gravity and scope, is a long way from
being reversed. Human-rights abuses continue in many
places on an appalling scale. And while the threat of a
worldwide nuclear catastrophe may have passed, there is a
dangerous proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,
bringing uncertainty and new instabilities in its wake. Now
is clearly the time to rise above these issues that divide our
Assembly and to concentrate our efforts on dealing with
such challenges effectively.
The landmark peace agreement recently signed between
former adversaries in the Middle East should be a source of
encouragement to all nations. We are being reminded of the
ancient truth that where there is sufficient devotion and will
among the parties concerned, there is also a way to solve
even the most intractable issues. My Government welcomes
the historic accord between the State of Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization. We hope that the mutual
recognition of the two parties will yield further agreements
in the region, paving the way for a comprehensive peace
settlement.
I
take
While paying tribute to the vision and bravery of Israeli
and Palestinian leaders,
this opportunity to
congratulate the Government of Norway on its initiative in
bringing the ancient adversaries together at the same table,
and I also commend the Governments of the United States
and Russia for their valuable mediation. It is now up to the
world community to provide the political support and the
economic aid for reconstruction so vitally needed to keep the
process alive. The Nordic Governments, for their part, have
34
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
already decided to participate fully in that endeavour. This
is a process which cannot be permitted to fail.
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in the implementation of
Security Council resolutions with regard to the former
Yugoslavia.
The world community has recently witnessed another
bold step forward, which, hopefully, also marks an important
contribution to international peace and stability.
I am
referring to the courageous statesmanship of the President of
the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin, in moving decisively
towards democratic elections to Parliament. As the only
democratically elected representative of the Russian people,
President Yeltsin deserves the vigorous support of the
outside world in carrying out his far-reaching programme of
reform.
A different area offering a glimmer of hope is South
Africa. My Government welcomes recent progress towards
genuine democracy in South Africa, including the decision
to hold free and fair elections next year. The international
community should now speedily heed the call of Mr. Nelson
Mandela, made from this podium last week, for the removal
of all economic sanctions, an action Iceland hopes will serve
fully to normalize the status of South Africa in the
community of nations.
Iceland, for its part, has already
abolished the embargo on trade with South Africa.
Sadly, we face continuation of the conflicts in the
former Yugoslavia, not least the tragic situation prevailing in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. It serves to remind us that ethnic
conflicts can no longer be regarded as the sole responsibility
of individual States. The inhumanity perpetrated on innocent
civilians in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other former
Yugoslav Republics has
reached a point where the
international community must act, and decisively, with all
the resources provided for in the Charter of the United
Nations. My Government fully supports the negotiations
sponsored by the United Nations and the European
Community, and looks forward to an early agreement and
implementation of the Geneva peace plan. The parties to the
conflict must be brought to realize that a solution can be
found only through peaceful means.
Iceland also attaches
importance to the effective functioning of the war crimes
Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Those responsible for
atrocities must be brought to justice.
As the conflict in the former Yugoslavia has exposed
the present limitations of regional structures, the United
Nations has assumed responsibility for reintroducing peace
and stability in the area. Meanwhile, there are outstanding
examples of cooperation and coordination between the
United Nations and other organizations, including the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western European
Union (WEU) and the Conference on Security and
Suffice it
In Iceland’s view there is a need to develop these
relationships further.
to say that NATO’s
readiness to employ military force for the relief of Sarajevo
and for the long-term implementation of the Geneva peace
plan would serve the interests of the international community
and should therefore be welcomed and encouraged.
Two years ago we welcomed the three Baltic States,
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, as sovereign Members of the
United Nations. Since then the world community, and their
European neighbours in particular, have reached out and
offered cooperation and help in the ongoing reconstruction
of those Republics. The Baltic States have, for their part,
demonstrated their willingness to live up to the highest
standards of democratic societies.
They adhere to
international instruments and are members of organizations
that are fully capable of monitoring their
for
international obligations in the field of human rights and
fundamental
I should like to express my
Government’s hope that negotiations on the departure of all
foreign military forces from Estonia and Latvia will soon be
successfully concluded and a clear timetable established.
The recent departure of foreign forces from Lithuania should
set an example.
freedoms.
respect
on
Environment
Restoring the environment and attaining sustainable
global development are among the most challenging tasks
facing the world community today. The outcome of the
United Nations Conference
and
Development, held in Rio de Janeiro last year, has brought
those tasks into sharper focus. The subsequent establishment
of the Commission on Sustainable Development was an
important step in facilitating international cooperation for the
effective follow-up and implementation of the outcome of
the Conference. However, declarations, strategies and action
plans are only as good as their implementation.
If the
credibility of the United Nations in this area is to be
maintained in the wake of the Rio Conference, we must
make sure to obtain real action and results.
The action programme contained in Agenda 21 of the
Rio Conference provides a sound basis for our individual or
joint activities aimed at sustainable development.
It does
not, however, cover all activities harmful to the environment,
including pollution of
from
land-based activities and the depletion of marine living
resources in many parts of the world. While the programme
to these
contains important
recommendations pertinent
the marine environment
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
35
issues, the main responsibility for developing global action
to protect the marine environment and to conserve its living
resources has been delegated to other forums, including the
United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and
Highly Migratory Fish Stocks.
Iceland has participated actively in that Conference.
Together with Argentina, Canada, Chile and New Zealand,
Iceland has submitted a draft convention that seeks to deal
on a global
level with the conservation and rational
management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory
fish stocks. Consistent with the United Nations Convention
on the Law of the Sea,
the draft convention calls for
increased regional cooperation in the establishment of
conservation and management measures and elaborates
mechanisms for the enforcement of agreed measures. My
Government will continue to work with all other interested
Governments to achieve results at the next session of the
Conference, results acceptable to all fishing nations, both
distant-water States and coastal States.
As a nation overwhelmingly dependent on marine living
resources, Iceland has supported efforts to establish an
international regime to govern all aspects of the uses of the
oceans.
Iceland participated actively in the Third United
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and ratified the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1985.
Iceland believes that the Convention provides for a widely
acceptable regime for the rational exploitation of the world’s
marine resources and establishes rules for a wide range of
uses for the seas, thereby reducing the potential for conflict
among States in this field.
The Government of Iceland is greatly encouraged by
the results of the most recent round of consultations, under
the auspices of the Secretary-General, directed at addressing
problems which have prevented certain industrialized
countries from becoming parties to the Convention. We are
hopeful that at the next round agreement will be reached on
the framework of negotiations which will enable the early
entry into force of
the Convention with universal
participation.
As early as 1989 Iceland emphasized in this forum the
need for a new international instrument, an "Earth Charter",
which would define the responsibilities and rights of nations
with respect to the environment. My Government regrets
that an agreement on such a charter was not reached before
the Rio Conference. We would therefore strongly support
transforming the Rio Declaration into an "Earth Charter"
before the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations two
years hence.
All nations have an obligation not only to protect and
preserve the environment, but also to promote human rights
and foster social and economic progress.
The United
Nations Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna last
June was a world event of major significance. The results
of the Conference, especially when seen in the context of
improvements in the international political climate in the
recent past, give us reason to hope for a more effective
implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms
everywhere.
law.
For the first time ever it appears that the majority of
countries in the world now pledge allegiance to the
principles of democratic rule of
Still, we are
confronted with breaches of human rights all around the
world.
In the follow-up to the Conference on Human
Rights, we must address such breaches squarely and focus
attention on ensuring greater respect and accountability by
Governments for the protection of human rights. This
means, among other things, devoting more resources to this
field as a reflection of the political commitment of Member
States.
Increased resources are required if the Centre for
Human Rights is to be able to provide effective advisory
services and human-rights monitoring. At the same time,
Iceland would like to support the establishment of the post
of high commissioner for human rights.
The determination of our countries to promote social
progress and better standards of
life is an important
commitment embedded in the United Nations Charter.
Iceland hopes that the world summit in 1995 will serve to
bring issues of social development into sharper focus and
highlight, in particular, the plight of the more than one
billion people living below the absolute poverty line.
In this connection,
I would like to draw special
attention to the growing problem of world population
control, which could have serious social, economic and
environmental repercussions if not properly managed in the
decades ahead. Around 90 per cent of the predicted world
population growth between now and the end of the first
quarter of the twenty-first century is expected to occur in the
developing countries, placing enormous new strains on their
resources. Against this background, the decision to convene
an international conference on population and development
in Cairo next year is to be welcomed.
To stimulate social development, we need, among other
things, economic growth. The liberalization of world trade
is the single most important vehicle for world economic
growth. The growing importance of the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is clearly manifested in the
36
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
flood of new accessions and the overriding importance
attached to the Uruguay Round by the Governments of the
world. Since the end of the cold war, GATT has achieved
an even greater role in international relations; countries in
transition see it as a vital venue for their relations with each
other and for their integration into the world economy.
In
the last few years political walls between cultures and
nations have been demolished. Trade barriers must not,
however, be allowed to replace iron curtains.
Economic reform, the environment, job-creation and
investment, to name but a few, are issues that affect and are
affected by international trade. A successful conclusion of
the Uruguay Round, which now seems to be within reach,
would dramatically improve our ability to deal with those
problems through international cooperation and trade. A
failure, on the other hand, would be a fatal blow to the
multinational trading system and to GATT. Protectionism
would again raise its ugly head and conflicts would erupt,
with disastrous consequences for the world economy.
GATT’s business is therefore the world’s business.
The Uruguay Round represents a tremendous opportunity to
revitalize world trade. All countries stand to gain from this.
The biggest gain will accrue to the developing countries and
to economies in transition. We who are gathered here at the
General Assembly representing the citizens, our countries’
consumers, cannot and must not allow special-interest groups
to block the negotiations in the few strenuous final steps
needed to reach the goal before the end of this year.
Issues of social and economic development, of human
rights and of environmental protection are part and parcel of
the notion of extended security, which we are all getting
accustomed to in the aftermath of the cold war. Arms
control remains, however, a very important element of
post-cold-war security. The success achieved in nuclear- and
conventional-arms control
in recent years represents a
historical turning-point which must be exploited for the
long-term advancement of global peace and stability. Here,
the United Nations is singularly well placed to assume a
more active role. This applies to both global perspectives
and support for regional initiatives.
The systematic acquisition of nuclear warheads, ballistic
missiles, and chemical and biological weapons by a number
of States is a matter of serious concern to the international
community. Non-proliferation should be given priority and
efforts made to ensure that
the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is both universally
adhered to and indefinitely extended. It is also to be hoped
testing will
that
the present moratorium on nuclear
eventually be succeeded by a comprehensive and verifiable
test ban.
Peace-keeping operations are among the areas where
the Organization has enjoyed considerable success. The
result is that Member States have placed increasing demands
on the Organization. However, the time has now come to
review the activities of the United Nations in this field. The
goal must be to ensure that peace-keeping operations serve
the purpose for which they were intended and that their
mandates are specific and more limited in time.
In this
connection, the idea of a United Nations stand-by force that
would enable the United Nations to act swiftly when crises
arise should be carefully considered. The existence of such
a force would enhance the credibility of and respect for the
Organization. Meanwhile, Member States must live up to
their current obligations and pay their assessed contributions
to peace-keeping operations in full and on time.
At the outset of my speech I referred to the need for
the United Nations to be responsive to change. Since the
last review of the membership of the Security Council took
place, there has been a substantial increase in the number of
States Members of the United Nations. At the same time the
Council has, especially in recent years, increasingly assumed
the role envisaged for it in the relevant provisions of the
Charter. The time is therefore ripe to review the Council’s
membership. The goal of such a review must be to make
the Council more representative and thus,
indeed, more
effective.
I would like to welcome initiatives taken recently to
streamline the structure of the United Nations and to make
its daily operations and management more effective. This is
necessary in particular in order for the Organization to
regain the trust of its Member States.
In this connection,
Iceland favours the establishment of a permanent office of
inspections and investigations and hopes that such an office
will help to ensure that allegations of fraud, waste and
corruption are investigated expeditiously.
to
adapt
to
Now, more than ever, there is an opportunity for the
United Nations
political
developments of the recent past and to revamp its structures
from within. Let us join forces in building a stronger United
Nations, a United Nations which embodies the ideals of its
founders and remains at the same time responsive to the
basic needs of people everywhere.
positive
the
Mr. SILVA CIMMA (Chile)
(interpretation from
I am particularly pleased to congratulate
Spanish):
Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
37
the General Assembly, which does honour to the Group of
Latin American and Caribbean States. We know that he has
long-standing close personal ties to Chile.
It has been our lot to witness and to be a part of events
of far-reaching significance in the history of mankind. The
political, technological, economic and social changes that
have shaken the world over the past 10 years are beginning
to take root, and as they do so the enormous influence they
have had on the establishment of new forms of behaviour,
new values and new institutional schemes is becoming
apparent.
The maintenance of democracy as the single paradigm
has brought with it beneficial influences, although for some
the establishment of this system of coexistence has given
rise to upheavals which are not yet over. But we can afford
a measure of realistic optimism if we fix our attention on
other developments.
The beginnings of an agreement
between Palestinians and Israelis are a tangible example of
this. Another is the awakening of South Africa to true
democracy. The spirit of consensus that is beginning to
the
spread throughout
democratic paradigm. Against
the
United Nations has a vital role to play.
the world is a consequence of
this new backdrop,
At this juncture, then, there are grounds for optimism,
and we have a duty to be optimistic. For only in being
optimistic will we be able to overcome the reluctance of
some and the temptation of others to take refuge in
fundamentalism.
It is also imperative for us to take a firm
stand against a kind of rigidity of approach which is gaining
ground in the world. This is the tendency to treat systems
as if they were incontrovertible truths.
It is the transfer of
dogma to sciences that are not at all exact. And this is
happening at a time when advances in human knowledge are
demonstrating precisely that what is vital today is to open
our minds to reason and to distance ourselves as far as
possible from dogmatism.
We are living in a world which has ceased to be
foreign. No human reality is alien to us. No suffering is
remote. No triumph of intelligence is a private matter. But
globalization does not mean uniformity. What is more,
without respect for differences, it would cease to have the
vigour it exhibits today. Its competitiveness would be lost,
and the concept of one world would inevitably find itself on
its deathbed.
seize the opportunity to take positive initiatives, without
prejudices, and come closer to the innermost reality of man.
This is why we are now striving to make progress in the
defence of universal humanitarian law. This concept is
inherent in the new vision of the world, and Chile comes
forward as its most resolute proponent.
It is this concept
which has led the "Blue Helmets" in the past three years to
take on as many missions as they conducted between the end
of the Second World War and the beginning of the 1990s.
The United Nations troops serve the invaluable objective of
peacemaking and rebuilding coexistence, a task which we
must perform if we are to meet adequately the need to strike
the proper balance between local sensitivity and global
sensitivity.
The number of problems that are worldwide in scope
has greatly increased. Whether through rigidity in the
application of the system or through shortcomings in the
system itself, we are witnessing some tragic consequences.
Millions of human beings are suffering from poverty. Nor
is the tragedy confined to the poor nations. We are
witnessing a worldwide social crisis. It has left its mark on
the developed countries as well. Social marginalization is a
reality which has taken on truly disturbing dimensions
hitherto unknown in those latitudes.
as
inseparable
development
Chile’s present Government has
always viewed
economic
from social
development. We see the economy not as an end in itself,
but as a means by which humanity can attain happiness.
This is our objective, and this is what has led President
Patricio Aylwin to assign the priority to dealing with what
we have termed the social debt. This term encompasses the
recognition that society as a whole must accord to the poor.
This idea has gained ground. As a result, the Chilean
initiative regarding the convening of a world summit for
social development has been positively received.
The
to be held at Copenhagen in 1995, will be a
meeting,
tangible demonstration of this concern on the part of the
United Nations.
My country is confident that we will make every effort
necessary to ensure that the Copenhagen meeting arrives at
appropriate and specific solutions. The environment
is
favourable, which makes us feel that we shall be able to
conclude the summit with an "agenda or programme for
people", one essential element of which must be broader,
more effective and more united international cooperation.
This is the world in which we have to live and move,
a world plagued by disturbing yet, paradoxically, stimulating
contradictions.
It is in such a world that we must strive to
Today’s world poses questions which must be answered
without delay. Poverty, hunger and other social scourges are
perceived as aberrations. Their eradication is the task of the
38
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
international community as a whole. In this task, the United
Nations will play a decisive role. It has the capacity to take
the leadership, which means channelling international
cooperation.
Furthermore, we recognize that the United Nations has
a fundamental role to play in dealing with the relevant
issues.
In the specific field of international peace and security,
my country has repeatedly stressed its support for the action
taken by the Secretary-General, and Chile advocates the
strengthening of his role, particularly with respect
to
preventive diplomacy. We hail his report "An Agenda for
Peace" as a valuable and significant aid to Governments.
We look forward with interest to the forthcoming publication
of an agenda for development, which we intend to consider
with the greatest enthusiasm.
In the same spirit of cooperation, we have conveyed to
the Secretary-General suggestions regarding the benefits that
might derive from an increase in the number of members of
the Security Council. Because of the great importance of
that body, any change that is proposed should reflect the
very clear political will of the majority. I want to put great
emphasis on this point. We view the changes in the Security
Council as part of a wide-ranging exercise aimed at
strengthening the United Nations. No reform can be viable
if
its sole aim is to grant some degree of political
recognition to certain emerging Powers. The aim of our
proposal is that appropriate account be taken of the new
international reality. At the same time, it seeks to reflect the
increase in the membership of the Organization since the last
time the Council was enlarged.
In our suggestions to the Secretary-General, we indicate
the need for the reform to result in a limited membership.
This will enable us to ensure efficiency and to achieve our
objectives of democratization.
In this context, we feel that
it is important that the various regions of the world be duly
represented. This will enable us to combine the idea of
democratization with the balance that is essential.
is
not
a
this
that
democratic means
Regarding the right of veto, we agree with many
nations
of
decision-making. For this reason we wish to make it clear
that we are opposed to its being extended to new permanent
members of the Council. In line with these ideas, Chile has
raised the possibility of the Council’s comprising permanent
members, permanent members without the right of veto,
regional members with an extended term, and non-permanent
members.
Still in the context of the protection of democracy, we
cannot fail to mention that at the regional level too new
circumstances have led to changes in the instruments
available to the Organization of American States (OAS).
Clear evidence of this is the Santiago "Commitment
to
democracy and the renewal of the inter-American system"
approved at the General Assembly of the OAS held in the
capital of Chile in 1991. This new approach has already
yielded results. The OAS has achieved successes that would
previously have been impossible in the region - particularly
in the field of the protection of democracy and human rights.
Of concern to us, together with steps in these two
sensitive areas, is decisive action for the protection of nature.
Currently, Chile holds the chairmanship of the environment
commission established within the organization.
In addition, my country has joined in the effort to
combat drug trafficking. Accordingly, we support various
initiatives aimed at drafting new legal instruments to combat
this scourge effectively.
Likewise - returning to the world scene - we attach
special importance to the process of restructuring in the
economic and social sector. This will raise the possibility of
saving millions of human beings who are currently
marginalized, living in minimal security conditions. In our
view, cooperation for development should become one of the
most solid pillars of the international agenda for the twenty-
first century. We shall continue to put forward ideas and to
support initiatives, in the Group of 77 and any other body,
that will serve to advance the negotiations.
President Aylwin’s Government has striven to make
international cooperation a reality. We have participated in
various activities within the programme of
technical
cooperation between developing countries. Currently, we
have projects in 43 countries, and 70 institutions from the
public and private sectors are participating in them.
There is an active current of cooperation with our
neighbours in Central America, the Caribbean and South
America. Also under way are projects that link us with
Mexico. Similarly, we have programmes with the People’s
Republic of China, India, Indonesia and the Philippines.
Recently, contacts have been established with African
countries and with South Pacific island territories. All of
this forms part of a deliberate policy aimed at strengthening
links with the Latin American and Caribbean nations and at
establishing close ties with all developing countries.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
39
identification with the basin is one of
An outstanding feature of the major changes taking
place throughout
the world is the important role being
assumed by the Pacific basin in political, economic and
strategic terms. Chile is a coastal State of that ocean, and
our
the most
innovative elements in the foreign policy being pursued by
President Aylwin. We have made a sustained effort to
associate ourselves with the main agreements on cooperation
in the Pacific region. Since 1990, Chilean business has been
participating actively in the Pacific Basin Economic Council,
and since 1991 Chile has been a full member of the Pacific
Economic Cooperation Council. We hope also to join the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, as we view this
as an important means of promoting the liberalization of
regional and world-wide trade. In this effort we have
received valuable support from the States members of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations, and for this we are
grateful.
In another context, I cannot fail to take this opportunity
to mention an issue that is of special significance to the
developing world.
I refer to the Uruguay Round of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). The
renewal of these negotiations provides some grounds for
hope. The so-called Dunkel text is very far from meeting
our legitimate aspirations, although it does constitute a major
advance in the current situation. Unfortunately, nonetheless,
it embodies a number of limitations on genuine freedom of
trade.
The most difficult issue in the Uruguay Round has been
trade in agricultural products, which, for the nations of Latin
America -for developing countries in general - is of vital
importance. Hence our lively interest in what is happening
in GATT.
Insistence on intransigent positions, which
objectively impede world trade, creates insurmountable
barriers to development - a situation to which we cannot
remain indifferent.
Chile has fully discharged its commitment
to the
collective security system. We regard this United Nations
initiative as highly appropriate in the current international
situation. My country has participated in a number of
peace-keeping operations. It has sent military observers to
the Middle East and to the frontier between India and
Pakistan; police officers to El Salvador; air force personnel
to Kuwait; and army personnel to Cambodia.
In discussing this issue, we cannot overlook the
financing difficulties that peace-keeping operations are
facing. We support
the steps being taken by the
Secretary-General of the United Nations to overcome these
problems.
Unquestionably, however, in our view, any discussion
of peace is incomplete if it does not refer to the progress
made in relation to disarmament.
The Convention on
chemical weapons is a significant achievement. We trust
that the work initiated with a view to the signing of a
comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty will follow the same
course.
At this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, I
wish briefly to evaluate the results Chile has achieved in
some of the areas to which it attaches priority in the
restoration of democracy.
first
to our
Let me refer
reintegration into the
international community. In the multilateral sphere, we can
point
to the generous support of our peers, which has
enabled us to become members of the Economic and Social
Council, the Commission on Human Rights, the International
Law Commission and the Executive Council of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and
to the election of our Ambassador to the United Nations,
Juan Somavia, as President of the Economic and Social
Council and Chairman of the Preparatory Committee of the
World Summit for Social Development.
In keeping with its mandate, President Aylwin’s
Government sees human rights as another of the objectives
towards which its actions are directed, both domestically and
in foreign policy. The latter aspect reflects a traditional
position of our country:
that of encouraging respect for
international law and promoting peace and justice. At the
same time, however, it is the least we can do by way of
reciprocating the enormous solidarity the international
community has extended to the Chilean people at the most
difficult moment in its history.
It will be the task of the General Assembly at this
session to begin the implementation of the agreements
contained in the Plan of Action adopted at the second World
Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna at
the
beginning of this year.
Along with its re-emergence on the international scene
and its protection of human rights and democracy, Chile has
set
the goal of working for effective regional
integration.
itself
Here, too, we can point to major achievements. Our
relations with our Latin American and Caribbean brothers
40
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
could not be better. Agreements that have already been
signed and various others that are in the drafting stage -
some 220 agreements and treaties in four years - bear
witness to this fact.
more human and the wisdom not to repeat the mistakes of
the past.
Members of the Assembly, my good wishes go with
you.
same
To that
end, we have worked for
the
strengthening of the Rio Group; we currently have the
honour to be coordinating its temporary secretariat. That
institution is the embodiment of a modern approach to
international relations. It embodies the will of the region in
its relations with individual countries or groups of countries
outside the region. This forum for political consensus
already has significant achievements to its credit on various
levels. Moreover, it is a clear demonstration of what we can
aspire to if we manifest imagination, political openness and
realism.
Special mention needs to be made of the understanding
we have reached with our neighbours. The understanding,
generosity and vision of the future exhibited by the Heads of
State of Argentina, Bolivia, Peru and Chile have allowed us
to settle issues which in some cases had been dragging on
for more than a century. While respecting our respective
traditions and abiding by the inviolable principles of
international law, including non-intervention and the sanctity
of treaties as the source of rights, we have nevertheless
understood that, as the twenty-first century approaches, it
will be useful
to exchange ideas about our national
aspirations, inasmuch as they promote the maintenance of
peace.
It
is a great honour for me to be addressing the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. The four
years I have represented Chile in this important forum,
whether accompanying President Aylwin or personally, have
been an enriching experience.
dynamic
demands
increasingly
The period in which we have the good fortune to be
living
effective
responses. The world is moving towards a new structure
which will undoubtedly afford us the possibility of moving
ever closer to satisfying the needs of human beings. But
whether we can make this a reality will depend on the
intelligence with which we confront the future.
and
I have every confidence in the rich sap that nourishes
this spreading tree, which shelters us all. The United
Nations has before it a glorious future in working for the
cause of peace. But that future will be possible only if we
demonstrate the imagination to be bold, the knowledge to
move ahead, the love to understand that to strive for the
common good is always a viable option, the solidarity to be
Mr.
ABDOU BOLOCK
ABDOU (Djibouti)
(interpretation from French): I wish to take this opportunity
to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth
session.
that his great experience and
wisdom will guarantee the success of this session.
I am confident
I wish also to pay a tribute to the President of the forty-
seventh session, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his significant achievements and his
constant, unfailing commitment
the
Assembly.
to the work of
Let me pay a well-deserved tribute also to His
Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a man ready to face
any challenge and an ardent champion of human rights, for
the masterly and enlightened way in which he is heading the
Secretariat of the Organization. My country appreciates the
tireless efforts of the office of the Secretary-General as it
strives to keep the peace throughout the world.
I take great pleasure in welcoming the States that have
just become Members of the United Nations, particularly
Eritrea, which by dint of courage, self-denial and sacrifice
has regained its dignity and its place in the great family of
independent States.
The opening of a new session of the General Assembly
gives us an opportunity to share our thoughts on important
world events and to mark a line of collective conduct in
human affairs. The most striking trend over the past few
years, one which has borne fruit, is that of the protection of
human rights vis-à-vis the State. This ideology of human
rights and minority rights has been decisive:
today, evils
that had plagued the
community have
disappeared or are disappearing, for example the seemingly
unbridgeable ideological gap between East and West, the
situation in South Africa, and the Arab-Israeli conflict.
international
Entire regions see the possibility of releasing significant
intellectual and material resources which were once devoted
to preparing for conflict but which now can be used to
establish genuine, welcome peace.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
41
We must hail the courage of visionary leaders who,
fighting against the current, have dared to challenge those
who saw security concerns as the only political wisdom and
to blaze new trails for their peoples and for the world.
The sight of the Chairman of the Palestine Liberation
Organization and the Prime Minister of Israel signing their
historic agreement in Washington, D.C., and shaking hands
with each other has been for many of us a source of hope,
inspiration and the will to persevere. They deserve our
praise for having recognized each other and engaged in
dialogue, thereby taking the first step down the long road
that we must now follow to arrive at a viable and lasting
peace.
That courageous decision shows all those who refuse to
speak save through the voices of their guns that it is still
possible to break free from the grip of hatred and denial of
each other’s existence.The process that has been set
in
motion in the search for a comprehensive and lasting
settlement must of necessity be based on Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). It deserves the full
political
international
community.
and financial
support of
the
In an equally explosive context, the white minority
regime of South Africa has embarked on a process of
political reform by signing an agreement for provisional
power sharing with the country’s black majority. That
crucial measure will have a lasting effect on the political
stability, economic progress and prosperity both of that
country and the entire region.
This development represents a threat to the extremist
and intransigent minorities, which threaten chaos and
anarchy if their demands are not met. However, we are
convinced that the Government of South Africa and the
African National Congress, acting in a spirit of openness and
compromise, will oppose any concession or half measure
that might jeopardize the long march towards a multiracial
and egalitarian society.
In that connection, we support the
appeal made by Mr. Mandela that the economic sanctions
imposed upon his country be lifted to facilitate the transition
to democratic rule.
Unfortunately, South Africa is not the only battlefield
for extremists. We must recognize that Mozambique,
Somalia, Bosnia and Angola, to mention but a few, are still
the victims of fratricidal conflicts. What we are witnessing
is a phenomenon that was long contained and suppressed by
the antagonisms that existed between the two power blocs
during the cold-war period, when super-Power pressures
were so great that satellite countries were often employed as
intermediaries in the settlement of accounts. As a result,
internal conflicts were promptly nipped in the bud. Today,
is no longer valid, and
the concept of
conflagrations
out
everywhere.
Unfortunately, the task of dealing with these hotbeds of
conflict has fallen to the United Nations, and, as a result, all
nations must now participate in one way or another in the
activities of the Organization.
two blocs
are breaking
almost
We are convinced that there are other ways of halting
the renewed outbreak of such conflicts than through a
systematic recourse to force. Naturally, violations of
international law and human values and the ever-increasing
contempt for human life are of central concern to the
international community. However, we must recognize that
the United Nations is suffering from inadequate structures,
from poor organization and from a lack of financing, as well
as from a personnel shortage that renders it impotent to deal
with such situations. It is therefore vitally important that the
Organization be provided with the financial and human
resources it needs to remedy its shortcomings.
rapid-deployment
My Government believes that the United Nations should
have its own volunteer
force under
Security Council control and the command of the Secretary-
General, prepared to be deployed at any time in hotbeds of
tension, for we are constantly being made aware that the best
method of dealing with conflicts is to prevent them. We
believe in preventive diplomacy. Such a force should be
trained and armed for limited and defensive actions and
provided with a logistical support capable of dealing with
any eventuality.
However, we are aware of the difficulties such a force
would face. The principle of humanitarian intervention
would conflict with the notion of State sovereignty, but at
the present juncture the United Nations is still the only
available "fire department," if I may use that term. It is thus
high time that its finances were put in order, even if that
entailed granting it the power to seek access to other sources
of financing, while reinforcing integrity and austerity through
the establishment of a general inspection body.
Apart from those financial questions, we believe that
the United Nations system also needs reform. The Security
Council should be expanded by the addition of a permanent
member for each region, thus modifying the monopoly on
the right of the veto.
Indeed, the United Nations must be
perceived as an international body that expresses the
concerns of every sovereign country and in which
transparency and globalization prevail.
42
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
All of those questions arise each time the Organization
intervenes in a given conflict.
In Somalia, in Angola, in
Mozambique, the Organization has suffered from its inability
to mobilize the military personnel required for the scheduled
period, to such an extent that its mission finds itself at a
In Angola a tragic situation exists owing to the
standstill.
Organization’s
combatants.
Fortunately, in Mozambique a spirit of compromise has
prevailed over deadly passions. As for Somalia, the United
States initiative under the auspices of the Unified Task Force
has made it possible to avoid an unprecedented disaster.
disarm the
inability
to
The United Nations experience in Somalia is far from
the negative one it is casually described as being. A mission
designed to ensure a safe environment and the distribution
of humanitarian aid has achieved remarkable progress.
Hunger exists only in a few remote areas, violence is
sporadic and limited but controlled. Training centres and
hospitals have been opened, and there are signs that business
is beginning to pick up. Political reconciliation meetings
have been held by the clan leaders in various parts of the
country, and the creation of a basic political framework, the
district council, is well under way. We can confidently look
forward to the groundroots development of the regional
council that will elect future political leaders. Somalians are
participating to a greater degree in the development process
of planning, identifying and setting priorities.
We believe that the police services and judicial system
that will soon be re-established will be capable of assuming
a large part of the responsibilities for the maintenance of
order and security in Somalia.
As a result, we would reiterate our appeal to donors to
fulfil the financial commitments they have made to the
Organization, because the complete success of the United
Nations Operation in Somalia II (UNOSOM II) will depend
on it. Should they fail to do so, the procrastinations and
failings of UNOSOM II will be a great encouragement to the
so-called warlords, skilled as they are in clan violence, and
destroy any chance of the development of democracy and
the rule of law.
We would also recall that in its initial desire to bring
about
the prompt restoration of political structures the
Organization agreed to work with the elements that were
available, which gave the Somali "hawks" an exaggerated
idea of their own importance. It is vital that such detractors
be stripped of
true
democracy can be established.
In our opinion, that is the
only way to avoid getting stuck in a rut of passivity, as has
occurred in the United Nations experience in Bosnia, where
their ability to do harm, so that
the worst violations of basic human rights have merely given
rise to expressions of indignation or verbal condemnations,
apart from a few resolutions that have remained a dead letter
while extortions and "ethnic cleansing" continue, in defiance
of international law.
In addition, the excessive delay in setting up the War
Tribunal has only aggravated the morbid passivity of the
international community. Nevertheless, we are hopeful that
that Tribunal will soon begin to hold sessions, with the
personnel, powers, funding and cooperation of Member
States that will be vital to its effective operation. We are
stressing this point because we deplore the policy of double
standards being pursued by the United Nations, a policy that
allows the criminals in Bosnia to operate with impunity
while mercilessly pursuing others elsewhere in the world.
This unquestionably discredits United Nations activities and
exposes collective security to the insatiable appetites of
aggressors and warlords of all kinds.
When resolutions are adopted, the United Nations must
ensure that
they are respected and complied with, or
"collective security" will come to mean "selective security".
Unfortunately, ethnic and community conflicts are not
the only threats to world peace.
The poverty of the
countries of the third world, compounded by artificial
borders inherited from the colonial era, constitutes another
catalyst for conflict, because this completely misguided
carve-up created territorial entities
that are scarcely
economically viable. These countries, once buffer States for
the super-Powers, have become veritable arsenals, and, with
the added element of poverty, the regimes in power thus
tend to opt more often for force than for reason.
In the face of so many constraints, building a
prosperous and harmonious nation with a common identity
and inspired by the values and principles of democracy has
been a daunting challenge. Many developing countries
embroiled in internal strife and turmoil have become bogged
down in chaos, leading to the disintegration of the State.
Hence, populations fleeing these regions invade such
countries as Djibouti, which is currently groaning under the
burden of 130,000 refugees, equivalent to 23 per cent of its
population.
the world has become is interdependence.
We bear this immense burden nevertheless, because, in
the end, the only driving force of the great global village
that
Thus,
assistance to developing countries should be increased, as
should the provision of skills and technology through
multilateral cooperation.
Furthermore, we believe that
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
43
regional economic integration is the basis for continuing
progress and lasting prosperity.
because Djibouti will strengthen its nation by discouraging
violence.
With the emergence of important regional economic
blocs, our countries are threatened with marginalization. In
the context of economic stagnation, the great hope born of
the end of the cold war has gone up in smoke. We are still
awaiting the extra resources that might have been allocated
to development. Worse still, the commitment of developed
countries to contribute 0.7 per cent of their gross national
product - a modest goal set by the United Nations for
development aid - has been met by only two countries. The
others have barely managed to achieve 0.2 per cent at the
most.
Such are the road taken and the commitment made by
the Republic of Djibouti to preserve and strengthen peace at
home and throughout the world.
Mr. SERREQI (Albania): I deem it a special pleasure
and honour to extend my cordial congratulations to the
President on his election to preside over
the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I also wish to express
my high esteem for the excellent way in which the former
President, Mr. Ganev, presided over the proceedings of the
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly.
Despite a difficult and sometimes chaotic situation, a
number of developing countries have made substantial
progress and present the necessary conditions to benefit from
significant and ongoing assistance, while others are regarded
as insolvent by international lending institutions.
It
is obvious that we desperately need increased
multilateral and bilateral aid to enable us to meet our
budgetary and investment needs because our private sources
of investment have dwindled. To this gloomy picture we
must add the misappropriation of aid or mismanagement of
it.
Nevertheless, many countries have committed
themselves to economic reform and structural readjustment,
which require increased aid, especially from the international
financial institutions.
My country, responding to the rapid developments
taking place in international trade and navigation - the bases
of our economy - has revamped its port facilities, financial
services and communication networks.
Anxious not to sail against what has been called the
wind of democracy, we have undertaken political reforms,
elections have been held and a new Constitution has been
adopted defining and guaranteeing individual rights.
Despite a very hostile and very unstable regional
environment, Djibouti has always been an island of stability
and a safe haven. The ill effects of the deep turmoil in our
region have considerably weakened the Republic of Djibouti,
and the deployment of enormous quantities of armaments in
the region has not helped to maintain a peaceful climate and
environment.
May I hail the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and in particular for his dynamic
role and valuable personal contribution.
The Albanian delegation takes this opportunity to greet
In particular, we welcome
the six newest Member States.
the presence here of our neighbour, the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, whose stability, territorial integrity
and international recognition are of great importance for
stability in the Balkans.
Since the last session of the General Assembly we have
seen many important events. We have witnessed the
endeavours of peoples for progress, prosperity, harmony and
understanding, peace and cooperation, as well as for
survival. The end of the cold war paved the way for the
denied
attainment
peoples’
to
self-determination and national
identity, democracy and
equality. It brought their national and spiritual assets closer
to each other and enhanced their endeavours to occupy their
rightful place in the list of civilized nations of the world.
aspirations
of
the
But these endeavours were also accompanied by crises
and conflicts, which have grown and are now among our
most serious challenges. We hail with the greatest pleasure
today the impressive progress made by Israel and the PLO,
as manifested in the historic agreement to put an end to
years and years of hostility. This remarkable achievement
is the best proof that if willingness is shown by all parties,
a suitable and acceptable solution can always be found. This
is the right moment to recall the worthy contribution made
by the major actors in world diplomacy to this end and
express our conviction that with such a commitment they
will continue to deal with other similar crucial questions.
Thus, the Republic of Djibouti will come to have its
own share of political
troubles, a natural extension of
regional instability. But these troubles will be contained,
At last year’s session of the General Assembly the
Albanian delegation had the pleasure to declare in this Hall
44
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the victory of the democratic forces and their commitment
to Albania’s reintegration into the community of democratic
and civilized nations. Today, from the same rostrum, I have
the honour and the obligation to state that my country’s
democratic transformation has been successful, embracing all
fields and spheres of human activity. This transformation
has once and for all determined the direction in which
Albanian society will go, and it is forging ahead fast. After
more than a year of such government, Albania has taken big
steps in the setting up of qualitatively new political and
social
in the
observation and legal guarantee of the rights and freedoms
of individuals.
structures and institutions, as well as
We can truly speak now of an overall democratic
restructuring of Albanian society. Our goal is to consolidate
the constitutional democratic political order by setting up
democratic institutions with a view to taking action on
various political subjects and non-governmental organizations
with a view to guaranteeing participation by all citizens in
the running of the country. Albania is being led by people
possessed of new aspirations, ideologies and ideas. The
Government and its programme enjoy general approval,
which ensures political stability at home.
Making headway in Albania along with general
democratic reform is economic reform, aimed at a total
restructuring of a closed and inefficient economy on the path
to a free and open market economy. This restructuring is
difficult and truly painful, given the conditions of a country
that had known no reform or any kind of cooperation. The
economic recession the world is experiencing today has a
considerable bearing on the outcome of reform in Albania.
Furthermore, the strict implementation of United Nations
sanctions, and the considerable economic losses consequent
upon it, have influenced the rhythm of Albania’s economic
recovery. To be successful, Albanian economic policy also
counts on assistance and cooperation through programmes of
such important world economic
the
International Monetary Fund,
the World Bank and the
European Community, and on specific programmes of aid
and cooperation with member countries of that Community
and a number of other States. Albania has surpassed the
stage of emergency aid and is working intensively to carry
out capital-producing projects, in which an important role is
also played by United Nations agencies such as the United
Nations Development Programme and the United Nations
Children’s Fund.
In spite of the fact that the Government
has been in power for only a short time, positive results are
evident.
institutions
as
Application of a strict monetary policy has reduced
inflation from a monthly rate of 15 per cent in 1992 to 0.9
per cent in March 1993. Since August of last year, the
Albanian currency has shown a fairly fixed exchange rate in
relation to hard currencies, and the budgetary deficit has
been reduced significantly. As result of
the massive
privatization of agricultural land, production has increased by
25 per cent.
ruined economy and hinder
It is only natural that at this time Albania has to cope
not only with the difficulties of
transition and world
economic recession, but with those caused by the long war
in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other complex political
developments in the region, which negatively affect our
efforts to restore our
the
promotion of the democratic process not only in Albania but
in the entire Balkan region. We consider the creation of a
democratic space and a climate of peace, security and
stability in the former Yugoslavia and all over the Balkans
to be factors of decisive importance for the future of this
region, which has been overburdened with so many conflicts.
We are resolved to contribute constructively to the
establishment of
such a democratic space of peace,
understanding and cooperation among the Balkan countries.
The priority of Albanian foreign policy is the creation
of favourable conditions for the democratic transformation
and total revival of the country. We see the solution of all
our problems precisely in the creation of this democratic
space in the Balkans and the full incorporation of this region
in the European process of integration.
In this context,
Albania’s permanent political goal remains step-by-step and
overall
integration in Europe by encouraging parallel
cooperation with the European collective economic, political
and security forums and structures. Reliable guarantees of
accelerated integration are advanced democratic legislation
worked out in compliance with European standards and the
institutional restructuring of State administration and local
government, along with total privatization of the economy
and the general encouragement of local and foreign private
initiative and activity in Albania. Reference should also be
made at this point to direct assistance from an important
forum of European democracy, the Council of Europe.
Albania regards the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
as an institution of effective vitality, which is indispensable
to organized concrete inter-State cooperation towards a real
collective security system in Europe and the entire
Euro-Atlantic area. Our
relations with this important
political and military organization for security in Europe are
intended to constantly enhance cooperation towards full
integration in its structures. In close cooperation with other
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
45
and
increased
Euro-Atlantic institutions, the Conference on Security and
Co-operation in Europe and the North Atlantic Cooperation
Council also have a very important
role to play in
safeguarding peace, not only through confidence-building
measures
the
participating states, but also in the prevention of conflicts
and the peaceful settlement of disputes. We are confident
that only a common security policy is conducive to a climate
of mutual confidence, capable of coping with new
challenges. Through the position we have expressed at these
forums, Albania has proved that it consistently abides by this
assessment.
understanding
among
It
are
is imperative for all members of
The protection and observance of human rights, one of
the fundamental issues of the new world democratic order
today,
closely linked with stable development,
democratic transformation, political stability and international
security, especially of the underdeveloped and turbulent
regions of
the world. Human rights are indissolubly
interwoven with the aspirations of mankind to well-being
and socio-economic and political progress, freedom and
democracy.
the
international community at present to commit themselves,
according to their respective domestic conditions, to joint
efforts to translate these aspirations into reality for the sake
of a civilized and advanced world. The Albanian people,
who will never forget the high price paid during half a
century of brutal dictatorship, attaches a high value to human
rights and political and civil freedoms. In compliance with
this assessment, our Government considers support for
democracy and human rights to be the guide of its political
orientation.
It is determined to build a modern State and a
civilized society, based on respect for the human rights of all
strata of the population without exception or discrimination.
Albania has adhered to two basic United Nations pacts on
human rights and is making preparations to adhere to a
series of other conventions. Not long ago, for the first time
in the history of the country,
the Albanian Parliament
endorsed the Constitutional Law on Fundamental Rights and
Freedoms, thereby testifying to our determination to put
human rights at the forefront of the stable foundations of the
new Albanian democratic society we are building.
We consider respect for minority rights to be an
important and indivisible aspect of human rights. Albania’s
policy in this field rests on the principles of full equality and
non-discrimination, the creation of a broad democratic space
so that persons belonging to national minorities can assert
their own national identity, and the creation of a climate of
exemplary trust and coexistence. Minorities are an integral
part of the political, social and economic life of Albania; as
and
protagonists
development
democratic
the
of
they have access to real
transformation of the country,
representation in all socio-political structures, at State and
local levels of administration. Their situation in economic
and social domains will improve hand in hand with that of
the rest of the population.
The end of the cold war freed mankind from the fear of
global confrontation, even though peace and security are still
seriously threatened by a number of regional conflicts.
In
some regions of the world, the actions and practices of some
States where totalitarian and ultranationalist regimes are in
power run counter to the aspirations and endeavours of the
peace-loving international community. More than 30 armed
conflicts, accompanied by savage crimes and great suffering
for the civilian population, are currently ablaze in various
regions of the world. These conflicts, which are a flagrant
violation of human rights and which are attended by all the
inevitable consequences, have seriously shocked mankind.
innocent
carried out
The conflict in the former Yugoslavia, especially in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the bloodiest and most
dangerous conflict known in Europe since the Second World
War, has not yet found a stable solution. The monstrous
the
massacres
against
civilian
population, "ethnic cleansing" -
that barbaric form of
genocide - and all the other inhuman acts associated with
this conflict have once more testified to the fact that it is
impossible to reform totalitarian and ultra-nationalist
societies. This conflict is a challenge to civilized Europe, to
the conscience and humanitarian sentiments and passions of
the whole of peace-loving mankind. That is why a firm
collective answer from mankind is required. We have seen
that the imposition of sanctions, despite the effect on the
Serbian economy, was not the only or the most effective
means to put an end to the war and restore peace. This is
because the practical commitment of some countries did not
match their verbal statements in support of the sanctions.
That
is why sanctions failed to paralyse and seriously
damage the Serbian war machine. Time has proved that the
sanctions needed to be accompanied by other, simultaneous,
measures of pressure.
We think that a convincing example should be set for
everybody, demonstrating that the reaction and the stand of
the United Nations will always be the same in cases of
aggression. It is the Organization’s duty to use all means at
its disposal to implement the principles of the Charter, to
make peace, and to fulfil the hopes of mankind.
But we understand that the United Nations sanctions, as
the only means based on the world community’s consensus,
will continue to be applied, putting the necessary pressure on
46
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the Belgrade authorities until a final solution of the whole
Yugoslav crisis is found, including an overall improvement
of the situation in Kosovo.
The Yugoslav
crisis
is multidimensional
and
complicated because of many interlacing factors and
interests.
It is evident that its most tragic and bloodiest
manifestation is the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
which for more than a year has been the centre of the
attention and the efforts of public opinion and of the
diplomacy of the major Powers of the world.
I would like
to stress that my country has condemned the Serbian
aggression, and has hailed and unreservedly supported all the
endeavours of the international community to establish peace
in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Republic of Albania will
support any solution to the Bosnian conflict which is based
on a free and fair agreement. Solutions which legalize
territorial annexation and "ethnic cleansing" at the expense
of other peoples such as the Muslim population in Bosnia
can hardly be heralds of peace.
Moreover, we would like to remind this important
international forum that the other aspects of the Yugoslav
crisis should not be neglected either, for these could have
consequences of tragic proportions not only within the
former Yugoslavia but also in the Balkans and beyond.
In that light, I would like to point out that the Albanian
factor in the former Yugoslavia, especially the Kosovo issue,
is of a crucial importance to finding an equitable and lasting
solution to the crisis. Therefore, we insist that this problem
has to be properly addressed.
If, in assessing this factor,
there is insistence on the rigid position that Kosovo is an
integral part of Serbia, that it is annexed to Serbia and that
the Albanian people in the former Yugoslavia are a minority,
then nothing will be achieved, but the idea of creating a
"Greater Serbia" will be reconfirmed and legalized at the
expense of other peoples.
considering the peoples’
We think that the breakup of the former Yugoslavia -
which was also the cause of what
is now called the
Yugoslav crisis - puts the issue of succession in the former
it brings up
Yugoslav federation in an entirely new light:
the question of
right of
self-determination, and the expression of their free will as to
their political status.
If this means war, as some people
think, then it is up to the United Nations and the Security
Council to intervene and guarantee respect for the principles
of the Charter. We firmly maintain that no forcible change
of borders or territorial gains through aggression and "ethnic
cleansing" will be recognized.
The choice is clear: if we want people to believe in the
new world order, we must create all
the legitimate
international conditions needed to realize and defend their
aspirations, by setting up an entirely new type of system of
United Nations protection for defenceless countries and
peoples.
As to the national question of the Albanians, we see its
solution in the creation in the former Yugoslavia and all
over the Balkans of a broad democratic space that would
allow freedom of communication and freedom of movement
among the more than 7 million Albanians who live, in
territorial continuity, in that space. We are against territorial
fragmentation and division, and the hermetic sealing of a
single people within the borders of neighbouring countries.
I believe that I am also expressing the opinion of many
countries represented here when I say that the outbreak of a
conflict in Kosovo would be the start of a great tragedy.
Albania expresses its profound gratitude to the international
community for all the efforts it has made to prevent a
spillover of the conflict to Kosovo and to support the denied
rights of the Albanian people there.
I also express my
gratitude to the United Nations, which has clearly warned
that any warlike act by Serbia in Kosovo will pose a threat
to international peace and security. We highly appreciate
this support and call for a serious commitment by the
international community to take all the necessary urgent
measures to prevent the Bosnian tragedy from recurring in
Kosovo.
Albania has long made it clear that placing Kosovo
under the control and protection of the United Nations is the
only guaranteed way of preventing conflict and discouraging
the silent "ethnic cleansing" that Serbia is practising there.
It would also create a favourable climate for dialogue
between the legitimate Albanian representatives of Kosovo
and the Serbian authorities on the political status of the
province and on any other issue linked with the question of
succession to the former Yugoslavia.
Therefore, we reiterate our stand that only the United
Nations, and primarily the Security Council,
should
expeditiously take the necessary measures to prevent conflict
in that region.
At a time when the concept of using peace-keeping
forces prior to a conflict has been consolidated in theory and
has been put into practice, preventive deployment is fully
justified in the case of Kosovo, because of the threat that the
outbreak of an intra-Balkan armed conflict would pose to
international peace and security.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
47
We see the United Nations also as the primary
institution responsible for the collective safeguarding of
peace and security in the new era. Albania will render
unreserved support to all initiatives aimed at enhancing the
efficiency of this universal Organization.
The meeting rose at 8.45 p.m.
We are profoundly concerned about
the issue of
Kosovo and the grave situation created there since the
elimination of its autonomy in 1989 and its complete
annexation and subjection to Serbian military and police
authority, and we call for proper attention to the fact that a
peaceful settlement of the Yugoslav crisis should cover the
entire space of the former Yugoslavia and all its aspects and
problems. Any partial settlement without the necessary
international safeguards would be unstable and would not do
away with the germs of new conflicts.
To sum up, I would like to reiterate that the Republic
of Albania sees in the United Nations an organization
capable of implementing the principles of its Charter and
coping with all the challenges that result from the dynamic
developments of our time, especially serious problems in the
fields of security, disarmament, sustainable socio-economic
development, environment and so on.
