United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT
The PRESIDENT:
I wish to begin by thanking the
delegations that were present in the Hall at 10.05 a.m.
today - that is, the delegations of Algeria, Barbados, Bolivia,
Brazil, China, Cambodia, Finland, Liechtenstein, Moldova,
the Republic of Korea, Romania, the United Arab Emirates,
the United States and Zambia.
AGENDA ITEM 127 (continued)
S C A L E O F A S S E S S M E N T S
F O R T H E
APPORTIONMENT OF THE EXPENSES OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (A/48/414/Add.7)
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to draw the General
In a
Assembly’s attention to document A/48/414/Add.7.
the Secretary-General
letter contained in that document,
informs me that since the issuance of his communications
dated 21, 24, 27 and 29 September 1993 and 4, 6 and
11 October 1993 the Dominican Republic has made the
payment necessary to reduce its arrears below the amount
specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes note
of that information?
It was so decided.
30th
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 14 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
The PRESIDENT: We must now wait
the
representatives whose names are on the list of speakers for
this morning to arrive.
I would ask delegations to ensure
that, when their names are on the list of speakers, they be
here on time to address the Assembly.
for
AGENDA ITEM 10
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL ON THE
WORK OF THE ORGANIZATION (A/48/1)
Mr. TAYLHARDAT (Venezuela) (interpretation from
Spanish): We consider the report of the Secretary-General
on the work of the Organization to be particularly important
and relevant because it provides an overview of how we can
give effect to the purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter in the present circumstances. The report
identifies critical factors and the relationship between those
if fully understood, can help us make
factors, which,
significant progress
the
objectives shared by the entire international community. We
thank the Secretary-General for the well-thought-out way he
has described his conduct of his office and for highlighting
subjects on which we must take decisions and those on
which he seeks our guidance.
the achievement of
towards
Venezuela
fully
shares
the Secretary-General’s
conviction that the Organization has been able to respond
decisively and creatively to the demands of
today’s
international society and to the pre-eminent values of peace,
democracy and development
the
unquestioned unifying factors in political action by Member
States.
the Organization,
Venezuela shares this focus; these are the very values that
underlie our domestic political order and our international
activities.
As a founding country of
that have arisen as
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86885 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.30
9 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the
report’s
We particularly welcome
reiterated
recognition that, despite the interrelation of these three
factors - peace, democracy and development - and despite
the world-wide spread of their scope, the State and national
sovereignty remain the cornerstones of the Organization’s
ability to take concerted, consensual action in all aspects of
its broad purview.
I wish to concentrate today on the Secretary-General’s
overview of the Organization. When the Assembly or its
Main Committees consider other agenda items, we will have
the opportunity to make more detailed comments on some of
the many other matters the report deals with.
Along with the Secretary-General, we consider that,
faced with a new range of responsibilities and, above all,
potentialities for action, the Organization must give priority
to re-evaluating itself so it can effectively adapt to new
circumstances. In our view, the Secretary-General was right
to shoulder the responsibility of challenging the status quo
and proposing areas of political, organizational and
management action to do so.
All Member States maintain an unflagging interest in
the "Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277). The "Agenda" is being
put to the test in the numerous crises that have arisen over
the past year. The Secretary-General’s commitment
to
submit for our consideration an agenda for development,
conceptually and operationally linked to the "Agenda for
Peace" ensures that
this fresh momentum will be all-
encompassing and that the Organization will fulfil its duty to
deal with each and every aspect of its Charter mandate.
As the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Venezuela has
noted, we are convinced that we must work for a more
democratic and more transparent Organization, in whose
decision-making all Member States unreservedly feel they
are fully participating.
As a non-permanent member of the Security Council
over the past two years, Venezuela had the opportunity to
see how useful the Security Council summit was; but we
have also seen the need to find ways of enhancing
transparency and openness
in the Council’s work,
deliberations and decision-making. That process is under
way; continuing it will broaden the Council’s political ambit.
The current procedures of the Council, given their present
decisions,
modalities
and
unquestionably
and
responsibility by all Member States. Along with the process
of reviewing the composition of the Council, this should
achieve better balance and a greater sense of shared
responsibility with the General Assembly, for the benefit of
the
require
participation
greater
scope
of Council
the entire Organization. We share the Secretary-General’s
belief that the needed reforms should be completed by the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations.
The very concept of threats to international peace and
security is evolving. New situations are now ripe for
collective action based on that concept. The newness of that
concept has given rise to numerous questions as to the best
way to meet
the new demands. The Organization has
responded with institutional instruments and, largely, with
existing procedures. We wonder whether,
if this trend
continues, it is advisable for ever-greater responsibilities to
be concentrated in the Security Council.
In our view, the link between the Security Council and
the Economic and Social Council suggested in the Secretary-
General’s report should not simply be ignored. We think the
suggested relationship should be reversed. The Economic
and Social Council should not draw the Security Council’s
attention to economic and social crises in order for the latter
to take preventive action. Such preventive action is the very
essence of the responsibilities of the Organization and of the
entire United Nations system in the economic and social
field. Nevertheless, we could explore a way for the
Economic and Social Council, when a crisis arises,
to
contribute to the solution of the economic and social aspects
of the crisis.
Instead of adopting resolutions calling for
economic and humanitarian assistance, recommending the
establishment of voluntary funds, or promising action by the
specialized agencies, the Security Council could recommend
or request that the Economic and Social Council study and
define the modalities for providing such necessary assistance
as is possible, in all areas of its competence. That would
achieve a better and more effective functional relationship
between those two main organs, along with the participation
of a larger number of Member States in the critical matters
before the Organization. Combined with the ongoing
process of restructuring and revitalization, this could lead to
a more focused and active Economic and Social Council,
fully involved in all items before the Organization. We
should also consider whether, given its current operational
mechanisms, the Economic and Social Council is really in a
position to take on additional tasks. The Secretary-General’s
proposal
intersessional mechanism is
especially relevant in this context.
for a high-level
We think that what is required, rather than a process of
centralizing decision-making, is a process of segmentation,
in order to give proper and full participation to every forum
at our disposal.
The comments concerning the Economic and Social
to the International Court of
Council are also relevant
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
3
Justice. We have seen how, in one situation addressed by
the Security Council,
the Council performed its duties
without awaiting the outcome of the legal process provided
for in an international convention. As was pointed out by
the Secretary-General, the International Court of Justice, as
a principal organ of the United Nations, must also perform
its functions fully as "an integral part of United Nations
peace efforts" (A/48/1, para. 64) when called upon to do so,
and its activities should not be prejudiced or conditioned by
those of other bodies. Failing this, we would be fostering
selectivity that would not be conducive to strengthening the
main legal body of the United Nations.
it
is
less
that
solutions overlap,
While this is of concern when the interests of political
and legal
so when the
international community attempts to develop a broader legal
system to respond to the new situations confronting it. We
have seen, for example,
is has been necessary to
establish a special Tribunal to pass judgement on serious
violations of international human rights committed in the
former Yugoslavia and that, for a few years now, there has
been a proposal to create an international penal court. While
the Secretary-General’s concern to preserve the concept of
a single and universal legal system may be reasonable, it is
certain that reality extends beyond that desideratum.
It
would be worth while in the immediate future for Member
States, with the Secretary-General’s support, to consider at
greater length and in greater detail the implications of the
trends to which he calls our attention in his report.
improving the quality and commitment of
Finally, in this attempt to respond to the ideas on
United Nations bodies contained in the report, I should like
to refer briefly to the Secretariat. Venezuela supports and
generally welcomes the Secretary-General’s initiatives aimed
at
the
Organization’s staff, rationalizing its structures to meet new
demands, correcting the misuse of funds and reducing waste.
We simply wish to point out that, as in any organization that
attempts to answer to the most varied interests, this process
would gain support if it was carried out consensually, first
addressing the need to fulfil the existing mandates and in
consultation with Member States.
The
challenge before us
is not only one of
rationalization and increased efficiency: we also need to feel
that we are playing an active part in a process that also
involves the Secretary-General,
the individual Member
States, and the United Nations bodies through which the
purposes and principles of the Charter are expressed.
Mr. INDERFURTH (United States of America): The
United States is pleased to have this opportunity to express
again its gratitude to the Secretary-General
for his
stewardship of the United Nations during what must surely
be one of the most demanding years in the history of this
Organization. The story of the sweep and scale of these 12
months is amply told in the comprehensive report before us
today.
While many important themes are addressed, we will
limit our comments to a few practical issues of particular
importance and consequence: peace-related activities, the
matter of
and the
strengthening of United Nations activities in human rights,
humanitarian affairs and development.
interim United Nations offices,
First,
in the section entitled "Peace-keeping in a
changing context", we welcome the Secretary-General’s
several timely and important proposals for strengthening
management and support of the widening range of peace-
related activities. Let me draw the attention of members of
the Assembly to some of these.
First, we agree that robust and professional press and
public-information activities are an integral part of peace-
keeping. We welcome the attention this dimension of peace-
keeping receives in the report and encourage the Secretary-
General to take measures to strengthen it.
Secondly, we like the emphasis on improved training
and civilian recruitment for peace-keeping missions and
believe that aggressive steps in these areas should be made
a very high priority.
Thirdly, we strongly endorse the proposal
the
General Assembly create a system for appropriating, on an
accelerated basis, some portion of the estimated cost of a
peace-keeping operation, and we hope that
the Fifth
Committee will soon be able to turn its attention to this
important issue.
that
Fourthly, we note that the United Nations has begun to
make use of the services of commercial contractors to
provide support services for United Nations field operations.
So long as these contracts cover non-sensitive activities and
are awarded on a competitive basis - open to bids from
companies in all geographical regions - we believe they are
a sound and appropriate response to rapidly growing
demands.
Finally, we strongly welcome the incorporation of the
Field Operations Division into the Department of Peace-
keeping Operations and expect this change to strengthen
significantly the Department’s executive authority for peace-
keeping operations under the direction of the Secretary-
General.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the Secretary-General’s
Turning to the economic and social sphere, another area
of interest to the United States is the Secretary-General’s
proposal for the establishment of integrated offices in the
newly independent States as well as in other locations.
In
general, the United States looks with favour on the principle
underlying
The
improvement of coordination and the introduction of greater
efficiency in United Nations system operations is a goal
which the United States has long pursued throughout the
entire range of intergovernmental forums. However, we
believe that the proposal requires more analysis, input and
discussion in order to ensure that the mechanisms which are
set up perform efficiently and synergistically with the goals
and objectives of United Nations agencies.
proposal.
On development issues, the United States looks forward
with interest to the proposals that the Secretary-General
indicates will be forthcoming in his report "An agenda for
development"; a preliminary report on the subject will be
made available to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session. We are pleased that, in his report on the work of
the Organization, the Secretary-General indicated that his
report will
include guidelines for future United Nations
action. The United States hopes that the report will help
stimulate a more pragmatic discussion and work programme
for furthering development.
Regarding the treatment of human rights in the report,
we were gratified to read that "the effective safeguarding of
human rights is possible only in a democratic framework"
(A/48/1, para. 275) and that "the process of democratization
cannot be separated from the protection of human rights"
(ibid.). As President Clinton stated before this body during
the general debate:
"Our overriding purpose must be to expand and
strengthen the world’s community of market-based
democracies."
the General
Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Plenary Meetings,
4th meeting, p. 27)
(Official Records of
us with an overall view of what the United Nations is doing
and what it is called upon to do, as well as proposals to
strengthen its functioning and improve its efficiency.
Indeed, it is more detailed than any that has been submitted
in the past years, reflecting the enhanced stature and prestige
of the Organization in various fields of its endeavour. The
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries is greatly indebted to
our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his
dedicated leadership in guiding the work of the Organization.
The past
few years have witnessed a dramatic
improvement in the climate in which the United Nations has
functioned. The Secretary-General has rightly identified the
comprehensive nature of the global challenges over the past
year and thus the indispensability of the United Nations in
addressing them.
Such global challenges require an
integrated approach to peace, security and development.
"An Agenda for Peace" and an agenda for development, now
at the preparatory stage, underscore the comprehensiveness
and integrated nature of the new approach being enunciated
by the Secretary-General. We fully agree that, given these
challenges and the realities of our time, it is clear that this
world Organization - the United Nations - has indeed
become indispensable.
In the areas of peace and security, the United Nations
role has been revitalized and rejuvenated, and within a short
period of time the Organization has amassed a record of
significant achievements. Peace-keeping and peacemaking
activities launched in many areas of the world have gained
new dimensions of unprecedented variety and scope. We
agree that there is a second generation of peace-keeping
involving political, military and humanitarian aspects, and
that these should be dealt with in a unified and integrated
manner. However,
these
activities should be pursued in a balanced manner and
accord fully with the sacrosanct principles
the
sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of
States should not be infringed.
the Movement believes that
that
We are therefore in harmony with the Secretary-General. In
addition, we believe that strengthening the role that the
United Nations plays in human rights is an important goal
for this Organization.
This can best be accomplished
through the creation of a post of high commissioner for
human rights, and we hope to work with the Secretary-
General to that end.
Mr. WISNUMURTI (Indonesia): It is a distinct honour
and privilege for me to speak on behalf of the non-aligned
countries on the Secretary-General’s report on the work of
the Organization (A/48/1). It is comprehensive and provides
Likewise, we concur with the Secretary-General’s
assessment that development is now understood to involve
many dimensions. No longer merely confined to economic
policies and resources,
it also includes political, social,
educational and environmental factors.
The end of the cold war and the disappearance of
ideological rigidities have also impacted on the role of the
Organization in the economic and social fields. In a number
of other areas, ranging from the environment to population,
the United Nations is also in the forefront of international
efforts to manage transition and change.
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
5
However, as the Secretary-General’s report makes clear,
the post-cold-war era has not brought with it the termination
of all conflict situations, as many continue unabated with no
resolution in sight. Likewise, in spite of a climate more
conducive to serious discussion and negotiation of economic
and social
issues, no substantive progress can be cited.
Indeed, the heightened perception that the United Nations
has become indispensable is not matched by the availability
of adequate resources for the new opportunities offered by
the post-cold-war period or the rapid transformation now
under way in the global economy.
staggering under
It is therefore with deepening concern that we view the
financial crisis now facing the Organization. For while the
Organization is
the unprecedented
expectation that it should deal effectively with a multiplicity
of complex problems, it is being shackled by this perennial
crisis. This paradox between demands and capacity cannot
continue indefinitely without disastrous consequences for the
aspirations of the international community for peace and
development.
instrument
for
In these endeavours,
should become effective as
The non-aligned countries believe that
the United
the central and
Nations
a new and revitalized
irreplaceable
the primary
international order.
objective is to render the Organization more responsive to
the changing realities and emerging challenges of peace and
development. Hence, steps must be taken to ensure not only
the financial viability of the Organization, but also its
democratic functioning - that
the fullest participation,
consultation and engagement of all its Members in the work
of the Organization. In this context, we are gratified to note
in the report
the General Assembly is playing an
increasingly practical role in world activities. As the
General Assembly has grown in membership, its expanded
activities
the
maintenance of international peace and security. Clearly,
there is also a need for streamlining and revitalizing the
work of the Assembly. Through such an approach, the
Assembly could more clearly define its work programme and
impart greater importance and authority to its decisions.
addressing
include
issues
relating
to
is,
that
At
the same time,
the non-aligned countries are
committed to establishing a balanced relationship between
the General Assembly and other principal organs of the
United Nations. In this context, it is essential to ensure the
democratization of the Security Council, in line with the
reform of the United Nations aimed at bringing about greater
democratization and transparency in the work of all United
Nations bodies. A review of the membership of the Security
Council has become imperative in the light of the profound
changes that have taken place on the international scene.
Such a reappraisal should be comprehensive in nature so as
to enhance its effectiveness and credibility, provide equitable
and balanced representation and facilitate the participation of
small and medium-sized States, which constitute the majority
of the Organization. We hope that a decision concerning the
restructuring of the Security Council will be reached prior to
the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization. Furthermore, we
also endorse the proposal for periodic meetings of the
Council at the ministerial level.
In this context, while we
welcome the observation of the Secretary-General
that
membership is of critical importance, it is equally critical
that other aspects relating to the functioning of the Security
Council be fully acknowledged.
the failure at
the forty-seventh session of
As to the Economic and Social Council, we agree with
the Secretary-General that the Council must now receive
greater attention than it did during the cold war. We want
even more to see the Council function fully, in accordance
with its mandate enshrined in the Charter. Yet we note with
regret
the
Assembly to reach consensus on restructuring the United
Nations in the economic, social and related fields. On the
question of the Economic and Social Council’s providing the
Security Council with reports on certain situations that
threaten peace, we believe that such a practice would run
counter to the Non-Aligned Movement’s position on the
need to achieve a balanced relationship between the principal
organs of the United Nations.
Consequently,
Peace-keeping activities are now being utilized in
the
historically unprecedented ways.
uncertainty and discord concerning the
composition,
command and control, financing, mandate and time-frame of
peace-keeping operations, as well as the safety of their
personnel, have often impeded their effectiveness.
It is
important to search for ways and means in which consensus
could be built to ensure global support for these activities.
To this end, the roles of the General Assembly, the Security
Council and the Secretary-General will require a careful
reassessment.
The non-aligned countries are gratified to note that, in
the context of restricting and resolving conflict situations, the
Secretary-General has undertaken numerous initiatives and
actions which have established a framework to facilitate a
peaceful settlement in accordance with relevant resolutions.
The Movement will resolutely support his endeavours to
enhance the efficacy of preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping
and peacemaking operations, in which many non-aligned
countries have served and will continue to serve.
In the economic sphere, the report contains a number of
interesting and important ideas, notably on the concept of
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
development. Of particular importance to the Movement is
that the vast potential of the Organization is being brought
to bear in a new and refreshing way on the need for
development and the eradication of poverty. At its Jakarta
Summit, the Movement succeeded in putting development
and the eradication of poverty back at the top of its agenda
as a central imperative of this new post-cold-war era. We
therefore enthusiastically anticipate the forthcoming report of
the Secretary-General on the agenda for development as a
watershed in international cooperation for development. The
Non-Aligned Movement hopes
report
development will finally be accorded as much emphasis as
is given to the political agenda.
that with this
In the view of the Secretary-General, the Organization’s
work in the economic and social fields appears to be less
focused than its work in the political sector, due to the
proliferation of intergovernmental bodies in those sectors and
their lack of coordination. While this may be true, we
should not discount the lack of political will in the equation.
In any efforts to increase coordination, the new orientation
and focus on development should not be ignored.
In this
context, it is pertinent to state that any structural changes to
be undertaken by the Secretary-General should be subject to
approval by the relevant intergovernmental bodies.
and
advance
We in the Non-Aligned Movement are also pleased that
the Secretary-General has dealt deftly and cogently with the
conceptual aspects of the changing world realities as they
relate to development and its interlinkages with peace,
stability and democracy. We see the contours of such a
concept emerging. At its Summit last year, our Movement
committed itself to wage war on poverty, illiteracy and
to
underdevelopment
broad-based
people-centred development,
including the promotion of
human resources for development.
to
accelerate development based on equitable distribution,
growth and stability. The Movement can therefore agree with
the Secretary-General’s assertion that
there can be no
flowering of development without the parallel advancement
It is
of democratization, especially over the long term.
important
like
development, is an evolutionary process and can best grow
and flourish by being nurtured gradually in keeping with a
country’s norms and traditions. There is no single formula
for democracy applicable to all countries, as we fully
recognize the existence of economic, social and cultural
differences.
to point out, however,
that democracy,
It also sought
As emphasized in the report, there is also a need for
democratization between countries. Yet, in the section on
developing the global community,
the Secretary-General
pointed to the shocking fact, as he put it, that the widening
gap between the richest and poorest countries was more
often than not greeted by indifference. As the United
Nations has a pivotal role in bridging this gap, we look
forward to the fulfilment of the Secretary-General’s promise
to set out fully the United Nations approach to development
in an agenda for development.
fully
supports this initiative and is fully committed to participating
in the forthcoming discussions on the preliminary report
before the end of the forty-eighth session.
The Movement
such
either.
Rather,
issues must
Thus
In like manner, in addressing the widening gap and the
unacceptable trends in the world economy and global
economic relations, as well as in recognizing the growing
interdependence of nations and the globalization of issues
and problems, the Non-Aligned Movement is very much
aware that piecemeal and ad hoc remedies are not
the
answer. Unilateral, bilateral or regional approaches are not
adequate
be
comprehensively and globally addressed.
the
Movement saw no alternative to generating international
cooperation for development, and has in consequence called
for a reactivation of the dialogue and partnership between
North and South. This time, however, the Movement sees
the dialogue as being based on the economic imperatives of
mutual interests and benefits, genuine interdependence and
shared responsibility. We thus see the dialogue and the
agenda for development as complementary and compatible;
together they can enable the international community to
come to terms with the fundamental questions of overcoming
underdevelopment and poverty in developing countries,
particularly in Africa.
Regarding the social issues covered in the report, the
non-aligned countries welcome the Secretary-General’s
integrated approach in addressing economic and social
development issues, as well as the progress already made in
the preparations
for Social
Development. We look forward to the completion of the
preparatory studies for the conference, which are under way,
and to the definition of attainable social development
objectives.
the World Summit
for
On the advancement of women, we appreciate the
Secretary-General’s work in outlining a number of steps
being taken to give greater coherence to the activities of the
United Nations, and we hope that this will contribute to the
success of the 1995 Fourth World Conference on Women.
Finally, with regard to the outcome of the World
Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna, the report has
rightly highlighted the
the need for
cooperation between Member States as a central element in
furthering these goals.
In this regard, the Movement notes
importance of
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
7
to
with satisfaction that
development and the need for an effective partnership of all
those concerned in order to promote those goals.
the report stressed the right
In the present global setting, mutual interaction and
linkages between political and economic problems are
self-evident. In an increasingly interdependent world, the
political stability and economic well-being of both developed
and developing countries has become more intertwined. As
the problems we face assume global proportions, in their
scope and in their consequences, they call for a globalized
effort to find solutions. The emergence of a new, more
equitable and rational world order can come about only
through sustained international cooperation and dialogue,
conducted within a coherent, integrated and comprehensive
approach as called for by the Secretary-General.
Mr. REMÍREZ DE ESTENOZ (Cuba) (interpretation
from Spanish): My delegation is pleased that we are having
this debate on the report of the Secretary-General, thus
resuming the healthy practice of considering annually in the
General Assembly a document whose contents generally go
beyond reviewing the activities of the Organization in the
past year to outlining the future work of the United Nations.
Unfortunately, in a debate such as this it is not possible
to consider in depth every aspect of the report. Therefore,
we shall focus on its general approach and on some of the
elements which my delegation feels are the most important.
The Secretary-General, in the introduction to his report,
recognizes that
"States and their sovereignty are ...
indispensable
building-blocks of international order and problem-
solving" (A/48/1, para. 13)
and he confirms that "the State and its national sovereignty"
(ibid., para. 14) are the essential link between the isolated
individual and the increasingly complex world in which he
finds himself. He also points out:
"Without State sovereignty,
the very instrument of
international cooperation might be destroyed and
international
become
impossible". (ibid., para. 16)
organization might
itself
Earlier in his report, the Secretary-General makes it
clear that, in his estimation,
"democratization must not only take hold inside a State,
but among States in the international community".
(ibid., para. 10)
Similarly, he refers repeatedly in the introduction to the
importance of the problems of development and to the role
our Organization must play in solving them. We fully agree
with the Secretary-General that development activities
"provide the foundations for global security and
stability". (ibid., para. 22)
We make specific mention of these concepts because
their being in the introduction might well lead an unwary
they are the cornerstone of the
reader to believe that
document
and its philosophical basis.
Unfortunately, there is little to inspire such hope.
a whole
as
It can be seen throughout the report - it is a constant -
that the problems of development of the third world, which
are one of the main tragedies facing the contemporary world,
have in practice been subordinated to the implementation of
new concepts supposedly aimed at preserving international
peace and security. The priorities have been changed, and
in the report the necessary balance between peace-keeping
and the duties of
the United Nations with regard to
international cooperation for development has been lost.
It is troubling to note that, in the efforts to implement
the so-called integrated approach of the United Nations - an
approach based, according to the report, on peace and
security, democracy, human rights and development, in that
order - not only does the integrated nature which supposedly
gave its name to that approach disappear, but there is also
an inversion in the pyramid which for decades we in the
developing countries have been demanding. Development
and international cooperation to achieve development must
be the main concern of this Organization, and not other
mechanisms, which - besides responding to very specific and
partial interests - constitute a major potential for interference.
Similarly, with
priorities,
circumstances are being created for new conditions to
emerge, a prelude to which we have already noted with
concern in various mechanisms in the Organization.
anticipated
order
the
of
The unbridled proliferation of peace-keeping operations
and the increased efforts to institute so-called preventive
diplomacy, with a costly early-warning system; the creation
of a General Staff of the Organization, without even a
specific mandate to do so; and the new practices for
peacemaking,
imposing peace and post-conflict peace-
building - to mention but a few of the new concepts - has
led to the limited resources of the Organization being
increasingly dissipated.
Has there perhaps been a proportional
increase in
resources devoted to cooperation for development? Has
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
priority perhaps been given to those resources which
countless United Nations resolutions and declarations have
demanded for decades? Are those funds not perhaps going
to programme and budgetary procedures for the sake of
other activities?
On the contrary, the resources devoted to peace-keeping
operations - which, moreover, we the States Members of the
Organization provide,
imposing a heavy burden on the
marginalized South - are so abundant, and the prospects for
more such operations so ambitious, that they have induced
the Secretary-General to imply in his report that they exceed
the capacity of the Organization.
But, just as dangerous as the inversion of priorities to
which we have referred, are their side effects in practically
all spheres of the work of the Organization. We have noted
with concern that not only has the primacy of the Security
Council - with all the structural defects in membership and
operating procedures from which it suffers - been confirmed
in the report, but there is also a reiteration of the appeal for
still further increases in the Council’s power, subordinating
other principal bodies to its decisions. Paragraph 42, for
example, which in a mere proposal
the
philosophy
document, would
subordinate the role of the Economic and Social Council to
the Security Council, broaden the mandate of the Security
Council to all spheres of United Nations activity, and be a
further step towards the objective of
transforming the
Security Council into a sort of world government.
summarizes
underlying
this
entire
The fact that in paragraph 6 of the report it is affirmed
that
"The second generation of peace-keeping is certain to
involve not only military but also political, economic,
social, humanitarian and environmental dimensions"
(A/48/1, para. 6)
appears to be heading in a similar direction, considering that
it is the Security Council which is the organ entrusted with
such operations.
The re-establishment of balance would necessarily
imply that the General Assembly resume in practice the
functions
related to peace-keeping and the peaceful
settlement of controversies entrusted to it in the Charter.
perhaps be that the press has clearly seen the situation for
what it is and that our Organization, on the basis of its new
and questionable priorities, has given cause for such
perceptions?
The Secretariat,
to mention another example, also
suffers the side effects of the inversion of priorities. We
need only note the trend towards transferring personnel hired
under the regular budget of the Organization to peace-
keeping operations without replacing them. It is difficult for
us to believe that
the work of 1,200 employees of the
Secretariat can be absorbed by others without adversely
affecting the programmes of the Organization which are not
related to peace-keeping operations and which have been
duly mandated by the appropriate legislative bodies.
are
such as
legislative mandates
The delegations themselves - why not say it aloud? -
are also made to suffer these effects. While it is true that
there are unpaid contributions, which diminish the resources
available to the Organization, it is also quite true that the
costs of carrying out certain activities,
the
establishment of a General Staff, situations rooms and other
measures whose
also very
questionable, absorb a great deal of resources which, in
practice, could be devoted to satisfying needs in the areas of
documents, interpretation and other services to delegations
of the Member States, which are in reality the raison d’être
of this Organization. Savings should be made elsewhere and
not at
the expense of the delegations representing the
Members of the United Nations, as recognized in paragraph
83 of the report. Perhaps the approach adopted in 1985 and
1986, when certain circumstances reduced the financial
capacity of the Organization, would be a good precedent. At
that time, all of the measures to effect savings were taken in
full consultation with the General Assembly.
The fact that the States, and therefore the Governments
they represent, are at the very centre of the activities of the
United Nations can be neither forgotten nor set aside when
considering the future programmes and activities of the
Organization, in keeping, also, with the principle of the
sovereign equality of all States. This calls not only for
determining philosophical, political and economic concepts,
to which primacy should be given, but also means that
decisions as to the future course of the Organization must be
taken strictly by the relevant intergovernmental bodies and
not by other mechanisms not made up of Member States.
The Secretary-General complains, in paragraph 22 of
the report, and quite rightly, that the attention of the media
is
focused on peace-keeping operations, giving the
impression that other aspects are being ignored. We have to
wonder, first of all, whether the media are wrong. Could it
In this context, it is particularly important to recall that
the General Assembly is
the
Organization and that its decisions are not opinions of the
Member States but, rather, mandates the Secretariat
is
The report contains numerous
obliged to carry out.
the principal body of
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
9
examples of how this reality is ignored. It is fitting to recall
here that the question of competence of the various bodies
of the United Nations and of balance that must exist between
the main bodies is one of the current debates in our
Organization and, hence, we do not deem it appropriate for
positions to be taken that might prejudge the decisions
adopted by the various intergovernmental bodies, particularly
the General Assembly.
for
Inspections
Secretary-General
Paragraph 80 of the report deserves special attention.
the establishment of the new post of
In our opinion,
Assistant
and
Investigations must be considered very closely. We feel that
it would be more appropriate to strengthen internal controls,
such as investigation, inspection, evaluation and accounting,
but the key to success in this task would be, in our view, to
strengthen the existing intergovernmental external control
mechanisms. We shall expand on our comments in the
appropriate forums, but we feel that in this area as well, the
Member States should play a central role.
The points made in the section of the report dealing
with the restructuring of the Secretariat are of particular
interest.
I refer especially to paragraphs 86 and 90. The
General Assembly awaits submission of the third stage in the
restructuring, which relates to regional decentralization and
to decentralization in the field. We feel that measures in this
connection should not be pursued until approval has been
given.
An obvious illustration of this is the explanation,
contained in paragraphs 102 to 106, of the so-called interim
offices, about which there are many doubts among many
Member States. These offices - which we feel are at the
very apex of the inverted pyramid that there is an attempt to
apply, on the basis of the concept of a more integrated
approach in the work of the Organization - are unacceptable.
The broad gamut of functions dealt with goes far beyond
preventive diplomacy and the compiling of information and
includes the coordination of activities in the field. In effect,
these functions are regarded as being those of an embassy of
the United Nations, for which there is no General Assembly
mandate. We could discuss a coordinated presence in the
field, but exclusively for the functions to which General
Assembly resolution 47/199 relates.
Similarly, we wonder what is the origin of the mandate
of the Department for Economic and Social Information and
Policy Analysis, which, according to the report:
link its
"will
capabilities
activities with the
early-warning
being developed in the political and
humanitarian sectors of the Organization". (A/48/1,
para. 130)
The same applies to some of the functions which, according
to paragraph 139, are assigned to the Department
for
Development Support and Management Services.
seems
One of the matters with which we feel the report should
deal in greater detail relates to the nature of peace-keeping
operations, particularly in the light of paragraphs 276 to 278
and paragraph 291, as they tend to alter the very concept of
these important activities. The attempt
to question the
principle of the consent of the parties for the initiation of
operations
limited
sovereignty, which is very much in vogue in certain sectors,
and which we feel contradicts the emphasis that
the
Secretary-General, in the introduction to his report, puts on
sovereignty. We are firmly convinced that any United
Nations action within the framework of "An Agenda for
Peace" should adhere strictly to the decisions adopted by the
General Assembly on the subject and should conform to the
basic principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
concept of
to reflect
the
It is also essential that those United Nations activities
be undertaken following a case-by-case analysis, without
creating precedents, as the circumstances in which these
elements evolve are necessarily different. Therefore we
note, and we are concerned at,
the assertion made in
paragraph 282 of the report.
In view of all we have said, we should like to sound a
warning concerning the continued references, direct or
indirect, to the assumption that at this stage it is the job of
the United Nations to get involved in situations that come
exclusively within the jurisdiction of Member States.
Continuing along that road could lead to unacceptable
interference and to violation of the sovereignty of Member
States - especially States in the third world.
Paragraphs 251 and 252, as well as paragraph 255, in
chapter III D, which is entitled "Protection of human rights",
call for specific mention.
In the case of the first two of
these paragraphs, we do not know what mandates have led
to a change in the functions of the Centre for Human Rights
and what procedures have been followed for that purpose.
In that regard, my delegation sent the Secretary-General a
letter, which we hope has been made available to all
delegations. With regard to paragraph 255,
the Vienna
Conference highlighted the universal nature of human rights
but, equally, made the point that these rights are indivisible,
interdependent and interlinked. We believe that partial or
selective reference to international instruments of this kind
may well be counter-productive and may lead to confusion.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the results of
Further, paragraph 262, on the same subject, derives
from an interpretation of
the Vienna
Conference that we do not share. It should not be forgotten
that the introduction of the human rights dimension into
United Nations activities concerning inter alia peacemaking,
peace-keeping and preventive diplomacy - to mention but a
few areas - must only be invoked pursuant to a request from
the States involved in a conflict, and that such action cannot
be determined by any outside agency.
The Secretary-General’s report contains so many
important and interesting elements that it would take a much
longer and more comprehensive statement to mention all of
them. We should like to be able to comment, for example,
on the regional tribunals, or the specific items mentioned in
paragraph 66, or the possibility - mentioned in paragraph 64
- of the Secretary-General’s turning to the International
Court of Justice for an advisory opinion.
In the meantime,
we shall simply express our agreement with the Secretary-
General as to the importance of securing, within the
framework
on
the Ad Hoc
Disarmament, a negotiating mandate for
Committee on a Nuclear Test Ban.
The international
community has been making this appeal for many years.
Such a step would make possible the drafting of a treaty on
the subject.
the Geneva-based Conference
of
We trust that the Secretary-General will take advantage
of the opportunity offered by the drafting of an agenda for
development, as requested by the General Assembly, to
rectify an impression that may have been given that the
basic economic and social problems affecting the third world
have been relegated to a lower level in the work of the
Organization.
Cuba is prepared to engage in dialogue, in any United
Nations forum, on any of
the items with which the
Organization deals. We disagree with the Secretary-General
as regards many aspects, but there are many in respect of
which we agree with him. As a State Member of this
Organization, we are prepared to work seriously, flexibly
and in depth, without insisting on any arrangements, and in
any manner by which the Organization could be made more
just, more equitable, more transparent and more efficient and
able to abide by the principles enshrined in the Charter. To
that end, we are at your disposal, Mr. President, and at the
disposal of the Secretary-General and of the other Members
of this Organization.
Mr. JARAMILLO (Colombia) (interpretation from
Spanish): The Secretary-General states in his report on the
work of the Organization:
"Without peace there can be no development and
there can be no democracy. Without development, the
basis for democracy will be lacking and societies will
tend to fall into conflict. And without democracy, no
sustainable development can occur; without such
development, peace cannot be maintained." (A/48/1,
para. 11)
We are pleased to see that the Secretary-General has taken
up again the integrated approach to development that I have
put forward on many occasions on behalf of the Group of
77.
integrated.
Development must be
These three
elements - development, democracy and peace - are closely
linked and are the central axis of progress for peoples. The
international community faces the challenge of democratic
development
the
fundamental need of peoples is that of being able to satisfy
their basic economic needs in order to begin building
harmonious and democratic societies. Solid and lasting
peace is therefore a result of economic, political and social
development.
to achieve peace, which indicates that
The work of the Organization consists precisely in
finding the right mechanisms to fulfil these three objectives.
It cannot give primacy to one at the expense of the others,
for the fulfilment of any decision intended to do so brings
serious consequences. The actions taken by the United
Nations must be the correct ones in this new era of
international relations, when the Organization’s credibility is
at stake.
Putting the complete blame for
the crisis on the
question of security relegates to the sidelines the economic
and political aspects of international reality. Hence, the
tendency to use the mechanism of peace-keeping operations
while overlooking other tools set out in the United Nations
Charter reduces the possibility of finding integrated, long-
term solutions.
The proliferation of complex, multidimensional peace-
keeping operations indicates that this mechanism is being
given priority, and the decision to resort
to it has not
necessarily contributed to a more peaceful and harmonious
world. The disorderly development of some peace-keeping
operations casts doubt on the Organization’s ability to
manage conflicts. The basic reason for this is that the
United Nations has exceeded the spirit of its original aims.
Intervention in a country’s internal power struggles without
studying its true and objective connection with international
peace and security changes the face of the mediating
capacity of the United Nations.
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
11
There is thus an urgent need for systematic, universal
and open reflection on this question of interest
to all
Member States. The very high costs of peace-keeping
operations constitute an unprecedented financial burden for
the national budgets of Member States striving to meet their
development needs.
During the cold war, the super-Powers assumed the
costs of conflicts that occurred in their zones of influence.
Today those costs have been transferred to the Organization
and have become universal, thus diverting the funds of all
States that could be earmarked for economic- and social-
development projects.
it
is essential
In view of those considerations,
to
reconsider and review critically the nature of the objectives
and the duration and scope of the mandates of the peace-
keeping operations, in all their aspects. A critical evaluation
of the results of peace-keeping operations is therefore
necessary, and in that evaluation each facet of the operations
must be thoroughly examined:
their
duration, the process of establishing them, their composition
and their objectives in the light of the nature of the crisis
each is intended to deal with.
their dynamics,
While the United Nations, according to the preamble to
the Charter, seeks "to save succeeding generations from the
scourge of war", a great many of the present peace-keeping
operations have not been successful
in fulfilling that
Current peace-keeping operations have not
objective.
established a more stable international order, contrary to the
Secretary-General’s claims. Recent peace-keeping operations
have more often than not resulted in new conflicts of greater
dimensions.
Faced with the alternative of establishing peace-keeping
operations indiscriminately, as has been done in recent
months, we should ensure that the criterion of selectivity
again becomes pre-eminent. The United Nations cannot
become a body of partial intervention in countries’ internal
conflicts. Each crisis and each conflict must be considered
carefully, together with its own evolution and particular
features. In order to avoid consequences that undermine the
credibility and the achievement of the objectives sought in
settling disputes, each one should be understood in all its
dimensions before a peace-keeping operation is launched.
operations
The structure, mandate, relevance and dimensions of
peace-keeping
from open,
transparent and concerted reflection by the Member States of
the Organization. It is up to them collectively, as the main
actors, to define the new paths in international peace and
security. The tendency to dilute this fundamental principle
should
spring
amounts to disregarding the guiding objectives established in
the Charter.
Concerned by the apparent
increase in new and
dangerous ideas about defining the concept of the State and
of
the United Nations in the international system, as
presented to us by the Secretary-General in his report, we
consider it pertinent to recall in this forum that the United
Nations is not and has never been "more than the sum of its
parts" (A/48/1, para. 512).
The United Nations is an
intergovernmental organization composed of sovereign States
that participate on an equal footing and take decisions by
majority or consensus. The concept of the State is at the
very
The
internationalization of world processes is not evidence of the
disappearance of the State.
In that phenomenon the State
still prevails, as the sole sovereign entity in the international
system.
international
system.
core
of
the
The State is the actor and the constant
in the
international system. The fragmentation of the nation-State,
as can be seen in various regions of the world, creates
instability and trauma.
It is paradoxical that while respect
for and observance of human rights is being promoted,
individual and collective tolerance cannot be relied on to
maintain and hold together inter-cultural, inter-ethnic and
pluri-religious societies. Rather than taking their identity
from abstract universal and global values, peoples take their
identity from shared national values engendered by their
collective evolution within States.
In this context, the United Nations is a grouping of
sovereign States which individually formed the political will
to come together in a multilateral Organization. Therefore,
on the international stage the State plays the principal role.
Regional organizations and the United Nations system play
only the role that Member States assign them. Thus it is
that Member States are the axis of the United Nations
system, and the various organs that constitute it are
subordinate to the sovereign political will of those States.
this relationship with the
Any other
Organization is erroneous,
irrelevant and dangerous to
harmonious and democratic development.
interpretation of
The Organization must therefore maintain its universal
nature, which means that all Member States participate in the
decision-making process on an equal footing. The principle
of transparency applies to all aspects of United Nations
activities, including those relating to peace-keeping and the
maintenance of international peace and security. Any
recasting of the Organization cannot
ignore these basic
principles of its creation and constitution.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
I should like to refer briefly to our concept of the
United Nations organs, always keeping open, of course, the
possibility of returning to this and other subjects in greater
detail and at greater length at the appropriate time.
The General Assembly is the principal body of a
universal character. All States Members of the Organization
are represented, with equal
Therefore,
revitalizing the Assembly is basic to the ongoing process of
changing and reviewing the system.
sovereignty.
The Security Council, of course, needs to be reformed.
The international community needs a more open, more
deliberative and more transparent Security Council, one that
better reflects the new composition of the Organization and
the new international reality. Reform must include a review
of the veto, the number of permanent and non-permanent
members and the Council’s rules of procedure.
With regard to the Secretary-General, it should be noted
that he is not autonomous and that his mandate emanates
from the duties entrusted to him by the principal organs of
the Organization. As is stated in Chapter XV of the Charter,
the Secretary-General is the chief administrative officer of
the Organization; he is exclusively an international official,
responsible only to the Organization.
Since 1945 the General Assembly has provided the
framework for the departments of the United Nations in the
operational area. Those departments have never been given
any political dimension. Any attempt
to do so has
consistently been rejected in the discussions on the issue in
the Assembly. We must recall the reservations a great
number of States have on this question. The search for
efficiency cannot be carried out through the creation of a
series of temporary departments.
The United Nations is not a State, and therefore the
concept of broadening the political sphere of the roles of the
United Nations Resident Coordinators is unacceptable. Such
initiatives distort the legitimate nature of those departments
in Member States which deal exclusively with operational
activities, in accordance with relevant resolutions of the
General Assembly.
In the United Nations, political functions are governed
by rules that are completely different from those governing
operational activities.
The Security Council and the
Commission on Human Rights are clear examples of this.
Each has its own mechanism for dealing with delicate
political questions and for dealing with the matter of
representation. This is a further reason why we are totally
opposed to the idea of broadening the political scope of the
functions of Resident Coordinators, a notion that has been
advanced under the pretext of rationalization and increasing
the Organization’s efficiency.
In conclusion, we should like to make clear our support
for the Secretary-General in all his efforts to reduce costs,
increase efficiency and eradicate corruption within the
Organization, and to congratulate and thank him for a
detailed, comprehensive and exhaustive report, which has
brought us together here to discuss the activities of the
Organization. We hope that that same format and detailed
information will be found in the reports of other principal
organs, especially that of the Security Council.
ORGANIZATION OF WORK
The PRESIDENT: I have two announcements relating
to our work.
First, I propose that the list of speakers in the debate on
the Secretary-General’s report be closed today at 12.30 p.m.
If I hear no objection, I shall take it that the Assembly
accepts that proposal.
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
those
representatives wishing to participate in the debate to
inscribe their names on the list of speakers as soon as
possible.
I
therefore
request
Secondly, members will recall that at its third plenary
meeting on 24 September the General Assembly decided to
hold four plenary meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday,
26 and 27 October,
to examine, under agenda item 112,
"International drug control",
international
cooperation against
the illicit production, sale, demand,
traffic and distribution of narcotics and psychotropic
substances. I wish to propose, in view of the large number
of Member States already inscribed on the list of speakers,
that
the length of statements be limited to 10 minutes.
Members’ cooperation will be sincerely appreciated.
the status of
If I hear no objection, I shall take it that the Assembly
agrees with the proposal.
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 10 (continued)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL ON THE
WORK OF THE ORGANIZATION (A/48/1)
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
13
Mr. VILCHEZ ASHER (Nicaragua) (interpretation
from Spanish): We support the statement made on behalf of
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and its Chairman.
My country is proud to be a member of that group.
In referring to the Secretary-General’s report on the
work of the Organization, I harbour the hope that with the
end of the cold war the United Nations will continue to
perform, and will gain strength in,
task of
establishing a new international order in which peace and
progress prevail in accordance with the tenets of the Charter.
To that end, the United Nations should support and promote
economic and social development throughout the world and
the consolidation of universal and interdependent democratic
values.
its essential
Our country supports the view that the development of
mankind is now universal in nature and that therefore its
realization requires new political
initiatives and broad,
coordinated global efforts, which, by their very nature, can
be made only by the United Nations.
Therefore, our
Organization is more indispensable today than ever.
We should like on this occasion to reaffirm our
country’s commitment to play a determined role in the task
of building a new international order, with equity, justice and
a life of dignity for our peoples.
In carrying out that fine
and arduous task, our country approves and supports all
efforts and policies designed to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the United Nations system.
In that spirit,
we support the initiatives to ensure effective attainment of
the purposes of the Charter.
With regard to the functioning of
the General
Assembly, we support the suggestions for revitalizing the
General Assembly’s work put forward by the Secretary-
General in his report, especially those that have to do with
rationalizing the Assembly’s work, taking a good look at the
format of resolutions and assessing whether there is a real
need for many of the reports. We feel, incidentally, that if
the General Assembly is to be made more effective, the role
of the President must be strengthened.
We believe that the Security Council must be reformed.
We are in favour of increasing the number of permanent and
non-permanent members in line with the number of new
Members of the Organization, and believe that countries
representing Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America should
be included; this would be a credible expression of the
changes that are taking place in the world, and would
strengthen an effective democratization of the Council’s
decision-making process.
Also, we support all measures aimed at strengthening
our Organization financially. Many have been proposed by
the Secretary-General in his report. We also appeal to all
the countries that are in arrears with the United Nations to
make efforts to fulfil their financial obligations. By doing
so, they would contribute to increasing and improving the
Organizations’s efficiency and effectiveness in carrying out
the many tasks it is now performing, both at Headquarters
and in various regions world wide.
We wish to alert the Assembly to the fact that, as we
seek a new international order, the breach between the rich
few and the many poor nations is widening dangerously, and
that this yawning gap has been further widened in our own
nations by war, instability and underdevelopment.
If this
negative trend continues, the goals of consolidating peace,
economic development and social well-being will be difficult
to achieve. This situation should be better reflected in the
Secretary-General’s report.
Speeding up the economic growth which brings with it
the increased social investment that ensures the majority’s
right to health care, social security, education and jobs is
becoming a matter of urgency:
in other words, it is urgent
that we satisfy the basic needs of our peoples. These
priorities should be studied more thoroughly.
Just a few days ago, before the Assembly, our President
said that:
"We need to build a democracy, reconstruct a
wounded society and compete economically with the
world, all while following an economic adjustment plan
that leaves us no resources for social investment. ..."
(Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth
Session, Plenary Meetings, 8th meeting, p. 11)
This situation is not just; neither is it acceptable, and even
less is it democratic. And it deserves the international
community’s understanding.
We believe that the United Nations and the international
financial bodies must support the developing countries - and
in particular those countries going through difficult transitions -
in seeking alternative policies against underdevelopment and
crisis that have as their basis equity and social justice. We
also need, from the international financial community, more
sympathy with and understanding of our agonizing economic
and social problems.
We are convinced that to build a new world order what
is needed is more dialogue - and constant consultation -
between the developed and the developing world. We
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the North-South
the revitalization of
therefore support
dialogue urged by the Chairman of
the Non-Aligned
Movement, and we believe that the United Nations must
give greater priority to such initiatives.
We believe that the Secretary-General’s report must
also deal with key trade aspects, and, in this connection, we
desire fair and non-discriminatory treatment for our exports,
as well as adjustment policies that take into account social
investment and benefit the great majority of our people;
without such treatment and policies, there is no way that we
can consolidate peace, preserve democracy, achieve social
justice and, in the case of Central America, turn our region
into a
freedom and
development.
region of peace, democracy,
We note with satisfaction that the United Nations is
taking new steps towards strengthening the international
system for protecting and promoting human rights. The
activities of the Centre for Human Rights and the results of
the Vienna Conference represent significant contributions;
Nicaragua fully supports them. We share with the Secretary-
General the conviction that there is a need for more States
to ratify all the international human rights instruments.
We believe that
the development of preventive
diplomacy is closely linked to finding solutions for wide-
ranging economic and development problems and also to
countries’ readiness to come into the innovative mechanisms
being established by the United Nations. In this connection,
we
our
Organization’s, efforts and initiatives.
Secretary-General’s,
support
and
all
the
Within this framework, our country supports the request
made by the Government of Guatemala to the United
Nations that it come out firmly in support of the national
dialogue that could lead to complete peace in that sister
country.
We also support
implementation of
the Security
Council’s resolutions and punctilious fulfilment of
the
Governors Island Agreement on Haiti, and we strongly urge
the political forces in that country to respect that Agreement
and restore President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power.
We congratulate the United Nations and the Secretary-
General on the success of their mission in El Salvador,
where they have managed to achieve peace and promote
national dialogue and reconciliation as civilized norms of
human behaviour.
The multidisciplinary nature of the
United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador (ONUSAL)
leads us to believe that what is already called this United
Nations Mission’s "Salvadorian model" could be tried in
other regions.
As in the case of ONUSAL,
the United Nations
Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) has also just
come to a very successful conclusion. As a result of
UNTAC, a Government has been established on the basis of
free and democratic elections supported by the majority of
the Cambodian people, a Government that can as a result
continue the peace process that has been initiated and steer
our sister country of Cambodia onto the path towards
development and well-being; the Government can do this as
is guaranteed by a restored
part of a democracy that
constitutional monarchy symbolizing the unity of
the
Cambodian people.
The success of
the United Nations missions
in
El Salvador and Cambodia tells us that when peoples are
determined to seek and win national peace and reconciliation
and achieve economic growth and development to benefit the
majority, United Nations missions - if they have clear
objectives and the right focus - have a great likelihood of
succeeding. The international community and the financial
institutions should therefore continue to provide assistance
and cooperation in order to safeguard the already sustained
and lasting success of many of these missions and to ensure
that any progress made is not reversed and that crises do not
become permanent.
On another note, we regret the increasing difficulties
being experienced by the Organization, and the countries
involved, in efforts to achieve peace, re-establish order and
restart the development process, both in the countries of the
former Yugoslavia and in Somalia. It is clear, however, that
without a United Nations presence the consequences of these
conflicts could have been even more painful. We agree with
the Secretary-General in his recognition that
"... The vast potential of the world Organization has
been recognized and has begun to be employed in the
establishment of a more stable world order:
as a
strengthened voice for
the poorest countries ...",
(A/48/1, para. 2)
amongst other important objectives.
We believe that, with the end of the East-West conflict,
there is a historic opportunity for international peace and
security to be built on the basis of new international realities
that
to the problems of
development and to multilateral approaches to solving
conflicts by peaceful and negotiated means. The Secretary-
General’s report, indeed, tells us so in various ways. We
attach greater
importance
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
15
also need to ensure that the United Nations becomes the
determining mechanism par excellence for maintaining peace
in order to save succeeding generations from the scourge of
war.
Our country also agrees with the Secretary-General
when he says that
"Without peace, there can be no development and
there can be no democracy. Without development, the
basis for democracy will be lacking and societies will
tend to fall into conflict. And without democracy, no
sustainable development can occur; without such
development, peace cannot long be maintained." (ibid.,
para. 11)
That is exactly the nature of the recurrent crisis in the
developing countries.
Given this guiding light of truth on the subject of
development, we believe that the United Nations now, more
than ever, plays a determining role. We must ensure that the
Organization and the Secretary-General act, and continue to
act, with a sense of urgency to renew the United Nations
commitment to development. Nicaragua supports, and will
continue to support, the initiative to draft an agenda for
development to complement the "Agenda for Peace", and we
welcome the Secretary-General’s assurances that the agenda
for development will be something more than just another
development
the
aspirations of our peoples.
theory: we hope that
it will
fulfil
In the Secretary-General’s report, he gives expression
to the realism that we need in viewing and studying the
development of the international situation. Realism, in our
opinion, is the most useful tool for building a more just and
equitable world society.
Today, after the end of the cold war, it is once again
possible to fulfil the lofty purposes of the Charter. The
United Nations, in so doing, can rely on the support of the
world community, and its actions will therefore have to take
human development as their basic premise. Respect for
human rights, for development and for peace - our most
heartfelt desires - must be the legacy we leave to succeeding
generations. Only thus shall we be able to make this world
a better place, and only thus can we make every human
being an exemplar of social justice and liberty.
Mr. GOLOB (Slovenia):
the
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization (A/48/1)
is certainly excellent and very instructive.
It is a reminder
that United Nations activities do not represent an end in
report of
The
themselves and that they do not provide a sense of true
satisfaction. The report is an expression of the endeavours
and deep dedication of United Nations personnel, and we
understand it as a call for a critical examination. We also
understand the report as a timely invitation to think about,
and to try to peer behind, the everyday scene of international
affairs.
There is wide agreement that we are living in a world
that is changing rapidly, at least in some respects.
It has
become almost a cliché that the world is experiencing great
changes, so it may be of some use to say something about
these changes. Change, to our mind, is like a conveyor belt
- endless and ever-moving.
It seems to have a habit of
moving in fits, leaps, bounds and rebounds. An exhilaration
at change is certainly understandable, but that is not enough;
it is also necessary to understand where changes come from
and where they are leading. Of no less importance is
perceiving the implication of the "why’s" and "where to’s",
since we are faced with the need to accept them.
Change, with its many faces, is causing some to rejoice
while provoking stress and apprehension in others, but it
certainly is a vehicle for the brave, for the bold and for the
forward-looking. Change is making more visible the fact
that there is no single remedy for all situations and that
attempts to manage these changes therefore carry great
responsibility. The United Nations has been, throughout its
existence, a vehicle of change.
It has managed to be the
harbinger and the midwife, acting sometimes against and in
the face of powerful interests that would rather see the status
quo maintained at all costs. The United Nations, we recall,
was at its most efficient, producing stable and enduring
answers, when changes were the property of all, not the
product of the few.
Self-determination is a case in point. Throughout
modern times, self-determination has in some instances been
met with approval, while in others it has faced tough
opposition. The situation seems no better and no worse
today. Self-determination is certainly unpredictable in its
consequences. Over the past decades, it has produced a
whole new world, and it keeps changing this world to this
day and into tomorrow, with often unexpected results.
Suggestions are now being made to limit the right to
In the end, these attempts may prove
self-determination.
costly, useless and even harmful. True, self-determination
may be misused to provoke hatred, hegemony and
homogenization. We have seen examples of this in the past
few years, for instance in the dissolution of obsolete but
heretofore sovereign States Members of the United Nations.
However, the developments in former Member States prove
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
either that calamity can be avoided - as was the case in at
least one instance - or that a tragedy can very well be
compounded if wisdom is in too short supply or if the right
and
to self-determination falls prey to demagogues
demagoguery.
to self-
determination will not cut short the demagogues. There
seems to be no other way but to establish that respect for
human rights is the basic criterion for the implementation of
the right to self-determination.
Imposing limits on the right
Much has been said in this Hall, and rightly so, about
human rights. Respect for and implementation of human
rights represent an important vehicle for change, because
human rights
for
democracy. They are no less important for successful
preventive diplomacy.
the political movement
legitimize
We view human rights as a bridge over the abyss of
violence.
In order to fortify this bridge and make it
available to all, human rights should be vehemently and
continuously upheld, particularly when a warlord or
demagogue chooses to achieve his aims by fire and by
sword.
But let us face it: sometimes it takes too long for the
international community to see, or to admit that it sees, that
human rights are being trampled underfoot. Sometimes it
takes too long to react, and untold numbers of people are left
to fend for themselves, suffering injustices while yearning
for peace and for democratic relations. This certainly is
nothing new - there were death camps and gulags in our
lifetime - but it is simply wrong, and dangerous, for the
international community to let this happen at the end of this
century, in this time.
Lack of respect for human rights is usually the first
wisp of smoke that can tell all those who want to see it that
a crisis is in the making. That is the moment to act and not
just to compile data and monitor the situation. The world
cannot afford the luxury of waiting, beating around the bush
and misreading the signals when there is a case of massive
violation of human rights. Let me repeat that violations of
human rights are the most reliable and the most visible
early-warning signal flagging the rising danger. Hence, one
would wish that the human rights standards of the Council
of Europe were valid around the globe and, if necessary,
could be improved around the globe.
For obvious reasons, conflict prevention and preventive
diplomacy are celebrated activities these days. The concept
is being creatively developed by the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the United Nations and
other organizations. We seem to be faced with a dilemma
as to whether the concept should be a wide one or a narrow
one. There is hardly any doubt in our mind that the concept
should be a wide one. It is good, but not nearly enough, if
preventive diplomacy is kept mainly within the scope of
fact-finding, monitoring and observing.
Looking at the horizon of peace-keeping operations and
at the horizon of preventive diplomacy, it is to be noted that
more often than not precious little is being said about the
causes of conflicts. Without focusing on the causes of
conflict, preventive action is groping in the dark.
It is
conventional wisdom that wherever there is conflict there is
injustice. The element of justice is sometimes absent, and
without it preventive action tends to restore the status quo
ante. Conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy are thus
rendered helpless in their main task; to our mind, that main
task is to establish new and stable relationships.
In our view, preventive diplomacy and preventive
action are not to prevent change but to prevent the escalation
of war and suffering, to bring about peaceful change in an
orderly and democratic way and to establish the basis for
future stable relations. Hence, attention should be paid
equally to putting out
the fires of war, violence and
destruction in the present and to laying down the framework
for the future. This framework for the future will, however,
be uncertain if it is cast in the mould of the old.
lot of
talk about
It
There has been a
regional
arrangements lately, and rightly so.
is of particular
importance that the United Nations continue to cultivate a
relationship of partnership with regional organizations and
shun relationships of subordination. It is of great importance
that these regional arrangements be developed on democratic
premises. These arrangements will serve hardly any useful,
much less positive, purpose if they are just refurbished
systems of old arrangements or a barely veiled attempt to
resurrect or reconstruct the inviable State entities that have
fallen apart, causing so much suffering in the process.
Reconstituting or reconstructing those entities would seem to
be nothing but an invitation to another crisis or one more
conflict waiting to happen.
We in Slovenia have experienced the vital importance
of these principles in our recent past, and we are wholly
dedicated to them. With regard to minorities we maintain an
internationally very high level as regards the enhancement of
their human rights.
Sweden,
the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of
Ministers of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE), has brought the CSCE into a logical and
forward-looking relationship with the United Nations.
It
may be time now to give a thought to the possibility of the
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
17
participation of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of
the CSCE in the deliberations of the Security Council
whenever it is considering an issue from the CSCE area.
The Security Council could profit from the insights of the
CSCE, and the road to cooperation between the two
organizations could be significantly shortened.
to the
"the longest report of the Secretary-General
General Assembly on the work of the Organization in
many years". (A/48/1, para. 26)
is indeed a comprehensive overview of the manifold
It
activities of the different organs and other bodies of the
United Nations system.
Social tensions, overpopulation and unemployment will
likely be among the underlying causes of outbursts of
violence, strife and war. To deal with them will take more
than armour;
socially and
economically minded people to deal creatively with the
situation.
take politically,
it will
In his introduction, the Secretary-General speaks of the
new opportunity that presented itself one year ago with the
end of
are
accomplishments to be applauded. But, as he himself has
stated, they do not provide a sense of true satisfaction.
cold war. We
agree
the
that
there
I wish next to discuss the issue of transition from the
totalitarianism to democracy, from command economy to
market economy. Beholding the scene of Central and
Eastern Europe, one inevitably arrives at the conclusion that
in the wake of the bipolar world there are new problems and
new uncertainties. The nations of Europe have yet
to
formulate a new comprehensive policy for the continent.
Such a policy cannot be based on the old precepts of the
policy of containment. Containment was no doubt an
effective policy that kept the totalitarian East at bay for
decades. However, the remains of the policy of containment
are still weighing heavily on Central and Eastern Europe’s
relations with the rest of the world.
Now a policy of enlargement - enlargement of the core
of market economies and democratic States - is being
launched. To our mind, however, this presupposes the
abandonment of all vestiges of the policy of containment and
an ever stronger involvement of these countries in a true
partnership. Involvement will remain necessary in order for
these countries to be able to assume their share of
responsibility for the future and the stability of Europe. The
budding democracies must be
limping
economies must be set on the right foot; and security must
be enhanced to the extent
that will allow undisturbed
political and social development.
strengthened;
I do not want this to be understood as a Euro-centric
shopping list of hopes. I think it can be viewed as a part of
the programme for any region, and for the United Nations as
well.
During the past year, "An Agenda for Peace" has been
the centre of attention at the United Nations. Preventive
diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict
peace-building have been exhaustively debated and
discussed. On the eve of the present, forty-eighth, session
of the General Assembly, a resolution on these topics was
adopted by consensus. My delegation had hoped that an
agenda for development would not be long delayed. Even
though it has not yet materialized, we look forward to the
preliminary report which the Secretary-General intends to
submit to the General Assembly at this session.
We agree with the Secretary-General’s comment that
work in the economic and social sectors needs greater focus,
clear direction and indeed equal, if not greater, priority. We
believe however
the remedy should go beyond
institutional revamping. It should encompass policy aspects
commensurate with the Charter responsibilities deriving from
Article I, that the United Nations
that
"be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in
the attainment of ... common ends".
For a variety of reasons the United Nations has not yet
been able to use this mandate fully in the economic sphere.
We are encouraged by the Secretary-General’s determination
to fill this gap.
Indeed all the good work of the United
Nations in the political and security spheres may not be
sustainable in the long term if
the socio-economic
dimensions of peace and security are relegated to secondary
status.
Mrs. Fritsche (Liechtenstein), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
Mr. KALPAGÉ (Sri Lanka): The Sri Lanka delegation
wishes to congratulate the Secretary-General for presenting
what he himself has referred to as
The ways and means of reactivating the North-South
dialogue,
the United Nations role in that process, and
pragmatic and affordable concepts and mechanisms for
meeting the need for additional resources are some of the
issues to be addressed with purpose and commitment. We
await policy options on these issues for consideration by
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Member States in the forthcoming report on an agenda for
development.
In the general debate of this Assembly, my Minister for
Foreign Affairs put forward some ideas for harmonizing the
need for additional resources for development with available
private capital through an interest subsidy mechanism.
Peace, development and democracy are interlinked.
The Secretary-General states:
advance
"There can be no flowering of development without
the
parallel
concept:
democratization. Peace is a prerequisite to development;
democracy is essential if development is to succeed
over the long term." (A/48/1, para. 9)
of
another
key
its Main Committees
its work should be addressed in a comprehensive manner.
As a first step, the Assembly decided to reduce the number
of
The
revitalization process is to continue comprehensively at this
session in an informal open-ended working group. The
rationalization of our agenda is a priority item for
consideration.
from seven to six.
It
is equally important
that democratization should
extend to other parts of the United Nations system, even to
the Security Council. Proposals have been made for a
possible review of the membership of the Security Council.
Democratization demands that its membership reflect the
realities of today rather than the global power structure of 48
years ago.
When the Preparatory Committee for
the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the United Nations was deliberating on a
theme for the anniversary, some of us tried to add peace,
development and democracy to the generally accepted "We
the peoples ...". But "democracy" proved difficult for some
Member States to accept. It was then suggested that peace,
equality, justice and development would find consensus, in
keeping with the preamble to the Charter. In the event, the
Preparatory Committee settled for "We the peoples of the
United Nations ... united for a better world". We hope that
in the solemn declaration which the Working Group of the
Preparatory Committee will be preparing, it will be possible
to articulate more clearly what kind of better world we are
united for.
In this connection, we cannot possibly avoid
emphasizing peace, development and democracy.
In his report, the Secretary-General states:
"... democracy within States can be fully sustained over
time only if it is linked to expanding democratization
among States at all levels of the international system."
(ibid., para. 10)
This is surely true also of the United Nations and its
principal organs.
The Organization is based on the principle of the
sovereign equality of all its Members. In the discussions of
the Open-Ended Working Group on the Revitalization of the
Work of the General Assembly, which Sri Lanka had the
honour to co-chair,
the General
Assembly is the only principal organ of the United Nations
consisting of all the Members of the United Nations in
which each Member State has an equal opportunity to
participate in the decision-making process. That is why the
General Assembly has now decided that the revitalization of
it was recognized that
Decisions of the Security Council are binding on all
Member States. Therefore, there must be some mechanism
for broader participation in the decision-making process of
the Security Council or at least for a general acceptance of
decisions made. This would promote greater understanding
between the Security Council and the General Assembly. It
would thus enable the Security Council to discharge more
successfully its primary responsibility for the maintenance of
international peace and security.
According to Article 24 of the Charter, it is in order to
ensure prompt and effective action by the United Nations
that its Members confer on the Security Council primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security, and agree that in carrying out its duties under this
responsibility the Security Council acts on their behalf.
Would some recent decisions of the Security Council be
endorsed by all or even the majority of Member States?
There is an opportunity now to review the membership of
the Security Council, and that opportunity should be seized
in order to ensure that democratization and the transparency
of the decision-making process are kept in mind. This is a
matter to which my delegation expects to revert under the
appropriate agenda item.
In his report the Secretary-General refers at length to
peace-keeping. The cost of peace-keeping is expected to rise
from $1.4 billion in 1992 to an estimated $3.6 billion by the
end of 1993. And yet there is increasing concern about
some of the peace-keeping operations currently under way.
While there have been a few notable successes - such as, for
example, in Cambodia - the goal of establishing peace and
stability in several areas is still far from being achieved.
This
is a matter which merits a thorough review.
Peace-keeping in all its aspects will be dealt with in the new
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth
Committee). It is our hope that these discussions, to which
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
19
all Member States have access, will facilitate a consensus on
the future directions of the United Nations in peace-keeping
activities.
As my Minister stated in the general debate:
"As the transition continues to a new global order,
the United Nations will come under greater pressure to
live up to its ideals. However, in order to command
the widest possible support, the United Nations must
operate on the basis of an acceptable set of guiding
principles." (Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-eighth Session, Plenary Meetings, 13th meeting,
p. 38)
These are the principles of the Charter.
Mrs. ESCALER (Philippines):
My delegation
welcomes the Secretary-General’s report on the work of the
It is not only substantive, thorough
Organization (A/48/1).
and comprehensive, but also thought-provoking.
I should
like to comment on a few of the issues raised in the report.
First of all, we share the Secretary-General’s view that
the United Nations should play a pivotal role in promoting
not only peace and security, but also - and, in our view,
more important - development. Development issues, in my
delegation’s view, should remain at the core of the United
Nations agenda because of the beneficial connection and
linkage between development and parallel advances in
democratization. As the Secretary-General points out - and
we agree with him - democratization must take hold, not
only within a State, but also among States
in the
international community. This, in turn, should translate into
multilateral cooperation to support both democratization and
development.
It is in this regard that the United Nations has a vital
role to play in promoting international cooperation for
development. We hope that the sense of urgency given to
international peace and security and the promotion of human
rights can also be given to development issues, for one
cannot deny the increasing economic and technological gap
between the developed and the developing countries and the
necessity of finding multilateral solutions to close it. The
United Nations cannot afford to marginalize the priorities of
the majority of its Members, which remain anchored on
sustaining the development process and increasing the
prosperity of their peoples.
Thus, while we had hoped to have before us at this
session the Secretary-General’s agenda for development, we
nevertheless look forward to receiving his preliminary report
on this subject later this year. We further hope that the final
report will be made available soon thereafter.
The expanding role of the United Nations today in
international peace and security;
addressing issues of
political, economic and social
issues; and those of the
environment and development inevitably taxes the resources
available to it. This means that the reorganization must not
only have the necessary financial and logistical resources for
its activities, but, more important, the management capability
to allocate these efficiently and productively. At this point,
allow me to reiterate the statement which the Philippines
Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Roberto Romulo, made before
this body at its 20th meeting last week and in which he
suggested exploring the possibility of the United Nations
utilizing a group with expertise in corporate and scientific
management to consider the question of United Nations
reform in all its aspects.
I must caution, however, that
efforts to create greater efficiency should not have a negative
impact on United Nations programmes and projects essential
to the welfare of developing countries.
At last year’s session, we had before us the historic
report of the Secretary-General "An Agenda for Peace"
(A/47/277). The two resolutions adopted at the forty-seventh
session of
the General Assembly in response to it
(resolutions 47/120 A and B) established a number of
principles to guide United Nations implementation of peace-
keeping activities considered in the report, particularly those
of the sovereign equality of States and transparency in
establishing United Nations peace-keeping operations. They
also acknowledge that some of the concepts in "An Agenda
for Peace" are evolving. We believe this to be a prudent
decision as it implies that the effectiveness of these concepts
must still be ascertained. We welcome the fact
that
improving the implementation of Article 50 of the Charter
is also addressed in one of these resolutions.
resolution activities, my delegation,
In view of the growing involvement of the United
Nations in preventive diplomacy and humanitarian and
related conflict
in
principle, sees the usefulness of a comprehensive review and
assessment by the General Assembly of all aspects of United
Nations peace-keeping operations, preferably by a single
universal body. This would include issues such as mandates,
safety, and financial management.
The Philippines recognizes that the maintenance of
international peace and security is a collective responsibility.
Our participation in a major United Nations peace-keeping
operation was a reflection of
However, our
participation in that operation entailed a considerable
financial burden on our part, as no doubt it did for other
this.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
and
costs
compensations
troop-contributing countries, particularly the developing
countries among them. The delays in reimbursements of
operation
troop
compounded our difficulties.
timely
payment of assessed contributions is linked to this issue, we
nevertheless hope that any exercise aimed at rationalizing
United Nations peace-keeping operations addresses this
particular subject.
Recognizing that
for
this
The revitalization of the General Assembly is aimed at
enhancing the capacity of the General Assembly to fulfil its
role as envisaged under the Charter.
It should therefore be
undertaken in a comprehensive manner. We look forward to
the early convening of the informal open-ended working
group established by resolution 47/233, which should make
proposals on issues such as the reports of United Nations
principal organs to the General Assembly.
the Security Council
Finally, we believe that discussions on the expansion of
the membership of
should be
undertaken in the context of the democratization of the
United Nations, particularly with a view to increasing the
transparency of the Council’s work and the participation of
non-Council Members in its decision-making process. We
look forward to our debate on this subject and, in this
connection, would be favourably disposed towards a
procedural decision to continue detailed deliberation on this
and related issues through an open-ended, structured and
transparent mechanism.
Mrs. HASSAN (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic):
The delegation of Egypt takes pleasure in participating in
discussing the Secretary-General’s report on the work of the
Organization at a time of dynamic change in an international
scene that more than ever before calls for us to intensify the
role of the United Nations, to reinforce the positive aspects
and remedy the negative in order for us to build a world
order that would guarantee progress and prosperity for all
Member States and meet the challenges that face us, with the
participation of all and in the interests of all.
invites us
We welcome the Secretary-General’s report on the
work of the Organization contained in document A/48/1.
The report
to reflect on and define the
opportunities before the United Nations and the challenges
that face it at present. These are indeed new opportunities
that would make it possible to promote international
cooperation in dealing with many of the problems that beset
the world, especially the problem of endemic poverty and
particularly in Africa.
At the same time, we face challenges that arise from
ethnic conflicts and the disintegration of nation States. On
the whole, the United Nations has never been faced before
by so many demands and has never been the focus of so
many expectations.
In his report to the General Assembly,
the Secretary-General has emphasized, in general terms, the
enormous potential of the United Nations and the importance
of using that potential in order to build a more stable world.
report,
In his
reviews
the Secretary-General
the
achievements and the shortcomings of the past year, as
reflected in the Organization’s successes, as I said, but also
in its set-backs. The report quite adequately describes the
activities of the United Nations in all areas; it proposes the
measures of cooperation needed for strengthening the United
Nations as an organization and for enhancing the role of that
Organization, which is central to today’s world because it
convenes meetings on a variety of subjects with the
participation of all Member States on the basis of sovereign
equality.
The report details the work carried out by the various
departments of the Secretariat and the various organs of the
Organization, in the area of peace and security. However,
on the work carried out by the economic and the social
sectors, the report is much less clear. This is perhaps the
result of the proliferation of institutions and bodies working
in those two areas. However, in view of the importance of
the issues involved in those two spheres, it would be useful
and indeed important to remedy this shortcoming in future
reports.
In analysing the contents of the report concerning the
gains made and the losses inflicted by reality, and the pattern
of developments over the past 12 months, we are bound to
arrive at a constant fact, namely the comprehensive nature of
the global challenges
face and the
indissoluble
and
development in all its aspects.
between maintaining
the world must
peace
link
There is no development without peace, and without
development there can be no basis for peace. In the absence
of development, societies will veer towards conflict. When
we look at the development of peace-keeping operations over
the past year, we note another fact, highlighted by operations
in the field, which is the need to look at those operations
from an integral standpoint and the need for the operations
to deal not only with the military aspects: attention must
also be paid to the political, economic,
social and
humanitarian aspects.
In this respect, the delegation of Egypt wishes to stress
the importance of facing up to non-military threats with the
same vigour and determination we show in confronting
military threats. Destitution, famine and natural disasters are
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
21
also sources of instability, and the United Nations must
therefore assume a leading role in facing up to such non-
military threats to international peace and security.
The basic objective of the United Nations should be to
create conditions that, to the best possible extent, would be
conducive to reducing instability and diminishing the threats
to peace. We need to get at
the root causes of such
problems and reduce the risks before situations arise and call
for peace-keeping operations or,
in the worst scenario,
deteriorate and make it necessary to resort
to coercive
measures for the imposition of peace.
The discussion on the "Agenda for Peace" - which, we
feel, is only a beginning and not an end - has highlighted
new concepts that relate to a number of preventive measures
which require States to develop a different outlook and a
different approach. The adoption of a resolution on this
subject here, during the forty-seventh session, affords an
opportunity for the Member States of the Organization to
give further consideration to its contents so that, in the
future, they can take a positive and realistic stance vis-à-vis
those concepts and translate "preventive diplomacy" from
high-sounding words into reality.
Given the changes that have taken place and the
challenges that
face the world and which cannot be
controlled by any one State or group of States, the United
Nations has an even greater responsibility to ensure the
achievement of peace and development, as provided for in
paragraph 4 of Article 1 of the Charter, which stipulates that
the Organization should:
"... be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations
in the attainment of these common ends".
Unquestionably, this has a direct effect on the organs of
are undergoing
at present,
the Organization which,
restructuring and reform.
In this regard, I should like to highlight the role of the
General Assembly as the main organ of the United Nations
and to stress the importance of enhancing that role. The
tables and figures in the Secretary-General’s report indicate
a rapid increase in the workload of the Security Council and
in the attendant peace-keeping operations as well as in the
activities of the Secretariat. My delegation wishes to suggest
that we should avoid the supposition that each and every
issue that has to do with or has an effect on international
peace and security must be dealt with at the level of the
Security Council.
In fact, there are situations in which the
General Assembly may be able to play a significant role.
This is a matter that the Charter stipulates.
My delegation feels that, in respect of matters affecting
international peace and security, there is a need for more
contact and dialogue between the Security Council and the
General Assembly.
the Security Council’s
negotiating process should be made more transparent, more
open, and the States that are not members of the Council
must be consulted. The Council should listen to the views
of a wider sector of the States Members of the Organization.
In addition,
In this context, I must say that the report the Security
Council should submit to the General Assembly, as required
by the Charter, is an important document that should be less
general and more substantive. There is undoubtedly an
urgent need for keeping the necessary balance between the
Council and the General Assembly as stipulated by the
Charter. While some situations concerning peace and
security can be dealt with by the General Assembly, which
has a key role to play, others might well be entrusted to
regional organizations, which could, thereby, take on a pre-
eminent role.
Our desire to formulate an effective plan for peace
requires that we revitalize the role of the General Assembly
in safeguarding peace by ensuring that optimum use is made
of the potential that the Charter provides for that purpose.
We must also have a clear perception of the role of regional
organizations, of the manner in which they can support the
work of the United Nations and of their mutually supportive
functions.
It is practice alone that will enable us to ensure
harmonious integration of the roles played by the Security
Council, by the General Assembly, by regional organizations
and by the Secretariat.
supports
spheres
the effort
and stresses
The delegation of Egypt
to
restructure the United Nations and revitalize its role in the
economic and social
that any
restructuring in those two areas must be aimed at promoting
international cooperation for development and that any
reform of the United Nations bodies should be geared to the
promotion of that cooperation so that the Organization may
become more responsive to the current realities and the
changes
that are taking place in the world so that it may
respond to the requirements of development
in the
developing countries.
My delegation also affirms
that an agenda for
development should be given the same high profile as the
the former should be
"Agenda for Peace".
complementary to the
as development
a
precondition for peace and is, thus, one of the essential
elements of preventive diplomacy.
In fact,
latter,
is
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
My delegation welcomes the tendency to increase the
transparency of the Secretariat’s activities and supports its
restructuring in order to enhance its capability to deal with
the increasing tasks entrusted to it. We support all efforts in
that respect. Egypt feels, however, that the process of
restructuring should not run counter to the priorities set for
the Organization by its Member States. On the contrary, it
should contribute to the promotion of those priorities. This
will be made possible only by the promotion of
full
consultation on a permanent basis between the Secretariat
and the Member States before and during all the stages of
restructuring.
Egypt feels that any comprehensive and objective
assessment of
the Organization’s ability to function
efficiently will depend in large part on the extent to which
Member States will honour their financial commitments to
it, on time.
such
dealing with
Finally, we feel that the problems that beset our world
are universal both in their scope and in their effects.
Consequently,
requires
international efforts if we are to come up with solutions that
would ensure the emergence of the new international order
we aspire after. The balance and justice we hope for in such
an order will be ensured only through the political will of all
Member States and their commitment
to international
cooperation and all-embracing dialogue.
problems
to
in
the
on
debate
state of
in 1992.
participate
the United Nations
Mr. RAHMAN (Malaysia): We welcome this
opportunity
the
Secretary-General’s report on the work of the Organization.
We congratulate the Secretary-General on this document,
which, in many respects, could be described as a report on
the
The
Secretary-General has pre-empted delegations with his
admission that it is the longest such report to be presented
in many years.
Its length notwithstanding, the report gives
an overview and makes specific references to the theme,
thrust and status of the various activities undertaken by the
United Nations.
is comprehensive, yet
succinct.
Indeed, together with the speech of the President
of the General Assembly, it has set the tone and tenor of
debate for the current session. This process was enriched by
the statements of all our leaders in the general debate.
The document
Malaysia has consistently drawn attention to the need
for a strong and effective United Nations. We have always
maintained that it is necessary to abide by the spirit and
substance of the United Nations Charter. Together with
other countries, we have watched the United Nations as it
has played a truly effective role in the promotion of
international peace, security and development. We agree
with this observation in the Secretary-General’s report:
"Only the United Nations has the universal character,
the global convening power and the extensive networks
which cover virtually every international function".
(A/48/1, para. 18)
all,
After
intergovernmental, multilateral process.
the United Nations
is
the
apex of
the
We realize that, despite dramatic and qualitative
developments affecting the Organization and the international
scene, change within the United Nations and in inter-State
relations conducted within the United Nations system cannot
happen overnight; neither can it be revolutionary. Change
will have to be a process conditioned by time and many
other factors. However, one thing is certain:
there must be
change. We must not make any irreversible mistake that
will make posterity condemn us for not living up to the
historic opportunity, or as the report refers to it, the "turning-
point".
the
readiness of
The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization clearly indicates
the
Secretary-General to undertake the necessary changes in the
Organization. While we would be supportive of
the
initiatives of the Secretary-General and his team, we renew
the same time for the widest amount of
our appeal at
consultation to be attempted in the process.
The
Secretary-General will no doubt be exposed to many views,
some views more persuasive than others. The end of the
cold war and the changing times do not mean the end of the
pursuit of primacy of positions and ideas. We are aware that
those who have profited from the United Nations as it was
resist change and continue to
structured in 1945 will
perpetuate their advantage.
is
incumbent on the countries of
the South and other
like-minded countries, collectively and individually, to hold
strong to their collective views. In this regard we are happy
that the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement has also
addressed this meeting.
In the circumstances,
it
The United Nations of the future, must clearly be on
the side of the world’s majority. It must be attentive to and
caring about the problems of that majority. Any change in
the United Nations through restructuring or revitalization
must result in maximizing the opportunity for the South and
the third world to place their problems before the United
Nations for attention and redress.
It is in that context that
we in the South must make our views known as much as
possible. The few should not be allowed to continue to
influence the United Nations. As we stated in the debate on
30th meeting - Thursday, 14 October l993
23
the same subject last year, we should set targets - perhaps
by 1995 - for discernible and constructive changes within the
United Nations to be firmly set in train.
Malaysia is convinced that the future credibility and
effectiveness of the concept of collective security and the
United Nations role in the maintenance of international peace
and security require greater use of the mechanism for
preventive diplomacy. This will be possible if there is
strong support for the Secretary-General and the Security
Council
to undertake proactive actions, early actions to
evaluate conflict situations and undertake decisive moves to
prevent the outbreak of open conflicts. But Member States
will give their support only if there is sufficient confidence
and trust especially in the actions of the Security Council,
something which has to be acquired over time.
In this regard too, it is important that the Security
Council be seen to implement some of its own resolutions.
This is particularly relevant
in the case of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. It is being increasingly seen that the Security
Council has been less than effective in implementing its own
decisions on Bosnia and Herzegovina, while reacting
promptly to other issues. The Security Council has failed in
its duty towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and yet has
prevented the Government and people of that country from
defending themselves by refusing to lift the arms embargo.
My delegation therefore fully endorses the position that
the principles of the Charter must be applied consistently,
not selectively, for if the perception should be of the latter,
trust would wane and with it the moral authority which is
the greatest and unique quality of that instrument. The
United Nations
effectiveness in preventing and settling
conflicts and preserving international peace is dependent on
the credibility of its decisions and the degree of consistency
in the application of the principles of the Charter.
In the
spirit of the Charter and the interests of Member States,
there has to be harmonization in the relationship between the
General Assembly and the Security Council on the question
of peace and security. We must not have a situation where
the views of the general membership of the United Nations
are ignored and the Council chooses to apply principles only
when it suits the interests and convenience of certain
prominent members.
As we stated during the debate at the forty-seventh
session of the United Nations General Assembly, we are not
happy over the absence of a balanced, mutually reinforcing
relationship between the Security Council and the General
Assembly. There should be a greater role for the General
Assembly and more regular and closer consultations between
the general membership and the Security Council in matters
relating to peace and security. We welcome some of the
recent initiatives undertaken by the Security Council towards
transparency and consultation with non-members of the
Council.
this process should be
continued and strengthened.
is our belief that
It
The report of the Secretary-General to the forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly includes five main chapters,
I. Introduction; II. Coordinating a Comprehensive
namely:
Strategy;
III. Developing the Global Community;
IV.
Expanding Preventive Diplomacy, Humanitarian Assistance
and Conflict Resolution; and V. Conclusion: Strengthening
the Human Foundation. A considerable part of the report is
devoted to peace-keeping and other related aspects. This
implicitly reflects the preoccupation of the United Nations in
1992.
Malaysia, a developing country, has endeavoured to
play its role as a United Nations Member, among other
things,
through its contribution to the United Nations
peace-keeping activities. We are involved in a number of
United Nations peace-keeping and field missions. Our
peace-keepers are in many parts of the world, including
Somalia, where we have suffered loss of life as well. While
we look forward to the full debate on the specific item of
peace-keeping, we wish to state at this juncture that troop-
contributing countries need to be kept fully informed of
specific operations. Unity of command and clarity of
mandate are key elements in any successful peace-keeping
mission.
For any peace-keeping operation to be truly
representative of the international community, the active
participation of developing countries is critical. It is equally
important that contributions from all countries be accepted,
rather than using a selective approach which may give rise
to concerns of discrimination.
activities
and overall
It
if the present
is envisaged that,
The stress on peace-keeping and related activities has
had a direct impact on the state of the finances of the United
Nations.
It has adversely affected the United Nations
operational
raised fundamental
questions relating to the United Nations role in the area of
development.
trend
continues, the ratio of expenditure on peace-keeping to the
United Nations operational and development activities may
well be of the order of 4:1. We recall yet again our appeal
last year for an agenda for development. "An Agenda for
Peace" without being complemented by an agenda for
development will not effectively contribute to international
peace and security. The proposed agenda for development
would no doubt have to take into account all activities and
initiatives, including Agenda 21, so as to ensure that there is
no duplication.
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
on the list of speakers, the General Assembly will hear the
last 11 speakers under agenda item 10 tomorrow morning, as
the third item in the agenda.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
In the context of development activities, we wish to
reiterate our view that there is a need for a clear linkage
between the results of Bretton Woods meetings and the
initiatives taken at the United Nations. The world majority
represented in the United Nations must have a say in the
critical decisions taken by bodies such as Bretton Woods and
the Group of Seven. The decisions taken at Bretton Woods
can no longer be taken in isolation, out of step with the
collective needs expressed at the United Nations.
The Secretary-General’s report is optimistic about the
various initiatives undertaken since the Rio Earth Summit in
June 1992. Malaysia fully supports the observations
contained in the report. We wish, however, to stress that all
those initiatives must be based on successful collective
efforts to ensure the means of implementation through
technology transfers and financial flows. Without such
means of
implementation the various programmes and
activities in Agenda 21 and the various negotiating processes
would be seriously impaired.
Malaysia looks forward to working with all countries in
addressing the financial crisis of the United Nations. We
agree that regular and predictable financial resources, as well
as well-trained manpower, are important ingredients if the
United Nations is to discharge its responsibilities. Cost-
cutting measures designed to promote greater efficiency and
increased productivity are to be welcomed. Such measures,
however, should enjoy the support of United Nations
Members. There are various proposals put forward to
strengthen the financial base of the United Nations and we
look forward to their elaboration in the Fifth Committee.
Given the set of issues raised in the report, and in view
of time constraints, my delegation would wish to comment
on other issues in the appropriate Committees or as and
when a specific issue is raised in the Assembly.
ORGANIZATION OF WORK
The PRESIDENT: Before adjourning the meeting I
should like to inform members that, due to the lateness of
the hour and the large number of Member States inscribed
