United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
ADDRESS
BY THE REVEREND FATHER
JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE, PRESIDENT OF THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Haiti.
The Reverend Father
Jean-Bertrand Aristide,
President of the Republic of Haiti, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic
of Haiti, His Excellency the Reverend Father Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President ARISTIDE (interpretation from French):
I
am happy to greet the Assembly on behalf of the people of
Haiti.
Together with Prime Minister Robert Malval and the
Haitian ministers and diplomats present here, I offer my
thanks to the United Nations and to all those who are with
us on the road to restoring democracy to Haiti.
Particular thanks go to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations, the Secretary-General of the Organization of
American States (OAS), President Bill Clinton, Special
Envoy Dante Caputo, Special Advisor Lawrence Pezzullo,
41st
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 28 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
and the four friendly countries of Canada, France, Venezuela
and the United States of America.
I cannot fail to mention all the other friends in the
Caribbean, America, Europe and Asia who are so dear to us
and have given us such a warm welcome. Among others,
we refer to the Republic of China in Taiwan, which we hope
will soon regain its place in the great family of the United
Nations.
In 1492, the peoples of Africa reached the new world.
Half a millennium has already elapsed since then - 500 years
of history that have reaped abundant cultural and liberating
harvests.
From 1791 to 1804, under the leadership of
Toussaint Louverture and Jean-Jacques Dessalines, Haiti won
its independence and the life-force of freedom has become
blood of our blood and flesh of our flesh.
We are alive. Haiti will live. Haiti is us. We are
Haiti.
Undoubtedly there have been ups and downs and there
will continue to be. Nevertheless, nothing can prevent us
from defending our inalienable and undeniable right to life,
to liberty and to the quest for happiness in accordance with
our Act of
Independence of 1804 and the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights of 1948.
It is with great joy that we find these same fundamental
of
the American Declaration
set
values
in
Independence, namely:
forth
that all Men are created equal,
"...
they are
endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable
Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the
Pursuit of Happiness ...".
that
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86994 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.41
17 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Haiti, which was the richest French colony in the
eighteenth century, must be a nation that is socially just,
economically free and politically independent.
When political science as a separate professional
discipline focused its attention on the State it gave some
rational guidelines for building a State of law. Over and
above political storms in our country we shall re-establish a
stable State built on law.
Democratic restoration implies:
ideological pluralism,
The scientific
political change and economic growth.
underpinnings of this process,
involve a
political equation to be drawn between reconciliation and
justice. Reconciliation among all and justice for all.
let us repeat,
What is at stake is peace - at the national level, in the
hemisphere and in the world. We cannot sketch the main
outlines of
the new world order without of necessity
involving democracy. Democracy and non-violence are
inextricably connected. Democracy and institutionalized
violence are incompatible. Haiti is now suffering from
structural and age-old violence. The coup d’état brought
about a real genocide. In legal language the assassination of
a people can only be called one thing, and that is genocide.
The purpose is to annihilate in order to dominate;
to
dominate in order to do away with the democratic process
and replace it by neocolonialism. If we can accept slavery,
we can accept anything, Abraham Lincoln said in 1864.
Likewise we see Pétion, President of the Republic of
Haiti, welcoming Bolivar, who had been vanquished by the
troops of Ferdinand VII, and providing him with asylum and
assistance in order to do away with slavery in Colombia,
Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia and Peru.
as
Today,
at Crête-à-Pierrot, Dessalines would
heroically restate: "We will all die for freedom". Captain
Fritz Pierre-Louis died for freedom and democracy; our
brother Antoine Izméry died for freedom and democracy;
our brother Guy Malary, Minister of Justice, died for
freedom and democracy; and more than 4,000 Haitians have
died for freedom and democracy. May they all rest in
peace.
This institutionalized violence prevents the free exercise
of the human rights which are formally guaranteed by the
Constitution. Fortunately, by restoring democracy we intend
to promote the dawn of Haitian creativity and the
transformation of our living conditions. Slowly but surely
we will pass from destitution to poverty with dignity.
Our 6,900,000 compatriots, of whom 2 million live in
urban areas and 4,900,000 in rural areas, will reap the
harvest of peace and joy. The quality of life will be better.
The infant mortality rate will no longer be 94 per 1,000.
Unemployment will no longer vary between 70 per cent and
80 per cent. Ninety per cent of the urban population will no
longer live in shanty towns. We will no longer have one
soldier per 1,000 inhabitants, 1.8 doctors for 10,000
inhabitants, or an army of 7,000 people absorbing
40 per cent of the national budget. The quality of life will
be better.
It is our hope that the technical assistance we have
requested from the United Nations will make it possible at
last to make the army professional. I should like to take this
occasion to send a message of peace to the officers and men
of the army of Haiti. As guarantor of national independence
and territorial integrity, the President of the Republic recalls
that the armed forces are non-political - Article 265; and the
police were created to maintain public order and to protect
the life and property of citizens - article 269.
On 15 October last the armed forces and the police
should finally have been free of their superior officers. Late,
but not too late. They will have to leave. This flagrant
violation of the Governors Island Agreement can only
dramatically accelerate the headlong rush to national
breakdown. Late, but not too late. They will have to leave.
The end of the cold war has sounded the death knell of
dictatorship and has opened the way to responsible
negotiation. No human being can live in a ridiculous and
chaotic world. We must build a State of law ensuring the
separation and harmonious distribution of the powers of the
State to serve the fundamental interests of the nation at
large.
In this context we deem it necessary to recall the six
proposals which were shared last July with the private sector
in Haiti. Once we have returned we shall do the following:
first, take effective steps at the meso-economic level, that is,
measures that will establish a relationship between the
macroeconomic and micro-economic levels, which have a
direct impact on the daily life of the people and will lead to
the necessary degree of decentralization; secondly, set in
motion a legal process for the rational management of State
resources, for budgetary readjustments and in order to
reform the tax and banking systems; thirdly, create a State
of law with a judicious macroeconomic policy that will
encourage the creation of productive and remunerative jobs;
fourthly, revamp the synergetic relationship between the
public and private sectors; fifthly, correct market deficiencies
by combating drugs, corruption and smuggling; and, sixthly,
make it possible for the market to function properly by
ensuring that there is free competition.
In this connection, article 245 of the Constitution states:
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
3
"Economic freedom is guaranteed as long as it is not
opposed to social interests. The State protects private
enterprise and does everything to ensure that it develops
under the conditions necessary to increase national
wealth in order to ensure that the largest number of
people share in the benefits of that wealth."
Dear friends, James in the Black Jacobins wrote that no
part of the world, as far as its surface was concerned, had so
much wealth as the colony of Santo Domingo. That is quite
true. It is also true that Haiti today is one of the wealthiest
pieces of land in the world: it is rich in human, cultural and
artistic values.
(spoke in Creole)
(The speaker did not provide for interpretation into one
of the languages of the General Assembly as required
by rule 53 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly.)
(spoke in French)
The most realistic projections for the year 2000 indicate
that 2,600,000 inhabitants - that is, 65 per cent of the urban
population - will have no prospects whatsoever of access to
drinking water. The implementation of our economic policy
should avert this catastrophe. In the year 2000 more than 60
per cent of children under the age of 12 months will be
unable to receive vaccinations. This is another challenge to
take up. Within seven years our
forests will have
disappeared. Two years ago only 1.5 per cent of our forest
cover was left, which is why we lose every year 36.6 million
metric tons of land.
Only the restoration of democracy can save our country
from this ecological catastrophe. Let us not even mention
the massive outflow of boat people. Once we have returned
to the land of our birth we shall restore peace, and then the
sea will no longer claim our soil and our souls. We said
before:
"Boat people, nevermore." Upon our return we
shall say: "Boat people, nevermore."
We shall say again:
"Licence to traffic in drugs,
nevermore." Only the restoration of democracy can prevent
Haiti from being the second country in the hemisphere in
terms of involvement in drug trafficking. Since the coup
d’état about 48 metric tons of cocaine have passed through
Haiti every year. Their destination? North America, above
all. The annual market value of this drug adds up to $1.2
billion, of which more than $200 million goes to the
putschists and their allies. When we return to the land of
our birth, the Haitian and United States Governments, united
as always, will protect each other from this violent scourge.
When we return to the land of our birth, by mobilizing
all our human resources and making optimal use of the
assistance of
friendly countries, we shall be able to
implement an urgent employment programme, which will
involve, first, refurbishment of the roadway infrastructure,
comprising 1,406 kilometres;
secondly, protection of
drinking-water supply systems for 1 million inhabitants;
thirdly, protection of agricultural irrigation systems covering
200,000 plots of land; fourthly, shoring up of the main
towns and protection of the areas threatened by erosion,
including,
in particular, 300 kilometres of ravines; and,
fifthly, promotion of integrated rural development.
Let us recall that 63 per cent of the active population is
employed in the rural areas, whence comes 27 per cent of
the gross national product. The industrial sector, on the
other hand, employs 5.7 per cent of the active population
and produces 15 per cent of the gross national product.
Working with the private sector in Haiti, we shall have
to find the best way to provide many more jobs for both the
medium and the long term. Since the coup d’état we have
lost 30,000 jobs in the assembly and export
industries.
Relaunching tourism will provide 1,000 jobs. Building
schools and repairing 1,200 schools in disadvantaged areas
will contribute to reducing the ranks of the unemployed.
The first mission of the State and of the territorial
collectives is to provide schooling for the masses; this is the
only way we can develop the country. The State and the
territorial collectives must make free schooling available to
all: articles 32.1 and 32.2.
Furthermore, the Head of State, as the guarantor of
respect for the Constitution, will endeavour to strengthen the
democratic institutions set out in the Constitution.
Justice for all; transparency in all; participation by all.
The Head of State will also reinforce the independence
of
the legislative power by helping the members of
Parliament prepare themselves and by fostering harmonious
relations between the two branches. There will soon have to
be a permanent electoral council
to organize legislative
elections for 1994.
I take this opportunity to urge the
political parties and the members of the opposition to
stimulate the democratic process for the nation’s well-being.
As the President of each and every Haitian, I urge all
to transcend political differences and build unity in diversity.
Young people of Haiti, women of Haiti, peasants’ groups,
trade unions, people’s organizations, social and professional
let us all march together. Rich or poor,
organizations:
military or civilian:
let us say no to vengeance, no to
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
violence, no to impunity, yes to reconciliation, yes to justice.
Let us all march together. There is strength in union.
(spoke in Creole)
(The speaker did not provide for interpretation into one
of the languages of the General Assembly as required
by rule 53 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly.)
(spoke in French)
Yes, geopolitical evolution depends on unity. On the
threshold of a new era, tolerance and active benevolence
benefit all mankind. Geopolitical evolution depends both on
the relationship between economic forces and on democratic
growth. Yes, from humanity there can arise a new world
order based on mutual respect and new structures that are
intended to guarantee peace, security and dialogue. Dialogue
between men and women will be the topmost of our national
and international priorities, a dialogue between men and
women whose intelligence is a guiding light for democratic
civilization. There will be dialogue between all of us,
dialogue between the members of this Assembly, who are
intelligent. Vis consili expers mole ruit sua: force without
intelligence is crushed by its own weight, as Horace said.
Guided by the light of intelligence, men and women of Haiti
will easily understand that
(spoke in Creole)
(The speaker did not provide for interpretation into one
of the languages of the General Assembly as required
by rule 53 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly.)
(spoke in French)
They will easily understand that
(spoke in Creole)
(The speaker did not provide for interpretation into one
of the languages of the General Assembly as required
by rule 53 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly.)
(spoke in French)
easily
understand
the
peace,
Yes, we Haitians, we who desire peace and who shall
of
create
reconciliation and justice. This is why, first, we respected
from the outset the Governors Island Agreement; secondly,
we ask for a total blockade, which is necessary - nay,
absolutely essential; thirdly, if tomorrow morning General
importance
the Senate and the House of Deputies,
Cédras, the members of the High Command and the Military
Staff, and Colonel Michel François and his allies leave, then
tomorrow afternoon I shall, in agreement with the Presidents
of
summon
Parliament to vote on the bill regarding the police and the
one on amnesty,
in accordance with article 147 of the
Constitution, the Governors Island Agreement and the New
York Pact.
Fourthly, the Prime Minister and the members of the
Ministerial Cabinet, to whom we would address our warmest
congratulations, are invited not to resign, in solidarity with
the people of Haiti. On 30 October, it is not a matter of
choice between returning or not returning.
It is a choice
between departure and lateness.
(spoke in Creole)
(The speaker did not provide for interpretation into one
of the languages of the General Assembly as required
by rule 53 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly.)
(spoke in French)
Men and women of Haiti, the horizons of the future are
wide open. Upright like the palm-bearer of freedom, let us
march together. Let us build peace. Let us construct law.
Let us restore democracy. All, sons and daughters of the
motherland of Toussaint-Louverture
and Jean-Jacques
Dessalines, let us be united for the rebirth of the nation. To
all of you, peace, love and happiness.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of Haiti for the important statement he has just
made.
The Reverend Father
Jean-Bertrand Aristide,
President of the Republic of Haiti, was escorted from the
General Assembly Hall.
PROGRAMME OF WORK
The PRESIDENT: I should like to inform delegations
that with regard to agenda item 21, "Return or restitution of
cultural property to the countries of origin", which is to be
considered next Tuesday, 2 November, the report of the
Secretary-General
the
documents counter.
is now available at
(A/48/466)
Similarly, with regard to agenda item 30, "Necessity of
ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba",
which is to be considered next Wednesday, 3 November, the
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
5
report of the Secretary-General (A/48/448) is also now
available at the documents counter.
AGENDA ITEM 11
REPORT OF THE SECURITY COUNCIL (A/48/2)
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the President of the
introduce the report of the
Security Council, who will
Security Council (A/48/2).
Mr. SARDENBERG (President of
the Security
Council):
I am honoured and pleased to have the
opportunity to address the General Assembly as President of
the Security Council to introduce the annual report of the
Council covering the period 16 June 1992 to 15 June 1993,
which has been distributed to all delegations in document
A/48/2.
The members of the Security Council attach great
importance to the timely preparation and submission of the
annual report to the General Assembly, as provided for in
Articles 15 and 24 of the United Nations Charter.
Consideration of the Council’s report by the General
Assembly constitutes a privileged occasion for the necessary
dialogue and interaction between these two principal organs
of the United Nations.
It is thus an important element
enabling both organs to exercise, in a mutually reinforcing
manner,
their respective competences in relation to the
maintenance of international peace and security.
the draft report
Due to a delay in the presentation of the previous
report, the General Assembly was not able to consider it in
the course of 1992. To prevent such a regrettable delay
from recurring, the Security Council requested the Secretariat
to submit
to members of the Council
immediately following the period covered by the report, so
that it might be adopted by the Council in time to permit the
General Assembly to consider it during the main part of its
regular session, as it is doing today.
I wish to thank the
Secretariat for the work it put into preparing the draft report
on time.
It
The report reflects the increased amount of work done
in responding to problems related to
by the Council
is not for me, as
international peace and security.
President, to comment on this occasion on the substance of
that work, except perhaps to say that the voluminous content
of the document indicates the need for continued attention
and action by the United Nations to face the numerous
challenges persisting or emerging in a changing international
scene. The positive trends towards greater international
cooperation and understanding by no means exclude the
existence of serious threats to international peace. In facing
the Security Council
is constantly
these challenges,
confronted with the difficult
task of preserving and
increasing the efficiency of its work to ensure the prompt
and effective action that
to
international peace and security, in accordance with the
norms and principles of the Charter.
is required with respect
The more that action becomes important and effective,
the more we should stress the fact
involves a
responsibility that is conferred upon the Security Council by
all the Member States of the United Nations. Such action is
carried out by the Council on their behalf, as provided for in
Article 24 of the Charter, and it is essential that all Member
States contribute to the work that is done on their behalf.
that
it
that
I have no doubt
the members of the Security
Council are aware of the need to address the question of
how best
to strike a balance between efficiency and
transparency in the work of the Council. Last June the
Council established an informal working group to consider
suggestions concerning documentation, including the annual
report and related matters. As a result, the Council has
adopted a number of procedural measures that will no doubt
contribute to enhancing its work and provide a useful
foundation on which to build.
Some of these measures are directly related to the
question of how to provide information to States that are not
members of the Security Council. The Council agreed, in
particular, on the following matters.
First, the draft of the annual report will no longer be
issued as a confidential document and will be adopted at a
public meeting of the Security Council - not a private
meeting, as in the past - at which the draft report is to be
made available to all interested delegations. This procedure
was observed for the first time in the adoption of the report
I have the honour to introduce today.
Secondly, the Secretariat will bring to the attention of
the Council all cases in which a resolution or a Presidential
statement contains references to unpublished documents, in
which cases the Council will consider the official publication
of the document,
thus making it readily available for
consultation by interested delegations.
Thirdly, the provisional agenda for formal meetings of
the Council will be included in the Journal of the United
Nations whenever it has already been approved in informal
consultations.
Finally,
the monthly forecast of
the Council’s
programme of work prepared by the Secretariat will be
distributed to all Member States at the beginning of each
month.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
An effort is also being made to make the titles of
Security Council agenda items more descriptive, avoiding
mere references to letters or reports received.
These first measures are already being implemented.
The Council furthermore agreed that the question of
ways to provide information to States that are not members
of the Council will be kept under due consideration, with a
view to enhancing its practice in this regard.
Another useful step in the same direction is the new
practice, which started a few months ago, of
regular
consultations by the President of the Security Council with
the President of the General Assembly and, separately, with
the Chairmen of each of the five regional groups, within
their respective mandates.
I am convinced that these and
possibly other new channels of dialogue can be profitably
explored to the benefit of the work of the Council, which
must be responsive to the interests and concerns of the
membership at large.
In addition to those measures, the Council has also
considered the need to make its annual report an easier and
more useful reference document for all Member States. To
that end,
the report now submitted by the Council
incorporates a number of changes in its format:
it includes
a new appendix with a list of all Presidential statements
issued during the period under review, with an indication of
the date of issuance and the corresponding agenda item or
subject matter; it provides cross-references to the relevant
chapter, section and subsection for each resolution and
Presidential statement; and, as indicated in the table of
contents, agenda items have been regrouped under umbrella
headings, so as to allow easier reading.
As indicated in the introduction to the report, it is not
intended as a substitute for the official records of the
Security Council, which provide a more substantive account
of its deliberations. Thus the report should be read, for the
purposes of this discussion in the General Assembly, too, in
conjunction with other official documents of the Council, to
which it constitutes a reference guide.
The members of
listen
attentively to the debate we are holding here today, and they
welcome this opportunity for dialogue.
the Security Council will
Mr. JARAMILLO (Colombia) (interpretation from
Spanish): The presentation of the report of the Security
Council
fundamental
importance to Colombia because it gives an opportunity for
the necessary interaction between the principal organs of the
Organization.
to the General Assembly is of
Two weeks ago the General Assembly had an
opportunity to give its views on the report of the Secretary-
General on the work of the United Nations and the report of
the International Court of Justice. Today we have an
opportunity to address the development of the work and
activities of the Security Council.
This is of special
importance because of the vital role of the Council in the
international arena and the steadily increasing number of
functions it has assumed, some of which are in accordance
with the Charter, while others go far beyond its fundamental
mandate.
I should like first of all to say how pleased I am at the
prompt submission of
this report, which enables the
Assembly to consider it during the main part of its regular
session, in contrast to the situation last year, when it was
given late consideration in the month of June.
We are also pleased that a number of the criticisms
levelled at the Council’s procedures have produced concrete
results.
In this connection it is fitting to point out that the
report was considered and approved at an open meeting of
the Security Council and that it was published as a limited-
distribution document, in keeping with the normal practice
of other United Nations bodies.
We would also note the circulation of the Council’s
monthly programme of work to all Missions, which has
facilitated the flow of information within the system. We
believe that
the inclusion of the provisional agenda of
meetings of the Council
to be a good
beginning. This, of course, does not mean that the need for
greater transparency and information has ceased to exist. In
any event, we encourage its members to continue to seek
ways to improve the Council’s procedures, including the
question of working out new and improved ways to provide
information to Member States.
in the Journal
Colombia has on a number of occasions noted that the
Council’s report should reflect, in a detailed, analytical and
substantive manner, the tasks accomplished by that body in
the exercise of its functions, particularly at a time when
greater latitude and flexibility are being applied in defining
situations that pose threats to international peace and
security. This has meant that the Security Council’s tasks
have increased, both quantitatively and qualitatively, which
has in turn necessarily - and quite rightly - meant that the
General Assembly, as the universal body, must be more
thoroughly informed of the essence of the Council’s work.
This question takes on even greater importance at a time
when the Council’s use of informal consultations as a
routine working method has made the timely and open flow
of information to all Member States, on an equal basis, far
more difficult to achieve.
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
7
Unfortunately, once again the Council’s report
is
enumerative and descriptive in nature, and it
lacks any
assessment or substantive ideas that might give us even a
vague notion of the thrust of the deliberations that are held
behind closed doors and without written records. We stress
this point because it involves the representative nature of the
Security Council and its political responsibility vis-à-vis the
General Assembly. As stipulated in Article 24, paragraph 1,
of the Charter, the Security Council acts on behalf of the
Members of the United Nations. That is precisely what
gives its actions their legitimacy. We are all aware that the
ever-growing activities of the Council confer enormous
responsibility on the United Nations, a responsibility that is,
of course, incumbent upon all Member States, not only from
a political standpoint, but from a financial one as well.
Thus, the very least we countries that are not members of
the Council can ask is that we be informed, and informed
well and in a timely and substantive fashion. We believe
that the Council should produce the special reports to the
General Assembly referred to in Article 24 of the Charter,
not only because the items before it are complex and
numerous but also because an annual submission forgoes on
numerous occasions the political attention such critical issues
require.
it seems to us that a monthly report,
corresponding to the change of presidency in the Council, is
warranted and that
it would improve the information
available to member countries.
Indeed,
I should now like to make a few general comments on
the report before us.
First, I should like to repeat that Colombia welcomes
with optimism the new era of cooperation that is evident on
the international scene and here in the United Nations,
particularly in the Security Council. It is clear that there is
greater cooperation among its members, accompanied by
flexibility and a firm resolve to adopt rapid and effective
measures. Nevertheless, we are concerned that the work of
the United Nations is to a growing degree becoming
identified with the work of the Security Council and that as
the Council becomes stronger the other organs in the system
are being weakened. The automatic linkage of certain
questions with the concept of
international peace and
security is generating a monopoly of issues for the Security
Council, and at the same time as the Council’s functions are
increasing, both
quantitatively and qualitatively, other
organs with specific competence in particular fields are
being left out of the decision-making process.
That situation must be corrected. As we see it, a good
part of the problem originates in the Council’s tendency to
broaden, arbitrarily,
the definition of what constitutes a
threat to international peace and security. In this connection
we are extremely concerned at the abuse of the Council’s
discretionary powers. We do not believe in the Council’s
total sovereignty in this area, nor do we believe that it is
either healthy or wise. Let us take a look at the current
situation.
In recent years, this concept has been broadened to
cover very diverse situations,
for example, questions
involving human rights, which should be taken up in the
Commission on Human Rights, the Economic and Social
Council and the Third Committee of the General Assembly.
The same holds true for questions involving humanitarian
assistance, where, as a result of Security Council decisions,
the overlapping of political and military questions and
questions of a humanitarian nature seems to have created
more problems than it has solved, exposing the United
Nations to severe criticism and to erosion in international
public opinion.
Furthermore, the Council has acted in areas involving
the restoration of democracy, when such questions should be
acted upon by the General Assembly or the competent
regional body. The Council has also assumed authority with
regard to legal controversies that are often bilateral in nature
and therefore attributed by the Charter to the International
Court of Justice.
In addition to those areas, we might also mention all the
situations created by internal power struggles, in which the
United Nations should refrain from intervening save for
exceptional cases as authorized by the Charter and by
consistent United Nations practice.
It seems to us that in none of those situations are
international peace and security truly threatened. What is
more, it is faulty reasoning to argue that non-compliance
with an agreement reached between two factions vying
internally for power constitutes
to
international peace and security.
in itself a threat
In an era of transition such as ours, the United Nations
- above all, the Security Council - needs to be prudent,
cautious and responsible in decision-making. The Council
is currently formulating policy as regards international peace
and security and setting very complex precedents that could
prove counterproductive for
the United Nations and
jeopardize its credibility. We cannot run the risk of being
associated now and in the future with loss of prestige,
irresponsibility, incompetence or even belligerence. On the
contrary, we must be identified with the peaceful political
settlement of conflicts, as was the original desire of the
countries that signed the San Francisco Charter.
is
necessary first to adopt clear and precise criteria as to what
constitutes a threat to international peace and security, in
accordance with the letter and the spirit of the Charter and
United Nations practice and then to consider potential
mechanisms to remedy such situations, thus avoiding hasty
It
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
reactions with a high political cost to the United Nations and
the States that compose it.
constant
recourse
resort
such gravity that
In this respect, we reiterate that, as has often been
to
stated in the United Nations,
Chapter VII of the Charter as a mechanism to resolve
difficult situations is excessive and disproportionate.
I
emphasize that Chapter VII was originally conceived as an
to deal with situations and
instrument of
last
circumstances of
they warranted
enforcement action.
It cannot be understood as an
instrument enabling the Council to place itself above the
norms and principles of international law in its actions.
In
contrast, the mechanisms set out in Chapter VI, on the
pacific
are not being used
appropriately; rather, they seem to have been relegated to a
secondary level because they are not instruments of force.
This policy, of course, deserves profound reflection.
settlement of disputes,
There was constant, recurring reference to the concept
of preventive diplomacy in the general debate that concluded
a few weeks ago here.
In fact, preventive diplomacy is
nothing but the effective implementation of the mechanisms
contained in Article 33 of our Charter, including, despite
what many might wish, recourse to the International Court
of Justice. Nevertheless, rhetoric and practice in this area
are unfortunately not moving in tandem.
Colombia has repeatedly called for transparency within
the Organization, and especially as regards the relationship
between the General Assembly and the Security Council.
We have advocated greater information and transparency in
the deliberations of the Council, because the Assembly is
also an integral part of the collective security system and
because we are convinced that this would be to the benefit
of all, including the Council, since it would ensure the
legitimacy of its actions and confidence in its members.
With the substantive increase in the functions of the Security
Council, transparency in its decisions is virtually imperative.
secret,
The Secretary-General himself refers in his report to the
need for more formal meetings of the Council and presents
a graph showing how the use of
informal
consultations in recent years has been truly excessive. He
recommends that these alternate with a greater number of
official meetings. We completely support the Secretary-
General on this point. But the public meetings should be for
genuine deliberations, since in practice formal meetings have
become merely occasions to rubber-stamp decisions that
have for the most part already been adopted by a small
nucleus of States on the Security Council.
Colombia is prepared to participate in the debate, under
agenda item 33, on a review of the composition of the
Security Council. It hopes that the Assembly will be able to
establish an open-ended working group with a broad and
flexible mandate devoted to reform of the Council, including
its composition and working procedures. My delegation
cannot fail
in the process of initiating
reform of the Council, there is indeed a need for open and
universal consultations in every case.
to mention that,
I cannot conclude this statement without offering very
special thanks to the Permanent Representative of Brazil,
Mr. Ronaldo Sardenberg, who, as President of the Security
Council for this month, has come here personally, with a
sense of courtesy and responsibility, to submit this report to
us.
Mr. REDZUAN (Malaysia): Once again my delegation
is participating in this debate to express our concerns and
offer some suggestions relating to the report (A/48/2) of the
Security Council.
The Malaysian delegation believes that
this is an
important task, which should be fulfilled by the general
membership in a meaningful and constructive manner. The
general membership should seriously and carefully examine
the Council’s report and determine whether the Council has
fulfilled its role as defined in the Charter. Members should
not refrain from questioning any of the decisions or from
making their recommendations when they deem it necessary.
This is also an opportunity for members to comment on the
workings of the Council.
These are indeed important
functions for the general membership, given the vastly
increased workload and expectations of a more effective
Security Council following the end of the cold war and
East-West
is our
responsibility that as many countries as possible should in
fact participate in the debate.
So important
ideological
rivalry.
My delegation finds it odd that right in its introductory
part the report mentions that it
"is intended not as a substitute for the records of the
only
Security Council, which
comprehensive
its
deliberations, but as a guide to the activities of the
Security Council during the period covered." (A/48/2, p.
29)
and authoritative
account of
constitute
the
This is not acceptable, and it is time for the Council to
discard such a narrow intention or purpose of the report.
Certainly, Articles 15 and 24 of the Charter call for
much more in the report of the Security Council to the
General Assembly.
It cannot be a mere diary of the
activities and decisions of the Council. Both Article 15 and
Article 24 explicitly establish the obligation of the Security
Council
to report and be accountable to the General
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
9
Assembly. There cannot be representation and delegation of
power without responsibility and accountability.
In the spirit and letter of Articles 15 and 24 of the
Charter, my delegation believes that the format and content
of the report of the Security Council should be modified and
restructured. What is needed is substantive and analytical
reporting and not a mere compendium of meetings and
decisions. The report of the Secretary-General on the work
of the Organization could at least form an appropriate model
for the Council to restructure the format and content of its
reporting. The report of the Council, like the report of the
Secretary-General, should include an objective analysis and
comments.
The Council’s report should also contain
explanations of its decisions and should account for its
actions or inactions. Ways should also be devised to
incorporate the views of the general membership in the
report.
In this connection, Malaysia attaches great importance
to the work of the informal working group of the General
Assembly relating to the revitalization of the work of the
Assembly.
In resolution 47/233, which was adopted by
consensus, we agreed to have substantive debate on annual
reports to the General Assembly by the other principal
organs of the United Nations and decided to continue
consideration of the revitalization process of the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session in a comprehensive
manner in an informal open-ended working group, which
will make proposals, as appropriate, on questions relating to,
inter alia, the rationalization of the agenda, the reports from
the other principal organs of
the United Nations in
accordance with the Charter and the reports requested by the
Secretary-General.
The Malaysian delegation remains seriously concerned
about the tendency among the Permanent Five to confine
much of the substantive work of the Council to themselves
and to turn the Permanent Five into some kind of exclusive
club. We are concerned that formal meetings of the Council
are becoming increasingly short, more and more pro forma
occasions, with most discussions and decisions taken in
closed informal meetings to the exclusion of interested
parties and the general membership. Regrettably,
this
unhealthy work culture of the Permanent Five is becoming
more and more entrenched, affecting the overall work of the
Council.
My delegation is disturbed to witness the increasing
tendency on the part of certain influential members to be
selective in addressing questions of international peace and
It is a cause of
security that come before the Council.
serious concern that
is perceived as being
manipulated to advance the foreign policy interests of a
member or group of members. The concept of United
the Council
Nations collective security is being undermined by the
application of double standards to serve the political interests
or expediency of certain permanent members of the Council.
The procrastination on and half-hearted approach to ending
Serbia’s blatant aggression and practice of "ethnic cleansing"
in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a clear
example of the Council’s selectivity and double standards.
The Council appears to be locked in a political paralysis,
with some influential members weighing the political,
financial and manpower costs of getting involved in the
crises. The unwillingness on the part of the Council to
enforce its own resolutions and to respect General Assembly
resolutions 46/242 and 47/121, calling for cessation of
hostilities and respect for humanitarian law in the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, would definitely undermine the
credibility and faith placed in the Security Council and the
concept of the United Nations collective security. On
Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council has repeatedly failed
to fulfil its obligation under Article 24 of the Charter to take
prompt and effective measures to restore peace and stability.
Worse still, the Council continues to deny the inherent right
of the victim of aggression and genocide - the Government
of Bosnia and Herzegovina - to collective or individual
self-defence under Article 51 of the Charter.
The effectiveness of the Security Council, in particular,
and the United Nations in general, in fulfilling the primary
responsibility of maintaining international peace and security
is dependent on its credibility and degree of consistency in
the application of the principles of the Charter.
I wish to
recall again the view of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, who stated in his report "An Agenda for Peace" last
year that
"The principles of
the Charter must be applied
consistently, not selectively, for if the perception should
be of the latter, trust will wane and with it the moral
authority which is the greatest and most unique quality
of that instrument." (A/47/277, para. 82)
This fundamental rule should govern the deliberations and
decisions of the Security Council.
During this crucial moment in the history of the United
Nations, we all wish to see the Security Council effective
and unanimously respected for its integrity. In this respect,
the Council should strive to gain the trust and confidence of
the general membership by reassuring members in practice
of the following:
that the Council will not be the tool for
imposing the will of the strong upon the weak; that the
Council will avoid selective and discriminatory approaches
to international crises, leading to a condition in which world
affairs would de determined by one or a small group of
powerful states; that the Council will respect the principle of
transparency and democracy in its work and will become
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
responsive to the views of the general membership of the
Organization; and, finally, that the Council will not exceed
its mandate under the Charter.
As the custodian of international peace and security, the
Security Council must, in carrying out its responsibilities on
behalf of the Members of the United Nations, act
in
conformity with the provisions of the Charter, particularly
Article 24.
In this regard, the Security Council, before
taking major decisions or actions, is duty-bound to consult
regional groupings,
troop-contributing countries and the
general membership. Security Council resolutions should
reflect the common will of the international community and
not serve the narrow interests of the permanent members and
their allies. As the Secretary-General observed in his report
"An Agenda for Peace",
"agreement among the permanent members of the
Council must have the deeper support of the other
members of the Council, and the membership more
widely, if the Council’s decisions are to be effective
and endure." (A/47/277, para. 78)
The members of the Security Council should always
bear in mind that their representation in the Council extends
beyond one’s own national entity. The permanent members
have a special responsibility because of the privileges
accorded to them by the international community as a whole.
Accordingly, their positions should not be dictated by the
confines of their narrow national
interests. As for the
non-permanent members, they have a larger duty to a larger
constituency - the regional group that they come from and
the other members that elected them. They should not
succumb to pressure or manipulation by the influential
members of the Council.
At the same time, my delegation recognizes that there
have been some positive changes taking place lately at the
Security Council with regard to its work and documentation.
My delegation would like to take this opportunity to express
our appreciation to the President of the Security Council for
the month of August, Ambassador Albright of the United
States, for her initiative to bring about greater transparency
in the work of the Council. During her presidency, there
were efforts to consult interested parties and the general
membership on many issues that were before the Council.
This positive attitude should be encouraged and indeed
adopted as a standard working procedure by the Security
Council.
My delegation also welcomes the Council’s decision, as
contained in the note by the President, document S/26176 of
27 July 1993,
their tentative forecast of the
programme of work for each month to all Member States.
This positive action, we believe, should also be extended to
to transmit
include other relevant documents of the Security Council, in
particular statements or intervention notes of the Secretariat
or members of
the Council made during informal
consultations, including draft resolutions being negotiated.
The decision of the Security Council to include in the daily
Journal of the United Nations the provisional agenda of its
formal meetings also deserves our appreciation. We hope
that in the near future the Security Council will adopt other
measures necessary to bring about more transparency in its
work.
An important aspect of the work of the Council in the
maintenance of international peace and security which is
missing from the annual report is the question of financing.
On this crucial subject, the Malaysian delegation shares the
view expressed by the Secretary-General in his report on the
work of the Organization for this year, that
"the United Nations cannot resolve the major problems
on the international agenda in the absence of the
political will,
and continuing
commitment which each particular endeavour requires."
(A/48/1, para. 23)
sufficient
support
In order to avoid any long-term negative effects, it is
imperative that all States, particularly the big contributors,
pay their assessed contributions in full and on time in
accordance with
the
Organization as provided for in Article 17, paragraph 2, of
the Charter.
obligations
statutory
their
to
In conclusion, I must underline Malaysia’s strongly held
view that the Security Council cannot function effectively
and be more representative if we fail
to expand its
membership to reflect
the dramatic increase in the
membership of the United Nations as a whole, which now
stands at 184, and to reform its method of work. That is
why the Malaysian delegation and the other members of the
Non-Aligned Movement are determined to restructure the
Council
and balanced
geographical representation and to reform the inner workings
of the Council so that there is accountability, democracy and
transparency, leading to a harmonious relationship between
the Council and the General Assembly, while making the
Council more effective in carrying out its duties under the
Charter.
to reflect
equitable
a more
The PRESIDENT: I should like to propose that the list
of speakers in the debate on this item be closed now.
It was so decided.
Mr. RAMIREZ de ESTENOZ (Cuba) (interpretation
I wish first to convey my delegation’s
from Spanish):
appreciation of the statement made this morning by the
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
11
in his capacity as
Permanent Representative of Brazil,
President of the Security Council, when he introduced the
Council’s report to the General Assembly. We believe that
this action by the President of the Council, and Brazil’s
ongoing interest in improving the quality and content of the
Council’s report, not only constitute a step in the right
direction but also hold the promise of future progress
towards the Security Council’s giving a genuine accounting
of its activities to the General Assembly, as clearly stipulated
in the Charter.
The Brazilian initiative is all the more praiseworthy
compared with the situation of previous years, when the
report of the Security Council was not even properly
introduced to the Assembly and when many Council
members were not present in the Hall for the debate. We
hope the new procedure will become a tradition followed by
future Presidents of the Security Council.
to prevent
We are also pleased to note the commendable effort of
the Secretariat
the recurrence of last year’s
disgraceful situation and to ensure that the Assembly could
consider the report of the Security Council at the proper
time.
We attach special importance to the continuing increase
in the number of delegations participating in the debate. In
our view, the report of the Security Council should be the
object of serious interest by all delegations, since not only
has the Council become the most active of United Nations
organs, but
its activities increasingly affect a growing
number of countries.
It should be recalled that this item appears on the
agenda of the General Assembly because of provisions of
the Charter. Article 15 states that the Security Council
should submit an annual report to the General Assembly,
because, as stated in Article 24 of the Charter, the powers of
the Security Council are conferred on it by the Members of
the United Nations - that is, by the General Assembly, acting
on their behalf.
In other words, as it considers this report,
the General Assembly is not - or should not be - only taking
note of matters of the highest interest and priority to the
international
its
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations.
community,
fulfilling
but
is
also
Yet, as we have said on previous occasions, the content
of the report is not such that the General Assembly can fully
and effectively carry out its responsibilities.
In its present
form, the report of the Security Council could perhaps be
useful to libraries or documentation centres, but it is not
useful to the State delegations that must, in accordance with
the Charter, assess the actions the Council takes on their
behalf and determine whether or not
the powers we
ourselves have conferred upon the Security Council are
being used in the best possible way.
The delegation of Cuba is among those that, both on
and off the Security Council, has systematically criticized the
partial and cursory way the Council’s work is presented to
the General Assembly. We note that this time some positive
changes have been made, thanks to the efforts of some
members of the Security Council. But
the report still
completely lacks the analytic information that would enable
us to assess what the Council has or has not done.
That observation relates to the growing demands for
greater transparency in the work of the Council. The
Council’s current practices, characterized by the closed and
secret nature of
the substantive
deliberations of its members, make it ever more necessary to
meet our demand for an analytical, complete and integral
report.
the vast majority of
Other elements of the activities of the Council are also
linked with the item before us. The Security Council is
exhibiting a growing tendency to appropriate many aspects
of the work of the Organization that have nothing to do with
the authority conferred upon it by the Charter. It has given
itself the right - a right no one else has given it - to
determine on its own when a situation constitutes a threat to
international peace and security and when it does not; this
gives rise to a growing tendency to interfere in the internal
affairs of States. The Council has arrogated to itself the
power, without guidelines from the democratic bodies of the
Organization, to determine when it is necessary to apply
Chapter VII of the Charter. For today’s Security Council -
and above all for certain of its permanent members - the
Council is the only valid forum of the United Nations; they
conveniently forget that each United Nations organ has its
own functions and powers.
Summarizing, I should say that
there is an ever-
increasing tendency for that organ to act as an autonomous
entity. This is extremely dangerous, given its responsibilities
in respect of international peace and security and, hence, its
power to impose sanctions or to use force.
It is also a
matter for concern that the Security Council, whenever it
takes action - however basic - in connection with a situation
brought
to its attention, decides immediately to remain
seized of the subject. This prevents action by other United
Nations organs that could make a valuable contribution to
the solution of conflicts and controversies.
We believe that every Member of this Organization
could say a great deal about the way in which the Security
Council operates.
I refer, for example, to the excessive
proliferation of peace-keeping operations and to the way in
which given situations are manipulated so that the Council’s
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
decisions may be brought into line with the policies of the
big Powers - in other words, so that
the Council may
become a sort of universal police force.
This is why appropriate information from Member
States, appropriate structuring and analysis in the Security
Council’s annual report to the General Assembly, and even
special reports when they are warranted by circumstances -
as provided for in the Charter - are not only necessary but,
indeed, vital
this Organization is to become truly
democratic and if it is to fulfil completely the purposes and
principles for which it was designed. Would not the General
Assembly be doing something worthwhile if, at this session,
it were to decide to ask the Security Council for special,
thorough, detailed, analytical
the
reports on some of
Council’s most important and controversial operations?
if
Nothing that the Council does, or fails to do, should be
kept from the Members of this Organization, on whose
behalf, I repeat, that organ acts.
In the document that we
are now considering - and this is something that must be
said - there is not a single word about the real discussions
that have taken place in the Security Council. As we see it,
this is a virtual violation of the United Nations Charter and
of its stipulations concerning the Council’s responsibility to
report to the General Assembly. Thus, the Assembly is
deprived of legitimate powers, including the power to make
recommendations to the Security Council with regard to the
Council’s activities or working methods.
that
We have no doubt
if this function is to be
discharged, States Members of the Organization must ensure
that the General Assembly has the means to discharge it.
They must ensure that
the Assembly has the means of
carrying out its functions - functions given to it by the
Charter - with regard to the maintenance of international
peace and security and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Above all, it must be enabled to exercise the powers that it
has by virtue of Articles 10, 11 and 14 of the instrument that
guides our work. We hope that future negotiations on
revitalization of the General Assembly will take all these
issues properly into account and that conclusions will be
arrived at.
Mr. Pursoo (Grenada), Vice-President, took the Chair.
I do not want to repeat what my delegation said just a
few months ago, in a similar debate, about what the Security
Council’s report to the General Assembly should contain.
None the less, I wish to reiterate that the report should
include not only references to the official documents that
were before, and were adopted by, the Council, but also -
and this is much more important - an analytical summary of
the discussions that took place in the framework of the so-
called plenary informal consultations, which, because of the
none-too-democratic policy that has been imposed on the
Council, have become its real debates.
In this connection,
the report should also duly reflect the information that is
often conveyed verbally to the Council by high-ranking
members of the Secretariat, as well as the texts of letters
exchanged by the President of the Council and the Secretary-
General, where these are not published as official documents
of the United Nations, and records of the subsidiary bodies
of the Council, which are also of extreme interest to Member
States.
At the same time, the report must have a much more
functional structure - one that can be adapted to the new,
analytical contents we are advocating. This is the only way
of enabling us to determine the real thrust of the Council’s
work over the year and to analyse its results, even if not too
thoroughly - results that should be seen in political terms,
and not merely as a catalogue.
Matters related to the Security Council’s report to the
General Assembly are just one of the elements in respect of
which important changes
in the Council’s work are
necessary. We believe that at a time when we are asked to
work hard at restructuring the economic and social spheres
and to reform the Secretariat radically, we must also make
substantive changes in the working methods of that other
principal body.
-
Of course,
is a fundamental aspect of
the increase in the membership of the
Security Council - a subject that will soon be considered in
this Hall
the essential
restructuring of the Council. However, we must not neglect
the fact that, together with the expansion of the membership,
the question of the equitable distribution of all Council seats
needs serious consideration. We firmly believe that when
the composition of, and the distribution of authority within,
the Council are more just and more equitable, that organ will
be able to discharge its responsibilities more effectively and
more completely.
At the present time, we are talking about, and trying to
take action on, revitalization of the General Assembly. How
better could the Assembly be revitalized than by being
enabled to fulfil completely its responsibilities with respect
to the Security Council, which, according to our institutional
rules, must report to it?
We urge all Members of the Organization to give
serious consideration to this question, as a first step in the
necessary and much-called-for
the Security
Council. If we fail in this regard, we shall be avoiding our
responsibilities as Members.
If the Security Council does
not succeed in changing substantially its mechanisms for
reporting to the General Assembly, in such a way as to meet
the aspirations of all Members of the Organization, the
reform of
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
13
Assembly will have to be prepared, sooner rather than later,
to make the necessary recommendations in this respect.
the triple basis of the structure and content of the report, the
transparency of the Council’s work, and respect for the
functions of the General Assembly.
I want
to say,
in conclusion,
that, as the Security
in need of
Council
profound reform, it is urgent that words yield to deeds so
that the very future of the Organization may be secured.
is the United Nations organ most
first,
should like,
Mr. LAMAMRA (Algeria) (interpretation from French):
to express our appreciation to
I
Ambassador Sardenberg,
the Security
Council, for his introductory remarks. His presentation to
the General Assembly of the report of this principal organ is
in itself a sign of a new spirit of cooperation, which we
welcome wholeheartedly.
the President of
In the period since the debate on the Security Council
report that took place last June, during the forty-seventh
session of the General Assembly, a number of innovations
have been made with a view to meeting the concerns
expressed by the Assembly. For example, the report has
been published on schedule and made available during the
first half of
the General
Assembly, in contrast to the delays observed previously.
the forty-eighth session of
Likewise, this document was, for the first time, adopted
by the Council at a public meeting, and contains a new
appendix which lists in chronological order the statements
made or issued by the President of the Security Council in
the period covered.
We have also noted the deliberate effort to achieve
greater transparency by disseminating to all Member States
the monthly programme of activities of the Council and
particularly by initiating, last August, a process of informal
consultation with the Chairmen of regional groups. Provided
that
these consultations were held on a regular and
systematic basis and that they dealt with the substance of the
Council’s activities, they would not only respond to the
legitimate concern for transparency but would also enhance
the Council’s effectiveness.
It is at least an opening and
should be encouraged and enlarged upon with a view to
enabling the Council to draw on the fund of experience and
expertise available outside it, among the States Members of
the United Nations. Such an opening, which we fervently
desire, can help the Council accomplish its missions in the
face of increasingly complex crises.
The positive changes observed over the past
few
months have already responded, at least partially, to the
wishes and aspirations of Member States. Nevertheless, the
legal and political context in which the report of the Security
Council should be considered by the General Assembly, as
suggested by a combined reading of Articles 15 and 24 of
the United Nations Charter, calls for additional measures on
First,
could
report
usefully
the Council’s
be
supplemented by an analytical section summarizing the
substantive work done by the Council and placing in context
the approaches taken and the stakes underlying them. Such
an analysis is essential if the General Assembly is to engage
in a substantive debate or even in a dialogue with the
Security Council, and thus be in a position to properly
discharge the responsibility conferred upon it by Articles 15
and 24 of the Charter.
Secondly, a balance must be found between the use of
informal consultations, the usefulness of which cannot be
questioned,
and the duty adequately to inform the
international community in whose name the Council acts and
to remain continually receptive to its reactions.
Thirdly, the Council’s prerogatives do not, as we know,
exclude the General Assembly from exercising its own
prerogatives, particularly where international peace and
security are concerned. Full weight and significance should
attach to the stipulations of Article 11 of the Charter, which
empowers the General Assembly to consider the general
principles of cooperation in the maintenance of international
peace and security, and to discuss any questions relating to
that matter and to make recommendations,
including
recommendations to the Security Council.
Thus, under the terms of the Charter, there is at least
shared competence between the General Assembly and the
Security Council regarding the maintenance of international
peace and security: reflection, study and the drawing up of
recommendations being the responsibilities of the Assembly,
while the Security Council’s mandate is rather to deal in a
concrete fashion with specific conflicts and to take
appropriate actions to resolve them.
The founders of our Organization were fully aware of
the importance of creating a balance between its main
bodies, and particularly between the General Assembly and
the Security Council. Respect for this equilibrium, set forth
in the Charter, is of paramount importance, not only for the
General Assembly as the universal and democratic forum
comprising all Member States, but also for the Security
Council itself. The harmony and effectiveness of the United
Nations system are essentially based on a balanced and
complementary relationship between the General Assembly
and the Security Council with respect for their individual
attributes, as foreseen in the Charter.
In the light of all these considerations, it is clear that
the
the spirit and the letter of
the Charter,
under
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
consideration of the Security Council’s report by the General
Assembly cannot be a mere procedural formality, consisting
of taking note of this report without considering it or making
any recommendations on it.
trend seems
conducive to a review of this practice, which the conditions
prevailing during the cold war largely contributed to bringing
about.
The current
The end of the cold war, the reappraisal of the practices
and work methods as well as the very structures of our
Organization,
the question of
enlarging the membership of the Security Council, all
militate in favour of a collective effort for a concerted
improvement in the functioning of the Security Council.
including in particular
This would, quite clearly, be a major contribution to the
democratization of the functioning of our Organization and
the rationalization of its work methods and, ultimately, a
strengthening of its effectiveness and its role.
At
Mr. ZAPATA (Philippines):
the Permanent Representative of Brazil,
the outset, my
delegation wishes to thank the President of the Security
Council,
for
introducing the Council’s report. We note the efforts of the
Council to improve the provision of information on the
Council’s activities and decisions to all Member States, and
we encourage the Council to continue making these efforts.
In its
resolution 47/233 the General Assembly
encourages Member States to participate actively in a
substantive and in-depth discussion and consideration of the
reports of the principal organs of the United Nations,
particularly the report of the Security Council to the General
Assembly.
In this regard, it is indeed encouraging that we have
received the latest report of the Council in time for our
debate and that the period it covers is fairly up to date.
Nevertheless, my delegation feels constrained to abide fully
by the intent of resolution 47/233 on this matter, because it
feels that the current format and content of the report do not
provide an adequate basis for us to engage in a truly
meaningful debate on the activities and work of the Council
for the period under consideration. Nor is it possible, in our
view, for such debate to be particularly current if we are to
use the present report as a basis.
I wish, therefore, to confine my brief remarks to the
report’s content and presentation rather than to the substance
of the particular issues contained in it - important as they are
- with a view to suggesting certain changes in these areas.
The Philippines believes
the possibility for
substantive consideration of the report would be considerably
increased if additional changes were made in its format,
that
content and timing, though we also note the latest efforts of
the Council to improve its report to the General Assembly.
the
We thus share the view of other delegations that
Council’s report should be improved.
foremost
is to enhance the General
consideration in this respect
Assembly’s ability to consider and respond substantively to
the Council’s actions and thus effectively fulfil its role as
enshrined in the Charter, especially with respect to Articles
10, 13 and 14, which in turn, we believe, is the main intent
behind Article 15. We further believe that these changes
could be accomplished without expanding the length of the
report. In fact, ways could be explored to shorten the report.
Our
The Council’s report is a reflection of its accountability
to the General Assembly, which arises from the fact that the
Council is mandated by the Member States to act on their
behalf in the maintenance of international peace and security.
The Council’s report should thus provide the means for
Member States to assess its actions and, where necessary,
respond or make appropriate recommendations on these
actions to the Council in a timely and relevant fashion. Any
weakening of this accountability, such as through outdated
or insufficient information in the report, could eventually
undermine the Council’s effectiveness, efficiency and moral
authority.
frequent
the Council’s active and more prominent
The need for a more frequent and analytical report of
the Council has also become more necessary today in view
of
role in
addressing international peace and security issues, as well as
its more
relatively
non-transparent informal consultations as an essential part of
its decision-making process. The report should thus also
serve as a means for Member States that are not members of
the Council to gain a better understanding and appreciation
of the reasons and factors behind a particular course of
action adopted by the Council.
closed
resort
to
and
My delegation believes specific proposals to improve
the reports of the Council to the General Assembly could be
thoroughly discussed by the informal open-ended working
group established by General Assembly resolution 47/233.
We further believe that the working group, after considering
all proposals on this matter, should make appropriate
recommendations for the consideration of the Assembly.
However, our general debate today could be a useful input
for the informal group’s deliberations. Bearing this in mind,
I wish to suggest certain general improvements in the report
which could enhance the Assembly’s ability to deliberate
upon it more effectively. This, in turn, would reinforce
efforts to revitalize the Assembly and improve coordination
between the Council and the Assembly on matters affecting
international peace and security.
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
15
First and foremost, the Philippines believes that the
report should be analytical in nature and not limited to a
record of decisions and resolutions adopted by the Council.
It should include a concise analysis of decisions taken and
a summary of the Council’s discussions and debates on each
substantive
covered during the period under
consideration. This should include discussions in both the
Council’s
closed informal
consultations of the whole. A brief write-up on the status of
each substantive issue discussed in the main report would
also be very useful.
and the
sessions
formal
issue
These changes alone, in our view, would create a solid
basis for a substantive exchange of views by the General
Assembly on the activities and decisions taken by the
Council during the period in question. There are, however,
other possible improvements which could be considered.
Bearing in mind unforeseen events and emergencies, the
report could also outline a preliminary forecast of the annual
programme of work of the Council, particularly on issues in
the preceding report identified as requiring the Council’s
continued debate or further action. The possible type of
action should also be indicated, if possible. The forecast
could be updated monthly.
A section on the activities and decisions of subsidiary
bodies of the Council, such as the sanctions committees,
during the period in question could also be reflected in the
report. We also believe that a section on administrative and
financial issues facing the Council would be of interest to
many delegations.
Finally,
the report should be made available and
circulated in a timely fashion, preferably during the
beginning or within the first quarter of each year, so that it
can initially be considered by the General Assembly around
that time through an appropriate mechanism. The ideal
period of coverage of the report should be a calendar year,
from 1 January to 31 December. Updating the report could
be accomplished by regular issuance of special reports
throughout
the year. This would address the issues of
outdated and incomplete information made available to the
Assembly in the annual report or in preceding special
reports.
My delegation is open to other and perhaps more
detailed suggestions to improve the Council’s report. We
look forward to a fruitful exchange of views on this subject
during our debate which, I reiterate, could provide a useful
framework for
subject,
particularly by the informal open-ended working group on
the revitalization of the General Assembly.
further consideration of
this
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly. My
delegation has reviewed the report contained in document
A/48/2, covering the period from 16 June 1992 to 15 June
1993, and it is with a sense of satisfaction that we note that,
for the first time, it was considered and adopted in a public
meeting of the Security Council. We also welcome the
timely submission of the current report
to the General
Assembly.
Indeed, these are steps in the right direction,
considering the views that were expressed following the
release of the previous report of the Security Council.
It is obvious that in the wake of the cold war the
Security Council has expanded its activities. A quantitative
comparison of the work-load of the Council from June 1992
to June 1993 with the period of its previous report, June
1991 to June 1992, clearly demonstrates that the number of
meetings, resolutions and presidential statements of the
earlier period has now almost doubled. Obviously, the
Security Council, as a principal organ of the United Nations
entrusted with the primary responsibility for the maintenance
of international peace and security, needs to make every
effort to adapt itself to the new international circumstances.
Bearing in mind the general principle of
the
accountability of the principal organs of the United Nations
to the entire membership, as embodied in the General
Assembly, we believe that the more the Security Council
expands its activities the more accountable it needs to be to
the general membership, as stipulated in Article 24 of the
Charter.
the international
community’s expectations of it.
In this way it can meet
in
the
community
international
The greater role and expanded agenda of the Security
Council, as perceived in the new international era, should be
commensurate with the degree of trust and confidence shown
by
the Council’s
performance. Indeed, the prospect of such a greater role and
expanded agenda would be frightening if an equally
energetic process of Security Council responsiveness and
accountability to the general membership, as well as
transparency in its work, did not take root in the Council,
particularly among the permanent members. The Islamic
Republic of Iran is concerned with undemocratic practices,
hidden agendas, lack of transparency and the indifference of
the Security Council
to the views of the international
community as they are crystallized in the General Assembly.
Needless to say, any lack of transparency in the work
of the Council runs contrary to the spirit of openness and
democracy within the United Nations system. In this regard
the Islamic Republic of Iran concurs with the Secretary-
General’s view that
Mr. KHOSHROO (Islamic Republic of Iran): Today,
the General Assembly is meeting to consider the annual
"Informal consultations should be punctuated by more
formal meetings in order both to inform, and to seek
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
support from,
(A/48/1, para. 38)
the wider circle of Member States".
In fact, as an overwhelming majority of Member States have
observed in the course of the general debate in this body,
democratization of the Security Council and insurance of
transparency in its activities are of paramount importance in
enhancing the credibility of the United Nations system.
In
this context I cannot but stress that an annual report of the
Security Council characterized by a comprehensive and
integrated analysis of the issues on its agenda and of the
approaches used by the Security Council to address matters
of substance could only contribute to enhancing the
transparency of the Council’s work.
It is unfortunate that
the present annual report, like earlier ones, is characterized
merely by symbols, resolutions and chronologies of issues
and fails to address any matters of substance.
If
the credibility of
the United Nations system,
particularly in the crucial areas of peace and security is to be
enhanced, it is also imperative to reconsider the Council’s
behaviour and approach in dealing with cases of aggression
and threats to international peace and security.
In this
connection, like many other Member States, we have on
numerous occasions expressed our deep concern at
the
selective approaches and double standards pursued by the
Council. The most distinctive example in this regard is the
attitude of the Security Council with respect to the tragedy
in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is clear that,
in spite of the magnitude of Serbian crimes and acts of
aggression against a Member State, the Security Council has
failed to act resolutely to redress this tragic situation.
Indeed, had the Council abandoned its double standard and
acted decisively when the Serbs started their aggression, we
would not be facing a continuation of the abhorrent policy
and legitimization of "ethnic cleansing".
In conclusion, it is our hope that the flaws in the work
of the Security Council, some of which I have highlighted,
will be removed so as to strengthen cooperation between the
principal organs of the United Nations and to enable the
General Assembly, as the supreme organ of the United
Nations, thoroughly to assess the reports of the Council and
make recommendations to it.
Mr. TELLO (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
In accordance with the United Nations Charter, the General
Assembly is meeting today to consider the annual report of
the Security Council. My delegation is pleased that the
report has been submitted in a timely fashion, and we wish
to state for the record our appreciation to Ambassador
Sardenberg, Permanent Representative of Brazil
and
President of the Security Council, for his decision to present
the report personally. We understand that this is the first
time this has been done, and we therefore congratulate him
for having initiated a practice we hope to see continued in
the future. It is also encouraging that the report was adopted
at an open meeting of the Council. My delegation also notes
the improvements that have been made in some aspects of
the Council’s methods of work. Progress is thus being
achieved in making the work of that
important United
Nations body more transparent.
I must, however, note that a great deal must still be
accomplished. The Council’s annual report
the
formal expression of an obligation. The document before us
still
lacks the kind of analysis that would enable the
Assembly to understand the underpinnings of the actions the
Council has taken. The General Assembly is still not in a
position fully to carry out the functions assigned it by the
Charter.
is still
Age-old problems have been compounded by the
realities that have emerged since the end of the cold war. In
recent years we have seen the number of items on the
Security Council’s agenda grow. The Council is asked to
seek solutions to conflicts in every part of the world. In this
new situation it would seem logical and natural for the
States Members of the Organization to be increasingly
interested in the Council’s work, in its methods of work and
in the bases for its decisions.
Over 70 Member States responded to the inquiry on the
"Question of equitable representation on and increase in the
membership of the Security Council". The fact that a large
majority of States also referred to the Council’s methods of
work reflects the importance we attach to knowing and
understanding its work.
In other words, it seems clear that
that work is not and cannot be limited to an exercise in
numerical microsurgery.
We must go forward in the task of making the work of
the Council more transparent and democratic. Procedural
changes have already been suggested that would require no
structural,
rule-related reforms. One positive
innovation is the distribution of a provisional forecast of the
programme of work, which has enabled Member States to
know what items the Security Council will be dealing with
each month.
legal or
Other measures could be taken to keep all Members of
the Organization informed of the items considered in the
Council’s informal consultations.
In our view, Members
need a summary of what is considered in those consultations.
It would be very useful for the Journal to announce the
items to be considered at those meetings.
Like other Member States, Mexico referred in its
response to the inquiry concerning representation on the
Security Council to the need for the Council’s annual report
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
17
it would be appropriate for the Council
to be analytical in nature; I reiterate that now. We indicated
that
to submit
substantive quarterly reports, without prejudice to the
submission of the special reports envisioned in the Charter;
this would strengthen its links with the Assembly. Mexico
also proposed the appointment of a special Security Council
rapporteur to be entrusted with providing Member States
with timely information on the work of the Council.
We appreciate the determination and the efforts of
Council members over recent months to modernize their
working methods. We urge them to persevere and to go
further in that direction.
It is essential that the annual report of the Security
Council no longer be a matter of mere protocol.
It is no
accident that the Council’s obligation to submit reports for
consideration by the General Assembly is set out specifically
in Article 24 of the Charter. We, the Members of the
United Nations, have conferred on the Security Council the
primary - not
the
maintenance of international peace and security; this means
that
the Council has a responsibility to the General
Assembly.
responsibility for
the exclusive -
We hope that in the near future we will see substantive,
analytical reports on the activities and endeavours of the
Security Council. The maintenance of international peace
and security is first and foremost a common purpose of the
United Nations, and the General Assembly is the centre for
its attainment.
Mr. COLLINS (Ireland): Our task here today is to
receive and consider the report of the Security Council to the
General Assembly for the period 16 June 1992 to 15 June
1993. My delegation would like to acknowledge the
extensive nature of the report. It is especially important that
the report has been submitted on time this year. My
delegation has previously made the point that, while the
report is a compendium, such a compendium is in itself a
very useful contribution to keeping the general membership
informed of the activities of the Security Council.
There has been an increasing demand by the general
membership of the United Nations for transparency in
relation to the work of the Security Council. That demand
is a consequence of and is especially relevant in the light of
the increase in the work and activity of the Security Council
in the past three years. A beginning in transparency has
been made in this respect by the adoption in the present
report of proposals in relation to the format. The proposals
were adopted by the Security Council on 30 June 1993 and
are contained in document S/26015. They are somewhat
mechanical and bureaucratic in nature. They involve the
easier
information through more extensive
retrieval of
indexing and cross-referencing. Nevertheless, they represent
a commitment to, and a step in the process of, transparency.
My delegation would like to acknowledge the efforts which
have been made in this respect.
is a counterpart
In our examination of the report of the Security Council
to the General Assembly, it is important to realize that the
submission of an annual report on the work of the Security
Council
to the power invested in the
Security Council by the general membership and, for want
of a better word, an accounting by the Security Council to
fulfilled its
the general membership on how it has
responsibility on behalf of that general membership,
in
carrying out the task of maintaining international peace and
security.
The report also reflects, by its sheer volume, the vastly
increased workload which the Security Council has had to
undertake in recent years. This in turn reflects the increased
role of
the United Nations generally and the greater
expectations the international community places in the
Security Council
in relation to peace-keeping and
peacemaking.
My delegation would like to take this opportunity to
express our appreciation to the delegations of both
permanent members and the non-permanent members that
have served on the Security Council in the past year for their
commitment and dedication.
The delegations assembled in this Hall are familiar with
the statistics in relation to the dramatic increase in the
number of formal Security Council meetings, especially in
the past
two years, as compared to the relatively few
meetings in the past. For example, roughly one third of the
total number of resolutions adopted by the Security Council
since 1945 have been adopted in the past three years. In the
period covered by the report, the Security Council held 151
meetings; it adopted 80 resolutions and issued 96 presidential
statements.
Inevitably, such a workload has led to new
methods of work. As the representative of Brazil said in the
debate on the previous report to the General Assembly on
22 June 1993, the Security Council’s new methods of work
have evolved in response to force of circumstances and
therefore are not
long-term institutional
planning.
It would be unfair not to acknowledge that the
dramatically increased workload has created a new situation
for the members of the Security Council.
It would be
equally unfair not to acknowledge that it has created a new
situation for those States which are not members of the
Security Council.
the result of
In particular, there has been a vertiginous increase in
time devoted to informal consultations
the
the amount of
amongst members of the Council.
is clear that
It
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Security Council needs to have a facility for confidential
discussions and that informal consultations represent one
method of achieving this. However, the extent of informal
consultations and the lack of a mechanism for transparent
dialogue between the membership of the General Assembly
and the members of the Security Council in relation to
informal consultations have become matters of serious
concern to the membership at large.
The authority and legitimacy of Security Council
decisions do not derive from the Council itself; they derive
from the fact that the Council, in accordance with Article 24
of the Charter, acts on behalf of the general membership.
The general membership has committed itself to support and
carry out those decisions.
If the general membership is to
do so, with public support - especially in cases where such
decisions have serious political and economic consequences
for the peoples represented by the general membership or
have to be implemented or enforced - it is essential that
those we represent should feel that their voice is heard at the
there must be
decision-making table. That means that
considerably more
in
decision-making. Otherwise, public support for the Security
Council’s activities will not be forthcoming.
In practical
terms, what is needed now is a mechanism whereby the
general membership is informed about and is enabled to
have an input where necessary in the informal consultation
procedure.
transparency
openness
and
The Charter, as I have observed, requires that an annual
report on the work of the Security Council be not merely
submitted.
It requires that such a report be considered by
the General Assembly. The report before us is, above all, of
course, an extensive and, unfortunately, a depressing list of
the failure of human beings to live in peace and harmony in
various parts of the globe. It is a salutary reminder that we
are dealing literally with people’s lives and, all
too
frequently, with the deaths of innocent people and of those
who endeavour to assist them in keeping the peace.
The situations listed in the report are all worthy of
consideration and attention by the General Assembly. The
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly is a
means by which the general membership can take specific
note of these situations and make manifest the concern of
the General Assembly in relation to them. If my delegation
chooses to mention very briefly our preoccupations in
relation to only two of those situations listed in the report,
rather than to all of the serious issues raised in it, it is for
reasons of time and because of concern about immediate
events.
We have read reports today of a further horrifying
massacre in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I should like to take
this opportunity to say that my delegation hopes that those
responsible can be found and made to answer for their
crimes.
political
view that
reconciliation
The Security Council will begin the process of
examining renewal of the mandate in relation to the United
Nations operation in Somalia in the next few days.
It is
therefore appropriate that we should make our concerns on
this issue known. My delegation has repeatedly expressed
the
national
reconstruction must form the priority objectives for the
United Nations mission in Somalia. We know that the
United Nations shares this view and that, through the efforts
of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM), the
process of political reconciliation and national reconstruction
is now well established in that country.
It is our earnest
hope that the events of recent days in Mogadishu will not
result in any departure from the efforts now under way to
achieve a peaceful resolution of Somalia’s problems.
and
Finally, my delegation hopes
the
suggestions made here today in relation to the Security
Council report will be adopted when preparing the next
report by the Security Council to the General Assembly.
some of
that
Mrs. HASSAN (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic):
The delegation of Egypt wishes to extend, at the outset, its
thanks and appreciation to the Ambassador of Brazil, as
President of the Council, for his submission of the report
under consideration (A/48/2).
The delegation of Egypt attaches special importance to
the annual debate conducted by the General Assembly in
considering the report of the Security Council submitted to
it in accordance with Article 24 of the Charter of the United
Nations. We view this as an opportunity for all Member
States of the United Nations to exchange views on the work
of the Council, to note its achievements, and to get to know
its limitations. Moreover, in discussing the Council’s report,
the General Assembly performs an aspect of its role in the
area of maintaining international peace and security, since
the Security Council’s report
to the General Assembly
expresses the accountability of the Council vis-à-vis the
General Assembly and reflects the necessary and vital
balance between the two major organs of the Organization
in harmoniously discharging their responsibilities.
The increasing importance of the Security Council over
the past few years, reflected in the intensification of its work
and the frequency of its meetings, together with the diverse
nature of its responsibilities, have combined in creating a
new situation which makes it imperative that the General
Assembly should acquaint
the Security
Council’s activities and tasks.
itself with all
41st meeting - Thursday, 28 October l993
19
If
informal
and increasing transparency in its work.
consultations are considered to be a flexible and useful
mechanism, whereby the members of the Council have an
opportunity to determine areas of agreement and to
overcome differences amongst themselves, there is still a
dire need for the non-members of the Security Council to
know what goes on in terms of activities performed in the
Council on behalf of all the Members of the Organization.
If, in all honesty, we have to admit that there has been
positive movement in that direction, in so far as there has
been a degree of consultation with non-members in the
Council regarding matters that concern them, in addition to
the issuance at the beginning of every month, of a list of
matters of which the Council is seized, a practice which we
encourage, yet we have to say that this is an area which, in
our view, has not
received the attention it deserves
regardless of the numerous proposals that have been put
forward. For instance, it was proposed earlier that a resumé
of informal consultations by Security Council members on
the subjects under discussion be circulated. Also,
the
possibility of appointing a special rapporteur to provide
information on the work of the Council has been discussed.
Mexico did present a proposal in that regard last year.
In
addition, there has been discussion of the possibility of using
the Security Council’s report to the General Assembly as a
means of filling the existing gap and of overcoming present
limitations.
It
that
is worth mentioning in this respect
those
proposals include the practical means of providing Members
of the United Nations with information and would not entail
any structural or legal amendments.
The Security Council, in carrying out the responsibility
of maintaining international peace and security does so in the
name of all Member States of the United Nations. This
mandate cannot have any real meaning unless the Member
States feel that they are party to the decisions the Council
makes on their behalf.
Consequently, enhancing the
efficiency of the Council’s performance as well as the
legitimacy of its activities, requires us to consider the ways
and means whereby complementarily between the work of
the General Assembly and the Security Council may be
achieved.
While the delegation of Egypt welcomes the submission
of the Council’s report to the General Assembly for this
year, it wishes to point out that the timely submission of the
said report is a basic responsibility that ought to be respected
as it stems from the representative nature of the Council and
the mandate entrusted to its members by the Member States
of the Organization in accordance with the provisions of
Article 24 and the requirements of Article 15 of the Charter.
On the other hand, the increase in the activities of the
Security Council, and the increased frequency of its meetings
which follow upon one another, lead the members of the
international community to expect that the Council should
report to them on all developments relating to international
peace and security in a manner that focuses on reviewing
those developments both analytically and comprehensively,
so that the General Assembly may be able to analyse the
report’s contents and to take the appropriate decisions
accordingly.
Unfortunately, the report of the Security Council now
under review is a conform copy of last year’s report
(A/47/2).
Its contents are the resolutions adopted and the
statements made over the period covered by the report
whereas all such resolutions and statements are items of
public record which everyone has read before. The inclusion
of such material has not been accompanied by any
explanations or assessments or mention of the grounds upon
which it was based. The style of the report is merely
descriptive and does not allow of any analysis of the
activities of the Council.
My delegation had hoped that the members of the
Security Council would seriously consider the numerous
proposals that were put forward earlier, when we were
discussing the report last year, and that they would pay due
attention to those proposals. It was expected that the report
would include adequate analysis of the grounds upon which
the Council performed its activities, so that the General
Assembly may be able to consider scrupulously the reasons
behind the Council’s important resolutions. The report is
also devoid of any reference to the work of its subsidiary
organs, whose work is so important to a number of United
Nations Members. Moreover, the report does not include the
topics relating to peace-keeping operations. These are all
questions that, because of their importance for and impact
upon a large number of delegations, cannot be overlooked in
any report that would rightly reflect the work of the Security
Council.
Regarding the procedural aspects of the Council’s
activities, it is very important for Egypt to stress the need for
the Council to increase transparency in its work. In contrast
to certain views, we do not see any contradiction at all
between enhancing the efficiency of the Security Council
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
We believe that drawing up the report of the Security
Council to the Assembly in an analytical manner to reflect
the Council’s work,
in addition to providing more
information on the work of the Council to the Organization’s
Members, would definitely have positive effects. Moreover,
the responsibility for maintaining international peace and
security is not the Council’s alone; the General Assembly
has a similar responsibility in this area under Articles 10 and
14 of the Charter.
Furthermore, the close interrelationship between the
Security Council and the General Assembly in terms of the
procedures for peace-keeping operations requires further
reflection on what might be the best way of achieving a
constructive and constant dialogue between the Council and
the Assembly. We consider that the report of the Security
Council to the General Assembly is the most important
means of doing just that.
In conclusion, it is high time we seriously rethought this
important question. The report, in its present form, does not
fulfil the purpose for which it was intended.
If we are
calling for reform and revitalization of the United Nations in
a number of areas, in order to enhance the Organization’s
efficiency so that it may be able to deal with the many
challenges it faces, then reform and revitalization should be
applied - at the very least - to the Council’s report to the
Assembly.
The report should be revitalized both in form and
content so that it may evolve from a mere routine procedure
into a mechanism that would contribute to the achievement
of the desired goals in consonance with the Charter.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
