United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 112 (continued)
INTERNATIONAL DRUG CONTROL
HIGH-LEVEL PLENARY MEETINGS TO
EXAMINE THE STATUS OF INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION AGAINST THE ILLICIT
PRODUCTION, SALE, DEMAND, TRAFFIC AND
DISTRIBUTION OF NARCOTICS AND
PSYCHOTROPIC SUBSTANCES:
DRAFT
RESOLUTION (A/48/L.12)
The PRESIDENT: The first speaker this afternoon is
the representative of the Czech Republic, on whom I now
call.
Mr. SLABÝ (Czech Republic): We are meeting at a
unique moment in the complex history of the world, at a
time when many decades-old East-West barriers have
collapsed. At the same time, the world today is threatened
by a global challenge to the stability of the international
community as well as to the democratic institutions of
individual countries. The illegal drugs trade is delivering
narcotics
to approximately 100 million drug-addicted
persons. From 1970 to 1985, Western European countries
experienced a real narcotics boom, with all the attendant
health and social consequences. The drug problem has
grown into an epidemic of a kind never experienced by
Europe before.
38th
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 26 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
In the former communist and today’s post-communist
States of Central and Eastern Europe, developments have
been less dramatic. Still, the problem existed, and it grew
significantly during the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. But thanks
to the strong system of
the limited
possibilities for
foreign travel and the lack of freely-
disposable foreign currencies, neither demand nor supply
reached the magnitude experienced in Western democracies.
Communist regimes used to be consistent in making the
problem of drugs a taboo; in the countries of Central and
Eastern Europe there was therefore little social awareness of
the drug problem as such or of ways to cope with it.
social control,
Developments on the drug scene since 1990 in the
former Czechoslovakia and subsequently in the Czech
Republic have completely changed my country’s internal
situation in this respect. The opening up of borders, the
liberalization of society, changes in values, and the transition
of the country’s economy have all resulted in a sharp
increase in both the supply of and demand for drugs, in the
creation of a market for classic hard drugs, and indeed in the
emergence of international organized crime.
In 1991 there
were 6,590 registered addicts in the Czech Republic; yet the
so-called grey zone,
the number of addicted but not
registered persons, is estimated to have been 10 times that
figure. Lower age groups, including schoolchildren, are now
being threatened. The situation in my country has been
described as "a heroin epidemic at the gate".
This new situation has led us to identify the abuse and
illegal use of drugs as a grave domestic social problem, and
has
and
non-governmental organizations to deal with it.
governmental
challenged
appropriate
At the end of 1991 the Government created an anti-
drug agency with decentralized regional offices, and in 1992
a national drug-information service.
The Government
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86976 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.38
16 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the drug menace cannot be solved by
emphasizes that
isolated efforts, but only by the use of systematic and
combined measures in the fields of criminal prevention,
employment policy, education, health and social care,
protection of public health and other spheres. Shortly after
the division of Czechoslovakia, on 1 January 1993,
the
Government of
established an
interministerial anti-drug commission headed by the Minister
of the Interior.
the Czech Republic
However, international cooperation in the field of drugs
is essential for us as well. It constitutes an inseparable part
of the integration of the Czech Republic into European
structures and into the world community. In this respect let
me stress how highly we appreciate the level of cooperation
with the specialized bodies of the United Nations, with the
Pompidou Group of the Council of Europe, the European
Communities, the World Health Organization (WHO) and
other
international bodies, and the assistance they are
providing to the Czech Republic. One example is the
agreement recently concluded between the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) and the
Czech Republic relating to a programme of assistance in the
context of the "Balkan route". The programme aims to
strengthen operational enforcement results in reducing the
flow of illicit narcotics passing into and through the territory
of the Czech Republic.
reflects
The decision to hold four high-level plenary meetings
at the present session to urgently examine the status of
international cooperation against the illicit production, sale,
demand and distribution of narcotic and psychotropic
substances
the growing recognition by the
international community that our common objectives will be
achieved only through the pooling of our efforts. As many
speakers have already noted, the United Nations is adapting
to an environment in which it has to handle many new and
complex problems facing the international community,
including drug abuse. The contours of a more efficient
struggle against drug abuse are taking more specific forms.
More and more States have acceded to international
narcotics-control treaties.
The establishment of the UNDCP, an integrated and
specialized United Nations body to combat narcotic drugs,
was the result of the international community’s recognition
of the need for global efforts. We appreciate the UNDCP’s
crucial role in international drug-control activities. We have
noted with satisfaction encouraging signs of progress in
cooperation between the UNDCP on the one hand and other
international organizations,
international
development and financial institutions, on the other. We
also regard the Global Programme of Action as extremely
in particular
beneficial for national anti-drug programmes, since it has
provided comprehensive guidelines for combating drug abuse
and for coordinating anti-drug policies.
The Czech Parliament is in the process of formulating
an overall anti-drug policy on the basis of a proposal by the
Government. In accordance with the Global Programme of
Action and the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline of
Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control, we are preparing
an action-oriented anti-drug plan under which we envisage
the
taking
recommendations
My
Government’s basic aim is to create a social, political and
economic climate that would minimize the destructive
influence of drugs.
It would include protecting the citizen
against drugs and support his individual decision to live a
drug-free life, while fully respecting his civil rights. Not
even so-called soft drugs will be legalized in my country.
to
documents.
possible measures
implement
those
two
all
of
involved in training health personnel.
To this end the Government has already taken all
necessary measures to decrease the drug supply. The Czech
Republic has begun preventive actions at the national level
and is
The
Government has also declared its commitment to establish a
sound legal and social
legislation
continues to be amended and other legislative changes are
being prepared in order fully to implement international drug
control conventions. Steps have been taken to monitor and
stop the illegal production of psychotropic substances. Many
aspects of this national anti-drug programme are still under
the above-
discussion,
mentioned
new
governmental agency.
including the replacement of
interministerial
commission
Relevant
system.
by
a
My country has concluded bilateral agreements with
several countries on combating drug-related crime,
in
particular drug trafficking, and has participated in European
meetings of the Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement
Agencies (HONLEA). The effort to keep the country safe
from drugs requires adequate resources. We therefore highly
appreciate the invaluable international assistance that has
been made available in providing expertise and equipment
both bilaterally and multilaterally.
In conclusion, let me assure the Assembly that the
Czech Republic shares the belief that to succeed in the war
against drugs the international community has to continue its
concerted efforts to combat all aspects of the drug menace.
The Czech Republic will be a part of it.
The PRESIDENT:
I am now pleased to call on
Mr. Michael Ausserwinkler, Minister for Health of Austria.
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
3
Mr. AUSSERWINKLER (Austria): The preamble to
the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of
1961 and the preamble to the United Nations Convention on
Psychotropic Substances of 1971 both refer
to the
and psychotropic
ambivalent properties of narcotics
substances. Administered in accordance with the state of
medical art they are indispensable, but if they are abused
they can lead to enormous human suffering, loss of social
status and disastrous economic consequences.
As a
physician and a government Minister of Health I am
confronted daily with this ambivalent situation of licit and
illicit use and - like all representatives - I am well aware of
the urgent need for balanced global action in coordination
with the United Nations.
I therefore consider it extremely
important for us in this framework of high-level plenary
meetings to define our position on the world-wide drug
problem, decide on our further approach and agree on further
measures to be taken. The adoption of the draft resolution
before us reflects a broad consensus on the next steps to be
taken.
How to make use of the positive properties of some
drugs - the fact that often they help to stop intolerable pain
and, if applied lege artis, at the right time and in the right
dosage, lead to negligible addiction problems - is a subject
to which the World Health Organization (WHO) has been
for some time with a great sense of
devoting itself
responsibility.
In accordance with the recommendations of
WHO, we in Austria are planning to invest a great deal in
this area and we hope that the appeals from WHO will be
listened to throughout the world.
The other, negative side of the coin has been familiar
to all of us for many years from the numerous examples of
and experiences with drug addicts, dealers, criminals and
launderers of drug money. As the International Narcotics
Control Board points out in its 1992 annual report, the
numerous efforts made at the national and the international
level have, unfortunately, not succeeded so far in checking
the world-wide abuse of, and illegal trafficking in drugs,
with their associated violence and corruption. This is still
true despite three United Nations Conventions on drugs - the
Single Convention of 1961, the Convention on Psychotropic
Substances of 1971 and the United Nations Convention
against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances of 1988.
What I consider to be essential is that drug problems
can often be solved at their roots, that is to say, long before
they come to light, by educational, family, employment,
housing and social politics.
in
1987,
These facts are familiar to all of us and have been
incorporated into the Declaration of
the International
Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, held in
Vienna
the Comprehensive
Multidisciplinary Outline of Future Activities in Drug Abuse
Control. The call to ensure living conditions which prevent
the abuse of drugs is also part of the Global Programme of
Action of 1990 and the final declaration of the World
Ministerial Summit held in London in the same year.
and
into
The question then arises: What are we doing to put
these ideas into practice? With reference to the objectives
of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, I should like to
report briefly on the current situation in Austria.
Since 1980 Austria has had a statutory system for
collecting data on drug abusers. As those data clearly show,
the situation in the area of illegal drugs was stationary in the
1980s and moderate in comparison with other European
countries. It is only since 1991 that we have seen a marked
rise, especially in the use of heroin by young people.
The recent alarming increase in heroin consumption by
teenagers has prompted the Ministry of Health and the
Ministry of Education to issue a teaching programme on
drug prevention for all schools. The programme requires
that attention be paid to these problems in the teaching of all
school subjects and it focuses on the discussion of habits and
lifestyles which promote or reduce the individual’s well-
being. These materials do not concentrate primarily on
drugs as such but concentrate on the question of a person’s
needs and how one can cope with difficult situations without
taking drugs.
Currently, the Ministry of Education, with support from
my Ministry, is working on a curriculum for basic and
advanced training for teachers in drug prevention.
In
addition to specific technical expertise in drug problems,
teachers are to be given advice on how to exert pedagogic
influence. The Ministry of Education has also commissioned
a research project to assess the efficiency, in terms of drug
prevention, of various methods of organizing classroom
work.
The confusion created among young people who are led
to believe that illegal drugs cannot be so dangerous if public
opinion considers making them more easily accessible, is
very dangerous.
While there are different views as to what themes drug
prevention in education should stress, there is very broad
consensus that drug addicts are sick persons who are
primarily in need of treatment. Since 1980 the Austrian
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Drugs Act has given every addict the choice of undergoing
treatment instead of a criminal sentence, provided, of course,
that he has not committed a serious crime. Under this law,
a number of in-patient and out-patient centres were created
in the early 1980s, which provide assistance to more than
5,000 persons every year and in addition give advice to a
still far larger number - family members, students, teachers,
and so on. Treatment and advice are free as the centres are
funded entirely or in part by public authorities.
With the increasing menace of AIDS and in view of the
fact that not all opiate addicts are able to go through with
abstinence-oriented treatment, even with the best intentions,
Austria made arrangements, in the late 1980s, for heroin
addicts to undergo substitution treatment. So far, about
2,500 patients have been treated under this programme.
In
this context I should like to mention the manuals concerning
the detection and assay of heroin, cocaine, amphetamines
and other drugs in biological specimens recently issued by
the Laboratory of the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme (UNDCP) in Vienna, and I am pleased
to see that Austria’s support of this exercise has led to some
benefits for developed countries although it was originally
intended primarily for developing countries.
I should like to take this opportunity to stress that we
are very pleased to be the host country for UNDCP, with its
various technical branches and units, with which many
countries have developed a wide range of fruitful and
practical cooperation. Bearing in mind the importance that
Austria attaches to the activities of the Programme, we have
been increasing substantially our financial contribution to its
In this context, I should like also to express our
work.
appreciation
the UNDCP’s Director-General,
Mr. Giacomelli, and his staff for their work in implementing
the Programme.
to
funding projects for a certain time. However, with the
deterioration in the labour-market situation and the rise in
unemployment, it is becoming more and more difficult to
find work for cured drug addicts. Such people who cannot
find work receive monthly social-assistance payments, which
help to meet their basic needs and include health insurance.
The drug problem is a multidisciplinary question.
It
relates not only to public security, the fight against crime
and crime prevention, but also to issues of health, social,
youth and family policy. The Austrian Federal Government
is therefore promoting a coordinated approach to the causes
of and the background to drug abuse and drug addiction.
Social policies, such as those relating to the fight
against youth unemployment; family policies, particularly
financial support for families with children; and education
policies, such as the policy of free access to pre-university
secondary schools and to higher education - these are
regarded as being just as essential to drug prevention as are
measures aimed at direct control of drugs and psychotropic
substances.
Today, there is broad agreement that the drug problem
is not one just of supply, in the same way as it is not one
just of demand. The drug problem reflects also the unsolved
social conflicts and contradictions that exist in Austria, as
everywhere else in the world.
Although I, as a doctor, naturally consider
the
preventive approach and the treatment and reintegration of
drug patients as a priority concern in drug policy, I am
convinced that we cannot do without repressive action in
some areas. But I also know how difficult it is to fight
organized drug crime and to take on powerful gangs, bearing
in mind all the resources at their disposal.
Returning to the substitution programme, I should like
to stress that we have had favourable experience with regard
to HIV prevention - there are hardly any new cases of
infection in this group - and the improved general medical
and social status of the patients involved. One problem
remains unsolved, however.
I refer to the fact that many
HIV-infected
social
reintegration, and, given their AIDS problems, they tend to
fail to develop their own future perspectives.
persons
have
little
chance
of
Rehabilitation must include occupational reintegration.
For many institutions that assist drug addicts, it has become
standard procedure to take appropriate action in this respect -
by organizing training or retraining and by helping patients
to find jobs.
The employment service supports these
activities by providing financial aid to individuals and by
Of course, I also realize that a balanced drug policy can
be successful only if is supported on a global scale. Austria
is not shirking its duty. We intend, in the very near future,
to issue appropriate regulations on Annexes III and IV,
which, so far, have not been implemented as required by the
1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances and, thereby,
to pave the way for our formal accession to this Convention.
Another essential
the full
the United Nations
implementation of Article 12 of
Convention of 1988.
is envisaged is
step that
But
international acts of solidarity are also needed
urgently in respect of those activities that I have already said
attack the deep roots of the drug problem.
I refer to
measures in the sphere of education, family, employment,
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
5
housing and social policy. Hence, all organizations of the
United Nations family have a role to play in this field, to
promote the well-being of the inhabitants of planet Earth.
That is why these organizations need our special support.
The PRESIDENT: I now call Mr. Mauri Pekkarinen,
Minister for Internal Affairs of Finland.
Mr. PEKKARINEN (Finland): The illicit production,
trafficking and distribution of narcotic drugs constitute an
increasingly difficult problem throughout the world. The
well-being and safety of large population groups, as well as
the implementation of their economic, social and other
human rights, are threatened by the drug problem worldwide.
The drug issue has such global dimensions that there is
a clear need to intensify international co-operation. This
ought to be done by involving all relevant authorities and
international organizations representing the education, social-
welfare, public-health, environment and law-enforcement
sectors. The United Nations plays an important role in this
work.
The United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP) has made commendable efforts to
coordinate the international struggle against drugs.
been made,
have
to strengthen measures
through
international
the
trafficking and distribution of narcotic
It is important that all States ratify all the United
Efforts
agreements,
production, sale,
drugs.
Nations drug Conventions without delay.
to prevent
There is wide agreement in the international community
that the drug problem cannot be prevented merely by efforts
to restrict the supply of drugs. Accordingly, in recent years,
the question of demand reduction has been given increasing
attention. We welcome the activities of the UNDCP in this
matter. We would give favourable consideration to the
inclusion in international narcotics policies and legally
binding agreements of any measure aimed at reducing drug
demand.
Combating drugs requires a comprehensive prevention
strategy, at both the international and the national levels.
The Global Programme of Action and the United Nations
System-Wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control provide
a comprehensive framework for drug-control activities.
These programmes ought to be implemented in a systematic
way.
Information and education concerning the dangers of
drugs - whether to health or to social aspects of life -
together with appropriate control systems, are essential
elements of the fight against drugs. Preventive action can be
successful only if it is a part of an integrated programme
that takes account of all aspects of the problem and its
underlying causes.
The fight against drugs will be effective only if we are
able to resolve the structural, social and economic factors
that result in the continued supply of and demand for drugs.
Drug problems are linked to various criminal activities. The
growth of drug-related violent crime is alarming. The
organized drug brokers are running a large-scale business.
Profits obtained through illegal deals are laundered by being
invested in legal business activities.
In order to keep organized drug-related crime in check,
strict control and legislative measures are necessary.
In
addition, means are needed to tackle the structures of the
narcotics trade in order to deprive this criminal business of
its very foundation.
The problems related to drugs are global, cross-sectoral
and ever-changing. As far as Europe is concerned, new
problems seem to be arising with the changing scene. We
must support the newly independent Central and Eastern
European countries in their fight against drugs. We must
prevent, in time, the narcotics problem from expanding.
Simultaneously, we have to build a system to prevent the
new flow of drugs from east to west and from west to east.
To accomplish this we need cooperation across boundaries
at the regional and international levels. This is, of course,
true with regard to other regions as well.
It is important that issues related to narcotic drugs be
discussed at the highest international level with the aim of
promoting peaceful, non-discriminatory and sustainable
development. In view of the global nature of the drug
problem and the many issues relating to it, cooperation and
good coordination are extremely important. In this respect,
I would welcome an examination by the Economic and
Social Council next year of the status of international
cooperation within the United Nations system.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish):
I
now call on His Excellency Mr. Jorge Carpizo, Attorney
General of the Republic of Mexico.
Mr. CARPIZO (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
We come to this forum of the international community in the
hope that our deliberations concerning the drug phenomenon
will contribute effectively to bringing peace to mankind,
thanks to nations’ renewed expression of their will
to
cooperate in the responsible and shared task of eradicating
the drug trafficking and drug addiction that threaten their
safety and international coexistence. The danger of drug
trafficking can be summed up by saying that
is
systematically destroying things of great value that have
taken mankind centuries to build, such as health, freedom
and justice.
it
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Imbued with that spirit of cooperation, we have come
to ratify on behalf of Mexico the decision to redouble the
efforts, in the framework of international solidarity fostered
by the United Nations, to fight vigorously against the crimes
that derive from the various modalities of drug trafficking,
to encourage actions by societies and Governments designed
to reduce consumption and rates of addiction, to support
preventive-education, care and treatment programmes and to
stimulate scientific research and reflection in this field.
Nowadays, the most effective lesson that nations are
being taught is that drugs spread when there is indecision,
disorganization and lack of coordination and cooperation
between Governments.
In order to stand up against such
negative conditions it is imperative constantly to update our
knowledge of this changing phenomenon and anticipate its
trends. It is urgent, in the short term, to stop its spread and,
in the long term, to eradicate it through reason and law.
Mexico participates actively in international efforts
being made in this respect, and within our borders we are
strengthening more and more our organizational structures
and programmes aimed at drug control, with strict
observance of legality and based on humanitarian principles
of human protection and on the juridical, organic and
functional solidity of national institutions.
The Mexican State sees mankind as the reason for and
inspiration of its fundamental political decisions; that is
precisely why it bases its policy on drugs on the firm
principle of human dignity.
First,
In developing its public policies, the Mexican State
determines its actions concerning drugs on the basis of the
following principles:
there is the principle of
comprehensiveness, which consists of approaching the drug
phenomenon as a whole and dealing with its basic causes
and its infinite interconnections with other phenomena.
Secondly, there is the principle of globality, because the
problem affects all nations; therefore, in order to bring it
under control, it must be approached multilaterally on the
basis of shared responsibility, within a framework of full
respect and cooperation, so that actions taken respond to
hemispheric, regional, binational and local needs. Thirdly,
there is the principle of prevention,
through
education, to encourage critical thinking based on values
capable of fostering an attitude of rejection of drugs - an
attitude strengthened by the combined efforts of society and
the educational and health sectors of government, and its
scope of action is expanded through community mobilization
programmes for drug-addiction prevention and care and
rehabilitation for those who have suffered from addiction.
Fourthly, there is the principle of the quality of the legal,
intended,
institutional and operational instruments aimed at stopping
crime in all its stages, uncovering any violation of human
rights in the pursuit of criminals and providing treatment and
social rehabilitation for criminals. And, fifthly, there is the
principle of the active participation of society, both in the
fight against drugs and in preventive programmes, and in the
rejection of the drug culture and of coexistence with drugs,
as well as in information strategies.
In the field of juridical-penal efforts, Mexico has
achieved the following results in the last five years: More
than 2,300 tons of marijuana, more than 210 tons of cocaine
and almost 2 tons of heroin and opium gum have been
seized. At the same time, more than 60,000 hectares of
marijuana and almost 50 thousand hectares of poppies have
been eradicated. We have also succeeded in dismantling
more than a dozen top-level criminal organizations linked to
drug trafficking and arresting 16 of their ringleaders; this has
had an impact at the continental level.
Four months ago the President of Mexico created the
National Institute for the Fight against Drugs, whose mission
is to give this problem specialized attention. The Institute is
provided with the most advanced technology to face up to
this scourge.
Mexico has come before the most representative body
of the international community to stress the need to consider
again together, in a calm manner, the situation in which we
find ourselves and to redefine our actions in the drug-control
field. Only through immediate action can we achieve
medium-term or long-term solutions.
In an effort to promote international action in this area,
the purpose of the Mexican Government’s proposal that
these special meetings be held, we should like to advance
some concepts and priorities that, in our opinion, might be
regarded as a basis for
this exercise in international
reflection.
Since it
The first
is reducing demand.
is drug
consumption that generates production and causes drug
trafficking, reducing demand is the basic, albeit long-term,
solution. The most effective way to reduce production and
trafficking in drugs is gradually to reduce the number of
In designing new international strategies we
consumers.
should
prevention
programmes. Communities must be mobilized to discourage
substances, especially the most addictive
the use of
substances,
through teaching in the schools and in
community education programmes, and to provide treatment
based on timely identification of the problem and on the
rehabilitation and social reintegration of the addict.
developing
consider
integrated
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
7
the
The
concerns
second concept
efficacy of
international efforts to eradicate illicit cultivation. Although
drugs are cultivated in many countries, whatever their degree
of development, such cultivation is often concentrated in the
least developed countries, where an alternative to the
cultivation of
illicit crops might be created through
improving the living standards of those who, out of poverty,
produce and trade in drugs. Such an improvement could be
achieved through rural development programmes based on
international cooperation for development and on the
principle of shared responsibility.
This is the traditional approach.
In addition, we must
recognize that
the so-called consumer countries are
producers of drugs, illegal chemical substances and large
quantities
better
administrative control, and sanctions against producers and
suppliers should be rigorously applied.
of marijuana.
should
There
be
Thirdly, we require the harmonization of national
legislation. Because the legal framework to curb drug
trafficking and related crimes is inadequate, we must
harmonize national laws, in keeping with each country’s
domestic legislation, and make them compatible with
existing international instruments.
Similarly, it is essential to create new legal systems that
are compatible at the international level and able to control
the vast
resources that drug traffickers possess, while
recognizing that the huge profits play a central role in the
success and spread of drug trafficking. Therefore, both the
market and the large flow of funds must be eliminated as a
matter of urgency. The legal systems must be able to
combat the financial machinery, tax evasion and money
laundering; confiscate the property of drug traffickers;
eradicate the networks used for the acquisition of weapons
and explosives; prevent the transport of chemical precursors
to clandestine
the
production, transportation and distribution of drugs.
laboratories;
control
lastly,
and,
Fourthly, there is the fight against organized crime.
The globalization of life in all its commercial, cultural,
communication,
transportation, economic and financial
forms, as well as in many other aspects, has also made
possible a more effective organization of criminal activities.
We must
therefore review and update national and
international legal instruments dealing with health, penal,
penal-fiscal,
financial and banking matters; encourage
bilateral adherence to agreements on mutual legal assistance,
extradition, sentencing and money laundering; ensure the
existence of adequate structures and systems of justice; and
strengthen strategic information-exchange mechanisms so as
to deal more effectively with transnational criminal
networks.
Fifthly, new financing machinery is required to
improve international cooperation. One of the obstacles to
better methods of tackling the drug phenomenon is the lack
of financial resources, both for the implementation of plans
agreed within multilateral organizations and for national
prevention and treatment and programmes to intercept drugs
in transit and support rural programmes to discourage illegal
cultivation. This lack of financial resources contrasts with
the vast amount of capital readily available to international
drug criminals, its easy transfer from one country to another
and its almost complete freedom of use.
these
contradictions are not resolved, it is highly unlikely that
United Nations, regional and national programmes can be
effective.
If
Multilateral credit institutions should, at the behest of
the General Assembly, support existing procedures under the
auspices of the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme to revitalize priority national programmes. It is
also appropriate to make a firm but friendly appeal to the
most advanced countries to increase their commitment to
contribute to these goals through the Programme.
and
rehabilitation
The scourge of drug trafficking must be fought with
the law, preventive
determination, appropriate strategies,
programmes
programmes,
better
organization, technical training and perseverance. Above all,
we need international cooperation. One country alone
cannot overcome this great disaster. In this field, as in few
others, cooperation, coordination and international solidarity,
with full respect for the sovereignty of States, are indispensable.
The PRESIDENT: Before calling upon the next
speaker, I should like to make some announcements.
First,
I wish to express my appreciation for
the
cooperation of delegations in limiting their statements to
10 minutes, in accordance with the Assembly’s decision in
this respect. As members know, there is still a very large
number of speakers inscribed on the list for both today and
tomorrow, and only with the continued support and
cooperation of members can we ensure the smooth
discussion of this subject matter in the time allotted.
PROGRAMME OF WORK
The PRESIDENT:
I should now like to make an
in connection with an addition to our
announcement
programme of work.
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
On Monday, 15 November,
the
General Assembly will consider agenda item 32, "Complete
withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of
the Baltic States". The list of speakers for this item is now
open.
in the afternoon,
AGENDA ITEM 112 (continued)
INTERNATIONAL DRUG CONTROL
HIGH-LEVEL PLENARY MEETINGS TO
EXAMINE THE STATUS OF INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION AGAINST THE ILLICIT
PRODUCTION, SALES, DEMAND, TRAFFIC
AND DISTRIBUTION OF NARCOTICS AND
PSYCHOTROPIC SUBSTANCES:
DRAFT
RESOLUTION (A/48/L.12)
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of the
United Kingdom.
t h e
v e r y
s i n c e r e
Mr. RICHARDSON (United Kingdom): I should first
like to convey both to you, Mr. President, and to this
A s s e m b l y ,
o f
Mr. Mark Lennon-Boyd, the Minister in the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office responsible for international drugs
questions. He had fully intended to be here today and was
much looking forward to the occasion. Unfortunately,
because of a last-minute illness, he had to cancel his travels
and has instead asked me to make the speech that he would
have made had he been here.
r e g r e t s
At the special session of February 1990, the British
Foreign Secretary described the horrendous reality of the
drugs trade:
the pain, misery and squalor of the addicts, the
debasement of the community, the associated violence and
criminality. He summed it up as the slave trade writ large.
I cannot say that very much has changed.
After that meeting three years ago, the World Summit
in London endorsed a reorganization of those parts of the
United Nations system concerned with drugs and the
adoption of a Global Programme of Action.
Other
international initiatives have followed. At the instigation of
the leaders of the Group of 7, measures have been agreed
and implemented in a number of countries to combat
money-laundering and the illicit
trading of precursor
chemicals. Meetings of donor countries have done much to
develop coordination of bilateral assistance. The Council of
Europe’s Pompidou Group has taken forward cooperation
between the two halves of the continent.
I am glad to say
that the United Kingdom has been actively involved in all
these initiatives.
The Minister of Justice of Belgium has set out the great
strides taken internally by the European Community and its
member States, but perhaps I can say a few words about that
too. The Maastricht Treaty provides something brand-new:
an intergovernmental pillar to deal with interior and justice
matters, and another on the foreign and security policy side
which operates by means of voluntary cooperation between
Community member States to stand alongside the established
European Community way of doing business, in which the
European Commission proposes measures and the Council
of Ministers decides on them. The interior and justice pillar
deals with a whole range of matters, and not just drugs. But
drug trafficking is one of
the areas covered by this
intergovernmental pillar, which is of most concern to our
citizens. European Community member States, working
freely together in the framework provided by this new
arrangement, will cooperate, through the European Police
Agency - EUROPOL - and other means to combat this
scourge.
On the bilateral level, we have also sought to give
practical effect to this multilateral work: we have negotiated
asset seizure agreements, established operational cooperation
with a wide range of countries, developed programmes of
training and assistance in law enforcement, and provided
expert advice on demand reduction.
Regrettably, however, the result of all these efforts has
been disappointing. At a global level, the production of
cocaine may have levelled off, but there are signs that even
this modest achievement may not last. In the case of heroin,
we cannot even claim a levelling off, as a continuing
increase in supply feeds a corresponding growth in demand.
One particularly pernicious aspect of this inexorable rise in
demand is a mushrooming addiction in countries where
drugs are produced and through which they pass.
This somewhat bleak picture is moreover replicated in
our own experience at the regional and national levels. For
example, there is evidence of a significant increase in the
import of cocaine into Europe, as demand elsewhere has
been met. In my own country, there is a particular concern
about the spread, particularly in urban areas, of the cocaine
derivative known as crack.
There are wider political developments which have
perversely added to the world’s drug problems. The end of
the cold war and the consequent
the
societies and economies of Eastern Europe and the former
Soviet Union are of course thoroughly welcome. But as old
structures of law enforcement have come down before new
ones have been fully established, a vacuum has been created
in which drug trafficking, and indeed production, has flour-
liberalization of
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
9
ished. The result has been a further diversification of an
already highly diversified trade. A similar vacuum exists
and is growing in parts of South-West Asia.
dimension. This is as much in the interests of economic and
social progress as for any narrower reason.
lack the domestic legislation needed to fulfil
But the political sea change of the 1990s is not the
whole story. Elsewhere too the commitment called for from
the international community in 1990 has not emerged. Little
progress has been made against the uncontrolled production
of heroin that we have seen for many years in parts of
South-East Asia. Nearly five years after its adoption, barely
a half of the Member States are parties to the 1988 United
Nations Convention on narcotic drugs, and some of those
still
its
substantial obligations. Nor has nearly enough use been
made of the potential of the United Nations system to tackle
the drugs threat. We must all pay more than lip service to
the System-Wide Action Plan. The position is the same with
the Global Programme of Action. It will have meaning only
if all countries play their part.
It was particularly
discouraging, therefore, that only 28 countries responded to
the United Nations International Drug Control Programme’s
(UNDCP) questionnaire on implementation.
a
consequence,
the
Secretary-General’s report (A/48/329), reflects the views and
experiences of less than one-sixth of the membership.
As
the key document before this session,
This all adds up to a situation that is no less stark than
it was three years ago. I have heard it said in recent weeks
that we need to revamp the United Nations drug-control
machinery again and create new mechanisms.
I do not
agree. We have the machinery; we need now to make it
work better.
In particular, we need a more solid
international front in support of the 1988 United Nations
Convention. This is an instrument with teeth, and we need
to make it bite. The other half of the membership must sign
up.
We also need a fuller realization of the role we have
assigned to UNDCP as the focal point of international action
against drugs. Although a new programme, it has shown
what it can do. It deserves the fullest cooperation wherever
it is engaged in front-line efforts against drugs. We should
invest
in development of UNDCP rather than in new
initiatives. We should make sure that it has the autonomy
it needs.
It deserves full support more generally from
institutions within and outside the United Nations system.
Within that system, and from the international financial
bodies, we need a more substantial engagement of other
agencies that can help. Much development activity takes
place against a background of drugs production or drugs
trafficking. Greater account needs to be taken of that
Elsewhere, we need to make a conscious effort to make
full use of the potential of the other mechanisms. In doing
so we should bear in mind the consensus reached earlier that
the international effort must be properly balanced: balanced
between producer,
transit and consumer countries, and
balanced between supply reduction, law enforcement and
demand reduction. Neglect of any one of these components
will
the overall
effectiveness of the strategy to which we have committed
ourselves and which these meetings will, we hope, re--
endorse.
to a disproportionate
extent
erode
But, although international mechanisms can help, the
primary responsibility for action remains with national
Governments and parliaments.
It is only they who can
initiate action to break up drug-trafficking networks,
eliminate drug production and reduce drug addiction. To do
this requires courage and commitment at the highest political
level, reflected down through the layers of government and
administration. In practical terms, this means strengthening
the law of the land to cover, for example, asset seizure,
criminalization of money-laundering, and precursor-chemical
control, and then enforcing the law in some cases in the face
of
infiltration by criminal networks into the heart of
democratic institutions. If we do not have the determination
to take on the powerful interests behind the drugs trade, they
will entrench their positions in our societies, to the cost of
us all.
of
give
us
the
circumstances
The priority of this issue cannot be in doubt. The way
we tackle it has implications for future generations. The
political
an
unprecedented opportunity to make cooperation between
nations and across regions work and to create the wider
united front to which I have referred. But the precondition
for international success is will and effort at the national
level. We owe it to each other to do what is necessary both
in the global arena and at home.
1990s
The PRESIDENT: I now call on Mr. Edward Lintner,
National Commissioner
and
Parliamentary State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of the
Interior of Germany.
for Narcotic Drugs
Mr. LINTNER (Germany) (spoke in German; English
text furnished by the delegation):
In my capacity as the
German Government’s Commissioner for Drug Control, I am
gratified that the United Nations, by means of these four
plenary meetings of the General Assembly attended by
high-ranking participants, again professes its determination
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to proscribe drug abuse before the world’s public. This is
the objective we have to pursue jointly.
The Belgian Minister for Justice and Economic Affairs,
Mr. Melchior Wathelet, this morning presented major aspects
of the international fight against drugs, as the joint position
of the European Community and its member States. Please
allow me to deal with some additional issues from the
viewpoint of my country.
The scope of drug-related crime has markedly increased
in Germany over the past few years.
In 1992 alone the
German enforcement authorities seized 5.9 tons of hard
drugs and more than 12 tons of cannabis products. In spite
of this significant success, it is most deplorable that, as in
the previous year, we had to register in 1992 more than
2,000 deaths from drug abuse. This year, there has been a
20 per cent decrease in drug-related deaths so far. However,
one cannot speak of a downward trend, for there are too
many factors that might influence this development. It is true
that the number of first-time users of hard drugs is declining
as well - above all with regard to heroin. But there is an
alarming increase in first-time cocaine and amphetamine
users, a development we observe with great concern.
Over the past 12 months, Germany has taken major
steps designed to optimize the fight against this scourge of
humanity.
In addition to other legislative measures taken,
money laundering was declared a punishable offence in
September 1992. A Money Laundering Act was adopted last
month, providing the prosecuting authorities with an
essential
for successfully countering money
laundering. The Act on the Control of Precursor Substances
in the field of chemicals is about
to be submitted to
Parliament.
instrument
However, the emphasis of our anti-drug policy is not
only on repression. We consider it our most fundamental
task to convince people, especially the young, that it is better
to lead a life without drugs and drug addiction in free
self-determination. To this end, we have to start at an early
age and appeal to those who are potentially at risk. One of
our new concepts, which aims at reducing the death rate, is
reaching out to drug addicts with no strings attached. A
pilot programme, started in 1990, seeks to address drug
addicts by means other than formal counselling and therapy,
without asking them to meet any prerequisites or make
advance concessions. The programme is designed to provide
assistance in everyday life and end the calamitous cycle of
addiction and impoverishment.
For the time being, more than 4,000 specialized places
are available in long-term therapy centres. The development
of
existing
facilities
extension
in-patient
for
and
detoxification and therapy, as well as the creation of new
ones, will be carried on in the future. Finally, we are
continuing with other proven programmes for counselling,
treatment and follow-up care,
such as assistance in
rehabilitation and social and vocational integration.
schools often entail
In the field of demand reduction, campaigns in the mass
media as well as prevention activities in areas with drug
problems have been successful.
In particular, our drug
prevention programmes at
local
follow-up activities. However,
is indispensable for
sustained success in reducing the demand for drugs that drug
prevention is seen as a challenge to the entire society. This
is why I am at present seeking to establish an association
funded and run by industrial sponsors and committed social
groups which will implement various and, above all, long-
-term action for anti-drug education programmes.
it
As regards measures to reduce the cultivation of
narcotic drug plants - another essential element of our
anti-drug policy - we primarily rely on the multifaceted
instrument of development aid, which is designed to provide
alternatives for earning a living other than by cultivating
plants for the production of drugs. We are all well aware
that a multitude of difficulties have to be overcome before
an acceptable and income-producing market will have been
created for appropriate licit produce.
The formerly popular concept of crop substitution is no
longer viable; it can no longer be our objective simply to
substitute licit plants for illicit crops.
Instead, the aim
should also be to improve the social environment by means
of development policy approaches, in order to reduce the
acceptance of the cultivation of illicit crops.
As holds true in the field of drug problems in general,
the fight against
the abuse of narcotic drugs is an
international task which can only be coped with through the
joint responsibility of all States.
The United Nations
Conventions on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances,
the Global Programme of Action and the United Nations
System-Wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control constitute
a sound and comprehensive basis for drug control activities.
What is needed now is a consistent implementation of these
measures.
In this context let me underline the central importance
of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP). Under the management of Executive Director
Giacomelli, UNDCP has made encouraging progress in the
various fields of international drug control. I wish to point
out two focal areas to which Germany, now as before,
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
11
attaches special importance: UNDCP’s national master plan
concept, which has been revitalized and further developed,
and technical assistance for States in the field of legislation,
In this field particularly, the
which has been intensified.
States of Central
the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) have special
needs. These countries have to establish effective anti-drug
legislation and enforcement authorities. This is of very
special concern to us, and we would appreciate it if more
States would join in and actively engage in providing
assistance to this region.
and Eastern Europe
and of
We can also thank UNDCP for essential progress in
sharpening the awareness that demand reduction cannot be
the responsibility of the respective Governments alone but
must be seen as a task to be tackled by the whole society.
This means that non-governmental organizations must be
increasingly involved at the national and international levels,
and the same applies to other United Nations agencies in this
field,
the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF), the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the
World Bank and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development
The German Government will
continue to support UNDCP’s important coordination function.
such as
(IFAD).
The German Government will complete the ratification
of the 1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic
in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances within the
next few days by depositing the instrument of ratification
with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Against
this background, I should like to underline that I consider it
extremely important that all countries, irrespective of how
they are affected by the drug problem, should also ratify this
Convention.
However, appeals alone are no longer sufficient. The
fight against drugs must not be fought
in an overly
administrative and bureaucratic manner. It is not enough to
set up just another subcommittee, to keep on preparing
analyses the results of which have long been known, to
identify ever new ifs and buts - because the outcome of all
that will be that drug control will continue to be dealt with
inadequately.
The determination to combat drugs in the producer and
transit countries as well as in the consumer countries must
be maintained and developed. We do not want simply to
stick to our repressive tools for combating illicit drugs; we
are also determined to apply them in practice. Germany will
therefore continue to treat dealing in illicit soft and hard
drugs as a punishable criminal offence. Furthermore, our
capacity to interrupt effectively the influx and trafficking
routes of narcotic drugs must not be kept at the present
level, but must be enhanced.
I believe that we do have a chance of reducing the drug
problem. However, this will require that we attack the
problem with even greater determination. To this end we
must cooperate and mobilize all national and international
efforts. Everybody is invited to join in.
T h e
P R E S I D E N T :
o n
Mr. Vitor Feytor Pinto, High Commissioner for "Project
Life" - National Plan for Drug Control.
n o w c a l l
I
Mr. FEYTOR PINTO (Portugal) (interpretation from
French): It is a great honour for me to represent my country
as High Commissioner for "Project Life" - National Plan for
Drug Control - and to address the Assembly to report on the
role played by Portugal in all United Nations efforts to
combat illicit trafficking in and abusive consumption of
drugs.
In a society dominated by success, money and power,
it is urgent to instill the values of solidarity, sharing and
service, not only to combat the exploitation of the human
being caused by drug trafficking but also to free all those
who have fallen victim to it and who wish, often in vain, to
be able to live a life worthy of the human person.
Indeed, with regard to the drug problem,
the
ineffectiveness of the system of control and surveillance that
has been established is giving rise to great concern on the
part of the international community - hence this opportunity
to evaluate results and to introduce possible adjustments into
intervention strategies, so as not to dash the hopes raised at
the time of its adoption by consensus in 1990.
In this regard, I am very pleased to convey Portugal’s
gratitude for the growing effort in this field on the part of
the United Nations and the General Assembly, and to
express the wholehearted support of my country for this
undertaking.
This leading role - a necessity, given the complexity of
the phenomenon and its truly world-wide dimensions, and a
major factor in providing the cooperation required at the
world and regional
thus guarantee the
effectiveness of measures to be adopted and encourage
action by all
leaders who share
responsibility in the vital struggle to overcome the drug
problem.
local and national
- will
levels
With greater determination and courage the Assembly
is today tackling the delicate but decisive task of evaluating
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the results of earlier initiatives, particularly the adoption of
the Global Programme of Action and other elements in the
Political Declaration approved at the seventeenth special
session in 1990.
We wish here to congratulate the Secretary-General on
his important report on the implementation of the Global
Programme of Action by various Member States and to
express our support for the recommendations contained
therein.
We recognize that the drug situation throughout the
world has continued to deteriorate; and we believe that it is
our duty to express our admiration for and solidarity with
those States that have with such determination taken bold
measures in the areas of prevention and the treatment of
addicts and with regard to illicit trafficking, as well as within
the system of control and curbing supply.
Regionally and domestically, Portugal has striven to
apply the measures in the Global Programme of Action, and
we
extent of
implementation.
are now attempting to evaluate
the
Within the framework of the European Community, of
is a member, Portugal has contributed to the
which it
elaboration of concerted strategy in the European Programme
for Drug Control, which, by giving pride of place to
reducing demand, is advocating the strengthening of police
and customs structures, providing for cooperation and
support instruments at the international level, particularly
with the producer countries, and taking legislative measures
to prevent the laundering of proceeds from illicit trafficking.
Inasmuch as the statement of the Belgian Minister of
Justice made on behalf of the European Community has
reported on the Community’s achievements and strategies, I
shall confine myself to endorsing wholeheartedly the views
expressed therein.
Still at the regional level, within the broader framework
of
the Council of Europe, Portugal
in the
achievements of the Council’s Pompidou Group, whose work
is an important contribution to realizing measures adopted by
the various countries in Europe.
shares
In strictly domestic terms, in 1990 Portugal updated its
National Drug Programme in keeping with the Global
Programme of Action, and this updating dealt with
legislation and control structures, including direct action.
In the legislative realm, after the ratification of the 1988
Convention, we adopted national legislation making it a
trafficking,
crime to launder
instituting precursor control and providing machinery for
judicial cooperation.
the proceeds from illicit
With regard to the structures, modifications are
reflected in the creation of an Inter-Ministerial Coordination
Commission presided over by the Prime Minister and
designed to make control much more effective.
As to direct action, we have strengthened the action
models of
the public services entrusted with reducing
demand - health and education - and with the control of
supply - police and customs - and we have enhanced the
participation of community non-governmental organizations,
whose work in the prevention of drug use and the treatment
of addicts is now receiving increased State aid.
In such a strategy, preventing drug use among young
people, which is a priority area of action, has been addressed
through systematic activity focused on schools within the
educational system, with the participation of students,
teachers, parents and the surrounding community.
The results have been particularly encouraging in that
first-time drug use among young people within the school
system has seen no increase and remains at what can be
considered to be low levels - below 10 per cent for first-time
use.
In the area of
treatment, all efforts have been
concentrated on expanding the network of assistance centres
to respond to current demand. The low rate of success of
available therapeutic models, the growing number of addicts
seeking help and the increase of HIV carriers are causes for
concern and require that greater investment in this area,
immediately and in the short term, be made within the
framework of the National Health System.
As to the question of the control and suppression of
illicit
trafficking, pressure is constantly rising owing to
increased use of sea routes by traffickers - it must not be
forgotten that Portugal is a port of entry into the European
Community - and efforts have focused on strengthening the
police and customs systems and increasing regional and
international cooperation. So long as the current imbalanced
conditions remain, ever-increasing means and the allocation
of new though necessarily limited resources will be the only
options available to us.
If
the international community is to succeed in
controlling the production, distribution and use of drugs by
the end of this decade, it will be essential for Member States
and the United Nations to redouble their efforts effectively
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
13
it will pursue its efforts to implement
to implement the Global Programme of Action. As for
Portugal,
the
Programme’s measures and will intensify them in the areas
where intervention has proven less effective - particularly in
the area of the rehabilitation and social reintegration of
addicts in general and prisoners in particular, and in the
realm of the prevention and suppression of illicit trafficking.
It will continue its participation at the regional level in the
European Community and within the Council of Europe - in
the Pompidou Group - stepping up international cooperation
so as best to achieve the desired goals.
For us, it is essential that the United Nations pursue its
role as a mobilizer of public opinion in general and among
Member States in particular by encouraging and supporting
practical
implementation of the Programme’s measures. It
is also vital that the Programme of Action be more actively
pursued within the United Nations system and that it benefit
from a more clear-cut contribution from the relevant
organizations, particularly the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization,
the World Health
Organization and the International Labour Organization in
implementing the measures contained therein. Lastly, the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme must
continue to guide the work of the United Nations in this area
at the operational level with the dynamism it has always
shown, and it must receive the resources necessary to carry
out its work.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Lee P. Brown,
Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy of
the United States of America.
Mr. BROWN (United States of America):
It is my
pleasure, on behalf of the United States, to address this
Assembly on the subject of narcotics.
We have arrived here today from many corners of the
globe. We come from many different nations and cultures.
And yet we face a common threat:
the international drug
trade and the international criminal organizations involved in
drug production and trafficking around the world.
The
threat endangers our countries, our communities, ourselves
and our children, generating in its wake crime, violence,
corruption, environmental degradation, social decay and
immense personal misery.
Today, I would like to tell the Assembly about the
nature of the drug situation we now face in the United
States. On the positive side, the number of Americans who
use drugs occasionally has declined markedly.
In 1979,
24 million individuals had used some illicit drug at least
once in the previous 30 days;
last year, however, only
11.4 million did so. And the number of Americans who
used cocaine on a current basis dropped from 5.8 million in
1985 to 1.3 million in 1992 - a remarkable decline of nearly
80 per cent over a seven-year period.
But other data give us cause for real concern. Drug use
by hard-core users has remained essentially unchanged for
the past seven years, resistant to all efforts to reduce the
number of users.
In fact, the use of cocaine seems to be
constant or increasing. Our country’s chronic users also
appear to be getting sicker. New data show a 10 per cent
nationwide increase in drug-related hospital visits between
1991 and 1992. There was an 18 per cent
increase in
hospital visits due to cocaine; heroin-related episodes showed
an even more dramatic increase of 34 per cent.
The new data indicate to us that the drug epidemic that
began in the
is becoming increasingly
concentrated among the nation’s heaviest users. Clearly, we
have a long way to go before we can claim success in our
fight against drug use.
late 1970s
Last week, we released our response to the drug threat:
the Interim National Drug Control Strategy. This Strategy
has been designed to give new direction to and reinvigorate
our national efforts to combat
the drug problem. The
Interim Strategy differs from past strategies in a number of
important ways.
It seeks to deter new, high levels of
first-time drug use by aiming prevention programmes at
high-risk populations.
It targets hard-core drug users for
treatment to reduce their drug use and its consequences. It
emphasizes
the importance of community drug- and
violence-control activities. It promotes the certainty of swift,
appropriate punishment for drug offenders.
It supports
research, and programmes that
research proves to be
effective.
The Strategy maintains a commitment to certain basic
precepts. One is that we must continue to fight drugs
comprehensively with programmes that attack both the
supply of drugs to and within the United States as well as
those that address our domestic drug demand. Our support
for the efforts of countries that demonstrate the political will
to end drug production and trafficking will continue.
Another is that the possession and use of illicit drugs will
remain acts subject to appropriate punishment by criminal
law. The legalization or decriminalization of the use of
drugs would entail more users and even more severe
consequences. That is unacceptable.
In the end, our national goal remains the reduction of
the overall demand for drugs in America. Our Interim
Strategy will proceed along four basic tracks.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
First,
it concentrates on demand reduction.
Its
centre-piece is an aggressive drug treatment strategy with
hard-core drug use as its primary target.
Secondly, it focuses on the reduction of drug-related
violence and the control and prevention of crime. We will
pursue a comprehensive approach to criminal violence and
seek innovative solutions that can be shown to be effective,
including in particular those that involve our communities.
Thirdly,
it
empowerment of our
communities. We believe it is fundamentally important to
have communities resist drug trafficking and use.
supports
the
Fourthly,
it calls for the United States to continue
international leadership in and support for international drug-
control actions. We believe that the international drug trade
is a direct threat to the United States, undercutting our
domestic efforts to reduce drug supply and demand.
To respond to the drug threat, we will build and
strengthen the enforcement and judicial institutions needed
to defeat it. With regard to interdiction, the United States
will focus more on efforts in the source countries, rather
than on tracking and seizing drugs in transit.
Finally, we will emphasize the need to attack the drug-
trafficking organizations themselves.
In short, we will use every available means to reduce
drug supply and demand within the United States, and to
build strong, cooperative relationships with other countries
that demonstrate the will
A strong
multilateral approach is needed if we are to get the job done.
to fight drugs.
The narcotics cartels do more than simply buy and sell
drugs. They can buy and sell and terrorize Governments
too. They are sophisticated, highly adaptive, multinational
organizations. We must attack the narcotics cartels from
strong regional and multilateral defences.
And, given the fiscal constraints that all nations face, it
is imperative that we coordinate our efforts and our
resources, and make the most of what we have.
Mr. Bull (Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
We recognize that much has been done already, and
that the foundation is in place from which to build further
cooperation. The United Nations, principally through the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP), but increasingly through other agencies, is a vital
partner in combating the global threat. Under its Executive
Director’s leadership, UNDCP has become the linchpin of
international drug-control efforts.
We have a responsibility to sustain the high-level
international commitment and resources for drug control on
both national and international levels. My own Government
believes in action, not just words; and therefore we are
doubling our 1993 contribution to UNDCP:
our 1993
contribution is $6.2 million.
There is an increasingly important need for a strong
United Nations system. The United Nations agencies with
related responsibilities cannot ignore the impact of narcotics
production, trafficking and use. The United Nations is not
just a peace-keeping or peacemaking body:
it also is a
forum for calling attention to the enemies of democracy and
calling for action against them. Let us make it an effective
forum.
I ask several things of this series of meetings:
first,
that we leave here today resolved to condemn international
drug trafficking, to seek full ratification of the 1988 Vienna
Convention, and to go beyond that to help all nations enact
the legislation and develop the institutions that will achieve
the Convention’s goals; secondly, that we intensify the attack
on the trafficking organizations by targeting our efforts at
the kingpins that head them; thirdly, that we urge increased
emphasis on targeting the profits and the money-laundering
operations of traffickers, developing and executing effective
uniform maritime interdiction procedures, and enforcing
chemical controls; fourthly, that we resolve to intensify our
multilateral and regional approaches, to share our resources
and to coordinate our assistance; and, finally,
that all
Governments resolve to support efforts further to strengthen
the United Nations System-Wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse
Control. The scope of the drug problem is so vast that we
must energize the entire United Nations system. We must
also urge the international financial institutions to play a
greater role in stopping the drug trade.
In this post-cold-war era, our countries are no longer
haunted by the threat of nuclear destruction. And yet this is
no time for complacency. With the end of the cold war, the
security of nations is threatened by other insidious and
powerful enemies of democracy and freedom. Narcotics
trafficking and other global crimes corrupt and undermine
the basic institutions that underpin democracy and promote
political freedom:
the rule of law and free and open
economies.
The United States will not shrink from its leadership
international drug and crime
role in the attack against
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
15
syndicates. We call upon the community of nations to stand
up to this threat collectively.
With the international community’s renewed and
sustained commitment to the rule of law, we will prevail.
Indeed, as this is an issue of simple responsibility - to
ourselves and to our children - we have no other choice.
The PRESIDENT:
I call next on His Excellency
Mr. Shozo Azuma, Parliamentary Vice-Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Japan.
Mr. AZUMA (Japan):
I wish first of all, on behalf of
the Government and the people of Japan, to convey my
heartfelt congratulations to Ambassador Insanally, who is
carrying out the important task of presiding over the General
Assembly at this session, including these plenary meetings
of the Assembly that have been convened to consider the
question of narcotic drugs. I am confident that his wealth of
experience and his keen insight will ensure that these will be
the Japanese
very productive meetings.
delegation will be unstinting in its
cooperation as
Ambassador Insanally carries out his solemn responsibilities.
its part,
For
(spoke in Spanish)
Today narcotic drugs are found in all parts of the world
and are therefore a worldwide problem,
threatening the
health and well-being of people everywhere. In recent years,
the number of drug addicts has been rising rapidly in the
producing countries, the transit countries, and the consuming
countries alike. This gives rise to a very serious situation
that puts down deep roots in the lives of people. The
problems of narcotic drugs cannot be solved by one country,
whether it be a producing, consuming or transit country; the
problems are universal, and if an effective solution is to be
found the participation of all countries in the quest for a
solution is required.
In order to build a new international
community in this post-cold-war era that can enable us to
strengthen the foundations of peace, we must give greater
importance to promoting international cooperation to solve
the drug problem.
In that connection, the Global Programme of Action
adopted at the special session of the General Assembly held
in 1990, devoted to the question of narcotic drugs,
is
important and significant, for it provides a common base for
such an international effort.
It is the duty of each State
Member of the United Nations to do its best to implement
the Programme.
Japan understands how important it is for Member
States to strengthen balanced measures against narcotic drugs
in the areas of law enforcement and reduction of supply and
demand. For this reason, Japan has exerted every effort to
make the adjustments in its legal system necessary to
implement the Global Programme of Action.
to facilitate ratification of
In October 1991 the Government of Japan passed two
laws
the United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances, which was adopted in December
1988.
In June 1992 Japan duly ratified the Convention.
Since that
its dedicated law
enforcement authorities, Japan has proceeded steadily to
implement the provisions of the Convention.
time, with the help of
Further, this year as part of the United Nations Decade
against Drug Abuse, which is one of the proposals embodied
in the Global Programme of Action, Japan launched an
education and public information campaign called:
"No,
absolutely No!". Japan is also actively participating in the
United Nations fund campaign against drugs in order to
contribute to non-governmental organizations that have
undertaken programmes in this area.
Although Japan has been relatively fortunate in the
extent of its drug problem, in recent years the smuggling of
cocaine into the country from Latin America is a cause of
growing concern.
If international trafficking in drugs is to
be controlled more effectively, Japan recognizes that each
country must not only pursue greater efforts to interdict such
traffic at
the point of entry but also contribute to
international efforts to stem illegal drug activities in the
producing and transit countries. From this perspective, I
sincerely urge
the
implementation of the Global Programme of Action and
thereby strengthen international cooperation.
all Member States
to promote
Japan considers that it is imperative to establish an
effective international cooperation system through which the
international community as a whole can combat this drug
menace and, for its part, Japan is prepared to continue to
contribute to this endeavour commensurate with its status in
the world community.
To achieve the aims of the Global Programme of
Action, Japan is also pursuing other measures.
First, it will share its experience and expertise in the
area of drug control with other nations. As it believes that
human resources development
law
enforcement is particularly important effectively to control
illegal drug-related activities, Japan has invited people in this
area from all regions of the world to participate in seminars
area of
in the
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
in Japan on the handling of drug-related offences and will
continue to do so in the future.
Secondly, Japan has recognized that it is necessary to
strengthen the support it provides to the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), which, as
the organization responsible for drug control activities within
the United Nations system and the international community,
has played such an important role in the war against drugs.
Japan has strengthened its support for this Programme.
In this regard, considering the importance of taking
effective action at the subregional level, Japan advocated the
formation of a subregional centre for drug control at the
Tokyo Meeting of Senior Officials on Drug Abuse Issues in
Asia and the Pacific held in February 1991. As a result, the
UNDCP Regional Centre duly commenced operation in
Bangkok in March last year. This Centre has already
contributed, for example, to the creation of a subregional
strategy to coordinate anti-drug activities in the area known
as the Golden Triangle and in China by helping to secure the
signatures of the Governments of Thailand, Myanmar and
China on bilateral agreements relating to the control of
drugs. Japan will continue to support the UNDCP, including
this Regional Centre.
Thirdly, Japan believes that economic and social
development is indispensable to reduce the supply of drugs
from the producing countries, and it has, accordingly,
extended support for development programmes related to
achieving a supply reduction in areas such as Asia and Latin
America.
Japan will continue to contribute to efforts to
strengthen alternative development programmes in the
producing countries so as to improve the economic and
social environment and lessen their dependence on drug
production.
I should now like to suggest several measures that
Member States might take to turn the tide against illegal
drug trafficking.
in
the
First,
concert with
non-governmental
organizations, we must strengthen our efforts to reduce
demand through education and public information activities
against drug abuse.
In recent years drug use has increased
not only in the consuming countries but also in the
producing and transit countries, and a strengthening of such
education and public information activities is vital.
Japan
believes that government-related activities are not sufficient,
and it considers collaboration with the private sector
indispensable. In fact, the educational campaign called "No,
absolutely No!", to which I referred earlier, was launched
and sponsored by the Drug Abuse Prevention Centre, a
Japanese non-governmental organization. This campaign has
proven to be very successful, thanks to the support of this
non-governmental organization and the public.
In like
manner, Japan urges the Governments of all Member States
to mobilize
their
non-governmental organizations to mount stronger and even
more effective campaigns.
resources
those
their
and
of
Secondly, a subregional approach, which I cited a
moment ago, should be pursued, with UNDCP regional
centres established around the globe. Our anti-drug struggle,
particularly if it is to be fought within regions that also
encompass producing and transit countries, requires not only
the individual efforts of each State but also the cooperation
of neighbouring States with common borders.
If we are to
make progress in this area, each Member State must promote
such subregional and regional cooperation, including the
establishment of UNDCP regional centres, as we have done
in South-East Asia.
Thirdly, I should like to emphasize the need for
improved communication and closer consultation and
cooperation between the Member States. At present, the
only global policy-making forum on narcotic drugs in which
Member States participate is the annual session of the
Commission on Narcotic Drugs.
Japan therefore suggests
that the role of this Commission as a policy-making body be
strengthened through the establishment of an ad hoc group
of narcotic-control experts to guide us with their valuable
knowledge.
Fourthly, we need to build a stronger international base
from which to prosecute our war against narcotic-drug abuse
and illicit trafficking. The ratification and implementation
of the 1988 United Nations Convention is not proceeding as
it should. This is due, in large part, to defects in the
regulatory systems of certain countries.
Japan therefore
urges all Member States that have not yet done so to make
every effort to adopt and implement a national regulatory
system and then to ratify the Convention so that better
progress may be made towards achieving our common goal.
I hope that we shall be able to make great and speedy
progress in our endeavours to solve this problem.
These plenary meetings provide us with a unique
opportunity to discuss the implementation of the Global
Programme of Action and to formulate real measures that we
are willing to pursue together. My delegation hopes that we
shall achieve this goal and,
in so doing, reaffirm our
determination to gain the upper hand in our struggle against
three evils: the illicit production of, trafficking in and abuse
of narcotic drugs.
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
17
T h e
P R E S I D E N T :
n o w c a l l
Mr. Chandrashekara Murthy, Minister of State for Finance
of the Government of India.
I
and
of
traffic
distribution
Mr. MURTHY (India):
I am pleased to participate in
these high-level plenary meetings of the forty-eighth session
of
the General Assembly to examine the status of
international cooperation against the illicit production, sale,
demand,
and
psychotropic substances. The purpose of the meetings is to
address comprehensively the global menace of drug abuse
and its consequences.
India has been a victim not only of
traders, who have used it as a transit route for drugs from
the Golden Crescent and the Golden Triangle, but also of
forms of
recent virulent
such as
narco-terrorism.
International cooperation in this area is
imperative, as the problem is global and demands global
solutions.
the drug menace,
narcotics
The Secretary-General’s report on the implementation
of the Global Plan of Action is a comprehensive guide for
action by Member States. My delegation endorses the
recommendations therein - particularly those relating to licit
production,
the tackling of precursors, multilateral and
regional arrangements and measures to deal with terrorist
and insurgent groups.
it undermines
India is a party to all the international Conventions on
drug- abuse prevention. We are also a party to the South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)
Convention on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
of 1990 - a regional Convention on the subject, which came
into force in 1993. We cannot overemphasize the need to
check the drug menace, as
the very
foundations of organized society. While it may be easy to
criticize those who fall victim to drug abuse, it is even more
important to deal with the people and organizations that
make it possible for drugs to be peddled across the globe to
satisfy their base instincts and their lust for profit.
It is
significant
the close nexus between
narcotics, gun-running and terrorism is surfacing. Unless
there is a determined effort on the part of countries,
irrespective of political
this
menace cannot be tackled effectively.
I therefore give an
assurance that India will spare no effort in extending to the
international community full cooperation in all possible steps
to enforce the United Nations Conventions.
ideologies and differences,
that evidence of
The Government of India, in pursuance of the United
Nations General Assembly’s
of
23 February l990 and the Global Programme of Action, has
undertaken a series of measures to implement the relevant
recommendations. In order to eradicate the illicit production
resolution
S-17/2
of narcotic drugs, a country-wide action plan has been
formulated, and appropriate instructions have been issued to
all law-enforcement agencies under the Federal and state
Governments. We are making vigorous efforts to identify
and destroy drugs being illicitly cultivated.
In order to ensure total safety for the licit production of
opium, a number of measures have been taken in the current
year to prevent leakage. The Government has increased the
average yield to be tendered by farmers. The cooperation of
agriculture universities has been enlisted. They are to
conduct scientific experiments, in fields selected at random,
for the purpose of estimating average yield with a view to
determining the level up to which the Government should
insist that farmers must tender. It has also been decided that
the number of points for the transfer of opium after its
collection should be reduced.
Modern methods of storage and transport are being
employed for the purpose of eliminating leakage while
opium is in the process of transit and transfer. Scientific
instruments are being designed and developed so that the
moisture content of opium may be determined, and its
weight accurately measured, actually in the farmer’s field.
It is expected that these instruments will be commissioned
during the ensuing crop season. We have also decided to
strengthen the security measures that are taken during the
extraction season in all opium-growing areas of the country,
to prevent traffickers from exploiting innocent farmers. The
Narcotics Control Bureau will be turned into a strike force
to intercept drug traffickers within the country and those
coming from outside. We are also cooperating closely with
certain affected countries for the purpose of joint detection
of the kingpins of drug trafficking.
Similarly,
The Government has also solicited the cooperation of
industry to prevent the misuse of precursor chemicals. The
Narcotics Control Bureau has advised every producer
individually of the international responsibility to ensure that
these precursor chemicals are sold only to authorized
persons.
the assistance of the chambers of
commerce and industry has been sought. They have been
asked to give their members advice about ensuring the safety
of chemicals and about
their proper sale to authorized
persons. My Government is taking steps to amend and make
more stringent the laws governing confiscation and forfeiture
of property of people involved with narcotic drugs. We
hope that the series of preventive measures that have been
taken recently by the Government and the close cooperation
we are maintaining with affected countries will result in an
effective check on the spread of the narcotics menace.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Recently, we have
also been holding bilateral
discussions with neighbouring countries, and I am happy to
inform the Assembly that these meetings have produced an
excellent response by way of close cooperation in this area.
We have entered into bilateral agreements with several
countries, and negotiations with 10 others, with a view to
concluding such bilateral agreements, are in progress.
In the social sector, we have formulated a three-point
strategy comprising awareness-building, community-based
rehabilitation and the training of functionaries. A quick
survey in 33 Indian cities has revealed easy availability, an
increasing variety of drugs, increasing use of intravenous
syringes and the spread of HIV linked to the use of infected
needles. The number of registered addicts has risen at an
alarming rate. While the regulatory and suppressive
measures have shown increasing efficiency, more emphasis
must be placed on the question of demand reduction.
We have mounted a continuous multi-media barrage,
and considerable awareness of the evil effects of drug
addiction has been generated. We recognized from the start
that the success of drug-abuse prevention schemes depended
on community-based rehabilitation and the association of
voluntary organizations. We have 254 counselling,
de-addiction
by
non-governmental organizations. Under our programme of
training professionals, 4,400 doctors, paramedics, social
workers, police and prison officials have been given
orientation in drug-abuse and prevention programmes.
after-care
centres,
and
all
run
We have increased the allocations for these programmes
fourfold during the last two years. Substantially higher
allocations will be required for
tackling the problem
adequately in the future. UNDCP’s assistance has been
useful, and there is a need to increase the assistance to cover
the establishment of de-addiction and rehabilitation centres.
I should like to pay a tribute to the efforts of UNDCP for
recommending bold and pragmatic measures to fight the
drug menace
for
harmonizing national legislations in this regard.
and for making recommendations
In conclusion, I should like to take this opportunity to
reaffirm my country’s strong determination to combat, with
the cooperation of the international community, this scourge
of drug abuse and the menace of drug trafficking. We
should also like to express our appreciation to those who
have taken the initiative to negotiate a comprehensive draft
resolution to be adopted at the conclusion of these high-level
plenary meetings. I trust that the measures identified in the
draft
international
cooperation in dealing with drug abuse and related problems.
resolution will
facilitate
effective
The PRESIDENT: I now call on Mr. Aad Kosto, State
Secretary, Ministry of Justice, of the Netherlands.
Mr. KOSTO (Netherlands): There is every reason for
the problem of drugs to be high on the agenda of the
General Assembly of the United Nations. Drug trafficking
and drug use are undermining internal order in numerous
countries throughout the world, and international criminal
organizations use methods which constitute a direct threat to
liberty and the rule of law for the people of the States
represented here. The Netherlands Government believes
international cooperation is necessary to reduce both the
supply of and the demand for drugs and to destroy the
criminal networks which traffic in drugs.
I should like to
take this opportunity to outline a number of new initiatives
taken by my Government in this area.
I should also like, on behalf of the Government of the
Netherlands,
to express my great respect for the major
contribution to efforts to combat drug use and drug
trafficking made in recent years by the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), led by
Mr. Giacomelli, its Executive Director. May I also pay
tribute to the role played in this work by the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs as the relevant policy-making body.
The Conventions concluded within the framework of
the United Nations, together with the Global Programme of
Action and the United Nations System-Wide Action Plan,
form a comprehensive framework for drug-control activities
on the part of Member States and international organizations.
It therefore gives me great pleasure to be able to state that
the Netherlands recently acceded to the 1971 Convention on
Psychotropic Substances and the 1988 Vienna Convention
against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances.
In other words, the Netherlands is now bound
by all the relevant United Nations Conventions.
its projects and programmes.
I would also draw attention to the introduction by the
UNDCP of master plans which form the basis for the
implementation of
The
essential element of such plans is a multidisciplinary
approach, both to reducing trafficking and supply and
demand and to social and development problems at the
regional and subregional level. This has led to significant
improvements in the way in which the drug problem is
tackled in a wider context.
One example is the important role assigned by the
Dublin Group to the UNDCP in the Task Force on
coordination of drug control assistance to Eastern Europe,
not only in coordinating activities in the various countries of
Eastern Europe but also in formulating recommendations and
priorities for the various regions.
constantly striven to integrate demand reduction into our
education, health and social-services systems.
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
19
The Netherlands is aware of the problems that drug
illicit drug production and trafficking create for
abuse,
developing countries. In some countries the drug issue even
threatens to impede normal and sustainable development.
We recognize that the drug problem forms part of a complex
set of forces that may include social, economic and even
cultural elements. We also believe that isolated efforts that
do not take all these elements into account are doomed to
fail. The development of an integrated strategy is therefore
needed to eliminate illicit drug production, as well as
trafficking and demand.
The Netherlands has previously committed itself to
in Pakistan, Colombia, Bolivia,
UNDCP programmes
Suriname and the Netherlands Antilles.
Despite all
these estimable initiatives, we in the
international community must, of course, never lose our
critical attitude. We must continue to seek ways of
eliminating the weaknesses in the system. To this end, the
Netherlands supports proposals, on the one hand, to request
the Economic and Social Council to examine the status of
international cooperation within the United Nations system
in order to recommend ways and means of improving such
cooperation and, on the other, to ask the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs, with the support of the UNDCP and in
collaboration with the International Narcotics Control Board,
to monitor and evaluate action at
the national and
international level to implement international drug-control
instruments, with a view to identifying areas of satisfactory
progress and areas of weakness and to recommend
appropriate adjustments to drug-control activities wherever
required.
the evaluation of
The central aim here is
international
the
conventions
and the
implementation of
resolutions adopted in recent years.
It is essential that the
master plans drawn up by the UNDCP be included in this
process
the
recommendations made in the plans are being carried out at
the regional level.
established whether
so that
can be
it
We in the Netherlands, like those in other countries, are
fully aware of the need for critical monitoring to determine
whether the objectives of drug policy are being achieved in
practice and whether parts of the policy require amendment.
The Dutch Government established the principles of its drug-
abuse policy in 1976. The reduction of demand for drugs is
a basic goal of that policy. Over the years, we have
The facilities provided are nationwide and are available
to all drug addicts. The various services involved, such as
the police,
the judiciary and the social services, work
together within our integrated-policy approach in a manner
which I would venture to describe as excellent. Plans to
expand the provision of treatment, particularly for problem
addicts who cause trouble in our cities, are now being
prepared.
I need hardly point out the close connection
between addiction and crime, given the fact that a large
proportion of the prison population are drug addicts. The
Government and Parliament of the Netherlands therefore
believe that coercive policy within the judicial system should
be tightened.
of
legislation
In addition, however, international drug traffickers have
become more professional over the past few years, and the
Netherlands is among the countries that have devised
appropriate responses to professional crime. A large-scale
reorganization of the police force has taken place in the
interests of greater efficiency and improved cooperation
between the various investigative services. One very
important point I should like to mention is the recent
enactment
for
investigating organized crime. The Acts of Parliament to
which I refer cover the seizure of assets purchased with the
proceeds of crime, the combating of money laundering, the
interception of telecommunications and the protection of
witnesses. They have increased our potential for striking at
the heart of organized drug crime. It is not enough to arrest
couriers and other minor figures: we must direct our efforts
at
the key figures of criminal organizations. The new
approach by the Dutch police and judicial authorities has
already led to a number of successes.
expanding
scope
the
is
Investigations reveal trails leading to other countries,
and that is why international cooperation in this area is vital.
Scope for such cooperation should be increased by a number
of recent conventions, chief among which - in addition to the
1988 Vienna Convention -
the 1990 Strasbourg
Convention on laundering, tracing, seizure and confiscation
of the proceeds of crime. The Netherlands has not only
ratified those Conventions but has also incorporated them
into national legislation. It is now possible under Dutch law,
therefore, to use financial means to tackle organized crime
and to seize all illegally obtained advantage on behalf of the
State. A number of ongoing investigations have yielded
their first results and have led to major drugs hauls and the
seizure of large sums of money and quantities of goods.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The Netherlands is lending its assistance to the drafting
of similar legislation in the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba
and has signed a treaty with the United States, which will
enter into force throughout the Kingdom as a whole, aimed
at
improving cooperation between our countries, with
provision for the sharing of assets. The Netherlands and the
United Kingdom recently signed a bilateral treaty which
field.
builds upon the European conventions
Cooperation in practical matters with our
immediate
neighbours in Belgium, Germany, France and Luxembourg
is being stepped up to a significant degree.
in this
However, the Netherlands has not only set its sights on
combating the international drug trade. Our "coffee-shop
policy", as it is called, derived from the belief that it would
be the least of all evils if in-house dealers, who were
tolerated and monitored, helped to ensure that users of small
quantities of soft drugs never came into contact with such
hard drugs as heroin and cocaine, which have much more
serious effects on a person’s health. However, this original
objective has been obscured by the sharp increase in the
number of such coffee shops. As more and more coffee
shops have opened for business in certain cities, they have
attracted more and more customers, mainly from abroad.
This has to be stopped. Once the number of coffee shops
has been reduced - and the Dutch judicial authorities are
actively pursuing such a policy as I speak - the distortion of
the original objectives will come to an end, and with it the
drug tourism.
The
affords
Schengen Agreement
excellent
opportunities for us to join forces with neighbouring
countries in Europe to combat drug tourism.
Indeed, joint
action is the key to all efforts to stop drug trafficking.
Within the European Community, therefore, the Netherlands
is a firm advocate of facilitating extradition procedures and
the exchange of information. EUROPOL, which is to be
responsible for pooling resources in Europe,
is another
indispensable element in efforts to tackle the international
drug trade.
forget
Nevertheless, we in Europe must not
the
importance of a multidisciplinary approach to the drug
problem. The important thing is to reduce demand as well
as supply.
the European Drug
Monitoring Centre could lay the basis for this process by
disseminating information on the treatment of drug addicts
within Europe and hence improving their treatment.
The establishment of
I should therefore like to conclude by stressing once
again that cooperation at the European Community level,
together with the know-how possessed by the United Nations
drug-control agencies in Vienna, is essential if we are to
tackle the drug problem. My Government
available for such cooperation.
is always
The
PRESIDENT:
upon
Mr. Kyung-Shik Joo, Vice-Minister of Health and Social
Affairs of the Republic of Korea.
now call
I
Mr. JOO (Republic of Korea):
I have the honour to
make a few remarks concerning international drug control,
on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Korea.
Despite
the whole
No one doubts that the unabating situation of drug
abuse and illicit trafficking remains a major concern in
today’s world.
framework for
international cooperation and a wide range of efforts by the
international community, an increasing number of people are
still
languishing under the yoke of drug abuse. Large
quantities of chemicals have been illicitly diverted to the
unlawful manufacture of drugs, and new forms of illicit
drugs have been developed.
Trafficking methods are
becoming increasingly complicated and diverse.
illicit
While the end of East-West confrontation has provided
a rare opportunity for prosperity, the accompanying political
and economic upheavals in various parts of the world have
also provided new opportunities for
traffickers,
enabling them to penetrate regional boundaries more easily.
Criminal drug organizations can effectively expand their
areas of operation, entering into collusion with other
international criminal groups such as illegal arms dealers and
terrorists. This certainly poses a formidable threat to the
security of the international community. The global situation
of drug abuse remains grim. Drug-producing countries are
still producers. Consumer countries remain consumers.
There is a proliferation of the number of transit countries.
Moreover,
illegal drug-trafficking organizations have
ruthlessly contaminated transit areas.
No single formula based on supply and demand can
effectively cure this pernicious disease.
It is also obvious
that the threat of drug abuse and illicit trafficking cannot be
effectively eliminated by the efforts of a single country.
Illicit traffickers have demonstrated their ability to adapt to
changing circumstances. In this regard, the firm will and
determination of Governments to do the job properly and
cooperation between Governments at
the regional and
international level are required.
Our frustration easily leads us to accept that widespread
drug abuse is an incurable disease, with an unbelievable
ability to transform itself constantly and immediately,
making medicines or vaccines ineffective and useless against
it. However, drug abuse is curable if we use the right
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
21
medicines or vaccines. For this reason, we are compelled to
review the strategies and policies that have been adopted to
fight drug abuse.
the Global Programme of Action,
The blueprint for drug abuse control was presented in
the forms of
the
Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline of Future activities
in Drug Abuse Control and the System-Wide Action Plan on
Drug Abuse Control. They provide a very comprehensive
framework for effective measures to control drug abuse.
The commitment of the international community to
eliminate drug abuse has also been clearly demonstrated by
the conclusion of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs, the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances and
the 1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Many States
have become party to the international drug control treaties,
and even non-party States have endeavoured to implement
the treaties’ terms.
The principle of shared responsibility is now widely
accepted by the international community, as the scope of
international cooperation expands to include various aspects
of the drug problem.
In particular, approaches such as the
introduction of a drug dimension into the lending and
programming policy of international financial institutions and
into the financing of alternative development activities
rightly reflect the perception of the international community
that the drug problem cannot be solved by narrowly focusing
on its socio-pathological aspect and that we need a
multidisciplinary approach duly taking into account social,
cultural and economic factors in order to ensure a truly drug-
free world.
What, then, have we missed? We may simply blame
the multilateral systems for the worsening situation. Or we
may use the excuse that international drug-control treaties
have become too rigid to reflect rapidly changing realities.
Still, we cannot escape the fact that the victims of drug
abuse are our own people - our own neighbours and our own
children.
We believe that
international cooperation has been
carried out very staunchly and systematically. What we
need most at this juncture is to shake off our chronic sense
of helplessness. We should once again muster our wisdom
and revitalize our commitment. We should demonstrate our
willingness to implement what we have agreed upon.
The situation in the Republic of Korea has greatly
improved following intensified interventions to reverse the
growing trend towards drug abuse. My country has made
progress
in
eradicating
of
great
methamphetamine through a continued crackdown on the
manufacture of
and through awareness
campaigns.
the manufacture
illicit drugs
In early 1989 methamphetamine produced in Korea
accounted for 70 per cent to 90 per cent of the volume of
methamphetamine smuggled into Japan. By the end of that
year the percentage had plunged to 12 per cent, and no
smuggling of methamphetamine from the Republic of Korea
has since been detected. The Global Programme of Action
has served as a model framework for my Government in
waging the war against drug abuse. The Government of the
Republic of Korea has adopted a comprehensive and
multidisciplinary approach. Policy tools have ranged from
a forceful clamp-down on the manufacture, supply and
trafficking of
through public-awareness
campaigns to reduce the demand for illicit drugs, to the
treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts. As a result of
these multisectoral efforts, the number of those perpetrating
drug-related offences has substantially decreased.
illicit drugs,
My country, aware of the urgency of bilateral and
multilateral cooperation in the fight against drug abuse, has
actively joined the efforts of the international community
aimed at combating drug abuse and illicit trafficking. For
instance, the Republic of Korea has collaborated with the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP)in the latter’s Goodwill Ambassadors initiative,
which was formally launched as part of the activities of the
United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse, in 1992, with
the appointment of the Chung Trio as the first anti-drug
ambassadors.
In the Republic of Korea, the Goodwill Ambassador
events received nationwide coverage by the media, thus
successfully disseminating the information that drug abuse
can threaten the future of mankind.
In this context, my
delegation wishes to recall General Assembly resolution
47/102, which called upon Governments to cooperate with
UNDCP in expanding the Goodwill Ambassadors initiative
to combat drug abuse.
The Republic of Korea, as a party to the Single
Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 and the Convention
on Psychotropic Substances of 1971, has stepped up its
efforts to harmonize its national legislation with the 1988
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances to make possible early
adherence to the Convention.
In an effort to provisionally apply Article 12 of the
1988 United Nations Convention, the Government of the
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Republic of Korea has prepared legislative measures to
prevent 22 listed chemicals from being diverted into illicit
drug manufacturing, by requiring drug manufacturers and
traders to keep records of all transactions.
In addition, a draft statute concerning asset forfeiture
and controlled delivery is being prepared. With respect to
money laundering, the Government in August introduced
new legislation that requires all financial transactions to be
conducted in the transactor’s real name. This legislation will
make money laundering virtually impossible.
In connection with international cooperation to combat
illicit trafficking of drugs, the Republic of Korea hosted the
eighteenth meeting of the Heads of National Drug Law
Enforcement Agencies in Asia and the Pacific region, from
13 to 17 September this year, in Seoul. The discussions at
the meeting were very lively, and the exchange of views and
experiences among participants was extremely useful and
informative.
We should not tolerate the current grim situation with
respect to the abuse of narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances. If this worsening trend is not stopped now, the
future of the human race will be in grave danger.
I firmly
believe that only a common response and a reaffirmed
commitment to act at the national, regional and international
levels can guarantee a drug-free world.
T h e
P R E S I D E N T :
o n
Mr. Christo Koulishev, Deputy Minister of Finance of
Bulgaria.
I
n o w c a l l
Mr. KOULISHEV (Bulgaria)
(interpretation from
Russian): The dramatic increase in illicit activities related
to narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, threatening
the well-being of the individual and of society as a whole,
is becoming one of the most urgent international issues of
global significance.
The magnitude of this rising trend requires a prompt
and adequate response from the international community
through the relevant United Nations bodies, which have
already proved to be efficient in combating drugs.
The decision taken by the General Assembly at its
forty-seventh session to dedicate two days of high-level
plenary meetings to an urgent examination of the status of
international cooperation against drugs re-emphasized the
concern and responsibility of the United Nations in this
regard. Recognizing the leading role of the United Nations
in providing policy guidance in the fight against drugs, the
Government of the Republic of Bulgaria considers its own
participation in international cooperation against the illicit
production, sale, demand, traffic and distribution of narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances a matter of priority for
two reasons: firstly, the geographical position of Bulgaria at
the natural crossroads between Europe and the Middle East
and the current economic difficulties facing the country in its
transition to a market economy, which heighten the risk of
an increase in drug-related criminal activities within the
country, worsening the situation not only inside but outside
its borders; and secondly, our awareness that efficient and
comprehensive drug control is beyond the power of a single
State and that adequate coordination at the regional and
international levels is necessary.
Fully aware of the negative impact of this social
scourge, Bulgaria was among the first countries to sign and
ratify the existing international legal instruments in the field
of drugs. The 1988 United Nations Convention against
Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
entered into force for Bulgaria in December 1992. This
year, Bulgaria acceded to the Council of Europe Convention
on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the
Proceeds from Crime. With the support of the Legal Affairs
Division of the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP),
the Bulgarian authorities have
embarked upon the process of bringing national legislation
into line with these Conventions.
Bulgaria attaches great importance to the improvement
of the national capacity for facing drug-related problems,
which it considers a prerequisite for successful international
cooperation.
the Government set up an
Interministerial Committee as the administrative structure for
coordinating the activities of all State bodies involved in
drug prevention and control. The Committee will implement
the national strategy and master plan in combating drugs.
In July 1993,
importance for
In 1991, the Bulgarian Government created a special
branch of the police service at the Ministry of the Interior
for combating organized crime. The branch has operational
links with INTERPOL and other national agencies.
Technical assistance,
including equipment and training,
especially for law enforcement agencies, is considered to be
of paramount
the building of national
capacity and the strengthening of control on the borders and
within the national
fruitful
cooperation with the bilateral donors and UNDCP in this
sphere will be further developed and will be of mutual
benefit. We welcome the creation of the United Nations
System-Wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control and we
hope it will contribute to the successful implementation of
the Global Programme of action.
territory. We hope that
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
23
We highly appreciate the positive role of
the
International Narcotics Control Board as an independent
organ for observing the application of the international
Conventions on drugs.
In June 1993, an expert mission
from the Board visited Bulgaria and provided assistance in
identifying and eliminating some deficiencies in our drug-
combating policy and related operational activities. We hope
that cooperation with the Board will continue because it is
of mutual interest.
the
For
transit
time being,
trafficking remains
Bulgaria’s major drug-related problem. As further evidence
of this, the main seizures of narcotics made by the Bulgarian
Customs authorities have taken place at the borders of the
country. Last year the authorities made 36 seizures of
smuggled narcotics, for a total amount of 246 kilograms; 28
of those seizures were of heroin, amounting to a total of 159
kilograms. From 1 January to 21 October of this year, the
Customs authorities have made 46 seizures of
illicit
narcotics, amounting to a total of 460 kilograms, among
which were 40 seizures of heroine with a total amount of
457 kilograms.
According to the statistics of the Zollkriminalamt in
Cologne, Germany, the Bulgarian Customs administration
occupies first place in amounts of heroin seized along the
Balkan route. Despite the fact
that new diversionary
branches of the Balkan route are being created, according
to the available United Nations data, about 70 per cent of the
illicit trafficking in heroin to the target countries, mainly in
Western Europe, is being carried out through the classic
Balkan route. Once again,
this underscores the crucial
importance of control of the Bulgarian southern border.
The war
in former Yugoslavia and the embargo
imposed on that country have forced most of
the
transportation vehicles to move in the direction of our
northern border on the Danube river, where the first 13
seizures of smuggled narcotics have been made. Along with
that development has come the initial process of establishing
a domestic illicit market
for psychotropic substances.
Moreover, heroine is expected gradually to replace the
traditionally used psychotropic substance on the market. The
last
illegal
cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis.
two years have seen individual cases of
During the first two quarters of this year, the specially
established Central Office seized two illegal laboratories for
the production of amphetamines, located deep within the
country. Seizures have been made of 11 kilograms of
amphetamines, 7 kilograms of phenitiline, 3.5 kilograms of
phenobarbital, 3.1 kilograms of codeine, 154 litres of
benzyl-methyl-ceton, 9 kilograms of heroin and 4 kilograms
of opium.
The Republic of Bulgaria attaches particular importance
to the international cooperation in the field of the control of
narcotics and psychotropic substances. The participation of
the Bulgarian Customs authorities in international efforts to
stop the trafficking in narcotics began in 1969. The Police
and Customs authorities have signed or will be signing
bilateral agreements for cooperation with many European
countries and the United States of America.
It is clear that illicit activities connected with narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances are directly linked with
economic and social conditions in the counties affected by
them. The economic liberalization and privatization of the
pharmaceutical industry which are part of economies in
transition contribute to the development of negative trends in
the field of control, including the precursor control. The
continuing traffic results in the dissemination of narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances, which in turn means the
creation of national illicit markets and increases in illicit
demand, trade and distribution. Drug abuse could become
a significant medical and social problem which will
adversely affect Bulgarian society. Taking into account the
considerable drop in the gross domestic product during the
past three years and the rise in unemployment resulting from
the readjustment of
the losses
sustained by Bulgaria from strict implementation of United
Nations sanctions against former Yugoslavia and the heavy
burden of the foreign debt, it is obvious that the State
possesses limited funds and means for dealing with the
situation with respect to drugs.
the national economy,
In this regard the understanding and assistance of the
international community and most donors in helping us face
in countries with
up to specific economic problems
economies
especially
them
economically affected by the application of the United
Nations sanctions against former Yugoslavia, should help
them to tackle with the drug-related problems in a more
appropriate way.
transition,
those
of
in
The PRESIDENT:
In accordance with General
Assembly resolution 3208 (XXIX) of 11 October 1974, I
now call on the Commissioner of the European Community,
Mr. Padraig Flynn.
Mr. FLYNN (European Community):
In his capacity
as Chairman of the European Community’s Council of
Ministers, my distinguished friend Minister Wathelet has
indicated to the Assembly how seriously the European
Community and its Member States regard the drug problem.
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
As the Member of the European Commission responsible for
drugs policy,
I have the honour and the privilege of
describing to the Assembly the role and the activities of the
European Community in fighting this plague in our societies.
Never before, in all of history, has there been such a
seeping sense of helplessness, such a sense that any action
can be subverted, any process eroded, any campaign vitiated
by the forces of evil. The European Community is well
aware of this, and more.
The European Community has long recognized the
particular responsibilities of industrialized countries and
regions in this fight.
The Community has also been
increasingly conscious of the extent to which the dynamics
of European integration, the creation of a single market
without
internal frontiers and the decisive steps we are
taking towards European union present us with new
challenges.
The initiatives taken at Community level
indicate the seriousness with which the Community views
the drug problem and the growing recognition within the
Community of the need to take action at that level.
real
(CELAD),
substantial,
and prosperity requires
The Community also knows that the European ideal of
peace
and
measurable progress to be made in this fight. The more
important of the actions to that end in recent years include:
the creation in l989 of the European Committee to Combat
Drugs
together National Drug
Coordinators from each member State and the Commission;
the subsequent adoption by the Council of Ministers of the
European Community meeting in Rome in 1990 of the first
European Plan to combat drugs, which provides a
comprehensive framework for measures in the field of
demand reduction,
law enforcement and international
cooperation and which was updated at
the Edinburgh
the Council of Ministers of the European
meeting of
Community last December;
ratification by the
Community - the only regional economic organization to
have done so - of the 1988 United Nations Convention
against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances; the adoption at Community level of legislative
measures governing trade in precursors both within the
Community and with third countries;
the adoption of a
Directive on money laundering and a Regulation providing
for the establishment of a European Monitoring Centre for
Drug Abuse as a result of Commission proposals;
the
organization of the first European Drug Prevention Week in
involving the widespread participation of both
1992,
governmental
organizations
throughout the Community.
non-governmental
bringing
the
and
This is a world-wide problem. It is a threat that speaks
all languages, a commerce that accepts all currency, a killer
which makes no distinction of race, creed or nationality; and
it can be fought only through cooperation,
intensified
coordination and international solidarity. Recognizing this,
we have long believed that the United Nations provides a
necessary focal point in the global fight against all aspects
of illicit drugs. We reaffirm the importance we attach to the
role of
the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP)
in providing coordination and
effective leadership for all United Nations drug-control
activities, and we are glad to acknowledge its achievements.
I am particularly pleased, therefore, to note that the excellent
working relationships which exist between the Commission
and the UNDCP were strengthened earlier this year by the
conclusion of a liaison agreement. When the European
Community talks about solidarity and cooperation, we do not
mean it in an empty or a passive way.
Within the framework of
the
Community and its member States have played an important
part
in the establishment and subsequent work of the
Chemical Action Task Force.
The Community also
participates actively in the Financial Action Task Force.
the Group of 7,
and
trade
projects
preferences.
The North-South cooperation programme of
the
European Community is directed to supporting the efforts of
developing countries to reduce demand largely through
prevention measures. Community support has been provided
to Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia and Peru through alternative
development
The
Commission has also recently submitted proposals for a
major programme to support alternative development
projects in areas of
illicit cannabis cultivation in the
Northern Provinces of Morocco. Close interregional links in
precursor control are envisaged via an agreement currently
being prepared between the European Community and the
Association of South-East Asian Nations. Furthermore, in
order to exploit fully the new provisions under the Lomé IV
Convention to assist countries of the African, Caribbean and
Pacific Group in their
fight against drugs, a general
assessment is being undertaken to identify their concrete
needs.
At the European level, a new East-West emphasis is
progressively being added to our
international drugs
cooperation. Operational programmes are already being
implemented in Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania,
Slovakia and the Czech Republic, and these programmes will
shortly be extended to other countries in the region. More
generally, the Commission will continue to put emphasis on
drugs cooperation in the Community’s external relations by
38th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
25
United Nations has its great role, and I have been very glad
of the opportunity to participate in the proceedings of these
high-level plenary meetings, which are making such an
important contribution to furthering world-wide cooperation
in the fight against drugs.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
continuing to identify it as a priority in its cooperation
agreements with third countries.
I have spoken about some of the initiatives which are
being taken by the European Community. We are at a
crucial point in the rapidly developing history of Europe.
Only a few days now separate us from the important date of
1 November, when the Treaty on European Union will enter
into force, marking a new stage in the process of European
integration. The Treaty identifies drugs as a priority issue
and creates important new opportunities for action. The
problem of drug dependence is singled out
in the new
provision which the Treaty makes for cooperation in the area
of public health, and this will allow the Community to
consolidate and build on its work on drug prevention.
Combating drug addiction and unlawful drug trafficking have
also been identified as priority issues for cooperation in the
fields of justice and home affairs. Likewise, drugs have
been identified by the European Heads of State and
Government as a priority of the common foreign and
security policy of the European Union.
The range of possibilities which the Treaty now offers
for action will represent important new weapons for the
Community in the fight against the scourge of drugs in the
coming years. The Commission intends to ensure that this
new legal basis for action at Community level should be
exploited to the full in order to promote the highest possible
level of coordination and cooperation within the Community
and to enable the Community to address the global drug
phenomenon in a comprehensive way. More must be done,
and more will be done.
As a first step in that process,
the Commission is
organizing a European scientific and technical seminar on
strategies and policies to combat drugs, which will be held
in early December this year. That seminar is intended to
provide an opportunity for a discussion of the broader policy
issues involved and an exchange of views on how the
Community response can be improved in the context of the
new possibilities provided by the Treaty on European Union.
I envisage that the findings of the seminar will provide a
good basis on which to draw up an up-to-date,
comprehensive and balanced European strategy covering
demand, supply and trafficking - an objective to which I am
personally entirely committed.
That is where the United Nations plays such a vital
role, because this strategy will work only if it is integrated
into a wider coordinated global strategy. That is where the
