United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President:
INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10:20.
AGENDA ITEM 47
COMMEMORATION OF THE
FIFTIETH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED NATIONS IN 1955
(a) REPORT OF
PREPARATORY
COMMITTEE
FIFTIETH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED NATIONS
(A/48/48)
THE
FOR THE
(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/48/L.7)
(c) DRAFT DECISION (A/48/48, sect. III)
The PRESIDENT:
I now request the Rapporteur of
the Preparatory Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the United Nations, Her Excellency Mrs. Lucille Mathurin
Mair of Jamaica, to introduce the report of the Preparatory
Committee.
Mrs. MATHURIN MAIR (Jamaica), Rapporteur of the
Preparatory Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
United Nations: It is my pleasure and honour to present the
report of
the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the United Nations, contained in document
A/48/48.
the Preparatory Committee for
Section I of this report, "Background and introduction",
reminds us that at the 76th plenary meeting of the forty-sixth
session,
the
recommendation of the General Committee to include in the
the General Assembly
decided
on
32nd
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 19 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
agenda of its forty-sixth session this item, "Commemoration
of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations in 1995".
The General Assembly subsequently adopted a decision
(46/472), by which it established a Preparatory Committee
for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, consisting
of the members of the General Committee and open to the
participation of all Member States, and entrusted the
Preparatory Committee with the task of considering and
recommending to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh
session proposals for suitable activities in connection with
the observance of the fiftieth anniversary. Subsequently, the
General Assembly, in December 1992, considered the first
report of the Preparatory Committee (A/47/48). The General
Assembly at
the work of the
Committee in 1992 and mandated the Preparatory Committee
to continue its work and report to the Assembly at its forty-
eighth session. The present report as submitted in response
to that decision.
time took note of
that
The Preparatory Committee has held five meetings - in
February, March, April, May and June. At a particularly
important meeting on 22 February 1993, the Committee had
before it a note by the Chairman (A/AC.240/1993/L.4),
which elaborated on the organization of the work of the
Committee, as well as the substantive issues requiring its
consideration. This note provided a useful basis for the
further deliberations of the Committee, subsequently updated
in a draft annotated agenda (A/AC.240/1993/L.5) in March
1993, which was approved.
At its 3rd and 4th meetings in the course of this year,
the Committee gave consideration to the basic principles
which should be applied in the organization of the fiftieth
anniversary and agreed on the following:
that the United
Nations activities in connection with the fiftieth anniversary
should be, to the extent possible, universal in character and
in keeping with the universality of the membership of the
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86909 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.32
9 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
United Nations; that there should be a clear allocation of
functions and activities between the United Nations system
and Member States, to ensure that there was no duplication;
that a suitable climax to the fiftieth anniversary would need
to be identified, and that the climax should have universal
importance, be enduring in its effect and have a suitable
symbolic value; and also that activities should be conducted
in and made available in all official languages.
On the subject of the theme of the anniversary, the
Committee devoted a considerable amount of time and effort
to reaching agreement. The common focus of the proposals
made was the Charter of the United Nations and the
fundamental concepts that it expressed. It was also stressed
that the theme should be forward-looking and that it should
be widely relevant. The theme proposed by the Secretary-
General, "We the peoples", did receive considerable support
from delegations; there was, however, a majority view that
it needed to be extended and made more specific. Following
extensive deliberations, a consensus was reached in the
Committee on the following theme for the anniversary: "We
the Peoples of the United Nations ... United for a Better
World". This was accepted as an appropriate expression of
the theme of the fiftieth anniversary.
The preparation of a declaration and the establishment
the
of a drafting group were important activities of
Preparatory Committee.
It was proposed at a meeting in
March that there should be an open-ended drafting group
established to prepare a solemn declaration to mark the
observance of the anniversary. That declaration should
reaffirm adherence by Member States to the principles of the
Charter and should guide the Organization’s work for the
future.
That proposal was adopted without dissent.
However, there were differences of opinion on when the
drafting group should begin its work. Some felt that it
would be premature to begin work on a text at that early
stage, when it might be overtaken by events and have to be
revised later. Others felt
the work should begin
immediately, as time was needed to reflect on elements to be
included in the declaration. Following discussion, and on
the recommendation of the Chairman of the Committee, it
was agreed that the work of the drafting group should take
place in two phases: consideration of conceptual issues, in
the first instance, to be followed by drafting at a later stage.
As a result, the 1st meeting of the open-ended drafting group
was held on 22 June 1993, when the conceptual framework
for the declaration was discussed.
that
The
action
by Member States,
the
establishment of national committees, was a major concern
of the Preparatory Committee. The Chairman referred in
this connection to a note which was sent by the Secretary-
including
General to all Permanent Representatives, drawing attention
to the importance of establishing national committees for the
fiftieth anniversary to provide a channel for each country’s
activities with regard to the anniversary.
As paragraph 10 of the report before us indicates, the
Secretary-General has received information from a number
of States - the 13 here listed - in which national committees
have been established, and there are other Member States
that have established their intention to establish national
committees. The committee wishes to congratulate and
encourage those Member States and hopes that others will
soon establish national committees.
support of
increase grass-roots
Also following a request by the Committee,
the
Secretariat had prepared a paper entitled "Status of the
commemorative programme" (A/AC.240/1993/CRP.5). This
list compiled by the Secretariat of proposed events and
activities was aimed at fostering projects with a global
component and outreach that were awaiting funding. The
list was divided into three main categories:
first,
that would promote
communication/education projects
awareness of the history, structure and functions of the
United Nations,
the
Organization, improve world-wide education about it and
highlight
the full range of issues on the Organization’s
agenda; secondly, commemorative projects, which would
review past achievements of the United Nations with a view
to promoting its future; and thirdly, celebratory events. The
Secretariat, as the Committee was informed, had reviewed
and evaluated approximately 180 unsolicited proposals.
Some met the key criteria for evaluation (particularly the
extent to which a particular project furthered the purposes of
the United Nations, educated and informed the public, and
was self-funding), and these were in the process of
development. Much of the programme is still
in the
planning stage, and few national programmes had been
initiated, so it was considered premature to discuss these in
detail at this time.
A very important aspect of the preparatory work for the
fiftieth anniversary consists of the activities within the
United Nations system, as discussed in paragraph 12 of the
report.
The Committee noted that
the Secretary-General
attached great significance to the system-wide nature of the
anniversary, particularly since several of the specialized
agencies and other organs would also celebrate their own
anniversaries in or around 1995.
It was agreed that within
the context of the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary,
an extraordinary opportunity existed to highlight
the
mutually reinforcing goals of the United Nations and its
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
3
being
coordinated
sister organizations, and it was also noted that these issues
were
the Administrative
Committee on Coordination (ACC) and focal points at the
working level. The Committee continues to monitor this
aspect with interest and requests that it be kept informed of
further developments in that regard.
through
of
the
participation
The role of non-governmental organizations is also
perceived by the Preparatory Committee as a very important
element. The fiftieth anniversary should be a broad-based
It was therefore agreed to
and popular commemoration.
encourage
non-governmental
organizations to the greatest extent possible, both at the
national and at the global levels. These organizations could
provide valuable communication and information networks
for the fiftieth anniversary as links between the United
Nations and its world-wide constituencies. The Committee
further agreed that non-governmental organizations could
participate in its meetings under the rules governing their
participation in the work of the Economic and Social
Council.
With regard to financial and administrative issues, the
Committee has been informed that the financial situation of
the Organization precludes making funds available from the
regular budget.
therefore
established for that purpose a Trust Fund for the Fiftieth
Anniversary Celebrations and urges Member States to
support that initiative. Support is also being sought from the
private sector, including a limited number of global sponsors
and international licensees.
The Secretary-General has
In addition to funding for commemorative programmes,
the need for adequate secretarial support was discussed by
the Committee at several meetings. It was agreed that it is
essential to the effective functioning and proper management
of the fiftieth anniversary that its secretariat be assured of
adequate staff and related resources. The Chairman of the
Committee has been requested to raise this concern, this very
important need, with the Secretary-General, as appropriate.
Finally, the Preparatory Committee wishes to place
before the General Assembly, and to recommend for
adoption,
the following draft decision, as contained in
paragraph 16 of the report.
It reads as follows:
"The General Assembly,
"Having considered the report of the Preparatory
Committee for the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations (A/48/48),
the work of
"Takes note of
the Preparatory
the fiftieth anniversary in 1993,
Committee for
including the decision that
the
commemoration be ’We the Peoples of the United
Nations ... United for a Better World’ and that an open-
ended drafting group be established to prepare a
declaration to be adopted in 1995 to mark the
anniversary,
theme
the
for
"Decides that the Preparatory Committee should
continue its work and report thereon to the General
Assembly at its forty-ninth session." (A/48/48, para. 16)
Annexed to this report
is the list of the relevant
documentation.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the Chairman of the
Preparatory Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
United Nations, Mr. Richard Butler of Australia, who will
introduce draft resolution A/48/L.7 in the course of his
statement.
the Fiftieth Anniversary of
Mr. BUTLER (Australia), Chairman of the Preparatory
Committee for
the United
Nations: May I begin by expressing my deep appreciation
as Chairman of the Preparatory Committee to all
those
delegations that have worked so hard during the last year to
ensure that our work of preparation for a great event in 1995
has started well and that there have been real achievements.
I want to thank too Her Excellency the Ambassador of
Jamaica for the splendid work she has done today in
introducing to the Assembly the report of the Preparatory
Committee which is proposed today for adoption by the
General Assembly.
We are at a turning point. We have had about one year
in which to begin the work of preparation for our fiftieth
anniversary. We are at a turning point signified by what I
hope will be the unanimous adoption today of the report of
the Preparatory Committee, contained in the document
before the Assembly (A/48/48).
That turning point has four main features. During the
past year, we adopted some organizing principles under
which we would pursue the celebration of the fiftieth
anniversary and mark its importance. Chief among those
principles is that whatever we do should be of universal
significance.
We have adopted a theme for the anniversary as a
consequence of an extended debate in which we reflected on
the purposes and principles of
In
particular, looking into the future, we reflected on what it
the Organization.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
was that we wanted to say to the world, especially to the
youth of the world, that this Organization was about, and we
reached agreement on that theme. That was an important
decision because it will suffuse all of what we do in 1995
and as we look into the future.
We also agreed to establish a drafting group, open to all
Members of the Assembly, in which we would work on the
drawing up of a solemn declaration of 1995, submitted to the
Heads of State or Government of all Member States, which
would add to the celebratory part of 1995 by setting out a
series of signposts that would guide the United Nations as it
moves towards the twenty-first century.
b y
We also saw the establishment of a special secretariat
for the fiftieth anniversary, a secretariat quite properly
h e a d e d
a n U n d e r - S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l ,
Mrs. Gillian Sorensen, and charged with the task of ensuring
that the Secretary-General is properly aware of 1995 and that
the activities that we will design for celebration and
promulgation of the anniversary have the full engagement of
the Secretary-General and the Secretariat of the United
Nations.
Those are the four things that we have achieved in the
last year; those are the things that mean that we are at a
turning point when we adopt this report today, and that we
can turn a corner towards 1994 and 1995 - a period in which
we must work actively in drafting, a period in which we
must spread the message of our theme around the world, a
period in which Mrs. Sorensen and her secretariat can begin
to set in concrete the celebratory and other aspects of 1995.
In the latter context, may I say that I am aware that
there are discussions under way in this House at present
about resources for that secretariat.
In this connection I
would draw attention to paragraph 15 of our draft report, in
which the view of Member States is made clear to the effect
that
the secretariat charged with managing the fiftieth
anniversary should be given adequate resources - and I want
to underline that today.
It is the view of the Committee -
and I am sure the Secretary-General is aware of this - that
Mrs. Sorensen and her secretariat must be given adequate
resources. There is no question in my mind that this can be
done from within existing staff establishment - possibly, for
example, from the Department of Public Information - so as
to ensure that without negative budgetary effects the
resources required are allocated to Mrs. Sorensen and her
special task.
The report of the Fiftieth Anniversary Committee
contains a recommended draft decision in paragraph 16,
which our Rapporteur has already introduced. It remains for
me simply to say that I commend that draft decision to the
Assembly, and I hope that it will adopted unanimously.
It
relates
this agenda item.
There is also a draft resolution before the Assembly in
to the
the context of
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Declaration
of Moscow, signed on 30 October 1943. At the last meeting
of the Preparatory Committee, it was proposed that a brief
commemorative session of the General Assembly should be
held on 30 October 1993 in order to mark the fiftieth
anniversary of the Declaration of the Four Nations on
General Security, adopted in Moscow on 30 October 1943,
in which reference was made to the establishment of a
general international organization, based on the principle of
the sovereign equality of all peace-loving States and open to
membership by all such States, for the maintenance of
international peace and security. The proposal that was
made to commemorate that event of 50 years ago was
unanimously adopted by the Preparatory Committee.
As a consequence, in our role as Chairman of that
Committee, I have submitted, in the name of Australia, a
draft resolution, contained in document A/48/L.7, which
quite simply calls for the Assembly to commemorate in its
plenary meeting on 1 November
the fiftieth
anniversary of the Declaration of the Four Nations on
General Security, adopted in Moscow on 30 October 1943.
We cannot do this on 30 October because that is a Saturday.
The nearest day,
I
propose that this draft resolution, which is in conformity
with the expressed wish of the Preparatory Committee, be
also adopted unanimously.
is Monday, 1 November.
this year
therefore,
I will bring my remarks to a conclusion by expressing
again the gratitude that I feel as Chairman of the Preparatory
Committee for the very great interest that all delegations are
showing in this work. I would also express the hope that we
will have a good 1994, a year that will see an increase in the
tempo in which we will begin work on drafting what will be
an important declaration for 1995 and a year in which the
secretariat for the fiftieth anniversary, properly resourced,
should be enabled to continue its planning for a truly historic
celebration, in 1995, of the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization.
Mr. RIABIKA (Ukraine) (interpretation from Russian):
The United Nations, since its founding in 1945, when States,
manifesting their goodwill and the desire to live in peace and
friendship, laid the base for a truly universal Organization,
has played an ever-greater role in the life of the international
community.
For me, as a member of the Parliament of the Republic
of Crimea - an integral part of Ukraine - it is gratifying to
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
5
recall that the decision on the establishment of this universal
international Organization to ensure peace and security was
adopted at
the Crimea Conference, held in Yalta in
February 1945.
It is our view that the remaining two years before the
fiftieth anniversary of the Organization must be used to the
utmost to determine the areas of activity and the role of the
Organization for generations to come.
is therefore
extremely important that during this period States Members
of the United Nations exert maximum efforts for the drafting
and implementation of coordinated proposals to reform the
Organization and adapt its structures to the demands of the
times. The activities of the Preparatory Committee for the
Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations are designed to
facilitate this process.
It
The anniversary should be used to disseminate
knowledge about the United Nations and the expansion of its
activities in order to familiarize the broadest circles of the
world’s population with the aims and tasks of the United
Nations. That, in turn, would promote support for the
United Nations in the fulfilment of all of its plans and
initiatives.
Taking into account the importance of the upcoming
event and also the fact that Ukraine was one of the founders
of the United Nations, the President of Ukraine, Leonid
Kravchuk, by his order of 18 May 1993 set up the National
Committee for the Celebration of the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the United Nations, headed by the Minister of Foreign
Affairs of Ukraine, Anatoly Zlenko. It consists of heads of
the
institutions,
prominent public and political figures, parliamentarians,
scientists and representatives of cultural and educational
establishments.
and governmental
leading ministries
the national
take place at
In accordance with the recommendations of the United
Nations Preparatory Committee, a draft programme of events
which will
level within the
framework of the United Nations commemoration was
worked out and submitted for the Government’s approval.
The programme includes, inter alia, the holding in Ukraine,
and particularly in the Crimea, of international scientific
conferences, concerts, exhibits and cultural and sports events,
as well as the issuance of postage stamps dedicated to the
fiftieth anniversary.
the
establishment in Kiev of a memorial park in which, on this
occasion, trees will be planted by prominent political and
public figures.
There are also plans
for
The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations marks a
special date in the calendar of international life. Bringing us
back once again to the remote past, it prompts us to take a
closer look at the world to decide what we can do to make
the work of the United Nations more effective in fulfilling
those functions and tasks which were allocated to it nearly
half a century ago.
It is generally known that not a single historic date is
oriented only towards the past. Moreover, the best way to
observe the anniversary of turning points of history is to
concentrate on unsettled issues,
to reassess the existing
situation creatively and to outline the prospects for future
development.
In this context, we propose the convening,
in the
framework of the United Nations commemoration, of an
international peace summit to summarize the development of
the world community in the post-confrontation era and
outline the future world order for the next century. The
aims of this conference derive from the Secretary-General’s
report "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277). Those aims
include the formulation of the concept of peace and security
in the post-confrontation era.
In our view, such a forum should be timed to the
Organization’s anniversary and organized under the aegis of
the United Nations,
of
contemporary international relations cannot be imagined
without this international Organization, whose prestige and
reputation are universally recognized as very high.
development
because
the
I should also like to emphasize another important factor
in favour of holding such a conference within the United
Nations. Only the United Nations has the experience to
convene global high-level forums to consider complicated
issues and set forth comprehensive approaches.
Such
meetings could have a great mobilizing effect on world
developments, as attested to by the 1992 Conference in Rio
de Janeiro. Furthermore, it would seem appropriate in the
course of the global international conference to discuss and
adopt new proposals and ideas, the realization of which
would energize the Organization’s activity and give it new
impetus.
As never before, we have every reason to see the
United Nations as a powerful
instrument capable of
maintaining international peace and security, strengthening
justice and human rights, and ensuring, to quote the United
Nations Charter, "social progress and better standards of life
in larger freedom". This would correspond to the motto of
the commemoration: "We the Peoples of the United Nations
... United for a Better World".
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. PIZARRO (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
In October 1995, the United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth
anniversary.
an opportunity for
retrospection and an analysis of our achievements and
failures, and on that basis to conduct a profound assessment
of the challenges that lie ahead for this Organization.
This will provide
the Preparatory Committee for
In December 1992, the Assembly considered the first
report of
the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the United Nations. Chile, which is a
member of that Committee and has been honoured with a
vice-chairmanship, has worked hard to promote
this
initiative. Similarly, at the national level, work has begun
on the basic principles to be applied in organizing this
celebration, in the total conviction that the commemoration
of the fiftieth anniversary offers an extraordinary opportunity
for highlighting the importance of the United Nations and
the other organizations of the system.
The Government of Chile has studied the note sent by
the Secretary-General on 3 February this year, in which he
brings to our attention the importance of establishing
national committees for the fiftieth anniversary to provide a
channel for each country’s activities with regard to the
anniversary. In that connection, I am pleased to inform the
Assembly that the establishment of the national committee
in our own country is now being considered from the legal
standpoint, and we hope that it will be ready to begin its
activities by the end of this year, at the latest. The National
Committee will be entrusted with the coordination at the
national
country’s
participation in all the activities for the celebration, and will
also be in charge of organizing and publicizing all activities
to promote awareness of its work.
international
levels
and
our
of
It has also been considered fundamental to the desired
success of this National Committee that it be composed of
a broad spectrum of representatives of our principal national
organizations. To that purpose, legal provisions stipulate
that it be composed of representatives of the Ministry of
Foreign Relations; the Ministry of Public Education; the
Ministry of National Defence; the Ministry of the Secretary-
General of the Government; the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation;
the Senate and the House of
Representatives of
the Republic; universities; and the
directorships of the library, archives and museums; and that
it be open to other institutions that might be invited by the
Committee towards the attainment of its goal.
The motto already agreed upon - "We the Peoples of
the United Nations ... United for a Better World" - gives us
an appropriate framework for the success of this initiative.
That
the work of the Preparatory
is why we support
in
and
particular
publicity
Committee
programmes and activities related to the Organization’s
achievements and potential for the future, so that we might
make it a useful tool in the quest for solutions to the most
burning problems afflicting the people of the world.
various
the
During the general debate, one delegation quite rightly
pointed out that the United Nations itself should reflect the
principles it advocates. Unfortunately, the reality today does
not bear out that assertion. The United Nations has not been
able to adapt with the requisite speed to the changes our
world is experiencing. That is why work should be done, on
a priority basis and with the fiftieth anniversary as a
deadline, to achieve the restructuring of the United Nations,
an appeal that has resounded through the statements of
delegations in the general debate.
Among the reforms that we feel are most urgent is that
of the Security Council, with a view to achieving equitable
geographical representation. This reform, however, should
also make the Council efficient and a model of efficacy for
any regional or subregional organization and the peoples of
the world in general. At the same time, the other organs of
the United Nations system need to proceed along the same
lines so that, in all spheres, efficiency and harmonious action
become the common denominator.
The convening of
the World Summit
for Social
Development in 1995 will be a key event in the celebration
of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations.
In that
respect,
the chance to discuss the problems of human
security - in particular unemployment, poverty and social
integration - will be a unique opportunity for placing the
human person at the heart of the concerns of the United
Nations
time, demonstrating the
significance and global importance of our Organization.
same
and,
the
at
The deep distrust that persists among the protagonists
on the international scene, the growing strategic interests that
are at stake despite the end of the cold war,
the vast
economic disparities,
increasing competition for
international prestige, and the crisis of nationalism - all
constitute a genuine threat to the security of nations.
the
At the same time, we note that the world has changed,
that bipolarity has ended, that we are heading towards global
understandings, that divisive barriers are being eliminated
and that States are being recognized without ideological
litmus tests.
In other words, the world and the United
Nations have begun to seek and find modern formulas for
understandings between States and innovative solutions for
the problems that persist.
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
7
Allow me at this point a personal digression. What I
have just said is applicable to situations such as Bosnia and
Herzegovina, to what is going on in some of the republics of
the former Soviet Union, and to the case of China and
Taiwan, where being members of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council and the Asian Development Bank
should be a first step in encouraging them to work together
in international organizations.
Resolving the questions I have mentioned is the task
that lies ahead of the international community, and a duly
restructured United Nations must channel its efforts to the
attainment of that objective.
As we shall soon celebrate our fiftieth anniversary we
must redouble our efforts and strengthen our political will so
that by then we shall have modernized and democratized our
Organization, in order to enable it to face the challenges
before it and focus its action on resolving the political,
economic and social problems now threatening humankind.
Chile pledges its determination to work from this day
forward on that huge task.
Mr. TELLO (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
In almost exactly two years the United Nations, shaped by
a group of visionary statesmen in 1945, will reach its half
century. That important anniversary is a source of special
satisfaction for the States that believed from the outset in an
international community organized on basic principles of
coexistence.
It also provides a unique opportunity for
thoughtful reflection on the Organization ’s achievements
and on its future.
The United Nations has come a long way since its
founding in San Francisco at the end of the Second World
War. In many ways it has exceeded the expectations of the
authors of its Charter.
From a strictly quantitative standpoint, we note that
membership has more than tripled, as a result of the
decolonization process undertaken by the Organization and,
more recently, as a consequence of the end of the cold war.
While this aspect is significant, the qualitative changes
are in fact more important. United Nations activities are
now very wide-ranging - from peace-keeping in various
corners of the world to the active promotion of the economic
and social development of peoples, and from the protection
of human rights to the preservation of the environment. We
could say,
there is
nothing that touches human beings that is not the concern of
the United Nations.
to paraphrase the philosophers,
that
To keep its central role on the international scene, the
Organization must respond to change by recognizing its
shortcomings and correcting anachronisms.
My delegation welcomes the Preparatory Committee’s
decision to establish an open-ended drafting group to prepare
a solemn declaration to be adopted here on 24 October 1995.
Despite the view held by some, we must not waste what
little time remains and must start as soon as possible the
substantive work that will lead to a document whose content
reflects what we expect of the United Nations in the next
century.
In Mexico’s opinion, that important document could
contain three major chapters. The first would examine the
ground we have covered in the first 50 years, highlighting
the Organization’s achievements;
the second would be
devoted to the problems facing the Organization today; and
the third, which would no doubt be the most extensive,
would conclude with a look towards the future in order to
direct our efforts and those of our successors.
Some have expressed the view in the Preparatory
Committee that it would be premature to take pen in hand
and begin the drafting, because - they say - of the speed
with which changes in the world order are taking place. In
my delegation’s opinion, they are being prudent to a fault.
Any journey, however long and arduous, begins with the
first step. We must continue the exchange of views that
began a few short months ago and begin to draft a text that
we can alter as events require. What we cannot and must
not do is to leave everything to the last minute, since waiting
so long would doom the declaration to failure.
it was decided that
In accordance with the request of this Assembly, a
National Committee charged with the commemoration of the
Organization’s fiftieth anniversary has already been set up in
my country.
In view of the importance my Government
attaches to this event,
the Foreign
Secretary would chair the Committee, which is made up of
personages from governmental, academic and cultural fields
linked to the United Nations. The Mexican Committee has
already held two meetings, at which its members thoroughly
examined various programmes to disseminate knowledge of
the purposes, principles and work of the United Nations in
order
the
Organization’s activities, and lead them to support those
activities.
the Mexican people
to make
aware of
Measures considered to date include the preparation and
publication of books and other materials, the production of
radio and television programmes,
the organization of
seminars and round tables on various subjects, with the
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
participation of Mexican and foreign experts, and the
issuance of postage stamps. I shall soon have the privilege
of informing the Preparatory Committee of the decisions the
Mexican national body will be taking in order to assure the
attainment of its objectives.
Mexico is resolutely and enthusiastically planning the
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations. We are prepared to carry out an exercise in deep
reflection, so that this very significant event will not amount
merely to expressions of jubilation and formal celebrations.
We are determined to continue to cooperate fully with the
Chairman of
the Preparatory Committee, Ambassador
Richard Butler of Australia, and with Under-Secretary-
General Gillian Sorensen, with a view to ensuring that the
fiftieth anniversary is accorded all the formal and substantive
significance that it merits.
to mark the
Mr. JACOB (India):
My delegation attaches
importance to the celebrations
fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations. We have been taking an
active part in the meetings of the Preparatory Committee,
which is being ably guided by its Chairman, Mr. Richard
the Permanent Representative of Australia. We
Butler,
compliment Under-Secretary-General,
should
like
Mrs. Gillian Sorensen, who
the
Preparatory Committee efficiently and with devotion. Her
wholehearted and receptive approach to the ideas expressed
for our collective
by various delegations augur well
endeavour
The
newsletter on the preparations that she has started to publish
is really useful.
to make the celebrations successful.
to
has
been
assisting
For our part, we have formed in India a national
committee, under the chairmanship of the External Affairs
Minister,
fiftieth-anniversary
celebrations. I assure the Assembly that the Government of
India and this national committee will do all in their power
to ensure that the celebrations are meaningful and successful.
in connection with the
The completion of 50 years of the existence of the
United Nations is an occasion for observance - indeed, for
celebration. The Organization, by its very existence, has
served as an anchor of hope for humanity. Having emerged
as a harbinger of peace in a war-ravaged world, it has
survived the trials and tribulations of half a century. The
United Nations remained a silver lining on the cloudy
horizon of the cold war. Today, it has re-emerged as a
major actor in international affairs, assuming unprecedented
dimensions. The anniversary will be an occasion for helping
to shape a new United Nations.
Anniversaries are occasions for celebration as well as
for recollection. We certainly should rejoice at the distance
travelled. More important, however, is the road ahead, with
the ever-receding horizons that beckon us. In our view, the
agenda for the fiftieth anniversary celebrations should be
closely focused on the Organization’s agenda for the future.
Exhibitions,
films and music
performances could certainly form a useful backdrop for this
wider endeavour, but they should by no means become the
be-all and end-all of the exercise. It is my delegation’s view
that such a conceptual
framework would help us to
concentrate on furthering the objectives of the United
Nations and on the responsibility that it will have to shoulder
in the coming decades.
television programmes,
Our own approach to observance of
the fiftieth
anniversary will be to place emphasis on those activities that
can help to enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations,
not only as a political body but also as a catalyst for
economic and social development. Concerts and exhibitions
are useful means of increasing awareness, among the masses,
of the United Nations, but of greater importance will be
those activities that enhance the Organization’s constructive
role in world affairs. The occasion should be used to reflect
on the achievements of the Organization and to chart a
well-defined course for its future. We attach particular
importance, in this context, to the activities of specialized
agencies, which should formulate programmes, specifically
designed for the anniversary, that will reach their targets by
1995. Observance of the anniversary should mark, not only
the culmination of the reform process, but also the beginning
of new activities that will give the Organization a better
image in the world.
Last but not least, it will be important to ensure that the
anniversary functions are universal in character, and are seen
to be so. Our purpose will be better served if they are
dispersed over the globe rather than centred around United
Nations Headquarters or confined to a small group of
countries.
In our view, the purpose of the exercise should
take precedence over procedural constraints relating to
organizational and financial arrangements.
During the meetings of the Preparatory Committee,
Member States expressed wide-ranging and sometimes
differing views on various aspects of the fiftieth-anniversary
celebrations.
It is our hope that, in the true spirit of our
work in the United Nations, the preparatory work will be
done after the viewpoints of Member States have been
harmonized. With these words, my delegation would like to
endorse the draft decision of the General Assembly that the
Preparatory Committee should continue its work.
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
9
Mr. HAJNOCZI (Austria): Let me begin by thanking
Ambassador Butler for his able leadership as Chairman of
the Preparatory Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the United Nations. After extensive deliberations,
the
Preparatory Committee has achieved consensus on the theme
for the fiftieth anniversary:
"We the Peoples of the United Nations ... United for a
Better World".
The first words of the Charter seem to us to set forth a
particularly meaningful theme.
"We the peoples" clearly
expresses the concept that the United Nations constituency
is not limited to Governments - that it is mankind.
We ought to seize the opportunity of this occasion to
show to the individual citizen the multiple effects of United
Nations activities. The support for the United Nations that
we should thereby build in the electorate would be
transformed into increased support from Governments.
We should heighten the awareness of programmes
sponsored by the United Nations and of the Organization’s
achievements, deepen knowledge about the Organization, and
demonstrate that it reaches out to every individual on the
globe.
In a nutshell,
the fiftieth anniversary could be the
biggest public-relations event for the United Nations system.
Therefore, particular emphasis should be laid on cooperation
with the media and with the education sector. We want to
imbue, not just the adult population, but even more so the
next generation with the ideals of the United Nations. Such
an approach, which might be called a public-awareness
operation, would not put a heavy burden on the United
Nations budget. Rather, in our view, would it depend on
creativity,
in
sectors beyond governmental structures.
initiative and the ability to attract
interest
tribute must
A well-deserved
to
Under-Secretary-General Gillian
her
predecessor Joseph Verner Reed and their able colleagues in
the Secretariat who have been reaching out to the public in
their work.
be
Sorensen
paid
and
the global
We share their view that the fiftieth anniversary should
level.
be commemorated by activities at
Certainly, United Nations Headquarters in New York and
United Nations Offices at Geneva, Vienna and Nairobi offer
excellent bases and should be equally used. Likewise, the
many United Nations offices in Member States can play a
significant
important
this
anniversary requires a truly system-wide effort.
The celebration of
role.
We expect
that many of
the activities will be
level by
undertaken at national,
non-governmental organizations.
Therefore the early
establishment of national committees is vital to initiate,
liaise, focus and coordinate activities.
regional and local
Austria will actively participate in the drafting of a
solemn declaration to mark the observance of
the
anniversary in 1995. But our idea of the celebration of the
fiftieth anniversary is not a kind of ceremonial birthday party
on 24 October 1995. We prefer a broader perspective,
viewing this commemoration as a substantial matter
encompassing many activities and major meetings throughout
1995, meetings such as the World Summit for Social
Development and the World Conference on Women. For
what would be the credibility of a solemn reaffirmation of
adherence to the principles of the Charter on one day if we
did not live up to them every day of the year, by striving,
united, for a better world.
Mr. CATARINO (Portugal): Since this is the first time
I have had the honour to speak in plenary meeting at this
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, please allow
me, Sir, to congratulate you on your election and wish you
all the best in the conduct and fulfilment of your duties.
Portugal follows with great interest the work of the
United Nations and the constant enlargement of its activities
for the benefit of humanity. The sphere of influence of the
Organization has increased from day to day, covering areas
of the utmost importance, such as peace-keeping operations,
economic development and cooperation, environmental
action, humanitarian assistance and human rights -
to
mention but a few of the very important fields that have a
real
international
community.
impact on the well-being of
the
In this respect
the commemoration of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations is a special and unique
opportunity to portray the work of the Organization and to
present a comprehensive picture of our efforts to attain goals
to make a better world for us all.
That being so, I should like to inform the Assembly
that the Government of Portugal is taking the steps necessary
to establish its national committee for the commemoration of
the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. We hope,
therefore, to be in a position in the near future to announce
the establishment of our national committee.
Mr. LOVINSKIY (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian):
The Russian Federation attaches great
significance to preparations for celebrating the fiftieth
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
anniversary of the United Nations. We assess very highly
the work of the Preparatory Committee for this anniversary,
under the leadership of the Permanent Representative of
Australia to the United Nations, Ambassador Richard Butler.
We also support his recommendations.
role of
The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations must, in
the
our view, become a compelling reaffirmation of
important
the
the Organization in the life of
international community and the dedication of States
Members of the United Nations to the full application of the
purposes and principles enshrined in the United Nations
Charter 50 years ago.
In achieving international consensus on fundamental
international problems, States are called on fully to make use
of and develop the potential of the United Nations. Russian
governmental bodies and public opinion have already
undertaken preparatory work in connection with this notable
event
in the life of the international community and a
national committee of the Russian Federation is being
established.
We believe that it is extremely appropriate that the
beginning of the process for the celebration of the fiftieth
anniversary is taking place at this time. Fifty years ago at
the Moscow Conference of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs
of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States
of America and the United Kingdom, which took place from
19 to 30 October 1943, the concept of the establishment of
an international organization for
the maintenance of
international peace and security was proclaimed for the first
time.
It was precisely then in that Declaration of the Four
Nations on General Security that the Governments of the
United States, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and
China stated the need for the establishment of such an
organization based on the principle of the sovereign equality
of all peace-loving States and open to membership by all
States, large or small.
The delegation of the Russian Federation supports the
draft resolution submitted by the delegation of Australia in
A/48/L.7 and calls for its adoption by consensus.
Mr. ELARABY (Egypt): The Assembly has before it
a very thoughtful and comprehensive report of
the
Preparatory Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
United Nations. The report reflects, and in depth,
the
discussions in the Preparatory Committee, which was
successfully steered by its very able Chairman, Ambassador
Butler
to
Under-Secretary-General Gillian Sorensen and her very able
and devoted staff.
of Australia.
grateful
also
We
are
As repeatedly stated by most delegations we are looking
forward to a commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary
which will not be limited to festive celebrations. My
delegation is of
the fiftieth anniversary
provides us with a unique opportunity to reflect on the
achievements, the shortcomings and the performance of the
United Nations since its establishment.
the view that
We should also be able to project into the future and
seek to improve and enhance the performance of the United
Nations. We would like to consider the challenges that the
Organization will encounter in the future and how it will
cope with those challenges. What areas should be reformed?
What will the United Nations do to meet the challenges of
the future?
The founders of our Organization envisaged, through
the Charter, a very delicate structure for the United Nations,
a structure that survived the ravages of the cold war; now,
with the end of the ideological confrontation between East
and West, the United Nations has a better opportunity to
meet the challenges of the future. Therefore it is only
natural to expect that States Members of the Organization
will use the fiftieth anniversary to review the balance sheet
of the last 50 years and prepare for the future.
Egypt has already established a national committee to
prepare for the fiftieth anniversary, and will spare no effort
in
contributing
the
commemoration.
the meaningful
success
of
to
Mr. SALMI (Finland): My country agrees with the
many representatives who have indicated that the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations will be a special occasion
for us, an occasion for reflection, taking stock and also
action towards further developing and enhancing the work of
our Organization,
the manifold and
ever-increasing needs of the international community.
the better to meet
My delegation has already had the opportunity of
participating actively here at Headquarters in the work on the
preparation of the anniversary, and I have the pleasure to
inform the Assembly that my Government is now taking
steps to form a national committee for the celebration of the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The committee
will enjoy leadership at a high-level and will include a very
wide spectrum of Finnish society.
The PRESIDENT: We shall now proceed to consider
draft resolution A/48/L.7, as well as the draft decision
contained in section III of the report of the Preparatory
Committee contained in document A/48/48.
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
11
Mr. CHEN Jian (China) (interpretation from Chinese):
Before the draft decision contained in the report of the
Preparatory Committee is adopted, I should like to point out
that the Chinese translation of the draft decision contains a
language error in the second preambular paragraph, which
mentions the theme for the commemoration. The present
Chinese text does not fully reflect the spirit and meaning of
the original English.
for
the commemoration of
The Chinese Government attaches high importance to
the activities
the fiftieth
anniversary and has established a national committee headed
by Vice-Premier and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen. The
theme of the fiftieth anniversary will be widely publicized in
China; therefore, how the English for the theme of the
commemoration is reflected in the Chinese text is a major
question. I do not wish to hold up the adoption of the theme
today; however, with your permission, Mr. President, I
should like to conduct consultations with the parties
concerned in order to find the proper Chinese wording.
The PRESIDENT: I thank the representative of China
for drawing our attention to the deficiency in translation, and
I shall avail myself of his undertaking to consult with the
Secretariat to ensure that the translation is corrected for any
future document.
On that understanding, the Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.7 as well as the draft
decision contained in section III of the report (A/48/48) of
the Preparatory Committee.
I now call on the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr. SUKHODREV (Director of Security Council and
General Assembly Affairs): Under the terms of the draft
decision contained in section III of document A/48/48, the
General Assembly would,
the
Preparatory Committee for the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations should continue its work and report thereon
to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, and that
an open-ended drafting group should be established to
prepare a declaration to be adopted in 1995 to mark the
anniversary.
inter alia, decide that
It is anticipated that the Preparatory Committee would
need to hold 24 meetings during 1994, and these would have
to be added to the calendar of conferences. The extent to
which the Organization’s permanent capacity would need to
be supplemented by temporary assistance resources can be
determined only in the light of the calendar of conferences
for 1994-1995.
However, provisions are made under section 25 of the
proposed programme budget for 1994-1995 not only for
meetings programmed at the time of budget preparation but
also for meetings that would be authorized subsequently,
provided that the number and distribution of meetings and
conferences are consistent with the pattern of meetings in
past years.
Consequently, should the General Assembly adopt the
draft decision contained in section III of document A/48/48,
no additional appropriation would be required under the
programme budget for the biennium 1994-1995.
The PRESIDENT: We turn first to draft resolution
A/48/L.7, entitled "Fiftieth anniversary of the Declaration of
the Four Nations on General Security".
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/48/L.7?
Draft resolution A/48/L.7 was adopted (resolution
48/6).
The PRESIDENT: We turn now to the draft decision
contained in section III of the report of the Preparatory
Committee, document A/48/48.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
draft decision contained in section III of the report (A/48/18)
of the Preparatory Committee?
The draft decision was adopted.
The PRESIDENT: Under the terms of the resolution
just adopted, the General Assembly will commemorate the
fiftieth anniversary of the Declaration of the Four Nations on
General Security on Monday, 1 November 1993.
I should
like to point out that this commemoration will take place in
the afternoon as the second item.
We have thus concluded this stage of our consideration
of agenda item 47.
AGENDA ITEM 155
ASSISTANCE IN MINE CLEARANCE:
RESOLUTION (A/48/L.5)
DRAFT
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly has before it a draft
resolution issued as document A/48/L.5.
I call upon the representative of Belgium to introduce
that draft resolution.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. NOTERDAEME (Belgium) (interpretation from
French): On 20 August this year the 12 countries members
of the European Community requested the inclusion of an
additional item in the agenda of the forty-eighth session of
the General Assembly entitled "Assistance
in mine
clearance". That item quickly gained broad support within
the Organization and among Member States, leading to the
formulation of draft resolution A/48/L.5, which I have the
honour to introduce to the Assembly today on behalf of the
sponsors, of which there are now 88.
I ask the indulgence
of members as I read out all their names.
The
sponsors of draft
resolution A/48/L.5 are:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia
and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti,
the Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador,
Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, India, Ireland,
Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malawi,
Malta, Mauritius, Monaco, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal,
the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea,
the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, San Marino, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the United Republic of Tanzania and the
United States of America.
I should like to thank sincerely all the delegations that
have given their support to and contributed to the drafting of
this text. The Secretariat, and in particular members of the
mine-clearing unit, several United Nations agencies and the
International Committee of the Red Cross, have shared their
experience with us. We should like to express our deep
gratitude to them.
The sponsors are submitting their draft resolution to the
Assembly because of the catastrophic situation created by
the massive presence of mines and other unexploded devices
in countries that have experienced armed conflict.
Under
the second preambular paragraph of draft
resolution A/48/L.5, the Assembly would express dismay at
the high number of victims of mines and other unexploded
devices. Each year, such devices indiscriminately kill and
injure countless innocent victims, often children, long after
weapons have fallen silent.
Under the third, fourth and fifth preambular paragraphs,
the Assembly would recall the adverse social and economic
consequences of the presence of mines. Vast territories are
today unfit for the resumption of economic activities or the
return of
refugees already sorely tested by conflict.
Furthermore, the presence of mines seriously jeopardizes the
safety of teams participating in humanitarian missions,
peace-keeping and rehabilitation and seriously hampers their
action.
In the following preambular paragraphs, the Assembly
would recall that in his report "An Agenda for Peace" the
Secretary-General had already recognized the growing
importance of mine clearance and that the Security Council
had fully supported that report in a presidential statement of
26 February 1993.
In resolution 47/120 B the General
Assembly also recognized the relevance of the Secretary-
General’s analysis. I would only add that in his latest report
on the work of the Organization the Secretary-General states:
"Of all the tasks involved in setting a nation on a
new road to peace and prosperity, perhaps none has the
immediate urgency of mine clearance." (A/48/1, para.
459)
Further, the inhumane weapons Convention, which of course
relates primarily to prevention and humanitarian laws,
contains in Protocol II articles calling for international
cooperation in the removal of mines.
Under the twelfth to fourteenth preambular paragraphs,
the Assembly would note with satisfaction the inclusion in
the mandates of
several peace-keeping operations of
provisions relating to mine clearance and would welcome the
establishment within the Secretariat of a coordinated mine-
clearance programme.
It also commends the activities
already undertaken in this connection by the United Nations
system, particularly by the Department of Humanitarian
Affairs and the Department of Peace-Keeping Operations,
the International Committee of
the Red Cross and
non-governmental organizations.
The operative part of the draft resolution highlights the
importance of United Nations coordination of activities
designed to facilitate the solution of problems linked by the
failure to remove mines.
To achieve such coordination it is necessary to begin by
analysing the precise parameters of the problem the United
Nations, its agencies, Member States and non-governmental
organizations must confront because of mines. Then, an
inventory must be drawn up of means, including financial
means, available to them in dealing with the problem.
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
13
therefore,
In operative paragraphs 4 and 5,
the
Assembly would request the Secretary-General to submit to
the General Assembly, before its forty-ninth session, a
comprehensive report on the problems caused by the
increasing presence of mines and other unexploded devices
and on the manner in which the United Nations contribution
to the solution of problems relating to mine clearance could
be strengthened.
That report should also consider the
financial aspects of activities related to mine clearance, and
in that connection the General Assembly would ask the
Secretary-General to consider the advisability of establishing
a voluntary trust fund.
If we are to assist the Secretary-General in drawing up
his report, many countries must extend their cooperation by
providing him with information, data and the views and
suggestions of their Governments. That is the purpose of
operative paragraph 6.
Draft resolution A/48/L.5, before the General Assembly
today, reflects the growing concern of the international
community at the devastation caused by mines and other
unexploded devices in countries emerging from armed
conflict. On behalf of the sponsors, I express the hope that
it will be adopted without a vote.
Speaking now on behalf of the European Community
and its member States, I pledge our full cooperation in the
preparation of the report of the Secretary-General. We hope
that will contribute to the creation of an exhaustive chart
showing the needs resulting from the presence of mines, and
the means available for meeting them.
In our view,
The European Community and its member States will
be following with special attention the follow-up to the
Secretary-General’s report.
today’s draft
resolution is but the first stage of a long-term effort. We
hope that at its forty-ninth session the General Assembly
will continue its deliberations on this item with a view to
considering effective, urgent measures to help countries
affected by the presence of mines to make progress towards
social rehabilitation and economic reconstruction.
Mr. FARHADI (Afghanistan)
(interpretation from
French):
I wish first of all to convey the gratitude of my
delegation to the representative of Belgium and to the initial
sponsors of draft resolution A/48/L.5, that is the countries
the European Community, which have
members of
themselves assisted many countries
in mine-clearance
operations.
Afghanistan has
joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution, and I am addressing the Assembly on this item
because my country is in a tragic and, unfortunately, typical
situation. In terms of the size of its population, Afghanistan
heads the list of countries threatened by the dangers posed
by mines. We learn from the report of the Secretary-
General of June 1992 that ours is a typical case.
In my country, 45,000 mines have been documented in
an area of 25 square kilometres. In all of Afghanistan there
are undoubtedly more than 10 million mines. The danger
continues even as we meet in this Hall; it is grave. In many
villages children are wounded every day as they play on
mined ground. That shows how serious the problem is.
Soviet military aggression in Afghanistan has ended; the Red
Army is no longer on our territory. But, with more than
10 million mines, a latent aggression continues, with its
attendant delayed danger of death or serious injury. This is
a case of "delayed aggression", with time-bombs scattered in
an unknown pattern invisible to the naked eye. Most wars
of aggression end with the withdrawal of the aggressor, with
a cease-fire, with a document, or with a hand-shake before
the cameras. But this kind of aggression persists after the
conclusion of peace.
In the general debate, at
the 24th meeting, on
11 October, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan
stressed the importance of this problem, and noted my
delegation’s support for a draft resolution on this item.
Those are the reasons why Afghanistan has joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.
I am grateful to the representative of Belgium also for
having clarified a number of points that are made only
between the lines of the draft resolution but that appear to
have been clear in the minds of the initial sponsors. Should
the draft resolution be adopted today - I hope without a vote -
my delegation will be satisfied with the text as it stands.
But if the initial sponsors wish to have suggestions for
possibly important improvements and additions, it would be
better to take note of these.
Among those points, let me note that it is not only
human beings that are threatened by mines. Domestic
animals, notably the cattle used for agricultural and other
work, and wild animals can be gravely injured and could die
from the effects of their wounds. This should certainly be
of interest to the United Nations.
in this
Since the Second World War, technology has made
progress,
case, unfortunately, with harmful
consequences for mankind. Mines from the First World War
were easily found, as they were made of metal, but most of
today’s mines are made of plastics, which are terribly
difficult
is why mine clearance is an
to detect. That
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
extremely important specialization in today’s armies and
ministries of defence.
A very important point that is not clear in the draft
resolution is that the presence of mines militates against the
return of war refugees, who wish to return now that the war
has ended. But when they learn from those who have
already returned that children have been injured when they
stepped on mines, they are no longer so eager to return
voluntarily.
just been introduced by the Permanent Representative of
Belgium, and of course we hope that the draft resolution will
be adopted by consensus.
The Austrian delegation is extremely alarmed by the
growing presence of mines and other unexploded devices in
territories devastated by armed conflicts. The presence in
the ground of these mines, long after hostilities have ended,
is a grave obstacle to the restoration of peace and the return
to normal productive daily life.
sowing,
three stages:
irrigation - so important
The question of reconstruction and rehabilitation has
been mentioned. This is particularly important in agriculture
at
for
developing countries where there is little rainfall - and the
harvest. At each stage there is a danger for farmers - and
for their wives and children, who are generally involved in
these tasks, particularly in the harvest - of severe injury, or
even death, because of lack of medical treatment. Those
who are seriously injured are at the mercy of all types of
infections and gangrene, which can be fatal.
In other areas, such as the reconstruction of roads, and
other means of communication - above all, in the so-called
war-stricken countries, a sad new term - Afghanistan is again
at the top of the list.
by mines
to
including the training of
to countries able to assist
If additions are to be made to the draft resolution, at the
very least the question of returning war refugees to their
homes should be included in the preamble. An important
item should also be added to the operative part: an urgent
appeal
those most seriously
undertake mine-clearance
threatened
programmes,
sappers.
Afghanistan has already received such assistance from many
countries
including Australia, which
assisted in the training of local personnel for mine clearance,
personnel who have done a great deal and are still at work.
The Afghanistan operation is still huge, however, and we
hope soon to receive expanded, concrete assistance,
including assistance from Australia, which, for budgetary
reasons, I believe, ceased for a time.
represented here,
local
We hope to see the draft resolution adopted without a
vote, by acclamation, under your presidency, Sir, I assure
you that among the resolutions we shall be adopting in this
manner this one will indeed be historic.
It is often those in the most disadvantaged sector of the
population who run the greatest risk of being wounded,
killed or permanently disfigured by mines. They are often
forced by the economic constraints from which they suffer
to return to areas that are unsafe because of the continued
presence of mines. The representative of Afghanistan, in a
very relevant statement, has just addressed this specific
problem.
The intense suffering inflicted on the very high number
of victims of mines, primarily among the civilian population,
is an unacceptable affront to the conscience of mankind.
The number of incidents involving children is particularly
appalling.
We know, to cite only one example, that in Cambodia
200 to 300 men, women and children are torn apart by
mines every month. For those who lose an arm, a leg or
their sight, for those who are otherwise severely wounded by
the explosion of one of the 4 million to 7 million mines still
remaining in Cambodia, peace has not yet arrived. They
may never be able fully to enjoy the results of peace in their
country.
Statistics on the number of mines in various
regions
9 million to 10 million in
Afghanistan; 9 million in Angola; 5 million to 10 million in
Iraq; 5 million in Kuwait; 1 million to 2 million in Western
Sahara; 1 million to 2 million in Mozambique; 1 million in
Somalia; and 1 million in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
are horrifying:
The letter (A/48/490) dated 8 October 1993 from the
Permanent Representative of Croatia addressed to the
Secretary-General reminds us that the problem of land mines
It states that there
also affects countries in central Europe.
are some 3 million mines in Croatia.
It is clear that the
country’s reconstruction will be greatly slowed by this
unresolved problem.
Mr. SUCHARIPA (Austria)
(interpretation from
French): Austria welcomes the initiative of the European
Community in having the question "Assistance in mine
clearance" added to the agenda. We are pleased to be
co-authors of the draft resolution with that title, which has
In our opinion, the international community should
make every effort to strengthen cooperation to deal more
effectively with the problem of land mines. In this context,
the Foreign Ministry and the Defence Ministry of the
Republic of Austria supported a symposium organized last
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
15
May by an Austrian concern on the subject of mine
clearance as it relates to the challenge of repatriation and
rehabilitation. The symposium brought together military and
civilian experts on mine clearance, political analysts and
representatives of relevant international organizations and
non-governmental organizations.
to the problem of the indiscriminate use of land-mines,
which are mutilating men, women and children all over the
globe.
Those were the comments the Austrian delegation
wished to make at this stage of our deliberations.
In their conclusions, the participants emphasized the
importance of mine clearance for
the success of all
repatriation and rehabilitation programmes.
They also
emphasized that mine-clearance activities require careful
preparation and training and that medical supplies for those
involved should be given the highest priority.
The
participants also noted the imperative need to accompany
mine clearance operations with education programmes for
the local population. The symposium recommended the
establishment of a central repository for information and
technical databases.
instability.
Mr. INDERFURTH (United States of America):
Uncleared land-mines are a major source of human tragedy
as well as of regional
The United States
Government estimates that there are more than 85 million
uncleared land-mines scattered in 62 countries throughout the
world. The number is growing each day. Approximately
150 people - most of them civilians - are killed or injured
each week by land-mines. Land-mines are also a regional
destabilizing force. They hinder economic reconstruction
and development, inhibit the return of refugees and create a
source of chaos in countries striving for political stability.
We thank Mr. Jan Eliasson, Under-Secretary-General
for Humanitarian Affairs, for having so often emphasized the
urgency of the problem of land mines. We welcome the
establishment within the Secretariat of a coordinated
mine-clearance programme, with the participation of the
Department of Humanitarian Affairs,
the Department of
Peace-keeping Operations and other competent bodies. We
note with satisfaction the inclusion in the mandate of several
peace-keeping operations of provisions relating to mine
clearance. We are following very closely the efforts made
by the International Committee of the Red Cross concerning
the problem of land mines.
The international community explicitly recognized the
horrendous nature of
land-mines by concluding the
Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of
Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to
Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects,
and in particular the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions
on the Use of Mines, Booby Traps and Other Devices
(Protocol II). Austria has ratified the Convention and the
Protocol. We urge all countries that have not yet ratified the
Convention to accede to it as soon as possible.
We believe also that the possibility of a moratorium on
the export of land-mines should be carefully considered.
In this context, we have noted with interest
the
convening by the Secretary-General of a review conference
to amend the aforementioned Convention and in particular
its Protocol II. In our view, it would be a good idea to view
this review conference as a forum for obtaining greater
adherence. It would also provide an opportunity to build on
existing legal norms in order to find more effective solutions
The United States urges the world community to turn
its attention to this problem now. It must be addressed from
two sides. First, we need to remove or neutralize those
mines already laid. Secondly, we must cut the flow of new
mines.
is pleased to
co-sponsor this draft resolution, which invites Member States
and non-governmental organizations to provide de-mining
assistance, and which asks the Secretary-General to consider
establishing a voluntary fund for training and other activities
related to de-mining.
The United States Government
We also note that, in addition to this draft resolution
addressing mine removal, two draft resolutions relating to
land-mines are being submitted in the First Committee. This
year the United States plans to submit a draft resolution that
calls for a world-wide moratorium on the export of
anti-personnel land-mines - those which pose a grave danger
to civilian populations.
In addition, we expect that the
annual resolution on the conventional weapons Convention
will include a paragraph calling for a review conference to
consider, among other things, aspects of the Convention
relating to anti-personnel land-mines.
Last year
The United States Senate
the United States Government began a
unilateral moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-
mines.
recently passed
unanimously a three-year extension of that moratorium. We
expect the House of Representatives to vote on that issue
shortly. We urge all Member States to join my Government
in support of these efforts to rid the world of land-mines,
both by regulating their export and by developing de-mining
assistance and training programmes around the world.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. MARUYAMA (Japan): I should like first of all to
express my Government’s appreciation to the countries
members of the European Community for taking the lead in
promoting the inclusion on the agenda of this new item,
"Assistance in mine clearance", which is certain to help draw
the attention of the world to a most pressing problem.
It has been said that the indiscriminate maiming of
innocent people by land-mines
left undetonated and
unretrieved after a period of civil conflict is an affront to the
international conscience. Many tens of millions of mines are
thought to remain scattered around countries that have been
the scene of such conflict, and they are taking a toll in
human life. They continue to be a major impediment to the
smooth delivery of humanitarian assistance to those in need
even after hostilities cease. Not only do they represent a
constant threat to the lives of civilians: they also hamper the
repatriation of
refugees and resettlement of displaced
persons, thus affecting activities at all stages, from relief to
development, of the process by which a country strives to
restore itself to health after a conflict comes to an end.
In "An Agenda for Peace" the Secretary-General
addresses the problem of land-mines and their terrible
consequences, emphasizing the urgency of mine clearance
for any nation setting off on the road to peace and
reconstruction. At its last session, the General Assembly
adopted without a vote resolution 47/120 B, which endorses
the proposals he made in this area. My
as useful
Government
to those proposals and
considers that de-mining efforts should also be emphasized
in the terms of reference of peace-keeping operations.
fully subscribes
In his annual Report on the work of the Organization
(A/48/1), the Secretary-General also stated that the United
Nations has launched a concerted drive to address this issue
by mobilizing the competent organs of the system. Mine-
clearing operations are already in place in Afghanistan and
Cambodia, and in such countries as Angola, Somalia and the
former Yugoslavia, where they are part of peace-keeping and
humanitarian efforts. My Government
is very much
encouraged by the report of the Secretary-General and the
specific steps he has taken.
For
its part, Japan has contributed to de-mining
operations
in Somalia and Afghanistan by extending
$0.2 million and $14 million, respectively. This is indeed a
matter of grave humanitarian concern to my country.
for
Speaking
the European Community,
the
a more
representative of Belgium has urged that
comprehensive programme of action for mine clearance be
established under United Nations auspices, especially in light
of the difficulties such operations have experienced in
Afghanistan, Cambodia and Mozambique. Mine-clearing is
a labor-intensive and long-term undertaking, which requires
ample resources, good planning and technical know-how to
ensure the desired outcome. The principal responsibility for
mine clearance rests with the country in whose territory the
mines are located, but a concerted effort on the part of the
international community to support these operations is also
essential.
Draft
the
importance
of United Nations
resolution A/48/L.5 contains
several valid
arguments and constructive proposals, particularly those
underlining
led
coordination of mine-clearance activities and the need to
improve the effectiveness of activities in the field. It is my
Government’s view that, while the priority accorded mine
clearance may change over time, and with it responsibility
for a given operation, effectiveness and cost-efficiency must
be maintained. To this end, my Government requests the
Secretary-General to prepare a comprehensive report that
will put this broad subject in perspective for us and provide
common ground for a coherent programme.
Japan supports this draft resolution, proposed by the
member countries of the European Community, and joins
them in sponsoring it.
Mr. KOROMA (Sierra Leone): When the Foreign
Secretary of my country addressed this Assembly last month,
he expressed the strong concern of
the Sierra Leone
delegation over the proliferation in the use of mines and
other such explosive devices in areas of conflict, especially
in intra-State conflicts.
Against the background of the Liberian conflict, we in
Sierra Leone have been victims on two fronts: first, having
to cope with the spill-over effects of that conflict; and,
secondly, dealing with a war imposed on us by one of the
factions in the conflict for allowing our country to be used
as a base for the peace-keeping operation in Liberia, one of
whose main features has been the killing and maiming of
civilians and the disruption of meaningful socio-economic
activity through the planting of land-mines. Those weapons,
planted in a primitive and imprecise manner, have proved
deadly for our citizens, and those who have survived have
been left in appalling conditions. Unexploded mines have
made the task of post-war reconstruction complicated and all
the more difficult for my country.
Indeed, to quote the Secretary-General in his report to
the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly on the
work of the Organization:
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
17
"Of all the tasks involved in setting a nation on a new
road to peace and prosperity, perhaps none has the
immediate urgency of mine clearance".
(A/48/1,
para. 459)
Beyond that, however, there must, in our view, be
unequivocal action by the international community to outlaw
the production, sale and use of these devices which, by their
indiscriminate spreading of death and severe maiming, have
no place in civilized society.
And he went on:
"no attempt
to restore a sense of community and
security can succeed without effective land-mine
removal".
(ibid.)
serious
The Secretary-General’s comments could not be more
true. The grim statistics - which in many instances are at
best inaccurate assumptions - paint an alarming picture, one
in which the increased use of these anti-personnel devices
consequences
has
far beyond their military
objectives.
They now claim as victims more civilian
non-combatants on all continents. Recent figures showing
approximately 50 million land-mines in 10 countries around
the world are, in our view, conservative and do not take into
account
fully their use in situations of conflict of a
non-international character. Sierra Leone wishes to take note
of
the establishment of a coordinated mine-clearance
programme within the Secretariat which, we hope, will serve
as a clearing-house for training and technical facilities for
Member States in this area.
For societies like mine, whose economies are already
weakened, this activity imposes an unacceptably high strain
on medical facilities which are already inadequate. The
indiscriminate and very often unrecorded planting of land-
mines in areas of generally high economic potential - such
as farming, grazing and mining areas - ensures that the
post-conflict resumption of economic activity and commerce
is hindered considerably. The consequences of this are
obvious. That is why we believe that the initiative of the
European Community to inscribe this item on assistance in
mine clearance on this session’s agenda could not have been
more timely.
the
international community the need to take concrete steps in
dealing with this scourge, which the International Committee
of the Red Cross has described as an active menace used to
terrorize populations with the goal of denying access to land.
thus brings to the attention of
It
My delegation sees draft resolution A/48/L.5, which we
have co-sponsored, as a first step in encouraging a
coordinated approach on the part of the United Nations to
the issue of mine clearance, especially through the provision
of
and the
establishment of humanitarian,
and economic
programmes to enable Member States so afflicted to embark
on mine clearance and to rehabilitate the victims for their
reintegration into society.
resources,
assistance
technical
training,
social
Sierra Leone
the draft
resolution and looks forward to the appropriate follow-up
action on it.
fully supports
therefore
Mr. KAMAL (Pakistan): The consideration of the issue
of mine clearance by the General Assembly is a welcome
development. The problems posed by the indiscriminate
laying of millions of mines in many parts of the world are
now of such great magnitude that they can only be resolved
by the
international
community.
concerted action of
entire
the
The techniques of mine-laying as well as the nature of
land-mines themselves have undergone changes which have
had the most horrendous consequences. Mines are no longer
deployed in localized areas as tactical battlefield weapons.
Instead, they are carpeted over vast stretches of land, the
apparent objective being to strike terror among civilians and
to empty territory. Many of the most tragic victims of such
mines are children who are maimed for the rest of their
lives.
The question arises as to what course of action should
be adopted by the world community. We are of the view
that a series of steps should be taken in three areas:
measures to impart
training and know-how to affected
countries; measures to improve mine-clearance technology;
and,
finally, measures to strengthen the legal norms
regarding the use of mines.
Most of the countries that are affected by the problem
of uncleared minefields lack the expertise to clear and
neutralize unexploded mines. The United Nations agencies
and the Member States can be of immense help by setting
up institutional mechanisms for the exchange of information
and know-how, as well in the training of personnel in mine-
clearance techniques. In this regard, we greatly appreciate
taken by the European Community to
the measures
strengthen the mine-clearing capabilities of
affected
countries.
As regards technology, attention needs to be given to
two separate aspects. Studies should be conducted with a
view to evolving more efficient and modern techniques for
clearing mines and unexploded devices from large areas.
Present mine-clearing tools, which have been described by
scientists as "glorified farm implements", are clearly
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
there is a need to
inadequate for the task.
consider the desirability of ensuring that all mines have
built-in mechanisms for rendering them inactive after a
certain period.
Secondly,
Mr. VILCHEZ ASHER (Nicaragua) (interpretation
from Spanish): On behalf of the Central American countries,
I wish to emphasize the particular importance our countries
attach to this item, which was introduced so generously by
the members of the European Community.
the cessation of hostilities.
It is necessary, also, to take steps to strengthen the legal
sanctions against
the indiscriminate use of land mines.
Stricter rules should be formulated to compel armies to
record the locations of mines so that they can be removed
after
the
dropping of mines from aeroplanes and other methods of
scattering mines indiscriminately must be prohibited. Also,
a ban on the use of mines that have a disproportionate effect
on the civilian population, especially anti-personnel mines,
needs to be considered.
Carpet mining,
There is, furthermore, a need for inflicting penalties on
the parties responsible for the indiscriminate use of land
mines. The principle of "abuser pays" is relevant in this
context and should be applied forcefully. Those who sow
the mines should be made to reap the consequences of
paying for their removal and destruction. It is also our view
that the affected parties should not be asked to bear the
immense and prolonged costs of rehabilitating a maimed and
injured populace. Rather, the costs should be borne by the
countries that resort to such inhuman forms of warfare.
We are of the opinion that these legal measures can be
considered in a review Conference of the 1980 Convention
prohibiting the use of inhuman weapons - especially Protocol
II of this Convention regarding the use of mines, booby traps
and other devices. We, of course, support the moves being
made to convene such a conference in the near future. We
also pay a tribute to the work being done by the
International Committee of the Red Cross on this subject.
Pakistan will continue to take a keen interest in this
issue. As Member States are well aware, we ourselves are
affected seriously by the fallout from the land-mine warfare
conducted by the Soviet Army against Afghanistan. Our
medical resources have been stretched thin in an effort to
treat and rehabilitate the thousands of Afghans who have
been crippled by mines. We continue to host, even today,
a million and a half Afghan refugees, who, quite
understandably, are not in a position to return to their mine-
strewn homeland. All efforts for the reconstruction and
rebuilding of Afghanistan, and for the resettlement of its
people, are bound to fail until the problem of mine-clearance
is addressed and resolved.
Pakistan is committed to
contributing all that it can to the resolution of this problem.
We expect the international community’s active assistance in
this task.
The seriousness and the cruelty of
It is estimated that at the present time there are more
than 100 million land-mines scattered in more than 60
countries.
the
indiscriminate use of mines without any type of controls or
any appropriate registry of their location, as recommended
by international law, have not respected any border. In areas
reaching from Afghanistan to Cambodia and Ethiopia, in
Kuwait, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Peru and the former
Republic of Yugoslavia, to mention just a few examples, the
spectre of human suffering is enormous, encompassing
thousands of persons killed or maimed and damage to the
national
is the odious
practice of disguising these lethal weapons as toys, thus
endangering the lives of the most innocent.
Especially cruel
infrastructure.
In the case of Nicaragua, for instance, it is estimated
that some 160,000 mines resulting from the conflict of the
past decade have not yet been located. A similar situation
prevails in other countries of Central America.
According to statistics of the International Committee
of the Red Cross, 23 per cent of those killed by mine
explosions in Afghanistan and Cambodia were children. In
Kabul, 50 per cent were women and children.
In Somalia,
74.6 per cent of the victims of mines were children between
the ages of 5 and 15. Given this serious situation, the
United Nations and the various human rights groups and
international organizations have alerted the international
community to the devastating effects of the use of mines,
since these are used not only for military purposes but also
with the objective of breaking down the operational capacity
and the morale of
the enemy, affecting mainly the
defenceless civilian population.
The political, economic and social crisis in Central
America, which reached a high point in the 1980s, impeded
development in the countries of the region, worsened the
poverty levels, intensified the arms race, and resulted in
300,000 deaths and 2 million refugees and displaced persons.
All of this had a direct impact on hundreds of Central
American families because of the violence, which was the
common denominator of the crisis.
The number of victims of war in Nicaragua alone
amounts to more than 100,000, of whom 16,000 persons are
incapacitated, many of them as a result of mine explosions.
Most of these are young people, women and children, for
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
19
and is making great
whose sake the Government has undertaken various
initiatives
to generate
employment or produce benefits. Our countries, which for
more than a decade have suffered the effects of war, can on
the basis of their own experience bear witness to the tragic
situation confronting any country with broad geographical
regions that have been mined.
efforts
As far as mine clearance is concerned, Nicaragua has
thus far enjoyed the cooperation of the Organization of
American States, the Inter-American Defense Board and that
of friendly countries. We have concluded the preparatory,
preliminary stage of mine-clearing and have trained officials
and members of
the army of our country in mine
destruction. This project is being duly implemented, thus
removing the danger
from areas that are needed for
agriculture and for livestock. None the less, further efforts
are necessary.
Resolution 47/56, on the Convention on Prohibitions or
Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons
Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to
Have Indiscriminate Effects, and in particular on the
Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines,
is of particular importance for our countries. We ought in
future to avoid completely the use of mines, and in this way
remove serious obstacles which prolong the effects of war
even in times of peace.
In this connection, it is of great importance to our
countries that peace-keeping operations include in their
mandate, once peace has been achieved, the destruction of
arms as well as the removal of mines, which in most cases
continue to cause the loss of innocent human lives even after
the achievement of peace. The Central American countries
support the proposal made by the Secretary-General in his
report "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277): in the chapter on
post-conflict peace-building, he underscores the importance
of removing mines from those countries that are victims of
conflict because of the harmful effects of the presence of
mines and other unexploded devices.
In Central America, the presence of mines and other
explosive devices has claimed many victims. Not only are
their effects a risk to the civilian population but they also
significantly hinder the recovery and reconstruction of the
economy and the establishment of normalcy in civilian
society.
We agree with the Secretary-General that of all the
tasks involved in setting a nation on a new road to peace and
prosperity, perhaps none has the immediate urgency of mine
clearance, and that no attempt
to restore a sense of
community and security can succeed without effective land-
mine removal. For the Central American countries, this is
a task that cannot be put off.
We are convinced that in all countries that are victims
of armed conflicts the main responsibility for mine clearance
falls to the State where the mines were laid. But we must
take into account the enormous, priority tasks facing countries -
most of them developing countries - that, like Nicaragua,
have been devastated by the effects of war; after long years
of conflict,
they have to make great efforts to achieve
reconciliation and economic and social development, and
they do not have the necessary technical and financial
resources to carry out complete mine clearance.
can
be
of mines
the millions
the Under-Secretary-General
It has been estimated that it will be several decades
before
cleared;
Mr. Jan Eliasson,
for
Humanitarian Affairs, has said that the experts estimate that
it may take 40 or 50 years for the spectre of minefields to be
laid to rest. Therefore, we think it both urgent and timely
for the Assembly to adopt the draft resolution (A/48/L.5) on
assistance in mine clearance. Our delegations are in
complete agreement over both the meaning and the scope of
this document.
Of particular importance is the establishment of a
voluntary trust fund to support information and training
programmes relating to mine clearance activities. Our
delegations nevertheless consider that the work still to be
done is very complex, and that it is therefore vital for the
United Nations, with the support of
the international
community,
to expand its mine clearance assistance
programmes.
Accordingly, the United Nations must give priority to
ensuring humanitarian assistance and transit for refugees,
tightening up coordination between the Department of
Humanitarian Affairs and peace-keeping operations and
thoroughly considering various ways to enhance resources
for programmes that fund mine clearance.
It should also
gather information and collate work on researching and
analysing the existing legal instruments, with a view to
adapting them to the new international realities.
Mr. AYALA LASSO (Ecuador) (interpretation from
Spanish): The delegation of Ecuador welcomes the initiative
of the States members of the European Community and by
the Nordic countries in proposing to the Assembly, in draft
resolution A/48/L.5, that a series of actions should be taken
by the international community to deal with the serious
problem of the mines that have been laid in various parts of
the world.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Bodies within the United Nations system, and many
others, both intergovernmental and private, have been taking
measures to cooperate with States facing the tragic situation
caused by the matter which we are now discussing.
If the
draft resolution is adopted, we are convinced that those
efforts can be coordinated properly and that the valuable
experience of States and other entities involved can be put,
in a flexible, timely and effective manner, at the service of
those who need it most.
The figures speak for themselves. Estimates of the
number of mines to be cleared range from 100 million to
200 million, scattered all over the world: Afghanistan,
Guatemala, Cambodia, Mozambique, Laos, Somalia and
elsewhere. This is a menace to the civilian population in
many regions. However, statistics about the victims are
scarce. Suffice it to say that for every survivor there are
two deaths. Of the survivors, about three out of four require
amputations.
two people per
thousand have been hurt by these devices, and in some
countries - Somalia, for example - over 70 per cent of the
wounded are children under 15.
In the affected countries,
Just a few minutes ago, the representative of Nicaragua
reminded us of
the statements in this connection by
Nicaragua’s Foreign Minister, who speaks of the huge task
it will be to get rid of 160,000 mines in 800 different places,
of which some 200 are unknown. According to official
accounts, Nicaragua has one mine for every 30 people.
Ecuador, faithful
to its humanist and humanitarian
principles, cannot remain indifferent
in the face of this
terrifying situation, and has therefore decided to support the
draft resolution, as we consider it a step in the right
direction. However, we believe that in preparing the report,
requested in paragraph 5, on the feasibility of establishing a
fund to finance mine clearance programmes, the Secretary-
General should take into account the special responsibility of
the countries that produce and export such devices.
in
systems,
cluster mine
According to a report by the International Committee
of the Red Cross, one State alone has an annual turnover of
$168 million
including
anti-personnel components. The opportunities opening up on
the international markets for these new mine systems are
prompting many companies to invest in developing new
technologies, which are not only boosting profits in one
sector of the arms market, but are also improving the mines
to prevent their removal and destruction.
Although this is a subject that will be dealt with in due
course by the First Committee, which is responsible for
disarmament matters,
that when financial
I believe
mechanisms for mine clearance are being worked out those
that benefit financially from selling mines should shoulder
their responsibility and contribute to financing programmes
to eliminate this menace to the civilian population. Taking
a small margin from their profits would make it possible to
carry out
this humanitarian task, and would have two
advantages: for one thing, it would avoid having to impose
a further burden of contributions on countries that are
increasingly reluctant
to allocate funds for international
cooperation; for another, it would point clearly to where
legal responsibility - not only the moral responsibility - for
this universal problem lies.
Similarly, in drafting the report requested in the draft
the Secretary-General will have to take into
resolution,
account
the specific obligations, under the Protocol on
Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby
Traps and Other Devices, of States that have laid mines.
We therefore urge Member States to take these
considerations into account when they draft their responses
to the Secretary-General, and we request
the Secretary-
General to design and propose appropriate mechanisms for
putting those suggestions into practice,
in an effective
manner, in implementation of the draft resolution, which we
are convinced will be adopted overwhelmingly today.
Mr. NOBILO (Croatia):
I should like to take this
opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth
session and to compliment you on your achievements thus
far.
I
should also like
to commend the European
Community for undertaking the valuable initiative of having
the item "Assistance in mine clearance" included on the
Agenda. This item is of far-reaching importance to post-war
reconstruction and peace-building measures in troubled areas
around the world.
From Cambodia and Afghanistan to Mozambique and
Croatia, 150 precious human lives are lost each week, not at
the hands of ruthless snipers or the impact of intentionally
fired mortars, but because of well-camouflaged land-mines.
The United Nations Secretariat estimates that 62 countries
are infested with nearly 100 million land mines. The
Republic of Croatia is one of those countries. At present in
Croatia 300,000 hectares of land have been seeded with
nearly 3 million mines and 1 million hectares contain
various kinds of other explosive devices.
The minefields on Croatian territory are not only
seriously jeopardizing the security of the people living in the
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
21
area; mines are also inflicting a heavy burden on the
Croatian economy. Therefore, my Government has been
forced to undertake a programme to free its land of
explosive devices. Unfortunately this task is very hard to
carry out, especially since we have limited resources and
insufficient equipment. Furthermore, Croatia has witnessed
the passage of two harvest cycles which have left massive
amounts of foliage and ground vegetation, impairing normal
visibility, which can be vital
These
complications on the ground also create optimal conditions
for accidental detonation, further threatening the lives of
civilians and specially trained mine-clearing personnel.
to detection.
the
and
great
financial
Croatia, facing as it does economic hardships, and
considering
technological
requirements for a programme of land-mine clearance, is
incapable of solving the problem singlehandedly, although it
is trying to extract from its own programme the maximum
benefits possible. At present the Croatian Government is
accommodating 270,000 displaced persons and well over
280,000 refugees from the neighbouring Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
In addition to funding humanitarian
assistance for half a million people, Croatia is struggling
with heavy economic losses and industrial decay as a result
of devastating Serbian aggression. The presence of land
mines has caused an annual loss of $230 million in the
agricultural sector alone and an additional $70 million has
been lost
Because of
these
conditions, 330,000 hectares of land sits unworked.
in forestry and hunting.
programme
international
A comprehensive
for
assistance in mine clearance is an important step in the
overall process of the reconstruction of countries in the
post-conflict phase.
In applying the mine-clearing
programme to each country, specific circumstances must be
reconsidered, and not only from the geographical or
technical point of view. For Croatia such a programme
would ease economic recovery and the reinstatement of a
secure and normal living environment, facilitate the return of
refugees and displaced persons, alleviate transportation and
communication barriers, safeguard civilians and United
Nations personnel and facilitate the reintegration of the
United Nations protected areas into the Republic of Croatia.
Mines pose a continuous threat to the lives and security
of United Nations personnel serving in peace-keeping
missions. They restrict the movement of United Nations
forces, whether they are delivering humanitarian aid or
keeping the peace in hostile areas. This is an additional, but
important, reason why the question of "Assistance in mine
clearance" must have its place on the United Nations agenda.
The Republic of Croatia co-sponsored the draft
resolution before the General Assembly, in the sincere hope
that the results of our discussion today will soon be visible
in the areas which at present, because of mines, have been
turned into "killing fields".
Mr. KEATING (New Zealand): Land mines are an
insidious scourge. They are killing and maiming people,
particularly civilians, in Asia, Africa, Latin America and
Europe.
New Zealand joins earlier speakers in expressing deep
concern about the devastating effects that randomly laid,
uncharted and uncleared land mines are having on civilians
in countries such as Cambodia, Mozambique and the former
Yugoslavia.
In addition to their devastating impact on individuals
who come in contact with them, land mines have very
harmful social and economic effects. Uncleared land mines
laid in fields, forests and watercourses prevent the growing
of
livestock and the
rehabilitation of land. These weapons are denying civilians
in war-ravaged areas the right
to social and economic
recovery.
food and crops,
the raising of
The United Nations’s peace-keeping operations are also
affected, and in some cases threatened, by land mines which
jeopardize the safety of peace-keeping personnel.
for
the
call
New Zealand
supports
of
fully
programme
a
comprehensive
assistance with mine
clearance. For us, this is not merely an item of theoretical
interest. New Zealand peace-keepers have witnessed the
devastating effects of land mines during numerous United
Nations operations in countries such as Afghanistan and the
former Yugoslavia, and have themselves suffered casualties
from these weapons. New Zealand has contributed over the
years
in
Afghanistan.
to the mine-clearance
training programme
De-mining is also an important part of New Zealand’s
contribution to United Nations efforts to rehabilitate parts of
Cambodia. New Zealand personnel are working with other
peace-keepers involved in the United Nations Transitional
Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) process to establish the
Cambodian Mine Action Centre.
The Centre controls
de-mining operations, mine awareness and education
programmes in Cambodia, and it
the
Cambodian Government will soon take over the operation.
is expected that
Controls on the use of land mines are few. The only
specific multilateral agreement controlling the use of land
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
mines is Protocol II of what is commonly known as the
inhumane weapons Convention.
continue to provide what assistance we can on practical
mine clearance when that is needed.
The Convention itself is a significant document, but
States parties need to address some serious weaknesses
which limit
its effectiveness, particularly in regard to
Protocol II. For example, while it calls for the clearance of
land mines after a conflict ends, no verification mechanism
exists for ensuring compliance. Also,
in cases where
non-compliance
any
enforcement provisions. New Zealand therefore supports the
call for a review conference which will seek to strengthen
the Convention by considering these issues.
Such a
conference should concentrate with the utmost urgency on
the issue of land mines and make effective controls on these
weapons its first priority.
the Convention lacks
clear,
is
process, New Zealand
In order to make plain our abhorrence of the effects of
land mines and to become fully engaged in the review
conference
the
Convention. We urge others to do the same. We note that
it seems likely that the review conference will be held in
1995, which should give signatories plenty of opportunity to
ratify.
ratified
has
In the meantime, until the review gets under way, we
would encourage dialogue on land-mines issues between
interested States, and we support proposals to establish a
group of experts to facilitate discussions in the run-up to the
conference.
The use of land-mines by States is not
the only
problem. A further issue of concern is that land-mines have
in recent times been used in conflicts not only by States but
also by groups that are not able to be represented at the
United Nations negotiating table. Some type of effective
control must also be put on the use of land-mines by groups
that could not become a party to any convention.
Such an issue can be addressed by examining the trade
in land-mines and adopting measures to limit or prevent their
supply.
In this context, New Zealand acknowledges the
unilateral actions of the United States and France in placing
moratoriums on the transfer of land mines.
New Zealand considers the random, widespread use of
land-mines and the effect they are having on civilians to be
a problem of the gravest concern. We must work together
to foster controls on the use of these weapons.
New Zealand is already working with other countries
under the auspices of the United Nations, and we shall
New Zealand therefore wholeheartedly supports the
present draft resolution, which seeks to encourage, organize
and coordinate national, regional and global assistance on
mine clearance.
Mr. PIBULSONGGRAM (Thailand): My delegation
welcomes the opportunity to participate in these deliberations
on the new and important agenda item on mine clearance.
We have heard many delegations stress the importance of
this issue, in regard to which a draft resolution is before us.
In his report on the work of the Organization, which we
considered just last week, the Secretary-General stressed the
importance of mine-clearing. He stated that
"Of all the tasks involved in setting a nation on a
new road to peace and prosperity, perhaps none has the
immediate urgency of mine clearance".
(A/48/1,
para. 459)
In his report he mentions the situation in Afghanistan,
Angola, Cambodia, Mozambique, Somalia and the former
Yugoslavia, saying:
"Tens of millions of mines have been left in areas of
conflict". (ibid.)
The presence of mines is a major obstacle to human
resettlement, the restoration of transport infrastructure and,
indeed, socio-economic recovery. The Secretary-General
concluded that no attempt to restore a sense of community
and security can succeed without effective land-mine
removal.
We also welcome the Secretary-General’s launching of
a coordinated programme of action on mine clearance
the
involving the Department of Humanitarian Affairs,
Department
other
competent bodies.
of Peace-keeping Operations
and
The Secretary-General has reported that in Afghanistan
at least 10 million mines were left behind after the recent
war. These remaining uncleared mines continue to hinder
seriously the restoration of normal life in many parts of that
country. The Secretary-General also mentions in his report
the successful use of mine-detecting dogs. Thailand is proud
to have participated in this effort. Mine-detecting dog teams
from the Royal Thai Army were involved not only in the
actual mine clearance but also in the training of local
mine-clearing dog teams.
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
23
a new Government,
In Cambodia, where the country is entering a new
phase of national reconciliation and rehabilitation following
the successful holding of general elections and the
establishment of
a number of
challenging obstacles and problems remain to be overcome.
Of high priority is the question of the resettlement of
thousands of displaced persons and demobilized soldiers.
These people, Cambodia’s most valuable human assets,
should be able to return to their villages, lead their lives in
normalcy and thus contribute to the strengthening of the
country’s economy. Unfortunately, resettlement has proved
difficult, since a large part of Cambodia was mined during
the decade-long armed conflict.
According to the
Secretary-General, approximately 5 million mines are spread
all over the eastern districts. For this very reason, we view
de-mining as one of
in
Cambodia’s reconstruction process. Failure to carry this out
would jeopardize thousands of lives and put the safety of the
international personnel
involved in humanitarian and
development assistance in constant danger.
essential prerequisites
the
It has also been said that the war in Cambodia may
have been the first in history in which more people were
killed by mines than by any other type of armament. Even
now the people of Cambodia are still, tragically, dying or
losing their limbs at the rate of 200 to 300 a month because
of some 4 million land-mines left behind. Sadly, such a
situation exists not only in Cambodia but also in Angola,
Afghanistan, Mozambique and elsewhere. My delegation
therefore joins in urging the international community not to
be oblivious to the importance of the issue of mine-clearance
and to assist these countries in an endeavour which, taking
into account the millions of mines involved, may last for
decades.
On its part, Thailand has dispatched two engineering
battalions to Cambodia to assist
in mine clearance and
highway rehabilitation - one battalion as part of the United
Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) and
the other as part of our bilateral assistance to Cambodia - in
addition to other forms of bilateral assistance in human-
resources development.
I do not wish to overstate
Thailand’s contribution; yet, however token it may seem, it
clearly demonstrates our willingness to lend assistance where
possible and whenever
Indeed, Thailand is
prepared to continue rendering the necessary assistance, as
we have done in the past, be it in the area of infrastructure
development or in human-resources development.
required.
My delegation wishes to congratulate Belgium and the
European Community, the original sponsors of this important
and timely item, for bringing it
to the attention of the
General Assembly. We support the draft resolution before
us, and have joined in sponsoring it. We look forward to
the Secretary-General’s comprehensive report, which he has
been requested to submit prior to the forty-ninth session of
the General Assembly. We are also of the view that the
possibility of establishing a voluntary trust fund for mine
clearance should be explored.
My delegation joins in expressing the hope that the
draft resolution before us will enjoy the widest possible
support.
Prince SISOWATH SIRIRATH (Cambodia): First of
all, my delegation would like to express sincere thanks to the
European Community and various other friendly countries
for
draft
resolution A/48/L.5, entitled "Assistance in mine clearance",
under agenda item 155.
introducing
initiative
taking
the
of
Cambodia has supposedly closed a 21-year chapter of
the horrors of war, but the Cambodian people continue to
suffer a relentless series of man-made disasters from the
massive number of land-mines that were planted all over our
country’s fields during the war. Today, as a cease-fire takes
effect
of
23 October 1991, and as peace once again reigns in the
country, thousands of mines are still found along footpaths,
in rice paddies and riverbeds and around villages and
hamlets.
Peace Agreement
thanks
Paris
the
to
The people of my country refer to land-mines as
"eternal sentinels" which never sleep and are always ready
to strike. Unless these mines are cleared and destroyed, they
will continue to kill innocent civilians well into the twenty-
first century. Unlike bombs or artillery shells, which are
specially designed to explode when they approach or hit
their target, land-mines lie dormant until a person, a vehicle
or an animal
These
land-mines are blind weapons that cannot distinguish
between a soldier and a civilian. They recognize no peace
treaty or cease-fire. They will continue to exist long after
the war is over; they will maim or kill the children and
grandchildren of the soldiers who laid them.
firing mechanism.
triggers their
in
travel
groups
In war or in peace, military personnel
injured by
land-mines stand a better chance of
receiving prompt
medical care than civilians. As we all know, foot soldiers
usually
and
communication equipment. They can always radio their
military bases or camps for help. On the other hand, few,
if any, civilians caught in or near war zones have access to
rapid-evacuation facilities. The civilians most
likely to
encounter land-mines are the rural poor who live far from
towns or cities and who have access to no proper medical
first-aid
carry
and
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
facilities. The poor peasants looking for wood and food or
tilling their fields are particularly at risk. Children herding
livestock are
And,
sometimes, children attracted by the unfamiliar and unaware
of the hazard, play with mines, which they think are toys,
with devastating results.
extremely vulnerable.
likewise
Even when civilians injured by land-mines reach
medical facilities, they often fail to receive proper care
because X-ray film, anaesthetics, surgical equipment and
antibiotics are unavailable or in short supply. In general, the
victims of land-mines are more likely to require amputations
than victims wounded by other munitions.
Just last week, my Government, under the premiership
of His Royal Highness Prince Norodom Ranariddh
and
His Excellency Mr. Hun Sen, addressed a letter to the
Secretary-General on the critical problem of land-mines in
Cambodia. They said that the mine problem in Cambodia at
present is horrendous and is a major barrier to growth,
development and safety. Mines kill or maim more than
300 Cambodians a month; they deny access to land on which
to grow food and resettle displaced persons; they place a
tremendous burden on an already limited infrastructure; and
they deny Cambodians
to a safe
environment.
their basic right
Cambodia, with a population of over 9 million, already
has the highest percentage of physically disabled inhabitants
of any country in the world.
There are now over
40,000 amputees in Cambodia as a result of injury from
mines. Most of the casualties have been civilian peasants
who stepped on mines while gathering firewood, harvesting
rice, herding animals or fishing. Nearly as many have died
from loss of blood, undiscovered in the fields, or have
succumbed to their wounds because no transport was
available to get them to medical help.
Most amputees, when cured, leave hospital with little
hope for the future. Cambodia is an agrarian country and
needs the muscle power of every able-bodied citizen for its
survival. Our agriculture is very labour-intensive and
requires the participation of everyone. A person who is
physically disabled can become a burden to the family,
becoming someone who eats but does not produce anything.
I am saddened to report to the Assembly that after 21 years
of war and suffering Cambodia still has no rehabilitation
centres and no laws that can protect disabled persons against
discrimination or exploitation.
set as a priority the creation of rehabilitation centres for
disabled persons to help them adjust to their new life and
prevent them from becoming beggars or petty criminals.
Many amputees, unable to find work, nowadays drift to the
capital city of Phnom Penh or to other large towns and
become a burden to the Government and an unpleasant sight
for visitors and Cambodians alike.
My delegation knows that the problem of land mines is
not a problem in Cambodia alone, but that the same situation
is found also in Afghanistan, Angola, Lebanon, Somalia, and
Bosnia and Herzegovina, countries which have been so
devastated by long conflicts and wars.
is
to
My
deeply
grateful
delegation
the
non-governmental organizations, such as Cambodia Trust of
Great Britain, the Indochina Project and many others, and in
particular
the Belgian-based
humanitarian organization that has 13 prosthetics workshops
throughout Cambodia; these organizations have helped in the
rehabilitation of disabled Cambodians, victims of land-mines.
to Handicap International,
My delegation wishes to bring to the attention of the
representatives here the problem of land-mines which lie
scattered throughout Cambodia, and requests the ongoing
help and cooperation of the international community to
remove as many of them as possible.
its
end
duty
officially
in Cambodia
The United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
on
will
15 November 1993. The international staff will have left
Cambodia by then, and no advisers will be available to assist
the Cambodians with safety, technical matters, logistics,
communications and finances and to liaison with the United
Nations Cambodia Mine Action Centre’s de-mining trust
fund. De-mining operations so far as we know, will no
longer function as of 1 November 1993.
United Nations assistance is required immediately if a
timely remedy is to be found. Bilateral solutions have been
proposed and investigated, but that process will take months;
the Cambodia Mine Action Centre will wither and a major
effort will be required to start it again.
A solution to the problem of land-mines in Cambodia
is required urgently.
It appears that the only solution for
continuing the de-mining is an extension of remaining
international staff at the Cambodia Mine Action Centre for
a period of 60 days while all issues are resolved.
But
in the new Constitution promulgated by His
Majesty Norodom Sihanouk, King of Cambodia, on
24 September 1993, the Royal Cambodian Government has
The United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
has accomplished so much by setting up the Cambodian
Mine Action Centre, and it would make no sense to allow it
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
25
to close for lack of a small international advisory group.
The Cambodian Mine Action Centre has so far cleared over
3,800,000 square meters of mine fields. This dangerous task
requires a sizeable budget for special equipment for the next
five to ten years. My delegation hopes that the international
community can help make Cambodia safe for present and
future generations.
Given the importance attached by many concerned
countries to this critical
issue, my delegation urges the
support of the international community in obtaining their
help and cooperation. My delegation is also fully aware of
the significant participation by the international community
in responding to the problem of land-mines in Cambodia,
and we are profoundly grateful to those who have reacted in
an extremely positive manner and indicated their willingness
to continue helping Cambodia recover from this terrible
nightmare.
It is in this context that my delegation is pleased to
co-sponsor draft resolution A/48/L.5, entitled "Assistance in
mine clearance", under agenda item 155.
(Libyan Arab
large numbers of
Mr. ELHOUDERI
Jamahiriya)
(interpretation from Arabic): The areas which at one time
or another were theatres of military operations and in whose
soil
land-mines were planted have
continued to be a grave source of fear and anxiety. On the
one hand, this existence of land-mines continues to impede
economic development and obstruct every effort to limit
degradation of the environment. For a long time now, the
General Assembly has been demonstrating its awareness of
the devastating effects of land-mines by adopting numerous
resolutions on the issue, the latest being resolution 40/197.
In those resolutions, the Assembly highlighted the dangers
resulting from the presence of the material remnants of war,
especially land-mines, because of loss of life, destruction of
property and grave obstruction of efforts aimed at land
reclamation and reconstruction.
The Secretary-General, in his report "An Agenda for
Peace" (A/47/277), accorded considerable attention to the
problem of land-mines. He emphasized the urgent need for
de-mining because of the danger land-mines pose to people’s
lives and the adverse effects they have on economic activity
especially in the areas of reviving agriculture and road
building. In discussing "An Agenda for Peace" in the forty-
seventh session of the General Assembly, my delegation
thanked the Secretary-General for dealing with this problem,
and particularly for his emphasis on the need to address the
grave problem of land-mines which remain scattered in
many areas of past hostilities as is the case with regard to
my country which was one of the theatres of military
operations in the Second World War. Large numbers of
land-mines were planted in our soil during that war. Mine
explosions have resulted in the loss of thousands of lives and
the continued presence of minefields still obstructs our
efforts to combat drought and desertification and hampers
our attempts to promote land reclamation.
that
My delegation welcomes the fact
the General
Assembly has agreed to inscribe an item on the agenda of
this session entitled "Assistance in mine clearance". By the
same token, my delegation welcomes the draft resolution
under this item which is contained in document A/48/L.5 as
the contents of the draft address some of our concerns,
particularly in its reference to paragraph 58 of "An Agenda
for Peace", which deals with the problems arising from
land-mines in present or former combat zones. We had
hoped for a clear explicit reference to this problem in the
draft resolution. By the same token, we believe that the
draft resolution should have taken into consideration some
of the other aspects of the problem of land-mines by calling
upon the States responsible for planting those land-mines to
submit all the necessary information and technical assistance
required in mine clearance activities as well as payment of
compensation for the damage caused to States in whose soil
land mines were planted as was previously called for in the
resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and other
bodies and organizations, such as the Organization of the
Islamic Conference and the United Nations Development
Programme.
While expressing its position vis-à-vis the problem of
land mines and how to deal with their collateral effects, our
delegation hopes that the resolution to be adopted by the
General Assembly in this regard will contribute to solving
this problem.
In this connection, my delegation wishes to
emphasize in particular the contents of operative paragraph
6 of the draft resolution, which urges all Member States to
extend full assistance and cooperation to the Secretary-
General
in this respect and to provide him with any
information and data which would be useful in drawing up
the report he will submit to the next session of the General
Assembly.
Ms. TREIMANIS (Latvia): I am speaking on behalf of
Estonia, Lithuania and my own country, Latvia.
We welcome the initiative of the European community
in proposing the inclusion of the item entitled "Assistance in
mine clearance" in the agenda of the General Assembly. We
should like to emphasize that mine clearance is a necessary
component of peace-building, since it assists in establishing
the conditions for lasting peace in areas of conflict and
tension. We share the concern about
the serious
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
humanitarian, social, economic and ecological destruction
which can and will be caused by the failure to remove
mines, as well as the harm caused by remaining minefields
to the civilian population and peace-keeping missions in
countries stricken by armed conflict. Assistance in mine
clearance is of crucial importance to these countries, as they
lack the necessary resources to clear the huge minefields left
by armed conflict. This matter is not the business of the
affected countries alone, but a subject of concern for all
States, as the security of every region is in the interest of
each and every member of the world community. We
believe that the work in mine clearing should be pursued on
the basis of a programme of the United Nations and in
cooperation with regional organizations. Such a programme
would provide the necessary assistance to launch the
clearance operations as well as provide relevant information
and training programmes to all countries.
It is appropriate to point out that this assistance be
provided not only to countries that have recently experienced
civil strife and war but also to countries that are undergoing
the transition caused by recent major political changes. The
Baltic States are facing this problem as part of
the
consequence of the illegal presence of the foreign military
forces on their sovereign soil. Those forces have abused our
soil and are leaving behind considerable acreage with large
numbers of unexploded devices. There are also numerous
ammunition depots which need clearance.
There are many sites in the Baltic States which are
extremely dangerous. In Latvia there are more than 42,000
hectares of territory that need clearance and that contain an
estimated 24,000 unexploded devices. It would take Latvia,
with its limited technical knowledge and personnel resources,
30 years to clear these sites. Many of the depots and
armaments date back to the Second World War. The lack
of necessary technical and personnel resources to carry out
successfully the clearance of sites creates a potential danger
for the civilian population and prohibits the recovery of any
land for peaceful agricultural purposes.
We are co-sponsoring the draft resolution, "Assistance
in mine clearance", guided by the conviction that
the
successful implementation of the text to be adopted will
contribute to the promotion of peace and security in the
world, save lives and help promote a speedier recovery of
the affected lands for peaceful purposes.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item. The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.5.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/48/L.5?
Draft resolution A/48/L.5 was adopted
(resolution 48/7).
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Cuba, who wishes to explain his delegation’s position. May
I recall that such explanations are limited to 10 minutes and
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. RIVERO (Cuba) (interpretation from Spanish):
My delegation wishes to explain its position on draft
resolution A/48/L.5, which was submitted under agenda item
155 by the delegations of
the European Economic
Community and others, and which is entitled "Assistance in
mine clearance."
the effects of
My delegation associates itself with those delegations
that have expressed concern about
the
existence of minefields on the civilian population in
countries that have experienced armed conflicts, and it
associates itself with the need to proceed to clear such areas.
In light of those considerations Cuba participated actively in
the Conference held under United Nations auspices in the
early 1980s, which resulted in the Convention on
Prohibitions or Restrictions of Use of Certain Conventional
Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively
Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects and its three
Protocols, one of which deals specifically with mines.
In addition, my delegation recognizes that the need for
mine-clearing operations has taken on greater urgency in
recent years owing to conflicts that have taken place
recently, and that various actions have been taken by
international and non-governmental organizations in this
regard. None the less, although my delegation has joined in
the consensus on the draft resolution because it shares the
humanitarian spirit that inspires it, we do wish to place on
record a few considerations of a political and technical
nature that we view as important.
First, the question of mine clearance is one of the
subjects considered in the Secretary-General’s report, "An
Agenda for Peace," and on which negotiations have been
held and certain decisions reached. My delegation feels it is
inappropriate to extract specific matters from the body of
subjects and proposals in "An Agenda for Peace" on which
decisions have been taken, since such a practice may lead to
a proliferation of resolutions that could seriously complicate
our work and lead to possible confusion.
32nd meeting - Tuesday, 19 October l993
27
modifications with regard to mines. My delegation believes
that this matter should have been considered in an integrated
way in a single forum, namely, the First Committee, in a
text that could have dealt with the question in all its aspects.
The PRESIDENT: Since no other delegation wishes
to speak, may I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 155?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.40 p.m.
Secondly, any consideration of the conduct of mine-
clearing activities should take place within the framework of
General Assembly resolution 47/120 B, which, as has been
recalled, stresses that post-conflict peace-building activities
can only be undertaken once the conflicts have been ended,
and must be agreed upon by the parties or carried out on the
basis of agreements ending conflicts.
Thirdly,
there is a balanced reference in the draft
resolution to the serious threat
that mines and other
unexploded devices constitute to the safety, the health and
the lives of personnel participating in humanitarian, peace-
keeping and rehabilitation operations, as well as among
civilian populations.
Fourthly, the terms of the consideration requested from
the Secretary-General of the financial aspects of activities
related to mine clearance are very ambiguous. My
delegation is of the view that such activities should be
financed by a voluntary trust fund and that consideration
should also be given - as the delegation of Ecuador has
pointed out - to financing of such activities by the countries
that produce and export mines.
In any event, information
and training programmes and mine-clearing activities in
general should be totally financed by such a fund.
Fifthly,
the draft
resolution tends to establish a
mechanism that we view as parallel
to the mechanism
provided for in Article 9 of the Protocol on Prohibitions or
Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby Traps and Other
Devices to the 1980 Convention to which I referred earlier,
which includes the modalities for international cooperation
in mine-clearance. Article 8 of that Protocol refers to the
protection of United Nations forces or missions from the
effects of minefields.
Lastly, we consider it somewhat contradictory that
today, when efforts are being made to achieve what has been
called the rationalization of our work, this draft resolution,
which refers basically to mines, is being submitted to the
General Assembly when we are aware that two additional
draft resolutions dealing with mines will also be submitted
to the First Committee, one aimed at establishing a
moratorium on the export of antipersonnel mines and the
other aimed at convening a review conference on the 1980
Convention with a view to possible
