United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 16
ELECTIONS TO FILL VACANCIES IN SUBSIDIARY
ORGANS AND OTHER ELECTIONS
54th
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 11 November 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
I
should like
that,
to remind members
after
1 January 1994, the following States will still be members
of the Governing Council: Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan,
Botswana, Cameroon, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Côte
d’Ivoire, Denmark, Guyana, India, Islamic Republic of Iran,
Italy, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal,
Slovakia, Sri Lanka, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, and Uruguay. Therefore, those 29 States
are not eligible in this election.
(a) ELECTION OF TWENTY-NINE MEMBERS OF
THE GOVERNING COUNCIL OF THE UNITED
NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME
As you know, in accordance with rule 92 of the rules
of procedure, "all elections shall be held by secret ballot"
and "there shall be no nominations".
(b) ELECTION OF TWELVE MEMBERS OF THE
WORLD FOOD COUNCIL: NOTE BY THE
SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/48/368)
(c) ELECTION OF TWENTY MEMBERS OF THE
COMMITTEE FOR PROGRAMME AND
COORDINATION: NOTE BY THE SECRETARY-
GENERAL (A/48/369)
term of
expires
The 29 outgoing members
The PRESIDENT: Pursuant to General Assembly
decision 43/406, the General Assembly will proceed to the
election of 29 members of the Governing Council of the
United Nations Environment Programme to replace the
29 members whose
on
31 December 1993.
are:
Argentina, Austria, Barbados, Brazil, Burundi, China,
France, Gabon, Gambia, Germany, Indonesia, Japan, Kuwait,
Lesotho, Mauritius, New Zealand, Norway,
Peru,
Philippines, Russian Federation, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia,
Ukraine, United States of America, Venezuela, Yugoslavia,
Zaire and Zimbabwe.
Those States are eligible for
immediate re-election.
office
However,
I should like to recall paragraph 16 of
General Assembly decision 34/401, whereby the
"practice of dispensing with the secret ballot
for
elections to subsidiary organs when the number of
candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be
filled should become standard ... unless a delegation
specifically requests a vote on a given election".
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that the
Assembly decides to proceed to the election on that basis?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: I shall now read the names of the
candidates endorsed by the regional groups: for eight seats
from the African States - Burundi, Gabon, Gambia,
Guinea-Bissau, Sudan, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe; for six
seats from the Asian States - China, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea,
Syrian Arab Republic; for three seats from the Eastern
European States - Bulgaria, Hungary, Russian Federation; for
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87153 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.54
24 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
five seats from the Latin American and Caribbean States -
Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Venezuela; for
seven seats from the Western European and Other States -
Canada, France, Germany, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
United States of America.
Since the number of candidates endorsed by the African
States, the Asian States, the Eastern European States, the
Latin American and Caribbean States, and the Western
European and Other States corresponds to the number of
seats to be filled in each region, I declare those candidates
elected members of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Programme for a four-year
term
beginning on 1 January 1994.
I wish to congratulate the States which have been
elected members of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Programme.
This concludes our consideration of sub-item (a) of
agenda item 16.
The Assembly will now consider sub-item (b) of agenda
item 16, entitled "Election of twelve members of the World
Food Council".
In accordance with resolution 3348 (XXIX) of
17 December 1974,
the
members of the World Food Council upon their nomination
by the Economic and Social Council.
the General Assembly elects
The Assembly has before it document A/48/368, which
contains the nominations by the Economic and Social
Council to fill the vacancies in the World Food Council
which will occur as a result of
the expiration on
31 December 1993 of the terms of office of Bangladesh,
Bulgaria, Canada, China, Colombia, the Gambia, Kenya,
Lesotho, Mexico, Nepal, Turkey and the United States of
America.
immediate
re-election.
Those States are eligible for
I
should like
that,
to remind members
after
1 January 1994, the following States will still be members
of the World Food Council: Albania, Australia, the Central
African Republic, Ecuador, France, Germany, Guatemala,
Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, the
Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, Japan, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Peru and the Russian Federation.
Therefore,
those 20 States are not eligible in this
election.
As members know, in accordance with rule 92 of the
rules of procedure, all elections shall be held by secret
ballot.
The following States have been nominated by the
Economic and Social Council: three African States for three
vacancies - Liberia, Malawi, Sudan; three Asian States for
three vacancies - Bangladesh, China, Pakistan; two Latin
American and Caribbean States for two vacancies - Brazil,
Mexico; two Western European and Other States for three
vacancies - Turkey, United States of America.
As a result, the number of candidates nominated from
among the African States, the Asian States and the Latin
American and Caribbean States is equal to the number of
seats allocated to each of those regions.
In accordance with paragraph 16 of decision 34/401, the
Assembly may dispense with balloting when the number of
States nominated from among the regions is equal to the
number of seats to be filled.
I take it that the Assembly wishes to declare those
States elected members of the World Food Council for a
three-year term beginning on 1 January 1994.
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: May I further take it that the
Assembly wishes to declare the two candidates nominated
from among the Western European and Other States elected
members of the World Food Council for a three-year term
beginning on 1 January 1994?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: I congratulate the States that have
been elected members of the World Food Council.
Regarding the remaining vacancy from among the
Eastern European States, as well the remaining vacancy from
among the Western European and Other States, the General
Assembly will be in a position to act on them upon the
nomination by the Economic and Social Council of Member
States from those regions.
I
therefore propose that
the Assembly keep this
sub-item on the agenda of the forty-eighth session.
If I hear no objection, I shall take it that the Assembly
agrees to that procedure.
It was so decided.
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded this
stage of its consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 16.
54th meeting - Thursday, 11 November 1993
3
We now turn to sub-item (c) of agenda item 16, entitled
the Committee for
twenty members of
"Election of
Programme and Coordination".
In accordance with General Assembly decision 42/450
of 17 December 1987, the Assembly elects the members of
the Committee for Programme and Coordination upon the
nomination by the Economic and Social Council.
The Assembly has before it document A/48/369, which
contains the nominations by the Economic and Social
Council to fill the vacancies in the Committee that will occur
as a result of the expiration, on 31 December 1993, of the
terms of office of the following countries: Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Germany,
India,
Indonesia, Iraq, Italy, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Poland, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukraine and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Those States are eligible for immediate re-election.
I
should like to remind members
that, after 1
January 1994, the following States will still be members of
the Committee: the Bahamas, China, Egypt, France, Ghana,
Japan, Kenya, Nicaragua, the Republic of Korea, the Russian
Federation, Togo, the United States of America, Uruguay
and Zambia.
Therefore,
those 14 States are not eligible in this
election.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, all
elections shall be held by secret ballot.
The following States have been nominated by the
Economic and Social Council: four African States for four
vacancies - Cameroon, Comoros, Congo, Senegal; four Asian
States for four vacancies - India, Indonesia,
the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Pakistan; four Eastern European States for
three vacancies - Belarus, Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine; four
Latin American and Caribbean States for four vacancies -
Argentina, Brazil, Cuba, Trinidad and Tobago; five Western
European and Other States for five vacancies - Canada,
Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The number of States nominated from among the
African States, the Asian States, the Latin American and
Caribbean States and the Western European and Other States
corresponds to the number of seats to be filled in each of
those regions.
In accordance with paragraph 16 of decision 34/401, the
Assembly may, in elections to subsidiary organs, dispense
with secret balloting when the number of candidates
seats
to be
to the number of
filled.
corresponds
Accordingly, may I take it that the Assembly wishes to
declare those States nominated by the Economic and Social
Council, with the exception of the four States from the
Eastern European States, elected members of the Committee
for Programme and Coordination for a three-year term
beginning on 1 January 1994?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: I congratulate the States that have
been elected members of the Committee for Programme and
Coordination.
Regarding the Eastern European States, the number of
candidates nominated exceeds the number of vacancies
allocated to this region. Therefore, the Assembly will now
proceed to a vote by secret ballot to elect three members
from the Eastern European States.
Ballot papers marked "C" for the Eastern European
States will now be distributed.
The voting process has begun.
Only the following four States nominated by the
Economic and Social Council are eligible:
Belarus,
Bulgaria, Romania and Ukraine. I should like to stress that
only the names of three of these States should be written on
the ballot paper.
In accordance with the rules of procedure, the States
receiving the largest number of votes, and not less than the
majority required, will be declared elected.
I request representatives to use only the ballot papers
that are being distributed and to write the names of the three
States for which they wish to vote. Ballot papers containing
more than three names will be declared invalid. Names of
ineligible States appearing on a ballot paper shall not be
counted at all.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Yahya (Brunei
(Honduras), Ms. Iiyambo
Darussalam), Mr. Flores
(Namibia) and Mr. Akkerman (Turkey) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed
at 11.35 a.m.
The PRESIDENT: With regard to the election of
and
the result of the voting for three Eastern
for Programme
the Committee
20 members of
Coordination,
European States is as follows:
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Group C - Eastern European States
This concludes our consideration of sub-item (c) of
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Romania
Ukraine
Belarus
Bulgaria
167
0
167
2
165
83
138
122
120
104
The following States, having obtained the required
majority and the largest number of votes, were elected
members
and
Coordination for a period of three years beginning on
1 January 1994: Romania, Ukraine and Belarus.
for Programme
the Committee
of
The PRESIDENT: I congratulate the States that have
just been elected members of the Committee for Programme
and Coordination, and I thank the tellers for their assistance
in the election.
The following 20 States have thus been elected
members of the Committee for Programme and Coordination
for a period of three years beginning on 1 January 1994:
Argentina, Belarus, Brazil, Cameroon, Canada, Comoros,
Congo, Cuba, Germany,
the Islamic
Republic of
the Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan,
Romania, Senegal, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Indonesia,
India,
Iran,
agenda item 16.
AGENDA ITEM 17
APPOINTMENTS
IN
S U B S I D I A R Y O R G A N S A N D O T H E R
APPOINTMENTS
TO FILL VACANCIES
(g) APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE
COMMITTEE ON CONFERENCES (A/48/107)
As
The PRESIDENT:
indicated in document
A/48/107, since the terms of office of Chile, Cyprus, France,
Gabon, Japan, Kenya and the Russian Federation expire on
31 December 1993, it is necessary for the President of the
General Assembly to appoint, during the current session,
seven members to fill the resulting vacancies. The members
so appointed will serve for a period of three years beginning
on 1 January 1994.
After consultations with the Chairmen of the Group of
African States, the Group of Asian States, the Group of
Eastern European States, the Group of Latin American and
Caribbean States, and the Group of Western European and
Other States, respectively, I have appointed Chile, Egypt,
France, Gabon, Japan, Pakistan and the Russian Federation
as members of the Committee on Conferences, with effect
from 1 January 1994.
May I take it that the Assembly takes note of these
appointments?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: We have thus concluded our
consideration of sub-item (g) of agenda item 17.
The meeting rose at 11.40 a.m.
