United Nations
GENERAL
ASSEMBLY
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
22nd
PLENARY MEETING
Friday, 8 October 1993
at 9.30 a.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
slide towards social and economic disaster in South Africa
as one of the imperatives for ensuring the success of the
democratic transformation.
17,e meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 38
ELIMINATION OF APARTHEID AND
ESTABLISHMENT OF A UNITED, DEMOCRATIC
AND NON-RACIAL SOUTH AFRICA
17,e PRESIDENT:
In connection with this item, the
Assembly has before it a draft
resolution issued as
document A/48/L.2 and entitled "Lifting of sanctions
against South Africa".
I call upon the Chairman of the Special Committee
against Apartheid, Mr. Ibrahim Gambari, to introduce that
draft resolution.
Mr. GAMBARI (Nigeria), Chairman of the Special
Committee against Apartheid: On 24 September 1993 I
had the honour and the privilege to welcome to this Hall
the President of the African National Congress of South
Africa (ANC), Mr. Nelson Mandela, who addressed the
Special Committee against Apartheid on an issue of the
utmost importance to the people of South Africa and the
large. Outlining the latest
international community at
encouraging developments
in the South African peace
process, he paid a tribute to the international community's
support, which had brought South Africa to the point
where the transition to democracy had now been enshrined
in the law of the country. The international community, he
said, should now lay the basis for halting the economic
He therefore called on the international community to
lift all economic sanctions against South Africa in response
to the historic advances towards democracy that have been
achieved,
to strengthen the forces of democratic change
and to help create the conditions necessary for stability and
social progress.
the
economic
Bearing in mind these developments
and taking
account of the fact that a broad spectrum of the South
African people believe that enough progress has been made
in the process of their
transition to democracy to
necessitate
the
international community cannot but recognize this reality
and act in consonance with the wishes of the people of
South Africa, even as
the existence of
differences between the two liberation movements,
the
ANC and the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC), on
the timing of the lifting of sanctions.
lifting of
sanctions,
it
recognizes
for
At an Extraordinary Ministerial Meeting of the Ad
Hoc Committee on Southern Africa of the Organization of
African Unity (OAD), which took place here in New York
the appeal
on 29 September 1993,
the lifting of
economic
sanctions was
endorsed on behalf of the
Organization of African Unity.
the
international community at large and the United Nations in
particular were called upon to respond positively to that
appeal. Accordingly,
I have discussed the matter with
other members of the Special Committee against Apartheid
and have had extensive consultations with many other
Member States and interested parties within the United
Nations.
African States,
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week ojthe date ojpublication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-8680 I (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.22
29 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
While the Ad Hoc Committee specifically supported the
lifting of all economic sanctions, it accepted the retention of
those which related to the arms embargo and to nuclear
matters and which had been imposed by the Security
Council. With respect to the oil embargo, it held the view
that this should be lifted only after the establishment of the
Transitional
the
commencement of its work.
Executive
Council
(TEC)
and
It is in this context that I would like to introduce draft
resolution A/48/L.2, entitled "Lifting of sanctions against
South Africa". While the first preambular paragraph
reminds us to bear in mind the objectives of the Declaration
on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern
Africa, which was adopted by consensus on 14 December
1989, the second preambular paragraph takes note of the fact
that the transition to democracy has now been enshrined in
the law of South Africa.
In operative paragraph 1 the General Assembly would
decide that all provisions adopted by the Assembly relating
to prohibitions or restrictions on economic relations with
South Africa and its nationals should cease to have effect
once the draft resolution is adopted. All States are requested
to take appropriate measures within their jurisdiction to lift
restrictions and prohibitions they had imposed to implement
previous General Assembly resolutions and decisions on this
matter.
In paragraph 2 the General Assembly would further
decide that all provisions adopted by the General Assembly
related to the imposition of an embargo on the supply of
petroleum and petroleum products to South Africa, and on
investment in the petroleum industry there, should cease to
have effect as of
the date on which the Transitional
Executive Council becomes operational. All States are again
requested to take
appropriate measures within their
jurisdiction to lift those restrictions or prohibitions.
As I said earlier, the submission of this draft resolution
was preceded by extensive consultations with members of
the various regional groups. Those consultations encourage
me to hope that the draft resolution can be adopted without
debate and without a vote. By adopting this draft resolution
by consensus, the General Assembly will send a very strong
signal to the South African people that the international
community, and the United Nations in particular, are ready
to assist
them in the economic reconstruction of their
country and to ensure that the new South Africa begins its
existence unhampered by the constraints imposed on the old
South Africa.
The PRESIDENT: It is my understanding that broad-
based consultations within and among regional groups have
taken place and that as a consequence draft resolution
A/48/L.2 is a consensus text. It has furthermore been agreed
that there will be no debate on the item at this stage.
I
would point out
the question of apartheid will be
discussed in plenary meeting at a later date during this
session; at that time members will have the opportunity to
engage in a discussion of this most
indeed
historic, decision.
important,
that
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
the Assembly
resolution A/48/L.2. May I take it
decides to adopt it by consensus?
that
Draft resolution A/48/L.2 was adopted (resolution
48/1).
The PRESIDENT: We have thus concluded this stage
of our consideration of agenda item 38.
AGENDA ITEM 8 (continued)
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ORGANIZATION
OF WORK: THIRD REPORT OF THE GENERAL
COMMITTEE (A/48/250/Add.2)
The PRESIDENT:
Following the very important
decision that the Assembly has just taken, I now draw the
attention of representatives to the third report of the General
Committee concerning three requests submitted by the
Secretary-General for the inclusion of additional items in the
agenda.
First, in paragraph 1 (a) of the report, the General
Committee recommends the inclusion in the agenda of the
current session of an additional item entitled "Financing of
the United Nations Observer Mission Uganda-Rwanda".
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include this item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
the General Committee also recommends that
should be allocated to the Fifth Committee.
In paragraph 1 (b) of the report,
this item
May I take it that the General Assembly approves this
recommendation?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993
3
The PRESIDENT: Next, I should like to draw the
attention of representatives to paragraph 2 (a) of the report
(A/48/250/Add.2).
The General Committee recommends the inclusion in
the agenda of the current session of an additional item
entitled "Financing of the United Nations Mission in Haiti".
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include this additional item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: In paragraph 2 (b) of the report the
the item be
General Committee also recommends that
allocated to the Fifth Committee.
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts this
recommendation?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: Next, I should like to draw the
attention of representatives to paragraph 3 (a) of the report
(A/48/250/Add.2).
The General Committee recommends the inclusion in
the agenda of the current session of an additional item
entitled "Financing of the United Nations Observer Mission
in Liberia".
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include this item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
In paragraph 3 (b) of the report,
the General Committee also recommends that the item be
allocated to the Fifth Committee.
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts that
recommendation?
It was so decided.
GENERAL DEBATE
ADDRESS BY MR. FIDEL MOUNGAR,
PRIME MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF
CHAD
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will now hear a statement by the Prime Minister
of the Republic of Chad.
Mr. Fidel Moungar, Prime Minister of the Republic
of Chad was escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): I have
great pleasure in welcoming the Prime Minister of the
Republic of Chad, His Excellency Mr. Fidel Moungar, and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. MOUNGAR (Chad) (interpretation from French):
It is both an honour and a pleasure for me to extend to
representatives the warm greetings of the people of Chad
and to express their sincere wishes for peace.
Before conveying to Members the message of the
Transition Government of the Republic of Chad, I should
like to extend to you, Sir, my delegation’s congratulations on
your election as President of the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session.
I assure you that, in the discharge of
this difficult
task, you will have the ready and full
cooperation of my delegation.
I should like also to express to your predecessor,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev, our gratitude for the dedication with
which he conducted the work of the General Assembly at its
forty-seventh session.
Our thanks go also to our dynamic Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his continuing commendable
and tireless efforts in the cause of peace and development
throughout the world.
The PRESIDENT:
the Fifth
Committee will be informed of the decisions that we have
just taken.
The Chairman of
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
It is also a pleasure to welcome the delegations of the
Czech Republic, Slovakia, The Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Eritrea, the Principality of Andorra and the
Principality of Monaco.
are
emerging, yet war
The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is
beginning at a time when clear hopes for peace in certain
regions
to cause
unspeakable suffering elsewhere. Misery is increasing
throughout the world, and the gap between the richest and
the poorest continues to widen. Given these problems, the
United Nations is increasingly called upon for assistance.
Consequently,
its capacity to react and to intervene is
reduced.
continues
Concerted action by people of good will who love
peace and freedom and who work to reduce poverty and
misery and to advance democracy and human rights could
help to limit the number of calls for assistance that are now
being made on this Organization.
the country, enabled us to lay the basis for
Within this framework, Chad set out on the road to
democracy in 1990. This deliberate choice was made in the
light of the recent history of our country and the profound
aspirations of our people to peace and social well-being. In
this regard, the Sovereign National Conference that was held
from 15 January to 7 April 1993, and brought
together
nearly 1,000 delegates from all regions and all social strata
of
the
establishment of stable democratic institutions and to ensure
lasting peace and good management of the country’s affairs.
This National Conference, which instilled much hope in the
hearts of the citizens of Chad, took the following steps in
implementation of
the
President of the Republic, who is the guarantor of national
sovereignty, was confirmed in office; the Prime Minister,
who is the elected Head of Government, was put in charge
of implementing the programme of action; the Supreme
Council of Transition, the elected legislative body, was put
in charge of
follow-up action in connection with
implementing the programme of action and was given the
job of providing arbitration in the case of any disputes
occurring during the transition.
the Transitional Constitution:
The National Conference intended,
through this
restructuring process, to give new direction to public life in
Chad, providing transparent administration in public affairs,
full freedom of the press and scrupulous respect for human
rights. These indispensable corollaries of any democratic
system are among the major concerns of the delegates.
Here,
the Supreme Council for Communication and the
National Commission on Human Rights, which will be
established soon, will guarantee freedom of the press and the
fundamental rights of citizens.
For all the participants in the National Conference, as
for all the people of Chad, the time has come to make peace,
to seek new solutions to the country’s problems, so that it
will be possible to achieve genuine national reconciliation
among all the sons of Chad. The Transition Government,
which I have the signal honour of heading,
is making
sustained efforts to realize these objectives. Thus, it is
trying to create the conditions necessary to the building of
confidence among the people in the future of their country.
The restructuring of the national army of Chad that is
now taking place will eventually open the way to better
control of public expenditure and will make possible the
channelling of the country’s limited resources into the most
productive sectors.
Nor can any democratization be
undertaken and made stable without security services capable
of ensuring respect for the territorial integrity of the country.
Above all,
there is a need for a disciplined army that
respects the Constitution of the Republic.
My Government lacks the financial and other material
means to succeed in this transformation of the national army
of Chad. First and foremost we need to encourage elements
of the army from the outset by financing projects for
military reconversion and for reintegration into civilian life.
In that connection, we warmly thank the French Republic for
its assistance over the past three years. I wish also to renew
our appeal to all countries that wish Chad to be genuinely
transformed to help us with all possible assistance in this
difficult task.
the
of
the
Beyond
question
the
demobilization operation is the question of the future of
democracy in Chad. Our democracy will be unable to
withstand for long the many pressures resulting from all the
various problems besetting our country.
success
of
organizations.
My Government
Hence, my country is working tirelessly to conclude
agreements of reconciliation with the remaining opposition
politico-military
is
developing initiatives in the area of human rights, bolstering
freedom of the press and establishing political parties and
civic organizations. Despite that progress, cases of human
rights violations continue in my country. This proves, if
proof were needed, that it takes time to change ways of
thinking, no matter what
the clear will of the highest
national authorities may be.
Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993
5
There is no lack of obstacles for any young democracy.
As it is said, democracy, poverty and insecurity are not good
neighbours. At the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly, my delegation drew attention to my country’s
precarious economic situation. Apart from problems linked
to uneven rainfall over our territory, to the threat of locusts
and to fluctuations in the world economic situation, our
economy is
linked to poor
administration. The resources of the State are insufficient to
pay salaries and growing military expenditures. There is no
guarantee that we will be able to afford the cost of materials
and State contributions for investment in priority projects
relating to infrastructure, health and education.
experiencing difficulties
The basic imbalances
that characterize financial
management
in Chad - which explain the continued
deterioration of our country’s social fabric - reflect those in
other Central African economies covered by the Central
African Customs and Economic Union (CACEU). Those
countries had achieved notable growth in 1985, but since
then have been in an unprecedented crisis.
In the
circumstances, my country - current Chairman of
the
CACEU Council of Heads of State - fully subscribes to the
plan for subregional adjustment and economic recovery
drawn up by the Central African States Development Bank,
and hopes to benefit from the greater understanding and
support of the international community. That support will
give our Government a sound basis on which to implement,
as it has declared its wish to do, a consistent programme of
macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform, with the
support of bilateral and multilateral donors.
the elements of production,
Already we can say that the major thrust of the reforms
the
will be in the areas of improved public financing,
resumption of productive activities through reductions in the
rationalization of
cost of
management, elimination of arrears in State debt,
the
promotion of a well-functioning private sector, and the
implementation of monetary, fiscal, customs and institutional
measures drawn up within the subregional framework of
CACEU and the customs zone.
My country, which has experienced the throes of war,
cannot remain insensitive to the many conflicts that are
tearing today’s world apart, claiming innocent
lives
everywhere. In Africa, we are concerned at the exacerbation
of the situation in Somalia and Angola. Chad hopes that the
firm position adopted by the United Nations on those two
conflicts will help make those most responsible for the
tragedies respect agreements they have signed.
With respect to Mozambique, we are following with
interest the peace process under way in that country, and we
urge the two parties
to cooperate fully and in a
straightforward way to achieve peace. We also welcome the
peace process that has begun in Rwanda, Liberia and South
Africa, where in the months to come multiparty negotiations
will lead to general elections, which we hope will be free
and transparent.
In the Middle East, the signature of a declaration of
principles on Palestinian autonomy in Gaza and Jericho and
mutual recognition by the Palestine Liberation Organization
and the State of Israel give us hope that the peoples of that
region will at last be able to live in peace. Dialogue and
cooperation should guide future relations among the peoples
of the region.
Chad is convinced that only dialogue can restore peace
to Central and Eastern Europe; we fully subscribe to the
action taken by the international community to bring about
a just and peaceful settlement of all the conflicts raging
there.
Today’s world economy is characterized by a structural
crisis in the developed countries and by increasingly delayed
development in the developing countries, particularly those
of Africa. My country welcomes the convening of the
international conference on African development, which is
now under way on the initiative of the Government of Japan.
We hope that the results of that meeting will be positive for
Africa. On behalf of my Government, I convey deep
gratitude to the Japanese Government for its initiative.
My delegation hopes
the restructuring and
revitalization of the economic and social structure of the
United Nations will
to strengthening the
Organization’s capacity to act.
that
contribute
My delegation reaffirms its strong conviction that only
dialogue and cooperation will enable us to overcome the
numerous obstacles to the establishment of peace and
harmony among peoples.
It is in that spirit that my country has appealed to the
International Court of Justice to settle its border dispute with
the Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Both parties
have committed themselves to respect the judgment.
Members will know from my remarks that my country
is passing from a long, dark night of instability, dictatorship,
human rights violations and economic set-backs. They will
also know that the heroic struggle of the people of Chad has
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
led it onto the path of democracy; we want at all costs to
stay on that road. My delegation affirms that forcefully.
Mr. Fidel Moungar, Prime Minister of the Republic
of Chad, was escorted from the rostrum.
My people earnestly desires to make achievements
leading to a major recovery in its political, economic and
social situation, and has adopted an ambitious programme of
change, which we did not have the means to implement fully
in the six months remaining in the transition period. As they
tirelessly pursue implementation, my country’s officials
intend to focus all their efforts on certain pivotal objectives,
which I shall enumerate now.
First, we must ensure unswerving respect for human
rights by guaranteeing the security of citizens; we must
ensure freedom of communication, along with all individual
freedoms and, above all, respect for the value of human life.
We must banish the concept of impunity from our judicial
system. To that end, and to ensure the safety of our citizens
through a major reorganization of the police, we require
support from the international community both in devising
the action to be taken and in providing the means to do so.
My Government’s second objective is the holding of
free, open and democratic elections.
The social crisis we have just described is creating
inextricable problems for my Government, problems with
serious and pressing implications. A country cannot be
governed when there is constant pressure from the streets,
nor can decisive efforts be focused on carrying out economic
recovery if there is not a Government elected on the basis of
a programme containing needed beneficial measures and if
it does not have the support - or at least the understanding -
of the people with regard to an economic and social plan.
Thus, our Government intends to work on preparing for and
holding free, open and democratic elections within the time-
frame set out in the recommendations of the Sovereign
National Conference. Here too, and above all, we will need
the support of the international community.
On that note, in evoking the basic aspiration of my
people, I shall leave this rostrum today, having transmitted
my country’s message of peace to the international
community. Our aspiration to democratic change is, I feel,
realistic and its implementation is, I believe,
inevitable.
Long live peace and dialogue between peoples!
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime
Minister of the Republic of Chad for the important statement
he has just made.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. OYONO (Cameroon) (interpretation from French):
In extending to you, Sir, the warmest congratulations of the
delegation of Cameroon on your election to the presidency
of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, I am
not merely obeying protocol. I do so as well out of my wish
to pay a tribute to your outstanding qualities and to welcome
the significant contribution your country, Guyana, has made
to the building of a more just and more united world.
Your predecessor, our colleague Mr. Ganev of Bulgaria,
carried out his mandate very well. We are grateful to him
and express all our appreciation to him.
energy
unusual
has devoted
For two years now our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali,
to the
management of the Organization, management that has been
made difficult by the increase in the number of United
Nations missions, the complexity of the challenges to be
met, and the acute financial crisis that is hindering the
successful carrying out of his activities. Cameroon wishes
to commend him for his wisdom and to assure him of its
support.
The Organization’s universality has been enhanced by
the admission of six new Member States. It is a pleasure for
me to welcome them among us and to assure them of
Cameroon’s readiness to maintain and develop relations of
cooperation and friendship with them.
The especially significant and unexpected changes that
have marked the end of this century confirm our feeling that
we must never despair of the human being and that,
whatever the circumstances may be, we must keep faith in
mankind’s future.
Indeed,
the forty-eighth session of
the General
Assembly is being held at a time when the image of that
historic handshake between Prime Minister Itzhak Rabin and
President Yasser Arafat
in our minds, a
handshake that sealed the mutual recognition between Israel
and the Palestine Liberation Organization and consecrated
the agreement on autonomy for Gaza and Jericho. Never
before have conditions been as conducive to the building of
a lasting peace in the Middle East.
is still bright
Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993
7
That historic event, a sign of the times, was followed
by the adoption by the Parliament of South Africa, which is
still composed exclusively of whites and coloureds, of the
agreement to establish a Transitional Executive Council,
conferring upon the black majority a right to participate in
the management of that country’s affairs with an eye to the
April 1994 elections, which should usher in a united,
democratic and non-racial South Africa.
Those are undeniably two major events of exceptional
significance, events that demonstrate the extent of the
upheaval in the world we are now witnessing.
Allow me, therefore, to salute the courage and great
vision demonstrated by the Israeli Government and the
leaders of the Palestine Liberation Organization. Certainly,
the peace in the Middle East that had seemed elusive is now
within reach. Cameroon had always hoped for this, and we
are therefore gratified at the progress made and wish to pay
a tribute to the various protagonists who contributed to it.
And with regard to this situation, has the time not come
to update the Organization’s documents dealing with the
Cameroon intends to
situation in the Middle East?
contribute to the consideration of
this question the
circumstances call
The tone and provisions of
resolutions concerning South Africa also need to be brought
into line with the changes taking place in that country.
for.
Cameroon supported the appeal made from this rostrum
by President Nelson Mandela for the lifting of the economic
sanctions against South Africa. We salute that outstanding
son of Africa, and we include in this commendation
President De Klerk, whose open-minded attitude has earned
our admiration.
The democratic transition in South Africa is at once
fragile and promising for the whole of the African continent.
It demands the support of the international community,
which must work to put an end to violence and the
destabilizing actions of the forces in the country that are
opposed to change.
Unfortunately,
this remarkable improvement
in the
situations in the Middle East and South Africa cannot mask
the threats to international peace and security caused by the
persistence of armed conflicts in various parts of the world
arising out of ethnic claims, the resurgence of nationalistic
feelings, religious intolerance, the desire for power, poverty
and underdevelopment.
At the very heart of Europe, a frightful war continues
in the Balkans, a war the more frightful because the ideology
underlying it is an affront to the conscience of mankind.
The indignation it has aroused throughout the world demands
that
the weapons be silenced to enable the virtues of
dialogue to prevail over the logic of exclusion and conquest.
That war is also sorely testing the international community’s
ability to defend the principles and values of civilization in
our era.
It is equally untenable that in Angola innocent people,
caught up in an increasingly senseless war, continue to be
massacred.
It must be obvious to everyone that a solution
to the Angolan problem cannot be imposed by force of arms.
It resides in concertation, dialogue and negotiation. We
therefore urge the parties concerned to seize this most recent
opportunity to achieve peace afforded them by strict
implementation of the Abidjan Agreements and the relevant
resolutions of the Security Council.
The imperatives of peace are also pressing upon our
Liberian, Somali and Mozambican brothers and sisters, who
have legitimate aspirations to the stability needed to
reconstruct their countries.
As regards Haiti, it is also important, if legality is to
the
triumph,
implementation of the Governors Island Agreement.
everything possible be done
that
for
In Western Sahara, we have not
lost hope that,
following the negotiations now under way, the obstacles to
a referendum on the future status of the territory will be
removed.
In other parts of the world where hotbeds of tension
persist the spirit of confrontation must yield to the search for
negotiated solutions.
In this context, Cameroon welcomes
the decisive contribution of the United Nations to the
restoration of peace in Cambodia.
In paying tribute to the
memory of all those who have paid for peace in Cambodia
with their lives, I include Captain Ndi Ncho Abrahams of
the Cameroonian contingent of military observers of the
United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
(UNTAC), who fell on the field of honour in Phnom Penh
on 7 September 1993.
I also wish to extend here our warm congratulations to
His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk on his restoration to
the throne of Cambodia. We are convinced that his lofty
stature, eminent qualities and long experience will help his
country to set out again on the path to progress and the
reconciliation of its children.
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Meeting the challenge of peace, involves not only the
silencing of weapons, but also ensuring the reconstruction of
countries ravaged by war. We therefore appeal that, as
measures are taken to settle certain regional conflicts, the
necessary resources be mobilized to meet, as well as
humanitarian needs,
the reconstruction needs of African
countries that have been torn by armed conflicts.
This would bolster the willingness of the African Heads
of State to assume greater responsibility in the prevention,
management and settlement of conflicts in their region. The
mechanism created for that purpose at
the twenty-ninth
Summit of the Organization of African Unity deserves the
support of the international community, as it is involved in
the implementation of the agenda for peace adopted by the
Security Council. Furthermore, the adoption in Libreville in
September 1993 of a non-aggression pact between the 11
States members of the Economic Community of Central
African States is part of this trend. Concluded in the
framework of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security
Questions in Central Africa, created last year by the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, this agreement is
an essential
link in the chain of confidence-building
measures aimed at the progressive reduction of the armed
forces and military budgets of the States of the subregion.
Our States are thereby determined to create an area of peace,
security and solidarity. We are thus entitled to expect the
continued support of the international community for this
initiative, sponsored by the United Nations.
In a more general context, the progress achieved in the
field of disarmament and arms limitation should continue.
We call on the major Powers to redouble their efforts to
accelerate the disarmament process, especially in the field of
nuclear weapons.
The conclusion of a treaty banning
nuclear tests would meet the expectations of the international
community, just as the indefinite extension of the Non-
Proliferation Treaty would help reassure the non-nuclear-
weapon States. In this respect, we praise the dialogue being
pursued by the parties concerned to find a negotiated
solution to the differences between North Korea, on the one
hand and the International Atomic Energy Agency and the
Government of the United States of America on the other.
Lastly, the progressive establishment of the structures
of the Organization’s executive secretariat for the control of
chemical weapons strengthens our conviction that general
and complete disarmament is not just a dream.
It is a
fervent aspiration of mankind that could be achieved if
greater political will were focused on that goal.
At the recent World Conference on Human Rights, held
in Vienna, our common vision of the values underlying
mankind’s shared aspiration to the effective enjoyment of
human rights made the longstanding dispute about a possible
hierarchy as between civil and political rights and economic,
social and cultural rights outdated. Now enshrined as
indivisible and interdependent, all these rights have one
objective alone:
the promotion and protection of human
dignity, regardless of considerations of race, colour, sex or
religion. Recognition of that objective has contributed to the
rebirth of the idea of the universality of human rights and
has given those rights the moral and legal force of a
categorical imperative with unassailable legitimacy.
This development encourages the Government of
Cameroon, with the impetus given by His Excellency
President Paul Biya, to continue updating the legal and
institutional frameworks to promote the effective enjoyment
of human rights by our citizens. Our resolute march towards
democracy can be gauged by the incomparable freedom of
expression burgeoning throughout our national media, the
flourishing of political parties,
the vitality of popular
participation in public life and the establishment, in the wake
of the State’s gradual disengagement, of new and vast areas
for the development of private initiative.
The National Committee on Human Rights and
Freedoms, whose activities enhance its credibility, is helping
enormously to make public opinion aware of the importance
of human rights and to alert our authorities to any possible
violation. The recent organization in Yaoundé by the United
Nations Centre for Human Rights of a training seminar for
members of
role of
international cooperation in the promotion of human rights,
particularly in developing countries.
that Committee highlights
the
This cooperation suggests a new approach, necessitating
a reversal of the tendency to turn human rights into political
tools. This tendency often leads to a selective awareness of
human rights violations and discrimination in the application
of sanctions. Cooperation also suggests a new type of
partnership, allowing the highly publicized activism on
human rights to be replaced by calm and constructive
dialogue between the various parties in charge of promoting
and protecting human rights - States, national institutions,
non-governmental organizations and multilateral institutions.
In this context, the proposal to establish a post of high
commissioner for human rights has its merits. None the
less, it gives rise to some questions, the importance of which
requires that it be considered attentively and in depth.
Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993
9
respect,
requires
The universality of human rights, which everyone must
the
of
henceforth
international economic relations.
It would be unrealistic to
circumscribe the exercise of democracy within national
boundaries, when there are also flagrant
injustices in
international economic relations
that constitute grave
violations of human dignity.
democratization
A victim of such injustices, Africa, more than any other
developing region, has the characteristics of a continent
It is toiling under an intolerable debt burden in a
adrift.
situation
towards
disinvestment, a decline in official development assistance
and a steady deterioration in the terms of trade as a result of
the continuing fall in commodity prices.
exacerbated
overall
trend
by
an
including, in particular, debt alleviation and the enhancement
of human resources, the transfer of technology, support for
the diversification of production and the improvement of
conditions for access of our products to international
markets.
are
not
solidarity
We must set our sights on establishing a fund for
The imperatives of
financing African development.
consistent with
international
compartmentalization on the basis of racial or geographical
considerations.
leave the African
countries at the mercy of market forces, which are devoid of
all
The international
community must therefore undertake to construct a more
legitimate new world order that is in keeping with full
respect for law and justice.
legitimacy owing to speculation.
Hence, we cannot
In these circumstances, is it acceptable that net financial
flows should continue from the impoverished African
countries to the rich countries? As we have already pointed
out, this situation cannot be considered in economic terms
It is an ethical problem involving the conscience of
alone.
our Northern partners and of
financial
institutions.
international
The world partnership for sustainable development
enshrined in Rio de Janeiro responds to this aspiration.
While we are pleased at
the
Commission for Sustainable Development, the release of
resources required for the financing of Agenda 21 has not
yet been accomplished.
the establishment of
Need we recall
that despite the seriousness of the
economic crisis they are facing the African States, like the
countries of the East, have undertaken courageous reforms
towards liberalizing their economies and democratizing their
political systems?
In the social sphere, activities conducted throughout the
United Nations system with a view to fighting against the
AIDS pandemic and to repressing the illicit
traffic in
narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances deserve high
priority in the agenda of our Organization.
While we are pleased at the mobilization of resources
aimed at accompanying reform in the countries of the East,
we must deplore the fact that no similar effort has been
made for the benefit of the African countries that are also in
a state of transition. Structural adjustment plans are the only
alternative solution proposed to them. Because they are
becoming increasingly exorbitant and difficult to bear, their
social costs need to be given more attention by our partners
so that the already fragile foundations of our young States
will not crumble.
The very recent International Conference, on African
Development, held in Tokyo, will give us an opportunity to
draw the attention of the international community to the
distress of the African continent.
The failure of the United Nations Programme of Action
for African Economic Recovery and Development 1986-
1990 and the disappointing progress of the United Nations
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
underscore, if need be, the urgent need to establish for that
continent a consistent set of measures to stimulate recovery
Similar importance should be attached to the integration
of women in the process of development and to the
protection of vulnerable groups of society.
The International Conference on Population and
Development planned for Cairo in 1994, the World Summit
for Social Development, to be held in 1995 in Copenhagen,
and the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held
also in 1995, in Beijing, will offer opportunities to review all
of these issues at the highest level. These gatherings will
make it possible for us to refine our understanding of these
problems
to integrate them in our
development policies.
in order better
Guaranteeing international peace and security and
promoting the economic and social development of its
Members are the tasks that the United Nations has been
called upon to perform since its establishment. The changes
generated by the end of East-West rivalry have created
conditions more conducive to the attainment of
these
objectives. Our Organization should therefore rethink its
structures and its working methods in order to increase their
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
effectiveness,
expectations of the international community.
the better to respond to the ever-growing
The restructuring process under way is of course part
of this trend. We are pleased at the prevailing spirit of
consensus in the search for solutions to this problem - a
problem made complex and delicate because of the need to
reconcile the need for effectiveness and the imperative of
democratization which alone can safeguard the plurality of
approaches
our
Organization.
universality
underlies
of
that
the
Mr. Kharrazi
(Islamic Republic of Iran), Vice-
President, took the Chair.
In this context, the reform of the Security Council
its
should not be confined to a mere broadening of
composition. It should above all make it possible to revive
the spirit behind the decision to confer upon the members of
the Council broad powers regarding the maintenance of
international peace and security. These powers should
therefore be exercised in the interest of all, and not on the
basis of other considerations.
The General Assembly should, along the same lines,
remain a global forum where the positions of States are
expressed and harmonized. We are therefore in favour of a
strong Secretariat endowed with adequate structures and with
a highly qualified staff that reflects the diversity and the
excellence of the peoples of the United Nations. This means
that throughout the system and within our Organization, the
ongoing process of restructuring should be consistent with
the spirit of the Charter.
Mankind has always cherished the utopian dream of a
world in which man would no longer be a danger to his
fellow man, and in which peace, justice and equity would
prevail. The sudden acceleration of history at the turn of
this century gives this utopian hope an impetus that enhances
our shared perception of the need to establish a new and
more united world order. This "promise of history" being
shaped will be an expression of the convergence of our will
to free mankind of the consequences of a past that we hope
is forever behind us. The universal conscience cannot put
up with the horrors of war and of flagrant violations of
human rights, nor should it at the dawning of the third
millennium tolerate the persistence of poverty and hardship
that trample underfoot the intrinsic values of our shared
humanity.
Thus the United Nations must meet the challenge of
renewal in order fully to play its central role in the building
of a world consistent with the ideals of its founding fathers.
In the final analysis, history condemns us to be hopeful - in
the midst of violence, does man not persevere in his utopian
dream of peace?
Mr. QHOBELA (Lesotho): On behalf of the Lesotho
delegation and on my own behalf, I wish to congratulate
Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of
the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session. His
election is a well-deserved tribute to his great personal
qualities and also to the dynamic role that the Republic of
Guyana has always played within the United Nations and in
world affairs. We are also indebted to the dedication and
the effective manner
in which his predecessor, His
Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of the Republic of Bulgaria,
guided the deliberations of this lofty body during the forty-
seventh session of the General Assembly.
Allow me also to extend our congratulations to that
distinguished son of Africa, His Excellency Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations,
whose untiring global efforts for peace continue to inspire us
all. My delegation wishes to reiterate once more its
readiness to continue to cooperate with him in every way
promote
that would
and
understanding,
in conformity with the Charter of our
Organization.
international
cooperation
On behalf of my delegation, allow me also to express,
like those who have spoken before me, deepest condolences
to the Government and the people of the Republic of India
for the tragic loss of human lives resulting from the recent
earthquake in that country.
Since 1945 the membership of the United Nations has
increased dramatically, lending credence to the universality
of this Organization and bearing out the wisdom of the
founding fathers. Today we welcome the new Members to
a United Nations whose numerical strength is matched by
its
the broadened scope of
commitment
its
operations world wide which, more than ever before, it
behooves us all to enhance further. We also look forward to
welcoming back into the fold a free, democratic and
non-racial Republic of South Africa in the very near future.
the depth of
issues and the capacity of
its vision,
to global
With the emergence of the new world order, we are
today at a high tide of opportunity to realize the vision of
global peace that inspired the United Nations Charter in
1945. The original design for peace, as outlined in the
Charter in 1945, seems to be in sight with the emergence of
that new world order.
Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993
11
The
commendable
by
to bear
efforts made
the
Secretary-General towards the promotion of international
peace and security and for the consolidation of peaceful
coexistence among nations are about
results.
Following the period characterized by international relations
of confrontation between the military blocs of East and
West, we see around us today an increasing recognition
among nations of the need for the settlement of international
and regional problems by peaceful means, that is, through
negotiation and dialogue. All these developments augur well
for the realization of the goals and objectives we set for
ourselves in San Francisco in 1945.
Recent developments, however, continue to test our
Organization’s capacity to make the initiative of 1945 a
reality.
New challenges have emerged and continue to
confront us. Though different in nature and content from
those of the past, they are no less important in their bearing,
scope and influence on peace and the future of mankind.
The beginning of this last decade of the century held
out hope for international peace and stability. The world
community lifted itself from the trenches of the cold war,
pledging to build for mankind a new world order firmly
based on legitimacy, cooperation and respect for the rights
and dignity of the human person. The residual tendencies to
confrontation were also collectively suppressed by the united
world action in the Gulf.
The euphoria of a world finally at peace has not,
regrettably, been universal. From Angola to Somalia to
Bosnia and Herzegovina and, recently,
in the political
standoff in the Russian Federation, we witness a world
haunted anew by disputes originating from legacies of the
past. The destructiveness and brutality of internal wars are
threatening to unweave the very tapestry on which
civilization is based.
As it stands on the eve of celebrating the golden jubilee
of the Charter, the world body must recognize the need for
increased resources and more balanced burden-sharing
among Member States in order to strengthen the capacity of
the United Nations to fulfil effectively its peacemaking and
peace-keeping obligations. It must continue to pursue more
resolutely the objectives of the Charter, all of which stipulate
that the realization of peace and development are legitimate
aspirations of all peoples.
In the past we have talked about the urgent need for the
democratization and restructuring of the United Nations. In
this regard, we take note of the commendable efforts which
are being made by the Secretary-General to strengthen the
structures of the other organs of the Organization within the
context of "An Agenda for Peace" and through regional
commissions.
In the aftermath of the cold war and at a time when
international relations are being reshaped, it is necessary that
the imbalances inherent in the present United Nations system
be reviewed and corrected. Such an exercise should take
into account the principles of decentralization of resources
and equitable geographical representation in the decision-
making organs of the world body. Like a world parliament,
the United Nations must reflect in its structures the same
democratic values that it advocates, the values of fairness,
transparency and equitable representation,
to
validate the principle of equality of States.
in order
The need for democratization extends, in particular, to
the Security Council. The African continent accounts for
almost one third of the United Nations membership. In the
spirit of reflecting the regional diversity of our Organization,
we must consider positively the interest of Africa in being
allotted at least two permanent seats on the Security Council
and an increased number of non-permanent seats.
Never before in the history of the United Nations has
the world been presented with a greater opportunity for
peace. The challenge of this opportunity will require us to
conduct international relations with the vision and realism of
people who recognize how near, in the past, the world has
been to the edge of the precipice.
The United Nations global peace-keeping missions are
a beacon of hope and a source of inspiration to peace-loving
communities world wide that are ravaged by war and strife
and in many cases have nowhere else to turn. But even in
these trying times, a great opportunity exists, an opportunity
possibly greater than any the world community of nations
has seen since the founding of this Organization for the
creation and maintenance of global peace.
Notwithstanding the positive initiative taken by the
major nuclear Powers since the end of the cold war, there is
still a need to establish a close link between disarmament
and international peace in the years ahead. This is the ideal
formula to fulfil the aspirations of mankind for a life that is
free from the threat of war. To be effective towards this
end, disarmament must be universal and embrace all
categories of weapons, including conventional weapons.
We also recognize that the global reduction of military
expenditures could enable the world to redirect its resources
to development and to meet the challenge of reversing the
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
environmental degradation of our planet on the eve of the
twenty-first century.
on
Environment
The hopes of the world were placed last year in the
and
United Nations Conference
Development (UNCED). The Earth Summit broke fresh
ground in addressing global environmental and development
crises. While it did not solve these problems, it at least
succeeded in building a large amount of goodwill for the
global economic partnership that is so vital if addressing the
many environmental problems that
the UNCED process
recognized and, indeed, highlighted, are to be addressed.
the
the Rio Conference,
More than a year after
the
establishment of the high-level Commission on Sustainable
Development remains the most tangible development so far.
The majority of
commitments made by world
Governments in Rio are yet to be matched with actual deeds.
The global trends towards the reduction of aid budgets by
the developed countries and the intensifying commercial and
political pressure on aid administration contrast sharply with
the commitments made by these countries in Rio to reach
the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national
product in aid towards assisting the developing countries
make a transition to sustainable development.
is
Another
source of great disappointment
the
continuing decline in voluntary contributions to the United
Nations operational activities. The United Nations system
has a central role to play in channelling assistance to
developing countries, capitalizing on its comparative
advantages of neutrality, widespread field-level presence and
rapid response.
The least developed countries are continuing to
experience a deterioration of their socio-economic situation
owing to profound structural constraints and handicaps which
reduce their ability to overcome the negative impact of
external factors. The issue of the stalemate in multilateral
trade negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT) is a matter of great concern to the
developing countries. Further delays towards successful,
balanced and comprehensive GATT negotiations will render
the principle of
trade as the engine of growth and
development an illusion. These basic economic structural
problems, coupled with a proneness to natural disasters,
seriously hamper these countries’ efforts towards meaningful
economic growth.
The recent drought which struck the countries of
eastern and southern Africa was the worst ever. In Lesotho,
the Government has had to declare a state of continuing
drought emergency and to extend provision of drought-relief
measures for another year, until June 1994. We wish to
express our gratitude to the Secretary-General and his team
for their efforts in convening, jointly with the Southern
African Development Community, a donors’ conference in
Geneva last year to address the drought problem. Similarly,
we wish to thank the international community for its
demonstration of solidarity with our region at a time of
desperate need.
The Kingdom of Lesotho welcomes the Secretary-
General’s report entitled "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277).
This document contains far-reaching recommendations on
peacemaking, peace-building and peace-keeping. However,
the implementation of these recommendations will fall short
of attaining the intended results fully if they are not
complemented with efforts to harness and reverse the further
deterioration in peoples’ socio-economic situations. It is on
this basis that my delegation lends its full support to General
Assembly
for
Development". We stand ready to engage in constructive
debate on the Secretary-General’s preliminary report on "An
Agenda for Development".
resolution
"Agenda
47/181
on
the
and
good
governance.
accountability
The world today faces profound changes, which are
fuelled by the deep desire of people across the globe for
respect for their basic human rights, for democracy, for
public
The
democratically elected Government of the Kingdom of
Lesotho embraces
the idea and concept of national
reconciliation, for which the people of Lesotho have yearned
for so long. The Government has also embarked on a
vigorous campaign to inculcate and nurture the culture of
democracy, respect for basic human rights and popular
participation, which should, in turn, have an impact on social
mobilization for development, democratic
institution-
building, political stability and national prosperity.
The new Government views the 1993 general election
and the overwhelming popular mandate it received for the
stewardship of the nation’s affairs as a golden opportunity to
address, with fresh impetus, the urgent national issues of
poverty, ignorance and disease. We therefore wish to make
a special appeal to the donor community to lend a helping
hand to our efforts in this regard, in the considered belief
that democracy and development are complementary.
On behalf of the Government and the peace-loving
people of Lesotho, I wish to express our gratitude for the
prompt and generous support and assistance we received
from the international community towards the success of our
return to democratic civilian rule.
Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993
13
The situation in South Africa is always a cause for
concern in Lesotho, as South Africa is our only immediate
neighbour. Despite our concern with the ever-rising levels
of violence and the increasing resolve by the right-wing
elements to engage in sabotage in South Africa, we are
encouraged by what has been achieved through negotiations
in that country.
In particular, we applaud the agreement
reached by the negotiating parties on the date of the end of
April 1994 for the holding of the first democratic elections
as well as the establishment of the Transitional Executive
Council to oversee the transitional arrangements prior to
elections. While we acknowledge and support the call for
the lifting of economic sanctions against South Africa, we
urge the United Nations to upgrade the United Nations
monitoring team in South Africa in order to give effective
meaning to the Secretary-General’s report "An Agenda for
Peace" and its central message of preventive diplomacy,
peace-building and peacemaking.
It is our fervent hope that the lessons of the Kingdom
of Lesotho’s peaceful transition to democracy will not be
lost on the citizens of South Africa, whose own chance to
elect a Government of their choice for the first time seems
within reach.
The people of Angola, another sister country in the
subregion, continue to be denied a chance for peace by
UNITA. We condemn UNITA for the escalation of the
military actions and for the continued massacre of innocent
civilians and the destruction of the infrastructure in Angola.
We appreciate the efforts of the Secretary-General and take
note of Security Council
resolution 851 (1993), which
imposes a number of sanctions intended to limit the ability
of UNITA to continue with its war effort.
We also wish to applaud the decision by the United
States to recognize and establish diplomatic contact with the
Government of Angola, as well as the subsequent positive
initiatives for peace taken by the United States in Angola.
Mozambique is currently enjoying relative peace. The
General Peace Agreement signed in Rome is holding, and
the parties have continued to exercise restraint. We appeal
to the parties concerned to implement the peace accords
without delay and to cooperate with the Secretary-General’s
Special Representative
timely
implementation of
the United Nations
Operation in Mozambique.
the mandate of
in full,
including the
In Liberia, we are optimistic that
the collaboration
between the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia
(UNOMIL) and the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS) Military Observer Group (ECOMOG),
together with the Peace Agreement signed in Cotonou in
July 1993, will bring lasting peace and that the warring
factions will stop hostilities and agree on a transitional
arrangement to lead the country to democratic elections.
Last, but not least, it is heartening to see real hope of
a solution to one of the bloodiest, most impassioned and
most obdurate conflicts of our time in the Middle East. The
signing last month of the peace accord between the State of
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization is a victory
for common sense and the validation of peaceful methods in
resolving disputes between States. The virtue of this mutual
achievement is that it puts coexistence to a test in reality and
not in mere exchange of rhetoric.
None of this, however, should distract the world from
the reaffirmation of the right of the Palestinian people to
nationhood in accordance with the relevant Security Council
resolutions.
issues.
During the World Conference on Human Rights, held
in June this year, the whole world converged in Vienna to
discuss human rights
Although the World
Conference was inundated with diverse interpretations of
human rights, a great deal of progress was made. My
delegation believes that the international community should
rededicate itself to the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action as
in the effective
implementation of existing human rights instruments and
commit itself to the principles enshrined in the Charter of
the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.
the central document
In conclusion, my delegation would wish to emphasize
once again that it remains for us to join hands and strive
resolutely in all spheres of human endeavour to ensure the
very survival of current and succeeding generations. Let this
Organization remain the burning light of hope and
inspiration for all mankind. For all its differences, and for
all its diversity, ours is a world of interdependence and
destinies inextricably joined. Let us renew our resolve to
pursue to the end the lofty purposes and principles of the
Charter of our Organization.
Mr. Tau (Republic of Moldova): First of all, I join
previous speakers in warmly congratulating Mr. Samuel
Insanally on his election as President of the forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly, and wish him success in
performing this highly responsible function. At the same
time, I address sincere thanks to Mr. Stoyan Ganev for the
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
competent manner in which he led this great forum during
his presidency.
welcome the continuation and broadening of the debates on
this matter.
I also take great pleasure in expressing my gratitude to
the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his
tireless efforts aimed at enhancing the efficiency of the
United Nations.
The recent outbreak of regional conflicts - the Yugoslav
crisis in particular - reveals certain deficiencies in the
international machinery dealing with peace and security
issues, and indicates an urgent need for improvement.
I take this opportunity to convey cordial congratulations
to the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, Andorra and
Monaco on their admission to the United Nations.
the abatement of
Recent political developments in a number of States
and at the international level brought about the end of the
cold war,
the danger of a nuclear
catastrophe and some other positive changes. Unfortunately,
we are compelled to note at the same time the emergence of
some negative phenomena, such as disastrous regional and
inter-ethnic conflicts. The end of this century presents a
terrible picture: countries and people torn apart by fierce
fratricidal wars, towns and villages set on fire, thousands of
displaced people and refugees,
tearful
women and children.
innocent victims,
The serious and complicated problems of our times -
for example, those rooted in history or border disputes, and
those with ethnic and religious, political and economic,
social and spiritual origins, have generated various conflicts
with grave consequences. These problems may lead to the
outbreak of new violent confrontations in Europe that could
endanger international peace and security. Under these
circumstances, which are indisputable, the United Nations
and other international organizations, such as the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western European
Union (WEU) and the European Economic Community
(EEC) have a crucial role in stopping these unfavourable
developments by the peaceful settlement of conflicts, thus
leading to the strengthening of peace, international stability
and security.
While appreciating the European efforts to find an
adequate response to new challenges to security and stability,
both at the global and regional levels, we consider that the
role of the United Nations in this respect remains decisive.
In order to meet the new imperatives, the United Nations
ought to undergo a profound reorganization and a careful
reassessment
the
Secretary-General, "An Agenda for Peace", represents a
reference point in the modern history of the United Nations
and the starting-point of these necessary changes. We
its means.
The
of
report
of
The Republic of Moldova supports the reforms initiated
within the framework of the Organization and is confident
of its ability to adapt itself to the new political climate.
The appointment of an Under-Secretary-General for
In our
Humanitarian Affairs strengthens this confidence.
the programme of reforms should include the
opinion,
following three priorities:
restructuring the Secretariat,
rationalizing the work of the Main Committees and their
working mechanisms, and reinforcing the role of
the
Secretary-General in his relations with the subsidiary bodies
and specialized agencies.
I should like to point out that our delegation has been
pursuing with great interest the debates on the agenda item
entitled "Question of equitable representation on and increase
in the membership of the Security Council". We consider
that an increase in the membership of the Council aimed at
ensuring wider representation would be in full consonance
with the major changes that have occurred lately in the
international arena and would reflect to a much greater
extent the present level of democratization in international
relations. At the same time, we share the opinion that any
changes should maintain and increase the efficiency of this
vital organ of the United Nations, taking into account a
further possible recourse to the remarkable contributions by
major Powers.
Over two years have passed since the Republic of
Moldova proclaimed its independence. Our aspiration to
become a democratic State with a market economy is
absolute, notwithstanding the difficulties of transition. Our
country has taken the first steps in this direction, irreversibly
engaging itself on the path towards democracy.
This
resolute choice is reflected in our endeavours to join in
international cooperation, an integral part of which is respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The Republic of Moldova has ratified the international
The Government has
assuming new
internal
legal
conventions on human rights.
consistently come out
commitments
to adapt
framework to international standards.
in favour of
the Republic’s
Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993
15
Unfortunately,
This position of principle on human rights on the part
of the Republic of Moldova was reiterated at the World
Conference on Human Rights.
this
constructive approach has been vehemently challenged by
the separatist forces in Transdniestra, which are being
inspired and supported from abroad.
Shortly after the
proclamation of independence, the pro-imperial forces started
hostilities that resulted in great losses of innocent lives and
flagrant violations of
the native
population, who were born and bred in areas controlled by
separatists.
the basic rights of
The allegations by certain political forces and mass
media in the Russian Federation that the conflict is an inter-
ethnic one are simply not true.
In fact, it is a political
conflict aimed at rebuilding the imperial structure. These
accusations by the pro-imperial forces are meant to lead
people to the conclusion that human rights are being violated
in the Republic of Moldova and that ethnic groups had been
subject to discrimination. In this respect, I should point out
that these accusations were not confirmed by the United
Nations and Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE) missions that visited my country on several
occasions.
for
Those same accusations were the pretext
the
Russian Federation’s decision to keep up a presence by its
armed forces on my country’s territory. The conditions
imposed for the withdrawal of the Russian Fourteenth Army,
namely that special legal status must be granted to the
eastern districts of Moldova, is an attempt to keep that
geographical area - including the Republic of Moldova - in
Russia’s sphere of influence.
The presence of foreign military forces on the territory
of the Republic of Moldova is the principal source of
insecurity and instability for my country. As was so rightly
pointed out by the Secretary-General in his report on the
work of the Organization, the question of the withdrawal of
the Fourteenth Russian Army is a major stumbling-block
along the way to a settlement of the conflict.
In this context, I should like to thank the European
Community which, in their memorandum to the General
Assembly, called for an early withdrawal of foreign troops
from Moldova.
In fact, the Fourteenth Army has huge
amounts of military hardware and enormous weapons
stockpiles in Transdniestra that could easily be taken over by
separatist forces: this is what happened during the escalation
of hostilities in 1992.
Moreover, many residents of
the eastern districts
continue to be illegally drafted into the Fourteenth Army.
This is another example of crude interference in the internal
affairs of the Republic of Moldova, and is a serious violation
of international law.
Thus, with the political, logistic and moral support of
the Fourteenth Army, the separatist leaders are still doing
everything they can to impede the talks on a political
settlement of
This has prevented the
implementation of
the Moldovan-Russian agreement of
21 July 1992 on the principles for a peaceful settlement of
the military conflict in the eastern districts of the Republic
of Moldova.
the conflict.
The high degree of politicization of the foreign military
forces stationed on my country’s territory and their support
for the anticonstitutional regime in Transdniestra are the
main threats to the independence, integrity and security of
the Republic of Moldova. At the same time, the presence of
a foreign army in Moldova is the major obstacle to a
peaceful settlement of the conflict in the eastern districts.
We therefore consider unacceptable the Russian Federation’s
insistent proposals for it
to be entrusted with a United
Nations mandate for peace-keeping operations in conflict
zones throughout the former Soviet Union.
First, we are convinced that neither the CSCE nor the
United Nations have exhausted possibilities for solving these
regional conflicts.
Secondly, one of the basic criteria for participation in
peace-keeping operations is impartiality. In view of Russia’s
obvious interest
in these zones and its insistence on
assuming the role of peace-keeper, it is clear that these
efforts are aimed at continuing and justifying its military
presence on the territories of independent and sovereign
States Members of the United Nations. Russia’s final goal
is obviously the revival of the old imperial structures with
the blessing of the international community.
The acceptance of the 14th Army’s presence on the
territory of the Republic of Moldova as a precedent will
certainly be very dangerous, not only for the territories of
the newly independent States but also for all the adjacent
areas.
The negotiations between the Governments of the
Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation - which
began last year - on settling the terms for the withdrawal of
the 14th Army have not attained any significant results. The
Russian side obstructs the negotiations and displays no
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
State without the consent of the Government of the host
country. I should also like to recall the appeals contained in
the CSCE and the North Atlantic
the documents of
Cooperation Council,
stating the need for complete,
immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the 14th Army.
In this spirit, we urge United Nations Member States to
examine, with understanding and good will, a possible
request for the inclusion of an additional item on the agenda
of the General Assembly, on the question of the complete
withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territory of
the Republic of Moldova.
It
that
is my belief
the same laudable solidarity
expressed by the international community with the Baltic
States is urgently needed by my country, which is prevented
from achieving real independence and pursuing its firm
choice of democracy and freedom. We reiterate our support
for resolution 47/21, on the complete withdrawal of foreign
military forces from the territories of the Baltic States, and
we welcome with great
satisfaction the encouraging
achievement of the Lithuanian people, which has finally seen
its territory free of foreign troops. We deem that only the
concerted action of international bodies, especially that of
the CSCE and the United Nations, can ensure peace and
security in our region and protect the territorial integrity and
independence of the Republic of Moldova.
I wish to assure this body that my Government is fully
committed to doing its utmost to protect the rights of
In these
willingness to withdraw its military forces.
circumstances,
the CSCE mission in the Republic of
Moldova suggested that it participate in these negotiations.
While the Moldovan party supported this initiative,
the
Russian party rejected it on every occasion. We note with
deep concern that the constructive attitude in favour of
compromise taken by the leadership of the Republic of
Moldova is being repaid with a policy of fait accompli
meant to separate the Transdniester area from Moldova and
place a "Trojan horse" in my country.
General Alexandr Lebed,
The recent developments are relevant in this sense and
deepen this concern.
the
commander of the 14th Army was recently elected, with the
tacit consent of Moscow authorities, a deputy to the
so-called Supreme Soviet in the "partial elections" that took
place in the self-proclaimed "Dniester Republic".
In this
way General Lebed has proved once again his lack of good
faith and his total disregard for the provisions of the
agreements signed by Presidents Mircea Snegur and Boris
Yeltsin.
The Government of the Republic of Moldova considers
that the defiant and cynical actions of General Lebed, who
is a Russian citizen and the commander of a foreign army
temporarily stationed on the territory of my country,
constitute blatant interference in the internal affairs of a
sovereign State. This action is a new attempt by certain
conservative forces in Russia to recognize de facto the
so-called Dniester Republic.
It would probably be enlightening to recall that the
self-proclaimed authorities in Transdniestria applauded with
enthusiasm the putsch against Mikhail Gorbachev in August
1991. Moreover, during the recent events in Moscow, troops
from Transdniestria were sent to the Russian capital to join
the Communist hardliners in their fight against President
Boris Yeltsin. The active participation of Transdniestrian
fighters in the Moscow rebellion was a logical consequence
of the close ties between the Tiraspol leadership and the
reactionary Russian
all
international norms under the false slogan of "defending the
Russians" by means of the so-called Dniester Republic and,
in practice, created a bridgehead in Moldova for
the
restoration of the Soviet empire.
parliament, which
violated
In this context, I should like to inform the international
community that the situation in the area of conflict continues
to be tense and is very likely to become unstable.
We have all accepted the general principle that a
foreign army cannot be stationed on the territory of another
Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993
17
minorities in the Republic of Moldova and is ready to
receive any international monitoring mission to ascertain the
real situation.
I cherish the hope that the fresh spirit emerging at the
United Nations will help us to identify, by consensus, the
necessary solutions for various problems the international
community is facing now. My delegation is ready to make
its contribution to the carrying out of efficient cooperation
with other Member States in order to achieve the lofty goals
of the United Nations that we are all striving for.
The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m.
