United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
37th
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 26 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 112
INTERNATIONAL DRUG CONTROL
HIGH-LEVEL PLENARY MEETINGS TO
EXAMINE THE STATUS OF INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION AGAINST THE ILLICIT
PRODUCTION, SALE, DEMAND, TRAFFIC AND
DISTRIBUTION OF NARCOTICS AND
PSYCHOTROPIC SUBSTANCES:
DRAFT
RESOLUTION (A/48/L.12)
The PRESIDENT: I shall make a statement by way of
introduction to item 112, now before the General Assembly.
The global spread of drug abuse has emerged as a
major
international concern in the post-cold-war era.
Governments are finding that the foundations for peace and
prosperity have been undermined by this insidious threat.
The international community’s success in controlling drug
abuse will serve as a litmus test of its ability to respond to
the complex problems of the post-cold-war era. Can the
international community effectively translate word into deed
in the global campaign against illicit drugs? The answer to
this question will provide an indication of whether we can
cross the threshold into a better world where nations can
cooperate harmoniously for their common good.
These plenary meetings, held in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 47/99, coincide with a turning
point in the history of international relations. On the one
hand, we see the global convergence of international society
with as much hope for peace as risk of conflict. On the
other, we see the world-wide
spread of drug abuse,
evidenced by the proliferation of illicit markets and the
increasing prevalence of addiction. It may appear as though
these two trends are unrelated, but they may in fact be
driven by the same factors. A look at one or
two
manifestations of this transitional period may reveal the
direction in which we must proceed at the multilateral level.
Let us consider, for example, the formidable challenge
facing some of the new democracies. Economic reforms
required a massive injection of capital into many of the
burgeoning market-led economies. This need for capital is
witnessed at all levels of society. Governments are running
budget deficits. Consumers are finding it
increasingly
difficult to afford the basic necessities. In this context, what
is the illicit drug industry if not a source of abundant capital
and employment? What are illicit drugs if not a highly
lucrative commodity? Severe economic difficulties can at
times overshadow the criminal dimensions of drug-related
activity. Some newly independent countries have established
safe-money havens as a way to attract urgently needed
impact of
foreign capital - this, despite the detrimental
money-laundering on monetary stability.
This type of
response underlines the direct
link between the needs
ushered in by the post-cold-war era and the potential
worsening of drug-related crimes.
Yet another noteworthy aspect of the post-cold-war era
is the new role of certain developing countries in the world
economy. Today, a growing number have the prospect of
stable growth and integration into the world economy.
Foreign direct investment is changing the nature of their
internal markets. Governments have privatized a major
proportion of
And
inefficient State-owned industry.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86970 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.37
12 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
flourishing
unprecedented vigour.
stock-markets
have
sprouted
up with
These three changes - the increase in foreign direct
investment, the wave of privatization, and the growth of
developing-country stock-markets - are positive at a time of
slow growth in the global economy. But they also represent
a watershed opportunity for drug-trafficking syndicates and
criminal organizations. Drug syndicates can manipulate the
flow of foreign direct investment to "recycle" their illicit
revenues in the guise of legal business. Privatization can
shorten the regulatory reach of Governments, and thereby
allow drug traffickers to operate in the face of fewer
constraints. And less official oversight in the pharmaceutical
industry can facilitate the diversion of precursors and
essential chemicals into illicit channels.
context, the drug menace is a common threat to all nations.
The concept of shared responsibility, so clearly emphasized
at the 1987 International Conference on Drug Abuse and
Illicit Trafficking, must serve as the basic principle behind
our efforts.
The foundations for progress have been established.
The international drug-control conventions provide the legal
basis and the common language with which Member States
can respond to the emerging crisis of illicit drugs. The
Global Programme of Action, which was adopted by this
Assembly in 1990, outlines the necessary strategy which we
must endeavour to implement. And the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme ably serves as the
focal point for drug control efforts at the multilateral level.
still
Another group of developing nations
find
themselves in a desperate situation with little evidence to
suggest that their economic plight is over. The members of
this latter group far outnumber those of the prospering
developing countries. For these nations, the pre-eminent
characteristic of this post-cold-war period is the extent to
which their economies have been marginalized. Already we
see disturbing drug-related consequences. Some of these
countries have evolved into main trafficking channels
through which illicit drugs are transported from producer to
consumer markets. Whereas economic dynamism may be a
cause for drug abuse elsewhere, for many of these countries,
stagnation and hopelessness are the driving forces behind the
spread of drug-related trends.
it
So for those and many other reasons, the threat posed
by illicit drugs is greater than ever before as we turn to a
new chapter in history. And it will continue to grow unless
we act together at the multilateral level.
Indeed, I must
emphasize that
is not only with regard to the new
democracies and developing countries that we must ensure
the success of international drug-control efforts. Rather,
given the global nature of illicit drugs, and given the rapid
advances in trade,
telecommunications and travel, all
countries together face this spectre. And it is together that
they must respond.
We must recognize the multidimensional nature of drug
abuse and the underlying factors that contribute to its
worldwide dimensions. And we must achieve a globally
balanced approach in which illicit demand, supply and
trafficking are tackled as interconnected parts of a single
global phenomenon.
Once drugs enter society, the upward spiral of illicit
production, consumption and trafficking will follow. In this
As in the days ahead we advance our deliberations on
how best the international community might continue to
address
the
commitments we have undertaken and proceed to their full
implementation.
the drug pandemic,
let us
remember
The Secretary-General has asked me to convey his
apologies for not being with us this morning. He has
communicated a message to the General Assembly, and I
shall now call upon the Executive Director of the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme, Mr. Giorgio
Giacomelli, to read out the Secretary-General’s message to
the Assembly.
Mr. GIACOMELLI (interpretation from French):
I
shall now read out a message from the Secretary-General.
extend deep and far;
"Drugs are a scourge of our time, whose evil
consequences
they cause
corruption, destabilization, violence and suffering.
Drugs are, sadly, a major cause of insecurity in the
world.
"We must therefore be under no illusion: drug
abuse is now a global threat, on the same scale as
damage to the environment, the pandemic of acquired
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), or poverty itself.
It is therefore our duty to respond to this threat with
international solidarity.
to tackle
this question within a
"These four plenary meetings are clear proof of our
resolve
clear
international framework. In fact, during the past seven
years,
the international community has gradually
become aware of the new dimension of drug-abuse-
related problems.
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
3
"The International Conference on Drug Abuse and
Illicit Trafficking, held at Vienna in 1987, stressed the
collective responsibility of all States in the struggle
against drugs. The following year, the international
community strengthened decisively the array of legal
instruments at
its disposal by adopting the Vienna
Convention on illicit trafficking.
"At the same time, if cooperation and coordination
are to be successful
internationally, each country
internally should establish an effective mechanism,
endowed with appropriate legal authority, to coordinate
action against drugs in every aspect:
education,
information, health care, social reintegration, control
measures, the administration of justice, and social and
economic development.
"In 1990, the General Assembly, at its seventeenth
special session,
took another decisive step forward
when it adopted the Political Declaration and the
Global Programme of Action, and gave the United
Nations
in the development of
international cooperation in the fight against drugs.
These political, legal and operational measures should
now be completed by the implementation of the United
Nations System-wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse
Control (SWAP).
central
role
a
"Secondly, to ensure that they have the widest
possible impact, these measures should be carried out
in a regional or subregional framework based on
international cooperation agreements, providing for,
inter alia,
information, and also
ensuring that drug control measures and the promotion
of broader common initiatives, especially in strategic
sectors
effectively
harmonized.
the exchange of
such as
frontier
zones,
are
"With the setting up in 1991 of the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), the
international community has at its disposal an effective
structure and instrument to carry out its stated goals.
"Since its creation, UNDCP has undertaken an
international anti-drug
in-depth re-examination of
strategy, covering both the experience gained to date
and the results. That analysis has enabled UNDCP to
identify new principles and new strategic directions and
priorities, which have subsequently been submitted for
consideration to the intergovernmental organs. They
and, in particular, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs,
have given their support
to the new global action
programme and strategy.
"This strategy, which rests - and I stress this point -
on a global approach, treats all aspects of the problem
in a fair and balanced way, taking into account the
cultural and social needs appropriate for each country
and each region. The strategy is to be carried out at
three levels:
national, subregional on regional and
global.
"First, the country level: when drawing up and
implementing social
and economic development
programmes, each State should adopt a master plan to
combat drugs in line with national priorities. I cannot
overstress the importance of legislative and institutional
measures and the need to ensure their compatibility
both with the letter and with the spirit of international
treaties.
"The third and final level, that of action at the
global level, should involve the rigorous and universal
application of international conventions;
they provide
the fundamental legal framework and true common
denominator within which the national legislation of
each State should be integrated.
"If we are to make our international efforts truly
global, then it goes without saying that all relevant
groups within our societies must also be mobilized.
I
have in mind here non-governmental organizations,
professional and business organizations, the university
world, schools, the mass media, and sports movements.
Together, and with the support of local regional and
national authorities, we must set up more and more
integrated networks to forge a true partnership, thus
ensuring a clear link between all the actions undertaken.
I also look towards the organizations of the system for
a sustained dialogue under the auspices of the UNDCP.
"At
the same time,
regional and international
development bodies and, in particular, the development
finance institutions, should also take on an increasingly
important role in the fight against drugs; indeed they
should make it a permanent factor in their development
policies and also coordinate their activities more closely
with those of the UNDCP.
international
"Today the
community has an
effective arsenal at its disposal - a strategy, a field of
action and an effective coordinating instrument. While
of course improvements can always be made to that
arsenal, we should now shift the emphasis to action.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
"If we are to rise to the challenge, we must ensure
that the means at our disposal are adequate to the task
ahead. We must also bear in mind two key aspects: on
the one hand,
the speed with which the scourge
spreads, with all of its consequences for society and
criminality; and on the other hand, the fact that civil
society is showing increasing impatience, leading to
simplistic or defeatist solutions. More than ever,
resolute action is needed at the level of the very planet
itself. That is why it is essential that the international
community should take this opportunity to restate its
commitment to the fight against drugs. That is why
that commitment must be translated into meaningful
action by a serious effort to mobilize the necessary
resources world wide."
The PRESIDENT: I should like to propose, if I hear
no objection, that the list of speakers in the debate be closed
today at 12 noon.
It was so decided.
I
therefore ask those representatives wishing to
participate in the debate to inscribe themselves on the list of
speakers as soon as possible.
In this connection I should like to remind members that
the General Assembly at its 30th plenary meeting, held on
14 October 1993, decided that in view of the large number
of member States already inscribed on the list of speakers,
the length of statements should be limited to 10 minutes. I
should like to inform members that a white flashing light
will be activated at the rostrum to let the speaker know that
the 10-minute limit has elapsed. Your cooperation in this
regard is very kindly invited.
I am now pleased to call on His Excellency, the Deputy
Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs of Sweden,
Mr. Bengt Westerberg.
Mr. WESTERBERG (Sweden): There is an evident
need for public and political awareness of the health hazards
of drug abuse, but there is also a need for awareness of the
very negative effects of narcotics on the development of our
societies in economic, social and democratic terms. Drugs
are not merely substances subject to abuse. They also lead
to poverty, lack of faith in the future, violence, corruption
and organized crime. Wherever narcotics are available we
find drug abuse. And wherever there is intravenous drug
abuse we also have the problem of HIV infection. In certain
European countries the majority of those suffering from
AIDS are drug addicts.
When the drug problem was relatively new it was
natural to concentrate a high proportion of our resources on
law enforcement,
but we have now had sufficient
experience of this problem to realize that there are several
aspects to be taken into consideration. We have to attack
the drug problem at all
levels, employing a balanced,
comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach.
are
some
In my own country there
relatively
encouraging indications of an improvement in the drug-abuse
situation. The proportion of young drug abusers is steadily
declining. We believe that our restrictive drug policy has
contributed to this. Measures to deal with illicit drugs have
been given high priority within the social and health sector
and in the law-enforcement area.
All
the measures employed should give the same
message to our young people: we do not accept any use of
illicit drugs; we will never approve of a distinction being
drawn between soft drugs and hard drugs. Cannabis is not
a harmless drug; there is considerable scientific evidence of
its detrimental effects on mental health and its links with
violence.
I should like to emphasize strongly that
reducing drug abuse must
the main
rest on
responsibility for
traditional consumer countries. It is not acceptable to blame
only those countries in which production and trafficking take
place. Consequently,
there is a need for policies and
strategies for the prevention of drug abuse that focus, in
particular, on reducing the demand for illicit drugs.
At the same time, however, I should like to stress that
the intensification of efforts to reduce demand must not
mean any relaxation of our vigilance in regard to measures
for dealing with international drug crime. It is estimated that
the illicit-drug trade has an annual turnover corresponding to
10 per cent of world trade. An increase in illicit narcotics
can be noted at all levels - cultivation, processing, trafficking
and consumption.
Some people are giving up the battle, claiming that the
narcotics problem is insurmountable. They refer to the fact
that we have been unable to solve the problem within the
framework of existing legislation. But the conclusions they
draw are quite different from conclusions arrived at by the
Secretary-General in his evaluation of the implementation of
the Global Plan of Action. The Secretary-General stressed
the importance of the reinforcement, by Member States, of
their judicial and legal systems in the fight against drugs,
while the defeatists consider that we should dismantle
controls.
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
5
I am convinced that a strategy of liberalization, and
ultimately of legalization, would make it impossible to solve
the narcotics problem.
It would lead to an enormous
expansion of drug abuse and would cause untold drug-related
damage to public health and to society at large. As a result,
the international community has considerable responsibility
in this matter.
to the
head-in-the-sand policy advocated by the supporters of
legalization. On the contrary, we must face up to the
problem and recognize - not just in words but in deeds - that
innovative, multidisciplinary and long-term measures are
required.
We must not
surrender
context, particularly in the alternative development area
where the involvement of other United Nations agencies is
essential. This applies also to the role played by the
financial institutions.
As one of the countries which initiated the process that
led to the adoption of the Global Programme of Action, we
are deeply committed to fulfilling our responsibilities.
I
therefore consider that Member States have a duty to follow
up and implement
the national and
international
there is broad
levels.
consensus within the Assembly on this matter.
I am pleased that
the Programme at
The entire United Nations system must be activated in
the fight against drugs. Last year, this forum decided to
create a new tool for the coordination of United Nations
field activities:
the United Nations Country Strategy Note.
This is to be a concerted strategy for United Nations
activities in each individual country, planned jointly with the
recipient Government. If United Nations operations to deal
with illicit drugs are to be effective, it is important that the
UNDCP master plan be integrated into the United Nations
Country Strategy Note. The role that we have given the
UNDCP, as a result of our decision in the General Assembly
in December 1990, is that of a United Nations Centre of
Excellence in the drug-control sphere. But the question is
whether we, as Member countries, have given the UNDCP
realistic opportunities to live up to this role. For several
years,
to
approximately $80 million per year - a fraction of the total
annual turnover of the international illicit-narcotics market.
contributions
voluntary
have
amounted
But
the question of resources cannot be discussed
merely in volume terms - it is also a matter of bearing a fair
share of the burden. Our grand statements referring to the
complexity and scope of
the issue, coupled with our
creation, three years ago, of new institutions to combat illicit
drugs, will sound somewhat hollow if expenditure continues
to be low and unevenly distributed, even among so-called
major donors.
In many developed countries, the current
economic outlook is either poor or deteriorating, but this
must not be allowed to be an excuse for passiveness. The
consequences of
to future
generations. Efforts to stem the consumption of illicit drugs
must be stepped up.
inaction would be a threat
As donor countries, we are responsible for contributing
to a discussion of priorities. This means, in my view, that
we must jointly draw up the overall guidelines, rather than
focus on detailed project control. At a time when we have
limited funds at our disposal, it is even more important that
they should be employed in a strategic manner. The role of
the UNDCP as a catalyst is of vital importance in this
A step in the right direction will
therefore be the
adoption, by this Assembly, of the draft resolution initiated
by Mexico. The proposal includes several elements that
could strengthen the international struggle against narcotic
drugs. The deliberations at the coordination segment of the
Economic and Social Council in 1994 will provide a unique
opportunity for discussion between all the relevant United
Nations bodies, with the object of achieving more effective
implementation of the Global Programme of Action. The
to be made to the high-level segment of the
proposal
Economic and Social Council
in
appropriate adjustments of drug-control activities, where
necessary.
in 1995 will
result
The inclusion of this issue on the Economic and Social
Council’s agenda in 1994 and 1995 ensures that
the
necessary commitment and momentum will be maintained.
But let me also stress the value of an ad hoc expert group,
which is mentioned in the last paragraph of the draft
resolution (A/48/L.12). A group of this kind is not a new
method of working within the United Nations; it was used to
implement the decisions taken at the special session, for
example. This is an effective way of arranging for a
competent and candid outsider to review our efforts. If the
result is total support for the present policy, all the better.
For a number of years now, we have been making
the devastating effects of the
political statements about
narcotics problem.
In 1987 we convened the International
Conference in Vienna; in 1990 the special session of the
General Assembly and the World Summit in London. At the
special session, we also agreed on substantial reforms of the
structures for dealing with illicit narcotic substances. We
should now ask ourselves if this is enough. Have our
decisions brought us any closer to a solution of the problem?
Could we do more by adopting another approach?
There is a tendency - which we all share - to convene
at high-level meetings, declaring our resolution and our
commitment to fighting the global problems of illicit narcotic
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
drugs. Then we return home and occupy ourselves with
other matters of importance. But the problem of illicit
narcotics must be fought back home,
in our respective
countries. At the end of the day, responsibility rests with
each of us and all of us gathered here today.
It cannot be
delegated to somebody else.
Mr. BAI Jingfu (China) (interpretation from Chinese):
In February 1992, at its seventeenth special session, the
General Assembly adopted the Political Declaration and the
Global Programme of Action, which defined the aim and
direction of international narcotics-control activities. In the
course of past years a number of drug-control measures have
been taken, and positive results have been achieved by
individual countries and international society to reduce the
threat of illicit drugs. We should bear in mind, however,
that the global trend of drug production, abuse and illicit
trafficking is still moving in the wrong direction.
In the consideration and discussion of the international
drug problem and in the designing of more effective
strategies and policies, full attention should be paid to two
factors which are both objective and decisive in the current
illicit drug situation. One is the extensive illicit sources of
drugs, and the other
illicit-drug-
It is these two factors that seriously
consuming markets.
increase the problem of illicit-drug trafficking and make
narcotics control an arduous and time-consuming task for the
international community as a whole.
the international
is
Therefore, in the implementation of the international
drug-control strategy, the questions of how to reduce illicit
production, reduce the demand for narcotics and combat
illicit drug trafficking effectively should be considered and
dealt with as being of equal importance, with a view to the
adoption of comprehensive measures. At the same time, the
level of a country’s social and economic development must
be taken into account when it is preparing to launch its drug-
control campaign.
Though we are facing a serious drug situation,
circumstances conducive to the elimination of the illicit-drug
problem are also emerging.
I should like to take this
opportunity to mention a few points regarding international
drug-control cooperation.
First, such cooperation must be kept in accordance with
the objective reality of the general pattern of the global drug
problem with a view to formulating policies of international
narcotics-control cooperation and to planning UNDCP
activities. Full consideration should be given to the different
areas. The subregional drug-control strategy pursued by the
UNDCP in the Golden Triangle area is developing in an
appropriate way, and it is practical to lay emphasis on the
subregional project designed both to reduce illicit opium-
poppy cultivation by promoting comprehensive rural
development and to eliminate illicit-drug trafficking by
strengthening
Coordination
cooperation activities between neighbouring countries
through the UNDCP is also a good method. These policies
and activities should be reaffirmed and improved further.
drug-law enforcement.
Secondly, more positive measures should be taken to
encourage those countries which have not yet acceded to and
ratified the 1988 Convention to do so as soon as possible.
The States parties to the 1988 Convention should be urged
both to undertake the obligations set out therein and to
implement the Convention in all seriousness.
Thirdly, the Global Programme of Action is a principal
document based on national experiences in narcotics control
and adopted by the General Assembly at its seventeenth
special session. All States should be encouraged to take
effective action to implement it in their own circumstances.
While efforts should be taken at
level,
implementation also needs
the
international level.
to be accelerated at
the national
Fourthly, international cooperation on narcotics control
should be applied on the basis of mutual benefit and respect
for each other’s sovereignty.
The illicit-drug problem represents a great threat to the
health of people everywhere and to the stability of a society.
Because of its geographical position and the policy of
opening up, China is inevitably influenced by and suffering
from the increasing invasion of activities relating to the
transit of illicit drugs. Constant efforts have been made by
the Chinese Government
in past years to strengthen its
national narcotics-control measures.
the Chinese Government
In formulating and planning its domestic drug-control
took the Global
policies,
Programme of Action fully into consideration.
The
implementation of the Global Programme of Action by the
Chinese Government
the
Secretary-General. However, I should like to speak briefly
about
taken by the Chinese
Government last year and the main successes achieved.
is reflected in the report of
the important measures
Strict measures have been taken to suppress drug-
trafficking crimes relating to the transit of drugs.
In 1992
the Chinese drug-law-enforcement agencies cracked 14,701
drug cases, with the seizure of 4,489 kilograms of heroin,
2,660 kilograms of opium and 910 kilograms of cannabis.
The quantity of heroin seized during the year was 1.4 times
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
7
as much as that seized in the previous year. During the first
six months of 1993, a total of 7,817 drug cases were handled
by the Chinese drug-law-enforcement agencies, with the
seizure of 1,945 kilograms of opium, 1,898 kilograms of
heroin and 100 kilograms of cannabis. Those figures and
facts clearly show the trend of
increasing illicit-drug-
trafficking activities through China and, on the other hand,
the determination and effectiveness of
the Chinese
Government’s drug-law-enforcement efforts.
Publicity and education activities on narcotics control
have been further promoted. To raise social awareness,
government at all levels is mobilized to carry out extensive
publicity activities on the danger of illicit drugs and on the
national drug laws and regulations through the various mass
media, such as broadcasting, television programmes and
newspapers.
Young people, especially middle-school
students, are targeted for the main educational programme.
Reading materials on narcotics control are published by the
National Narcotics Control Commission and distributed
nationwide. Various mass campaigns were carried out in the
provinces where illicit-drug problems exist, in accordance
with the programmes of the United Nations Decade against
Drug Abuse and the observance of 26 June as International
Day against Drug Abuse.
Efforts for drug detoxification and rehabilitation have
been promoted further. According to nation-wide statistics,
the total number of drug addicts is 250,000 at present; 252
compulsory drug-detoxification centres have been set up by
local governments, and 46,000 drug addicts have gone
through compulsory drug-detoxification programmes. A
community monitoring system has been formed, in an effort
to keep the relapse rate at a lower level. The Chinese
Government has given high priority to consideration of the
prevention and treatment of AIDS deaths related to drug
addiction.
Great steps have been taken in controlling the chemicals
that can be used for illicit drug production. Though it is
rather difficult to control some of these chemicals effectively
because of their extensive use in industry,
the Chinese
Government still respects the decision made by the United
Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs and has enforced an
export-licence system, effective since 1 April 1993,
to
control the 22 chemicals listed in the 1988 Convention. A
special regulation has also been enacted and applied to
control
and
transportation of ephedrine,
including such measures as
distribution strictly according to the national plan, licensed
purchasing and the rule of one licence for one shipment.
Strict measures have been imposed along the border areas in
distribution
production,
effectively
the
Yunnan province to prevent any illicit exportation of
chemicals that could be used for drug manufacture.
drug-control
The Chinese Government has always been in favour of
strengthening international cooperation on narcotics control.
In order to fight the scourge brought on the international
community and China by external drug sources and drug
transit, China has supported and taken an active part in the
subregional
cooperation
programmes initiated by the UNDCP. The Subregional Drug
Control Project signed between China, Myanmar and the
UNDCP now in course of implementation. The Chinese
drug-law-enforcement agencies are playing an active role
and taking a positive attitude in joint drug investigation and
information exchange with neighbouring countries and other
regions. Good relations have been maintained in this regard.
strategy
and
The Chinese Government highly commends the holding,
at this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, of these
special plenary meetings on drug abuse and trafficking with
the aim of further enhancing international drug-control
cooperation.
It is our sincere hope that through the special
meetings, more Member States will accede to and ratify the
1988 Convention and that multilateral cooperation on
narcotics control will subsequently be strengthened.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on His Excellency
Mr. Melchior Wathelet, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
for Justice and Economic Affairs of Belgium.
Mr. WATHELET (Belgium)
(interpretation from
It is a great honour for me to speak in this
French):
prestigious Hall on behalf of the European Community and
its Member States.
In welcoming the interesting guidelines on our work
contained in the Secretary-General’s proposals, I should like
first of all to emphasize that the assessment of the state of
international cooperation in the fight against drug abuse is
even more necessary and urgent than it was at the time of
our last meeting, as all the data available to us indicate that
the scourge of drugs has continued to grow, thus spawning
a serious and continuous threat not only to the health of
individuals but also to the very fabric of our societies.
It
very often jeopardizes the political and economic stability of
countries, as well as their security and their democratic
structure as a whole.
Given the diversification of that threat, which is now
severely affecting a growing number of countries, especially
in Africa and Eastern Europe but in every other region of
the world as well, only an intensification of international
cooperation on a global level will enable us to cope with this
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
danger and present a sufficiently broad and effective front
against it. That is our responsibility as political leaders, and
we must shoulder it fully and in a spirit of complete
solidarity.
In this connection it
is the view of the European
Community and its member States that the special meetings
of the General Assembly we are devoting to this subject will
enable us to evaluate the effects of
the instruments,
programmes and institutional structures we have acquired
over time and to reaffirm our will
to engage in joint
cooperation.
The elimination of the traffic in illicit drugs entails high
political, human, economic and social costs.
It demands
regional and international solidarity and a genuinely effective
and concerted campaign of mobilization.
More specifically, a first answer designed to bolster the
means of combating illicit drugs in all their forms is the
adherence of all Member States of the Organization to
international treaties on the subject, in particular the 1961
Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the 1971 Convention
on Psychotropic Substances and, especially, the 1988 United
Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances. The latter Convention was
signed by the European Community and its member States.
The Community and a large majority of its member States
have already ratified it, thereby reaffirming the relevance of
its innovative provisions in such areas as confiscation of
property and control of deliveries and trade in precursor and
other essential chemical products.
the
legislative
We would also recall the great importance of rapid
and administrative
implementation of
measures necessary to make national
judicial systems
compatible with the spirit and scope of international treaties.
As for countries not yet parties to those Conventions, they
should be encouraged to move to the interim application of
their provisions.
The financial aspect of the illicit
trade in narcotic
substances and the involvement of banks and financiers in
the laundering of often colossal sums of money derived from
drug traffickers has become a major concern for States,
which must take all the measures necessary to ensure that
activities of this type cannot be conducted from their
national territory.
In the view of the European Community and its
this year of a single
member States,
market without
lead to such
reprehensible activities as illicit drug trafficking and the
the establishment
interior borders must not
money laundering that accompanies it. This is why a joint
strategy and a constant flow of information between the
services specializing in security and customs matters have
been initiated to guarantee uniform and homogeneous control
of the Community’s external borders.
The entry into force since on 1 January of this year of
the European directive on money laundering has provided
the Governments of the countries involved with a valuable
tool in the struggle they are jointly waging to overcome the
drug scourge. Similarly, emphasis must also be placed on
the need for eligible States to ratify the Council of Europe
Convention of 1990 on money laundering and the detection,
seizure and confiscation of the byproducts of crime.
The opportunity of acquiring enormous illegal profits is
an especially tempting lure for the criminal underworld,
whose activities adjust to the passions and ills of our society.
the European Community and its member States
Thus,
the optimum means should be found to
consider that
establish
the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme and the United
Nations Crime Prevention Programme in order to coordinate
and amplify efforts in this area.
between
close
links
Real progress has also been made since 1990 within the
framework of international cooperation in preventing the
diversion for illicit purposes of precursor and other essential
chemical products. Where the European Community is
concerned, this cooperation has led to the adoption of a body
of regulations detailing steps to be taken to prevent the
diversion of certain substances to the illicit production of
narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances and of a directive
on the production and commercialization of precursors in the
European zone.
That progress has enabled us to support the resolution
adopted last spring by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs,
which was designed to follow up the recommendations of
the Action Group on Chemical Products of the Group of
industrialized countries and to assign a clear-cut role to the
International Narcotics Control Board and the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme.
Our efforts to cooperate within the Trevi Group,
comprising the Ministers of Justice and Interior of the
Community’s 12 member States, and within the framework
of the Mutual Assistance Group of Customs Authorities have
also been stepped up. As an example I would mention here
the June 1991 decision to create a European Police Office,
known as Europol.
I hope that by 1 January 1994 the
agreement signed in June of this year by the appropriate
Ministers providing for
the establishment of a Joint
Information Unit on Drugs, to be known as the Europol
Drug Unit, will have been effectively implemented.
abuse affects individuals of all social strata in all age groups,
especially the young and, to an increasing degree, women.
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
9
joint
action.
international
As emphasized in the Political Declaration and the
Global Programme of Action adopted by the General
Assembly in 1990, the fight against the scourge of drugs
requires
The European
Community and its member States, for their part, have
concluded with third countries and with regions many
agreements containing clauses calling for cooperation in
combating drugs. Here, I would defer to the statement to be
made by Commissioner Flynn of the Commission of the
European Community.
The European Community and its member States also
reaffirm the importance of international efforts undertaken to
eliminate illegal drug crops. These meetings provide us with
an opportunity to analyse and assess those efforts and to
emphasize the solidarity required between consumer and
producer and transit countries. The European Community
and its member States have already concluded cooperation
agreements with many countries to assist them in identifying,
eradicating and replacing the illicit crops used to produce
drugs. They are prepared to consider other possibilities.
The Community and its member States are also
participating fully in the activities of the Dublin Group,
which is organizing informal consultations on drug-related
problems between the European Community and Australia,
Canada, Japan, Norway,
the United States of America,
Sweden and the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme.
The Dublin Group has thus been able,
inter alia, to hold a meeting at Cartagena to consider the
assistance to be given the Colombian judicial system.
Meetings devoted to Eastern Europe, Central Europe and the
Balkans have also been held in order better to define and
organize assistance to the countries of those regions. A
multilateral partnership is thus beginning to take shape on
the regional level.
As the Economic and Social Council again emphasized
at its session last July, the reduction of demand is one of the
key objectives of the campaign against drugs and drug
abuse.
It has a central place in the implementation of the
European Plan against drugs adopted by the Council of
Europe at Rome in 1990 and updated by the Council of
Europe at Edinburgh in 1992.
Information exchanges at the national, regional and
international levels on programmes and policies developed
within the framework of reduction of demand would be
particularly appropriate. This should be carried out within
the framework of existing institutions,
in particular the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme.
The European Community and its member States are
taking certain initiatives to this end. As an example I would
mention the establishment of a European observation post to
obtain objective,
the
European level on all the factors linked to the phenomenon
of drug abuse and its often-tragic consequences.
The
observation post will focus particular attention on demand
and its reduction.
reliable and comparable data at
The European Community and its member States also
wish to recall the important role played by non-governmental
organizations, many of which are actively specialized in this
sphere, and the contribution they can make in the drawing
up and implementation of measures to be undertaken by
public authorities to reduce demand and combat drug abuse,
particularly in assisting those authorities in mobilizing public
opinion and in disseminating messages of prevention, above
all to young people.
If our joint struggle against the drug scourge can and
must be made more effective through determined action by
each of us on the national level and by stepped-up regional
and international cooperation, it will nevertheless remain
futile without coordination at the United Nations level.
The adoption of the Political Declaration and the Global
Programme of Action by the General Assembly in 1990
contributed greatly to shaping the international will. With
the establishment of the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme in 1991 the international community
created the programmes, means and structures most
appropriate to pursuing the path we have laid out for
ourselves. The assessment exercise in which we are engaged
today affords us an opportunity to reiterate the great
importance we attach to seeing that our efforts at
international cooperation are based on stable, effective and
operational structures.
We feel that a balanced approach to activities designed
to reduce demand should be followed up by giving, within
a multidimensional approach, suitable priority to prevention
and to the treatment, rehabilitation and social reintegration
of drug addicts. As the available statistics indicate, drug
The European Community and its member States are
determined to give their full support to the new approaches
and methods of action now available to UNDCP for reacting
quickly and flexibly to developments
and to the
diversification of the drug problem throughout the world. In
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
particular, they wish to emphasize the pivotal role assigned
to UNDCP, which is entrusted with supervising and
coordinating action by the international community in its
campaign against drug abuse,
identifying new trends,
proposing creative solutions and mobilizing the actions
undertaken by governmental, non-governmental, regional and
international institutions.
The European Community and its member States also
support the strategic guidelines of UNDCP, which are based
on a tripartite, integrated approach in which a consistent set
of national programmes, regional and subregional approaches
and international priorities neatly dovetail.
The European Community and its member States fully
support the recent efforts of UNDCP to diversify its actions
in the fight against drugs, particularly by devoting a greater
part of its programmes to reducing demand. They also
appreciate the precursor role of UNDCP in certain countries
where the drug problem, in terms of production and transit,
is extremely acute. In those cases, UNDCP is often the first
and the only interlocutor of the authorities involved.
to
the
We
great
attach
importance
effective
implementation of the Global Programme of Action at the
United Nations system level.
It is of crucial importance to
maximizing the effect of the fight against drugs that the
various organs of this body, including its financing agencies,
be called upon to take immediately, and in their respective
spheres, appropriate drug-abuse measures and to include an
anti-drug dimension in their policies, programmes and
budgets.
cooperation with international
It is not, however, sufficient to encourage UNDCP to
step up its
financial
institutions. The Member States of our Organization must
for their part continually emphasize in the various directive
bodies of these institutions the need to pool their efforts and
their work, each one in its respective sector.
The role of coordination within the United Nations
system to ensure the success of the Global Programme of
Action devolves on UNDCP and its Executive Director, Mr.
Giacomelli, for whom the European Community and its
member States reiterate their full support. The recent
granting to the Executive Director of greater autonomy
concerning the management of the services of UNDCP and
the staffs made available to him is a tangible sign of the
hopes and the confidence our Organization is placing in the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme.
given adequate resources, the Community and its member
States fervently hope that controlling drug abuse will remain
one of the highest priorities in determining the regular
budget and the medium-term plan of the United Nations.
We urgently call on the international community to send a
clear message along these lines. We also appeal for an
increase in voluntary contributions, on which UNDCP
depends to a great extent to cope with the growing needs
which it must meet.
The Commission on Narcotic Drugs must remain the
primary decision-making organ of the United Nations in the
area of drug control. It is that body which approves, on the
basis of proposals of the Executive Director, the programme
budget of
It plays an extremely
important role in the promotion and follow-up of the Global
Programme of Action. The European Community and its
member States welcome the advocacy by the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs of an expansion of coordination on all levels,
including that of operational activities in the field.
the UNDCP Fund.
Decision-makers must ensure,
through assessment
reports, lasting continuity and consistency in the programmes
established to fight drug abuse. Measures should be
immediately taken to attain this objective. Once these
conditions have been met, UNDCP and the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs doubtless will be in a better position to carry
out
over
the
implementation of the Global Programme of Action.
their mandate
exercise
control
to
A large-scale meeting in 1997 to evaluate this
Programme should be considered. The year 1997 could be
chosen because it marks the halfway point of the United
Nations Decade against Drug Abuse.
That evaluation
should, in any case, also deal with the measures undertaken
by Governments for the implementation of the Global
Programme of Action and of the international Conventions
in the area of the fight against drugs.
the new structures provide for
I should like to conclude by saying, on behalf of the
European Community and its member States, that we are on
the eve of a new stage in the building of Europe. The
Maastricht Treaty is about to enter into force. Within this
framework,
the better
organization of deliberations aimed at guaranteeing greater
consistency and stepping up cooperation links. The self-
motivated and multidisciplinary approach which the
European Community and its member States have always
hoped to follow in the fight against drugs will only be
reaffirmed by this.
Aware that a consistent and balanced approach to the
fight against drug abuse will bear fruit only if UNDCP is
The European Community and its member States once
again express their conviction that only concerted action
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
11
based on a sustained determination to step up regional and
international cooperation can make it possible to reverse the
trend towards the heightening of the drug phenomenon. The
global approach at the United Nations level will enable us to
give the concerted action of Member States the pluralistic
dimension that is indispensable to the success of our joint
struggle. That is why the European Community and its
member States continue to support the efforts of UNDCP
and its Executive Director. We hope that our discussions
and the results of our meetings will fully reaffirm this
determination on the part of the international community.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on His Excellency
Mr. Enrique Krauss, Minister of the Interior of Chile.
Mr. KRAUSS (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
Allow me, first of all, to express the deep satisfaction of the
Government of Chile at the decision taken by the General
Assembly to devote four plenary meetings to reviewing the
current state of international cooperation in combating the
production, consumption and illicit trafficking of drugs.
This is an important opportunity for us to analyse
rigorously, in the highest and most qualified international
forum, the various effects of illicit drug consumption in the
world. The clear gravity of this issue should prompt us to
think about how much we are doing, or failing to do, about
eliminating this breach of morality from our lives.
My country notes with concern that the drug problem,
far from diminishing, is growing in an alarming way in most
of our countries. We know that we share this concern with
the international community.
The priority which the
Inter-American Drug Abuse Control Commission has given
to the study of new strategies to cope with this question is
evidence of this. The important work of the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme is moving in the
same direction.
Chile is no stranger to this painful reality.
In recent
years, drug abuse has increased in our society. To make
matters worse, the use of free-base cocaine has become
particularly prevalent, especially among young people, with
dangerous effects on their health, as they easily become
addicted.
The increase in drug trafficking can also be seen in our
country, due not only to internal consumption but also to the
use of our territory as a transit country, particularly for
cocaine, to Europe and North America.
Money-laundering and the smuggling of essential
chemicals, although they are not major problems, are not
foreign to our situation. Our country’s proximity - so
welcome for other reasons -
to countries that produce
cocaine makes us particularly vulnerable to cocaine
trafficking. Chile lacks the natural conditions for producing
cocaine.
increase in personal
Moreover, our country’s economic development, which
has
led to a real
income, has
paradoxically turned the country into a consumer market
attractive to drug sellers. Our open economic system, which
attracts large foreign investment and active foreign trade,
also attracts those seeking to hide the source of money from
drug trafficking.
In Chile, particularly since the installation of the
democratic Government of President Aylwin, we have faced
squarely the fight against drugs.
We have ratified and promulgated as a law of the
Republic the 1988 United Nations Convention; we have set
up a National Council for the Control of Illicit Drugs, which
coordinates the activities of all services related to the
prevention of drug abuse and the repression of drug
trafficking; we have adopted a national policy of drug abuse
prevention and control; we have presented to the national
Congress a bill which adapts the regulations currently in
force to the 1988 Convention, a bill which will soon be
approved by the Senate of the Republic; and we have
increased the budgets of
responsible for
prevention, control and rehabilitation, which has allowed
important programmes to be developed and has increased the
efficiency of the state apparatus.
the bodies
At the international level, we have increased the level
of our participation in specialized multilateral agencies and
we have signed bilateral conventions with countries in and
outside of our region, making every effort to see that they
become operative.
We know that a relationship exists between the abuse
and trafficking of drugs and the quality of life of peoples.
For this reason, we see economic and social development as
the primary means of dealing with this scourge. Growth
with equity, the cornerstone of our Government, is for us the
most appropriate way to deal with the roots of the abuse and
trafficking of drugs: poverty,
the lack of educational
opportunities and the lack of hope. We have therefore
enthusiastically supported the World Summit for Social
Development which the United Nations will hold in 1995.
Drug abuse is not an isolated problem, and its
consideration from an ethical and social point of view shows
that criminalizing laws will not suffice to eliminate it. It is
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to develop plans and programmes developed
essential
specifically for
the prevention of drug abuse and the
treatment of addicts, and to act resolutely and rigorously
against the criminal organizations whose illegal activities
endanger not only the health of the world’s peoples but also
the security, moral
integrity, economy and even the
institutions of our nations.
In the opinion of the Chilean Government, the efforts
of each of our countries will have limited chances for
success without
true international cooperation going far
beyond mere declarations of intent. We cannot view
cooperation for development solely as economic assistance -
though that is undoubtedly essential for the most unfortunate
countries - but also and particularly as the removal of the
impediments standing in the way of free trade for the
products of less developed countries, which is essential for
the growth that will enable us to bring social justice to our
communities.
Here, we find the most just and appropriate path for
cooperation in the development of our nations. In addition,
we understand that the responsibility for the fight against
drugs, which debase individuals and corrupt nations, lies not
only with the producer countries but primarily with those
whose consumption is greatest, often developed nations
which, unfortunately, tend to feel that their actions should
focus only on the supply, beyond their borders, rather than
on the demand expressed within their own territories.
International cooperation should also be expressed
through cooperation in the fight against narcotrafficking, in
the form of reciprocal
legal cooperation, exchanges of
information among the competent authorities of each
country, concerted operations among the services responsible
for implementing the laws, and periodic meetings allowing
for an interchange of experiences and analyses, and other
similar activities.
In my country’s opinion, cooperation in this field is still
insufficient. We see with concern that all too often the will
manifested in agreements is not reflected in real cooperation.
In the field of drugs, unfortunately, a great deal is written
and said but not much is done.
We believe that true cooperation is expressed in the
free flow of information on drug trafficking activities which
involve more than one country, in the speedy delivery of
judicial records and evidence which will hinder the impunity
of the branches of illegal organizations which act
in a
different country from the one in which the judicial
proceedings are carried out, in concertation between the
police and control services for specific operations, in timely
responses to requests for information on suspects, and in a
flexible handling of extradition requests. Because the enemy
is powerful and enormously wealthy, the response of those
of us who, by mandate of our peoples, represent
the
common good should be effective, speedy and aggressive.
In our judgement, the undeniable political will of our
countries to cooperate in the control of drug trafficking
should be reflected in our daily action. The situation does
not call
for
persistent and continuous operations.
for sporadic and occasional gestures but
The Chilean State is prepared to do this. As many
countries have observed, we are already cooperating with
other nations and particularly with our neighbours in the
most expeditious and flexible way, both in connection with
drug trafficking itself and with the trade and contraband of
drug-processing products, as well as with money laundering.
With the sponsorship of the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme, we hope in the immediate future
to crete regional programmes on these matters.
In our country’s opinion, no contradiction should exist
between international cooperation and national sovereignty.
If the rule of law and the legitimate political authorities of
each country are respected, cooperation between our States
can be increased. But, we insist, it is essential that in these
activities
the political, administrative and professional
sovereignty of our nations be respected.
In concluding my statement, I wish to reiterate the firm
determination of the Chilean State and Government
to
participate resolutely in the international community’s
concerted efforts to confront the production, abuse and illicit
traffic of drugs, under the principle of shared responsibility
and in the framework of the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme.
The deaths,
I would like to emphasize the urgent need to act on this
tragic problem.
the physical and moral
destruction, the delinquency resulting from drugs and the
social marginalization of addicts - all affect our countries
whether they are producers, processors and sellers of drugs,
or
including drug-processing
products.
intermediaries for drugs,
Mr. Baltasar Garzón, delegate of Spain’s National Drug
Plan, who I understand is present at this plenary session,
recently asked in a newspaper article, "In the fight against
drugs, now what?" He is quite right. "Now what?", we are
asked by the sick, the young and the poor of our peoples.
Drugs: now what? The answer is up to us.
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
13
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear a
statement by the Vice-President of the Republic of Bolivia,
Mr. Victor Hugo Cardenas.
Mr. Victor Hugo Cardenas, Vice-President of the
Republic of Bolivia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Vice-President of
the Republic of Bolivia, His
Excellency Mr. Victor Hugo Cardenas, and inviting him to
address the General Assembly.
Mr. CARDENAS (Bolivia)
(interpretation from
I am pleased indeed to address this plenary
Spanish):
meeting to consider aspects of international cooperation in
the control of narcotic drugs.
The presence of distinguished personalities
from
Member States highlights the importance of this forum; our
Organization seems at last to have resolved to deal in depth
with the question of international cooperation in the search
for solutions to the serious problems posed by the causes
and effects of demand, consumption, production, and illicit
trafficking of narcotic drugs.
This is undoubtedly a difficult topic, especially for
countries like mine which suffer the consequences of drug
trafficking not by any will of their own but through the
influence of those who, in other places, amass fortunes from
this reprehensible activity.
Accordingly, we are discouraged to see that our efforts
often do not prompt the solidarity from the international
community, which should be expressed by substantial
contributions to combating this evil.
Bolivia has a Master Plan for Prevention, Control of
Illicit Drug Trafficking and Alternative Development.
Prevention,
three
foundations
combating drug trafficking and its
consequences, and this threefold approach must be supported
in every way if it is to yield results in the fight against drug
trafficking.
and development
control
for
are
the
resources to implement
I must acknowledge that, in my country, the policy of
prevention is perhaps the weakest, owing to the shortage of
human and financial
the new
National Plan for reduction of drug demand in Bolivia,
adopted in 1993. However, some goals have been met with
the support of public and private Bolivian and foreign
organizations addressing educational tasks and rehabilitation
in specialized clinics in the country’s major cities.
The policy of illicit drug traffic control has probably
been the most successful, for it has succeeded in containing
the growth of that activity. Over the last eight years we
have seized nearly 90,000 kilograms of illicit drugs at
various stages of processing. Similarly, more than 400
factories have been destroyed, and the principal kingpins of
organized drug crime have been detained,
tried and
punished.
The policy of alternative development, originally aimed
at replacing surplus coca plantations with other crops, has
been planned with a broader perspective, based on the need
to transform a whole economy driven largely by coca and its
derivatives into a different kind of economy, one based on
new lines of production that serve to generate jobs, incomes
and foreign exchange,
in a framework of balanced and
sustained economic and social growth.
In order to replace the coca economy, it has been
necessary to supplement
alternative
development, gradually moving into other priority areas of
the national economy, that is, to expand the concept to one
of sustainable development and human development.
concept of
the
More effective reduction of coca shrubs cannot be
achieved only by means of law enforcement, nor has the
promise of granting cash incentives for each hectare
destroyed been sufficient - witness the traumatic experience
of my country, the second-ranking coca producer in the
world. After cutting surplus plantings by half, at a high
social cost, we are discouraged to note that the increase in
the consumption of narcotics in the developed societies is in
the same proportion as the increase in the poverty of my
people.
For my country, a true solution must derive from a
strategy to eradicate the poverty that affects more than two
thirds of
the population, particularly those living in
indigenous and rural areas and in city outskirts. That is the
context in which the macroeconomic targets and social goals
have been defined by Bolivia’s new administration, whose
aim is to modernize the State while bringing about
far-reaching reform in institutional machinery. That reform
seeks to strengthen and expand democracy, to preserve our
hard-won economic stability, and to reduce poverty.
Recently, President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada
proposed a strategy under which surplus coca production
could be replaced, not through enforced eradication, but
through the alternative means of sustainable economic
development associated with productive diversification and
greater access to world markets, not only for agricultural
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
products but also for manufactured goods with greater value
added.
Pursuing those broad lines of action over the medium
term necessarily requires international cooperation with two
support for physical infrastructure works in
objectives:
coca-producing
for
agro-industrial development programmes in those areas.
vigorous
support
areas,
and
We in Bolivia are convinced of the need to promote
efficiency in social investment designed to reduce poverty.
Taking that approach, we will forge ahead with a policy to
foster investments that enhance productive employment and
the commitment to bringing the most vulnerable strata of
society into the mainstream.
reaffirmed their
The Rio Group, holding its seventh presidential summit
in Santiago, Chile, expressed disappointment at the attitude
of the great industrial Powers, which is further weakening
the multilateral
trade system and affecting the delicate
equilibrium of the trade balance of the countries concerned.
The Presidents
illicit
production, trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs
and psychotropic substances, as well as their condemnation
of terrorism, because both constitute a systematic and
deliberate violation of human rights.
In that same spirit,
they noted the need for increased international cooperation
within a framework of responsibility shared between the
countries affected by production and those characterized by
high drug use.
against
fight
I wish to refer also to other recent directions taken by
the major economic Powers.
set-back,
We have noted answers and explanations that seek to
justify the new policy of reallocating a part of the funds
earmarked for
this campaign, diverting them to other
purposes in various parts of the world. This reallocation
could prompt a dangerous
leading to the
elimination of programmes that are under way.
In that
event, instead of support for projects with indigenous peasant
communities,
and
education
in
grass-roots
participation, there could occur a negative backlash, as those
communities could very well perceive commitments to
cooperation as lacking in seriousness. That works to the
detriment of Bolivia and of all countries involved in this
struggle against the odds.
technological
achieve
providing
order
to
resources
greater
Allow me to say that the damage will be greatest to
is being
indigenous peoples, whose International Year
marked in 1993, for it is they who are the first to suffer the
impact of these reductions. In this regard, I must report that
the Bolivian Government, together with others, is sponsoring
the declaration of the international decade of the world’s
indigenous peoples, a period during which issues central to
their future and progress should be addressed.
In my capacity as representative of Bolivia and of the
founding peoples of my country, I consider it a privilege to
uphold before the conscience of the international community
the right of those peoples to recognition of their historical
and cultural integrity as a fundamental and integral part of
States.
situation.
Bolivia has
assumed its
It is my duty to address an appeal to the conscience of
the most powerful countries that they not close their eyes to
that
share of
responsibility, with great effort and sacrifice, despite its
shortage of resources. Since 1985 we have contributed
significantly to international endeavours to combat drugs,
through a model of our own based on protection of domestic
peace, community participation, alternative development, and
democratic stability.
The insufficiency and inadequate execution of many of
the programmes carried out on the demand side have meant
that the efforts exerted by countries like my own have lost
the effectiveness needed to achieve satisfactory overall
results.
We understand that there are problems in many parts of
the world which call for urgent assistance, but we are
convinced that priorities should be geared to consolidating
and enhancing the efficiency of existing programmes and
machinery in the fight against drug trafficking.
I cannot fail
to mention the negotiations with the
Dublin Group of countries. We reiterate our appeal that the
valuable help, now hampered by slow and complex approval
machinery, be made more dynamic. Their aid is essential
for financial and technical support of anti-drug programmes
in our countries.
My Government is convinced of the need to strengthen
multilateral mechanisms. We see the strengthening of these
programmes as an outcome of this important event.
My Government expresses its gratitude and its support
for the important task that is being carried out by Mr.
Giorgio Giacomelli, Executive Director of
the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme.
We are faced with a great paradox: although mankind
has created unprecedented conditions for scientific and
technological development, poverty and the inability to
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
15
tackle the basic problems of four fifths of the world’s
The illegality of the
population are growing steadily.
processes
trafficking and
consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
is contributing dangerously to that dramatic gap.
linked to the production,
The time has therefore come for a careful review of the
orientation of the strategies and policies we have shared in
recent years.
It is up to us to provide remedies to these
evils and to shoulder our responsibility with optimism and
resolve for our societies and future generations.
The PRESIDENT:
On behalf of
Assembly,
I wish to thank the Vice-President of
Republic of Bolivia for the statement he has just made.
the General
the
Mr. Victor Hugo Cardenas, Vice-President of the
Republic of Bolivia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mrs. Simone Veil,
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs,
Health and Urban Planning of France.
Mrs. VEIL (France) (interpretation from French): We
are gathered here for a meeting of extraordinary importance.
Three years after
the General
Assembly in February 1990, we are taking stock of action
taken in an attempt to chart, in the light of that review, new
ways to make our action more effective if need be.
the special session of
At first glance, the picture seems extremely gloomy. A
French weekly recently had a headline on this subject that
read "Drugs:
the lost war?" Have we really reached that
point?
I do not believe that it is possible to assert that the war
on drugs has already been lost and has therefore become
pointless, but I agree that it is indeed a war, which now has
the planet for its theatre and poverty as its prop. We used
to speak in terms of very limited areas. That is no longer
the case.
the
producing South. The situation has changed considerably.
Everyone is affected now, and everyone bears a share of
responsibility, great or small. There are now countries of
the North producing cannabis, while in the South the
geography of production is in perpetual flux.
The consuming North was set against
The scourge is also striking the transit countries,
themselves afflicted by the porosity inherent
in these
networks of corruption; the trade routes of drug trafficking
follow the lines of least political, economic and social
resistance.
Moreover, the range of narcotic drugs has expanded.
Huge pharmaceutical laboratories offer a whole gamut of
products, amphetamines or hallucinogens, which are illegally
exported to the poor countries.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
These realities highlight even more the destabilizing
nature of the illicit traffic in drugs at the geopolitical level.
The inclusion of a country in the drug traffic network soon
entails, the exacerbation of all types of social problems for
that country. In this respect, I should like to draw attention
to the particularly alarming situation of Africa.
That
continent, where certain ports and airports serve as transit
points, is currently under the greatest threat, while the efforts
of the major United Nations agencies trying to deal with the
problem are still concentrating too much on other parts of
the world. For Africa, the "war on drugs" must henceforth
be a part of all assistance and cooperation programmes
approved or financed by the development agencies, whether
the United Nations Development Programme, the World
Bank or bilateral assistance programmes.
The increase in drug trafficking naturally implies a
corresponding increase in demand. The number of illicit
consumers of narcotic drugs continues to grow throughout
the world.
It is expanding rapidly in the countries of the
South, adding an additional evil to the social problems of
every type that already plague those societies. The tragic
problem of the spread of the AIDS pandemic is further
aggravated by drug addiction and inadequate prevention in
that area. It is no longer a question of a scourge limited to
rich countries and populations seeking new thrills in
response to society’s shortcomings;
today, we are all
affected. The result of this exacerbated situation is the
dazzling wealth of the drug trade. The turnover, estimated
at $500 billion, is over four times the gross national product
of the 53 least developed countries.
The challenge is therefore global and the stakes are
high. We are dealing with the very future of our societies,
above all because the main target of
the drug trade
everywhere is young people - and that target population is
becoming ever younger.
In France the average age of the
cannabis consumer is 22; of the heroin consumer, 26; and of
the cocaine consumer, 28. As if that did not make the
picture bleak enough, it is further darkened by the ravages
of AIDS among drug addicts.
Indeed, we cannot
underestimate the importance of that factor in the spread of
the HIV virus.
Considerable energy, therefore, must be dedicated to
this struggle. Determination and unflagging effort are the
keys to success. They must be absolute. That is why we
must be extremely careful not to yield in a fight which some
consider already lost nor to give into the temptation to be
defeatist. The situation is too serious to throw up our hands
in resignation.
But does this mean that we have done nothing in three
Some
the picture should make us despair?
years,
glimmers of hope exist. Let us review them.
that
First, awareness of extent of
the challenge has
considerably increased.
Some debates that were until
recently considered controversial now seem to be over - for
instance, the difference between the countries of the North,
rightly obsessed with the question of supply, and the
countries of the South, inclined to consider that the problem
was above all one for the rich, and that it was up to them to
settle it. Some parts of the debate about sovereignty also
seem obsolete. We have had to accept the reality of the
world of the drug dealers, who scorn national frontiers and
legislation.
therefore,
that
if we have yet
It seems to me,
to
measure up to the challenge, we are better placed to do so,
primarily because we have acquired potentially very
effective legal tools. At the national level, first, countries
have begun to react.
In France, for instance, we have
adopted an arsenal of regulations and legislation to deal with
the problem.
In particular, we have acquired the means to
fight money laundering. At the administrative level, we
have established an interministerial coordination body, the
Delegation General for the War on Drugs and Addiction,
under my authority as Minister for Social Affairs and Health.
Every ministry involved is represented. We have also
considerably increased the financial resources devoted to the
war on drug abuse.
Drugs threaten the very existence of our societies. But
it is wrong to imagine that repressive solutions alone will
enable us to resolve such a complex problem, which though
it very much concerns the public authorities, concerns no
less the individual and his personal behaviour, his health and
his social and family relationships. This phenomenon,
whose consequences are tragic, is so complex that all its
dimensions must be grasped if our preventive measures are
to be truly effective.
We cannot ignore the pressures drug dealers put on
potential consumers or the trap that closes on petty dealers,
who, having sought to make easy money, end up becoming
consumers themselves. But these things do not explain
everything. We need to ask ourselves why young people
seek in the high or the apathy induced by drugs a way to
escape from reality.
Is it a crisis of identity inherent in
modern societies; a loss of traditional values and taboos; a
flight from a future darkened by economic crises and
constant social change?
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
17
Whatever the cause, public authorities must make a
special effort
to adapt prevention to specific sectors of
society. Experience teaches us that a message on prevention
has meaning only in terms of the target ages and groups. It
must be drawn up with the help of those who specialize in
the areas concerned:
sociologists and
teachers. That has been France’s aim under my authority,
with the provision of better care for the sick in order to
reintegrate the greatest possible number of them into society.
psychologists,
On the international level, the 1988 United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances has entered into force. Eighty
States have now ratified it.
I appeal for the broadest
possible ratification of the Convention.
But ratification is not enough. We must be stricter in
ensuring that we respect our commitments under
the
Convention. Through the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme (UNDCP), the United Nations is making
praiseworthy efforts to promote full and comprehensive
implementation of the Convention and to create on the local
level a climate favouring respect for those commitments.
The Organization is also engaged in improving the
environment,
and administrative
environment, necessary for such cooperation to succeed.
including the
legal
Even that is not enough. We expect UNDCP to be
more self-motivated on this essential subject. Each year, the
Executive Director of UNDCP should report fully on the
Programme’s activities:
its successes and its failures alike.
For the benefit of countries that have made serious efforts to
implement the Convention, especially developing countries,
it should also recommend positive measures in terms of
access to international credits from major international or
regional development or financing agencies.
But we need to go further.
I suggest that our experts
get right
to work on ways of strengthening means of
monitoring and implementing the 1988 Convention, possibly
through a protocol that would establish a forum that could
impose penalties or,
in the last resort, sanctions. This
would, of course, require a considerable but, in our view,
necessary broadening of the purview of the International
Narcotics Control Board.
UNDCP, founded only two years ago, aroused great
expectations among Member States and contributing States,
and it continues to do so. Under the effective guidance of
Mr. Giacomelli, it is beginning to achieve results. But we
are still
First UNDCP needs a
substantial increase in the funds made available to it by
States.
from the target.
far
The Programme must also act with determination and
authority in the areas of its competence; it must firmly
reassert its purpose of coordinating activities carried out
elsewhere, within and outside the United Nations system. It
must work on a more regular basis with the International
Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL); there has been
much progress, but that cooperation must be made even
closer, while respecting the autonomy of both organizations.
Above all, we must avoid institutional proliferation,
which can impair the effectiveness of our struggle. We must
cut through the undergrowth of existing bodies, a task to
which I hope the Commission on Narcotic Drugs will devote
its attention. France will submit a document containing
specific proposals on this matter.
UNDCP must also be ever ready for new fields of
action, three of which I view as deserving special priority.
The first relates to investigating the financial networks
used by drug traffickers: the fight against money laundering.
Several States, including France, already have the legislative
means to do this; very effective cooperation has been
established within the framework of the Financial Action
Task-Force on Money Laundering. Similar structures are
being established in every region. Now is the time to ensure
overall consistency, a task which could fall to UNDCP.
UNDCP should also be responsible for the dissemination of
technological expertise for early identification of zones of
production and transit points. Surveillance by satellite and
finding means of monitoring more effectively the tens of
thousands of containers that pass daily through the world’s
ports are interesting ideas, and France would consider
providing firm support and stepping up its cooperation.
The second field of action is the priority area of
prevention. Too often, suppression and prevention are
viewed as incompatible. But a policy for a war on illicit
drugs can be based only on both those two priorities. The
French Government understands this complementarity and
has decided to set up a commission composed not of experts
but of "wise men" open to considering societal problems;
this commission is charged with studying the problems -
social, economic and medical problems of course, but also
broader ethical and even philosophical problems - that the
phenomenon of drug addiction raises for our country.
The same must be done, in a scaled-up version, on an
international level. UNDCP must do more to collect data on
the most affected categories, on the motivations of those
involved, and on experiments throughout the world to take
immediate action to increase awareness among children and
youth and to provide adequate treatment.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Will those measures suffice? Clearly not. At best, we
can stem the evil more or less effectively. The situation
demands that we explore a third field of action.
In some
countries, the fight against the production and trafficking in
illicit drugs is a question of survival for the State - drug
dealers have infiltrated too deeply and too widely - and has
caused too severe an institutional gangrene, especially among
the guarantors of the rule of law, such as the judiciary and
the police, for those countries to achieve a solution on their
own, whatever their determination to do so.
I am thinking
of situations where drug trafficking circles have allied
themselves with terrorist movements which they equip and
finance an attempt to destabilize regimes that dare to oppose
their domination.
I propose that
together, without excluding any
possibilities, we think about creating specific machinery to
focus action on limited-duration bilateral and multilateral
plans to solve the problem. Such exceptional action, of
course, could take place only at the request of the country
involved.
It could include cooperation strengthened by the
assignment of specialized police personnel, and should also
involve the major international financial institutions and the
main organization of the United Nations system.
Our struggle will not be won in a year or in five years.
We are talking about an entire decade. But it is urgent that
we move to respond, and that we put aside our differences,
given the dimensions of the challenge before us all.
I can affirm that France will always stand by the side
of the international community in this struggle.
In this
mobilization, international and French public opinion will
guarantee our victory. For the very foundations of our
societies are at stake.
the
international community managed to respond effectively to
piracy.
In a very different and perhaps even more difficult
context, we need to find a common response commensurate
with this new and terrible challenge.
I have no doubt that
we shall be able to do so.
In the nineteenth century,
The PRESIDENT: I call now on His Excellency The
Honourable Senator Antonino Murmura, Under-Secretary of
State, Ministry of the Interior of Italy.
Mr. MURMURA (Italy) (spoke in Italian; English text
I am very pleased to address
furnished by the delegation):
the General Assembly on behalf of the Italian Government
and the Minister of Interior of Italy on the occasion of these
plenary meetings devoted to the drug problem, one of the
most serious evils affecting today’s society.
I realize that there is no sure cure for a global and
complex problem such as the one of drug abuse, and I am
convinced that there is an urgent need to devise operational
tools and formulas in step with a fast-changing reality;
nevertheless, I am equally aware that this discussion must be
based upon concrete matters: on the guidelines and on the
means to be put
to common use if our Government
institutions are to give an adequate response to this common
threat.
My opinion is still that it is not enough to agree upon
cooperation measures, by means of conventions, bilateral
agreements, and political accords of a different nature, if
such agreements are not coupled with consistent behaviour
and a precise fulfilment of the obligations agreed upon.
For this reason, Italy has actively participated in the
creation of a common international drug legislation and has
signed all the relevant United Nations Conventions.
Italy has been supporting the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), which it
considers to be the natural forum effectively to combat
drugs. Lately, the UNDCP has improved its autonomy in
the management of financial and human resources with the
aim of achieving more successful results.
It is therefore necessary for the international community
to afford to UNDCP all possible technical and financial
resources so that the common goals claimed by the highest
authorities are not frustrated at the most crucial moments,
that is to say whenever we are to produce specific actions
and tangible results.
It is now a common conviction that the only way to
this phenomenon is through increased, consistent
fight
cooperation, particularly in two areas:
the project against
money laundering and the project against drug trafficking by
sea.
With
laundering,
the
regard
to money
40
recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force must
be considered and adapted to various national legislations.
To this end we need to create a network of shared
instruments and of mutual investigative and legal assistance.
The
suppression of drug-trafficking by sea
is
particularly important for Italy, and we feel there is a need
to establish, especially in these fields, effective cooperation
with other countries which share this opinion with us.
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
19
Furthermore, a draft convention of the Council of
Europe to implement article 17 is being studied by a panel
of experts chaired by Italy.
Along the same lines,
Italy is also setting up a
computerized system to exchange information on drug
trafficking, the so-called Teledrug. Teledrug will operate
uninterrupted around the clock and will enhance the
capabilities of drug enforcement in participating countries
within the framework of the United Nations Conventions.
the
The United Nations Conventions,
1987
Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline, and the 1990
Global Programme of Action are the cornerstones of Italy’s
drug law, which takes into equal consideration the need to
combat narcotic drug trafficking as well as drug abuse
prevention, and treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts
to whom we should be devoting more attention.
I should like to make clear that, although the result of
the Italian referendum of 18 April has eliminated prison
sentences for the possession of drugs for personal use, it has,
however, upheld the principle that possession is illegal and
punishable by administrative sanctions.
Italians have shown their dislike for past legislation on
drugs but this absolutely does not imply the liberalization of
drug use or drug dealing.
The drug phenomenon should not be seen as an isolated
phenomenon. We must not ignore the complex ties between
drug trafficking and other criminal activities, first and
foremost, money laundering and, more generally, organized
crime. Moreover we must not
ignore the connection
between drug trafficking and arms smuggling.
The same strategy of international cooperation that must
guide the war on drugs should also shape the methods we
use to fight money laundering and arms smuggling. We
shall fight them equally energetically.
Italy’s laws against
these phenomena are particularly severe and detailed. We
hope other States will base their drug laws upon these
principles in order
law
enforcement
the transnational activities of
organized crime.
to create a common front of
to combat
On the contrary, we should be addressing drug
trafficking, money laundering and arms smuggling as three
different aspects of the same criminal activity carried out by
international organized crime which day by day is becoming
more relentless and ferocious.
Therefore this should not be for us the moment for
discouragement and disengagement, but rather it should be
the moment to renew and enhance our determination in this
war which should also be fuelled by the positive results
achieved in recent times in drug suppression, thanks to
closer international cooperation between police forces and
judicial authorities.
In
of
Italy,
coordination
domestic
law
better
enforcement agencies,
increased cooperation with the
specialized agencies of other countries, and the adoption of
new techniques envisaged by the new drug law, such as
controlled deliveries and undercover purchases, have led in
the past three years to successful results which were never
possible in the past.
We
along these
intend to continue
lines, by
strengthening legal instruments, increasing the number of
drug liaison officers posted abroad, and enhancing controls
to combat the diversion of precursor chemicals to illicit
production.
Italy also wishes to reiterate its confidence in the
United Nations and its specialized agencies, first, to UNDCP
and its Executive Director, Ambassador Giacomelli, and
expresses its utmost dislike of those initiatives designed to
limit its autonomy, efficiency and management.
From the very outset UNDCP has
adopted a
well-balanced global strategy with which Italy fully agrees.
It is clear that only by working on the one hand to reduce
drug demand and supply and on the other hand to suppress
drug trafficking can we hope to obtain genuine results.
Italy finds particularly interesting the initiative started
by UNDCP to involve more actively the non-governmental
organizations, the voluntary workers, the media, the private
sector,
sports
movement in common action.
institutions and the international
local
That is why I must express my concerns over the
growing trend towards legalizing drugs and the fatalistic
attitude that the war against drugs is a "lost cause".
I
believe these attitudes could be very dangerous because they
may weaken our commitment against narcotic drugs
trafficking and against the other problems I have already
mentioned.
In particular, Italy hopes that international financial
institutions will be involved in common efforts for an
alternative development such as substituting the cultivation
of drug crops because so far they have shown little interest
in this social aspect of the drug problem.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
To the problem of alternative development as well as
the achievement of a common United Nations strategy to
combat drugs, we intend to direct our proposal, which I am
honoured to present on this occasion on behalf of the Italian
Government, to organize in Italy a United Nations world
conference on drugs with particular emphasis on heroin. It
will take place in the first half of 1996 and will be a
follow-up to the Conference that was held in London in
April 1990.
We said that
there is no sure remedy to the drug
problem;
so we should consider all the difficulties and
problems posed by illicit drug abuse to individuals,
communities and Governments at all levels. This approach
should be based upon our great respect for life and for
human beings.
Within this framework Italy believes we should work
for a common, deep and detailed study of the drug problem,
to share experience, to make efforts at both domestic and
international levels in a spirit of genuine solidarity and
mutual assistance which Italy deems necessary to guarantee
to us all, and especially to the generations of the young, a
future of dignity and civilized progress as outlined in the
Charter that established the United Nations.
The PRESIDENT:
Mr. Baltasar Garzón Real of Spain, delegate of
Government for the National Drug Plan.
I now call on His Excellency,
the
Mr. GARZON REAL (Spain) (interpretation from
I wish to begin by congratulating you,
Spanish):
Mr. President, on the way in which you are conducting these
high-level plenary meetings on drugs. For me, it is a great
honour to have the opportunity to speak at this rostrum.
I wish to express my delegation’s support for the
statement made by the representative of Belgium on behalf
of the States members of the European Community.
The United Nations is the most appropriate forum for
discussion of an issue that affects so many countries and
should be approached from the perspective of its general
impact. The drug problem is a world-wide issue involving
the countries that produce drugs, those that process them,
those that operate as transit points and those in which drugs
are consumed. Moreover, the issue is complex in terms of
harmful effects: drugs destroy their victims, generate petty
crime and felonies, encourage the undermining of society
and enable those who profit
from them to dominate
segments of society and to gain power by buying or
corrupting free will.
To combat this world-wide and complex phenomenon,
we must abandon local solutions that underestimate the
magnitude of the problem and are based on the mistaken
idea that drugs are produced by others and that we are the
ones who suffer. But we must not forget that, first, it is
necessary for States to coordinate their own efforts and
policies so that, once the structure is firm, we may be able
to achieve wider coordination. Only a coordinated structure
at the very basis will make it possible, with the support and
leadership of the United Nations, to give the police and the
judicial authorities more scope for action and make possible
the development of intelligent policies to deal with those
engaged in organized crime whose main activity is drug
trafficking and laundering the profits thereof.
The need for our common determination to lead to
coordinated responses should pervade our cool
thinking
about the current state of the problem. The time has come
to pause and meditate on the solutions that should be
adopted. I intend to advocate, in my country, the opening of
a general debate to evaluate what has been achieved and to
think about the future. We should come to this debate
without any preconceived ideas or immovable dogmas. We
must be open to the exchange of ideas.
A similar process of reflection, within and from the
United Nations, would be appropriate. This proposal is
based on the conviction that the United Nations is the most
appropriate forum and the optimum sounding-board for an
exchange of ideas and for the adoption of decisions on new
lines of action that would help us achieve our objectives. I
should like to stress here the role of the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs, which is the main policy-making body of
the United Nations in the field of drug control.
The strategies to combat
the production of and
trafficking in drugs should complement and be integrated
into programmes to reduce demand. Efforts in a single area
of activity cannot be effective, as they result in our losing
sight of the need for a global approach. Hence,
is
absolutely necessary that there be determined support for
general prevention programmes that engender an authentic
culture of the rejection of drugs in their broadest sense. But
it must not be forgotten that prevention has to include
avoidance of the dangers of organized crime - a problem that
it is essential we combat resolutely and intelligently.
it
On the other hand, with regard to drug consumption, it
must be recognized that a drug addict should be regarded not
as a criminal but as someone who is ill. Drug consumption
should therefore be dealt with by administrative penalty -
never by criminal action. Appropriate rehabilitation should
be made available to enable the addict to be reintegrated into
society. My country applies this policy so that, with the
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
21
it
the relevant public institutions and
cooperation of all
non-governmental organizations, such recovery may be
achieved. On this front,
is necessary also to have
coordinated policies that are as broadly based as possible.
We are developing a series of measures to ensure that drug
addicts receive proper help from health and social services,
on an equal footing with other citizens. Throughout the country -
at the regional and local levels - we have a network of
assistance resources.
Spain’s National Drug Plan incorporates these different
levels, and there is an input from public resources and from
flexible and dynamic non-governmental organizations with
a view to achieving more positive results in the rehabilitation
of drug addicts and of their families and social settings and
to provide some solutions for those who are dependent on
drugs.
In Spain, as in many other countries, the most
serious health problems of drug consumers are those that
result from HIV infection. Preventive measures to reduce
the practice of injecting drugs are essential if the spread of
this infection is to be controlled. As drugs are a social
scourge, it is essential that society be actively involved in
solving the problem. Otherwise, any policy will fail.
Implementation of the Global Programme of Action in
the
Member States requires ongoing encouragement at
international
level and a firm commitment from every
country. To this end, the recommendations contained in the
Secretary-General’s report are an invaluable guide.
My country has been following actively the process of
modifying the United Nations structures in the field of drugs.
We welcome the establishment of
the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), as well as
the consolidation of an appropriate administrative structure.
This consolidation should enable UNDCP and its Executive
Director, to whom we again express our support and esteem,
to discharge fully their function of coordinating international
activities in this field, while ensuring flexible and effective
management.
There remains the challenge of ensuring that
the
catalyst of the UNDCP will penetrate the United Nations
In the present decade, the involvement of other
system.
agencies and the cooperation of
financial
institutions, including provisions in their programmes and
activities aimed at preventing the production of, trafficking
in and consumption of drugs, are indispensable.
international
The need for new approaches in the fight against drugs
must extend to the control of drug trafficking. We must
provide ourselves with the most suitable legal instruments
and the best human and material resources. The response to
the activities of organized crime must match the complexity
of its schemes. We must consider resorting to collaborators,
informers, infiltrations, witness protection programmes, the
monitoring of deliveries and international police and judicial
cooperation, and we must work towards adopting standards
in this respect. Hence it will be necessary to improve
coordination between the UNDCP and the United Nations
crime prevention and criminal justice programme.
However, success in the fight against drug trafficking
cannot be bought at the cost of respect for fundamental
rights. However complex the problem, Governments must
not resort to criminal activity as a justification for violating
the rules of democracy or the human rights of individuals.
There is no reason of State greater than the democratic
reason of its citizens.
My country, as a member of the European Community
and the Council of Europe, is prepared to cooperate now and
in the immediate future because it understands the gravity of
the drug phenomenon. It will therefore actively support the
Community’s policy and always promote policies devised in
broad consensus with other countries.
The Maastricht Treaty, which will soon come into
force, will require greater European cooperation in the fight
against drugs. My country, as a member of the European
Communities, is prepared to cooperate actively towards the
attainment of that objective. At the same time Spain will
pursue its efforts to cooperate with the countries of Latin
America and North Africa in facing up to such complex
challenges as those presented here, nurturing the right to free
and democratic development and the establishment of more
just and equitable international economic relations. We must
not forget
the countries affected must be offered
alternative solutions and resolute support so that they can
face the problem.
that
The results achieved at these meetings will have my
Government’s attention, and I am sure that the Commission
on Narcotic Drugs will take into account the work that lies
ahead of us. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs must be
the forum in which the initiatives here identified - such as
the one most rightly proposed by Mexico - are developed,
and in which all countries have the opportunity to express
their concerns and receive a suitable response.
The magnitude of the drug problem, which is becoming
quite clear in the course of this debate, demands the firm
and concerted action of all members of the international
community.
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on His Excellency
Mr. Torben Lund, Minister of Health of Denmark.
Mr. LUND (Denmark): First of all I should like to
endorse fully the statement made earlier today by His
Excellency Mr. Melchior Wathelet, Deputy Prime Minister
and Minister for Justice and Economic Affairs of Belgium,
on behalf of the European Community and its Member
States.
Like other delegates I wish also to make a brief
national statement.
The fight against drug-related crime continues to be a
task of high priority for the Danish police. Considerable
resources are used to fight drug crime at the national level,
and the Danish police play an active role in the
comprehensive international cooperation which takes place
both within the European Community and outside it.
But in Denmark we are very much aware that law
enforcement alone will not curb the increase in drug crimes.
Decisive weight should be given to a coordinated and
balanced effort which comprises law enforcement and
initiatives in both the social sector and the health sector.
Developments in the drug area over the past few years
call for a reconsideration of priorities. In Denmark we have
discussed how best to use the considerable resources which
are spent in the fight against illicit drugs.
Developments over the past few years have shown that
even a comprehensive law-enforcement strategy will not by
itself solve the problem of illicit drugs. Moreover, police
campaigns have been seen to have certain adverse effects.
Among these are increased profits for the men behind
organized drug crime and further degradation of
life
conditions among the people who are caught up in drug
abuse.
realize that
Therefore, I believe that we have reached the point
where we must
there is a need for new
approaches to the drug problem.
I am not referring to the
legalization of the non-medical use of drugs. Regarding this
question the Danish Government fully agrees with the views
legalization expressed by the
and conclusions against
International Narcotics Control Board.
In situations where
border controls are being reduced or abolished, the three
United Nations Conventions which attempt to limit the use
of drugs strictly to medical and scientific purposes are of
special importance.
The Danish Government therefore wants to keep up the
police efforts against the men behind organized drug crime.
But at the same time we must consider a new approach to
the drug abusers. There may be a need to shift the focus of
our efforts
to prevention and
treatment. This change of priorities should be mirrored also
in international cooperation.
from law enforcement
In my view a change in our approach to drug abusers
may be carried out in a controlled way so as to benefit both
the drug abusers and society. In general, Danish prevention
activities rest on the premise that
important
measures are of a general nature: we must ensure that
children and young people grow up with good conditions of
life and with free scope to develop their abilities.
the most
In Denmark the information aspect
is traditionally
considered to be very important. The basic principles for
information about drugs are to provide objective knowledge
rather than to create fear and to increase awareness rather
than to moralize.
It is important to initiate debate in the
social groups where young people meet, as well as in society
in general.
A substantial part of prevention and education activities
concerning substance abuse is carried out at the local level.
The activities are run by public organizations, such as
regional youth centres and schools, and by drug-abuse
counsellors. Coordination groups have been set up which
consist of representatives from the local schools, the social
sector and the police. These efforts are supported at the
national level by coordination measures, professional advice
and information material.
In Denmark the organization and implementation of
social
relief measures in relation to drug addicts are
decentralized. Responsibility lies with the counties and the
municipal authorities.
is the task of the municipal
authorities to alleviate the general social problems of
individuals and families. The task of the counties is to
contribute in the case of individuals, such as drug addicts,
requiring special treatment.
It
Public services aimed at drug addicts are complemented
by work undertaken by private or voluntary charity
organizations. The Danish Government provides funding for
those organizations.
Treatment measures focus on the actual addiction
problem as well as on the underlying reasons for addiction,
and a variety of social remedies are made use of. Initiatives
involve resocialization, rehabilitation and care. The overall
aim is to improve living conditions from both a social and
a health point of view.
the strengths and weaknesses of the system is essential to set
in motion a process to increase its effectiveness.
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
23
The question of groups with severe social problems,
including drug addicts, is given high priority by the Danish
Government. The Minister for Social Affairs closely follows
efforts in this field in order to ensure that adequate treatment
and social-relief measures are available in counties and
municipalities.
Finally, I should like to confirm Danish support for
coordinated international action in the fight against illicit
drugs.
In this respect the role of the United Nations, and
especially the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme,
the
Programme will play a major role in future international
efforts against drug abuse.
Denmark expects
crucial.
that
is
The PRESIDENT:
I now call upon Mr. James B.
Moultrie, Permanent Representative of the Commonwealth
of the Bahamas.
Mr. MOULTRIE (Bahamas):
I have the honour to
speak on behalf of
the Caribbean
Community (CARICOM) that are States Members of the
United Nations.
the 12 States of
CARICOM States are deeply disturbed by the severity
of the illicit drug problem, the devastating consequences of
which are substantiated by the International Narcotics
Control Board (INCB) and other competent bodies. The
problem continues unabated nearly a century after the
international community began cooperative efforts for drug-
abuse
persists
notwithstanding the rigorous and decisive action taken in
recent years
and
programmes of the international régime for controlling the
illicit production and abuse of, and trafficking in, narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances.
at Shanghai
to improve
institutions,
control
rules
in
1909.
It
the
This is not to say that drug-abuse control efforts have
not yielded tangible, substantive and measurable results.
They have. Those results have, however, fallen far short of
what
is required for the control - and certainly for the
elimination - of the illicit-drug problem. Consequently, the
General Assembly has challenged us to examine urgently the
status of international cooperation in drug-abuse control and
to strengthen and enhance that cooperation with a view to
pursuing and achieving key drug-control objectives at the
national, regional and international levels. The CARICOM
States are encouraged that this initiative focuses on the
international drug-control system, which for nearly 50 years
has been centred in the United Nations. An examination of
The CARICOM States hold that the effectiveness of the
drug-abuse control system is dependent on the political will
and commitment of States to take decisive action to make it
work.
It is States that must ratify the international drug-
control treaties, which contribute significantly to the global
fight against drug abuse and illicit trafficking. CARICOM
States realize, however, that the full impact of the treaties
will not be felt until all States ratify them and implement
their provisions.
reports
The Secretary-General
that an increasing
number of States are in fact
ratifying the treaties.
CARICOM States are among those that have ratified all the
treaties, and one CARICOM State, the Bahamas, was the
very first to ratify the 1988 Convention. We can therefore
join in launching an organized effort to encourage universal
ratification of
the treaties and to give priority to the
implementation of or adherence to their provisions.
CARICOM States are
also among those that have
administrative measures for the control of both the illicit and
licit trade in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and
that are endeavouring to bring national legislation into line
with the provisions of the treaties.
While we believe that preference should not be given
to any one of the drug-control treaties, CARICOM States
support efforts to implement the provisions of the 1988
Convention that introduce new elements in the fight against
drug abuse and illicit trafficking. These include article 5, on
confiscation, article 7, on mutual legal assistance, and article
12, concerning precursors and essential chemicals. There
has already been some experience within our subregion of
materially cooperating with other States for the confiscation
of the proceeds of drug trafficking. Those proceeds have
been shared between the cooperating Governments.
It is
experiences such as these that must serve as examples of
enhancing international cooperation in drug-abuse control.
Article 10 of the 1988 Convention, on international
cooperation and assistance to transit States, also suggests a
new strategy for counteracting the drug problem, a strategy
that is of particular importance to CARICOM States. We
are all affected in varying degrees of severity by the illicit
transit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
from source and supply centres in South America to illicit
markets in North America and Europe. Whether directly or
indirectly, this illicit transit traffic has had an impact on the
people of all of our countries, subjecting or exposing them
to the scourge of drug abuse.
It has torn at the fibres of
society in our small island developing States and has obliged
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to
divert
from
our Governments
socio-economic development to wage costly battles against
illicit trafficking networks and to put in place expensive
treatment and rehabilitation strategies.
resources
scarce
Through our own efforts, subregional efforts and joint
efforts with other countries, including the United States,
Canada, the United Kingdom and France, we have achieved
some success in bringing this illicit transit traffic under
control, but
it has been at a price that CARICOM
Governments can ill afford to continue to pay. We therefore
urge major donors,
the Commission on Narcotic Drugs
(CND) and the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP) to give special attention to article 10
in international efforts to implement the 1988 Convention.
CARICOM States are directly in the maritime routes
from South to North America. Virtually all smuggling
networks into and through our subregion,
including the
frequently used drug-drop method, involve some activity at
sea. We therefore support and will participate to the extent
possible in current CND and UNDCP efforts to implement
article 17 of the 1988 Convention on illicit traffic by sea.
We agree that initiatives in this area must take fully into
account
law and practice, particularly the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
international
Primary responsibility for drug-abuse control rests with
Governments, which must accord it high priority. This is
the approach to which we agreed in the Global Programme
of Action. CARICOM States believe that progress in
achieving the objectives of the Global Programme of Action
depends on how we perceive it. We see the Programme as
much more than a consensus product of
the General
Assembly.
It is a landmark agreement, a blueprint setting
out comprehensive courses of action for all aspects of drug-
abuse control and an essential element in the global strategy
for drug-abuse control.
The master plan approach which the UNDCP promotes
provides a strategy for maximizing efforts to implement the
Programme. CARICOM States regard master plans not as
project documents, but as the articulation by Governments of
their priorities and objectives in all areas of drug control and
the steps which they intend to take to implement them.
Master plans
to international
cooperation, providing a ready reference to the UNDCP, the
United Nations system and the donor community of the
areas developing country Governments have identified for
priority action. CARICOM States can also support the
impetus to establish of national coordinating machinery for
drug-abuse
for more
comprehensive and coherent strategies at the national level.
are nevertheless
these make
control,
since
aids
We know that satisfactory progress has yet to be made
in a number of important areas of the Programme. More
must be done in the demand-reduction area, particularly by
major consuming countries. In this regard, we are heartened
by the recent statement by President Clinton of the United
States.
and
and
treatment
rehabilitation.
CARICOM States
support balanced drug-control
strategies, which give appropriate priority to both primary
prevention
The
development of drug-abuse assessment systems to monitor
the
the nature, extent and patterns of drug abuse,
intensification
information
programmes and the establishment of partnerships with
non-governmental organizations are all strategies we support.
We are also prepared to consider creative approaches to
demand reduction, including the creation of international
obligations in this area.
education
public
and
of
There is an urgent need to think and act creatively to
support strategies that stimulate socio-economic growth and
reinforce alternative rural development
in developing
countries where narcotic drugs are produced. CARICOM
States believe that the evident links between poverty and
deprivation and illicit drug production and trafficking in
developing countries must be fully explored. Priority must
also be given to restructuring international economic
relations to ensure that the international economic system
responds effectively to the efforts of developing countries to
move their people away from illicit narcotics production to
alternative crops.
The interest demonstrated by the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in these
areas is promising. Debt-for-drugs swaps are currently being
considered. CARICOM States hope to see positive results
in this area, results which take into account and include
indebted transit States.
The UNDCP, created by the General Assembly to lead
and coordinate international drug-abuse-control efforts within
the United Nations system and internationally, is to serve as
the crucible for forging new ideas and approaches. The
UNDCP has shown great promise in its three short years of
operation. We are anxious to see it attain its full potential.
We wish to emphasize here that while it is essential to give
a degree of flexibility to the UNDCP, it is, in the final
analysis, an instrument in the hands of Governments. It will
make
contribution only if
Governments give it clear directives and the authority and
prestige to carry them out.
Diverse and equitable
participation in the work of the UNDCP will provide the
depth of experience essential for formulating viable drug-
control strategies and policies to meet objectives in all
regions of the world.
and valuable
a distinct
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
25
Regional
cooperation, which UNDCP advocates,
complemented by international cooperation, provides an
important line of defence against the drug menace. Channels
of communication with non-governmental organizations will
ensure that UNDCP benefits from their hands-on, grass-roots
experience. For example, UNDCP stands to benefit in its
demand-reduction efforts from the World Conference on the
Role of Non-Governmental Organizations
in Demand
Reduction, scheduled to take place in 1994. The United
Nations Decade against Drug Abuse provides an important
time
initiatives.
CARICOM States believe, given these factors, that UNDCP
can and will meet our expectations.
drug-control
intensified
frame
for
UNDCP must be assisted by the United Nations system
in its effort to lead and coordinate an international response
commensurate with the global dimensions of the illicit-drug
crisis. We therefore support the System-Wide Action Plan
Drug Abuse Control as an instrument for effective, system-
wide cooperation. We urge the entities and agencies of the
system to make determined efforts to formulate agency-
specific implementation plans which incorporate the Action
Plan, and urge that Member States in oversight bodies keep
their action for drug-abuse control fully under review. We
also support close cooperation between the UNDCP and the
Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice on
transnational drug-related crime.
require penetrating analysis of
The Commission on Narcotic Drugs is the principal
policy-making body for drug-abuse control within the United
It must determine the principles and
Nations system.
procedures
for
strengthening international cooperation,
accelerating the pace of drug-control countermeasures and
improving its own functioning. This high-level session is set
to pass on to the Commission a number of important tasks
which will
leading
socio-economic, legal, political and security questions arising
from the illicit-drug phenomenon. To carry out these tasks
effectively, the Commission must function according to its
mandate as a body of experts in the drug-related fields.
CARICOM States believe it would be appropriate for the
Commission to turn to a core group of experts from among
its Member States to assist it in implementing the mandates
of the high-level session, a task in which it should also be
assisted by the Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement
Agencies and the Subcommission.
CARICOM States will also support the request to the
to give priority to the
Economic and Social Council
consideration of drug-control
issues. We intend to
participate fully when the Council examines the coordination
aspects of drug-abuse control, as well as in its high-level
review of the drug problem.
It is impossible, in these times of shrinking resources,
to consider international cooperation in drug-abuse control
without examining the question of funding. We cannot
expect the UNDCP to implement its extensive mandate or to
be competent and influential without sufficient resources.
But there is another side to this resource question:
the cost
to developing countries, including those of CARICOM, of
waging a war against international drug traffickers, whose
resources can exceed those of Governments themselves. The
financial outlay constitutes a formidable obstacle to
development. We therefore support the appeal that more
resources should be allocated to the drug area and that States
in a position to do so should increase contributions to the
Fund of the UNDCP to enable it
to assist developing
countries better in their drug-control efforts.
No State can rely solely on its own efforts to control
the illicit production, trafficking and demand for narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances. Each has an essential
role to play in enforcing global standards and norms to
control this transnational problem. The Declaration of the
International Conference on Drug Abuse
and Illicit
Trafficking said that drug-abuse control was the collective
responsibility of all States, a principle reiterated by the
seventeenth special session of the General Assembly and in
numerous resolutions and decisions throughout the United
Nations system. Although boundaries should not constitute
insuperable obstacles to our collective efforts, CARICOM
States are unequivocal in their view that shared responsibility
for drug control must fully respect international law and
practice, including the provisions of the United Nations
Charter. This approach is essential if we are to prevent
tensions from arising between countries which must be
partners in the war against drugs.
and
including
arrangements,
This high-level session must be a catalyst for dynamic
and effective cooperation in international drug control,
grounded in the progress we have made.
Regional
organizations
the
Inter-American Drug Abuse Control Commission and
CARICOM are playing an essential role in making the drug-
control system truly global. The International Narcotics
Control Board continues to maintain the high standards of its
critical work of monitoring implementation of
the
international drug-control treaties and ensuring that States do
not suffer from inertia in meeting their obligations under the
international drug-control treaties.
In its 1992 report, for
example, the Board effectively dispelled the notion that
legislation was an option for effective implementation of the
drug-control treaties, a position which CARICOM States
fully support.
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Our goals are attainable, but we must be willing to
make the fundamental policy adjustments necessary to
confront new and emerging manifestations of the illicit-drug
problem. A truly global response equal to the present-day
challenge of drug abuse and illicit
trafficking demands
twenty-first-century solutions to this recurring twentieth-
century scourge. There can be no erosion of the political
priority for drug-abuse control. CARICOM States are fully
committed to the strengthening of international cooperation
in this critical area.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Louis Galea,
Minister for Home Affairs and Social Development of Malta.
Mr. GALEA (Malta): We are gathered here today, this
great family of nations, to consider once again at a global
level the situation regarding drug abuse and illicit trafficking,
to review the measures being adopted and the unstinting
efforts required to deal with the problem effectively and to
renew our commitment to take all necessary action on this
matter, as a duty and service to mankind.
In its report
for 1993 the International Narcotics
Control Board describes the drug abuse and illicit trafficking
situation as grim. Undoubtedly, our primary duty is to
follow the Board’s exhortation to ensure our efforts are
continuous and balanced, and are carried out
in an
internationally concerted manner - and, may I add, in a
nationally concerted manner - so that further positive results
may be achieved. We owe this to our children, our youth
and future generations.
It is to be recalled that the Political Declaration adopted
at the seventeenth special session of the General Assembly
specifically affirms that the fundamental responsibility to
take the necessary actions to combat the drug problem rests
with each State. Moreover, the Global Programme of Action
appeals to States to take the necessary follow-up measures
to promote and implement the Programme and to translate
it into practical action to the widest possible extent. At the
same time, the struggle against drugs is recognized as a
shared responsibility requiring action on a global scale
through regional
coordination and
initiatives.
and international
The setting up of the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme (UNDCP) in 1990, with the exclusive
responsibility to coordinate all United Nations drug control
activities, promote the implementation of
international
conventions on the subject and provide effective leadership
in international drug control, is a vivid example of putting
one’s beliefs into practice. The benefits of this measure are
already being reaped; UNDCP is working in close
and non-governmental organizations
coordination with United Nations specialized agencies, other
international
and
financial
institutions, and is seeing to the execution of
multiple projects. My Government believes that UNDCP is
a dynamic institution, working with increased efficacy and
strength, and that it should be regarded as the spearhead of
international drug control activities.
join preceding
speakers who had words of appreciation for the leadership
and
the Executive Director, Mr.
Giacomelli, has brought to the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme.
I
commitment
that
Malta, a small, developing nation at the crossroads of
the Mediterranean, an intercultural meeting place where
North meets South and East meets West, has not been spared
the ravages of drugs. With its limited financial and human
resources, it is trying to control the problem at the national
level, and to contribute at a regional and international level
in an integrated and comprehensive manner.
In August 1988 two structures were set up - an
Inter-Ministerial Committee to ensure the implementation of
appropriate measures and a National Commission including
experts from the governmental and non-governmental sectors -
with the specific mandates of formulating recommendations,
maintaining international contacts and coordinating and
developing all necessary services. The master-plan approach
was adopted, with an analysis of the existing drug problems
in the country, an assessment of existing drug control efforts
and the identification of those activities needed for more
effective control. Much has been achieved. But much more
still needs to be done.
Mr. Marker (Pakistan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
While there is a demand for drugs, there will always be
a supply. Demand reduction is therefore one of the
priorities, in order to eliminate the illicit demand for narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances.
Prevention and
education, in whatever form, play a major role in this. Life
skills and personal and social education programmes have
been introduced in school curricula.
Specific training
courses have been offered to life skills teachers and guidance
and counselling teachers, with the assistance of foreign
experts. Other teachers have been awarded scholarships for
the purpose of receiving the appropriate training abroad.
The Chemical Abuse Awareness Unit within the Education
Department and the Health Education Unit within the Health
Department undertake programmes aimed at achieving
proper behavioral roles. National anti-drug campaigns
through the mass media are conducted by the National
Commission which also publishes drug awareness and
information literature directed at various strata of society.
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
27
Our Commission is also developing a public information and
resource centre on drug, alcohol and tobacco abuse, while
the Ministry for Youth and the Arts has set up an ongoing
"Youth Against Drugs" campaign.
are being trained in, inter alia, search and investigation
techniques, drug identification and legislation. All three
forces have acquired or are in the process of acquiring
equipment to enhance their effectiveness and functionality.
for
On the treatment side, we have two detoxification units,
one in Malta and one on the sister
island of Gozo.
Round-the-clock services are available at the units and in
community clinics. Drug abusers thus have access to the
treatment they may require. A residential drug dependence
unit for long-term detoxification has been established, with
a separate hostel
female drug abusers who are
undergoing the detoxification programme within the unit.
Drug abusers seeking treatment are tested for hepatitis and
HIV.
Social workers and medical staff have received
training abroad, and in-service training courses are provided
for those working with drug abusers. A Working Committee
set up at the beginning of this year to evaluate the treatment
services in the fields of drug and alcohol abuse has
completed its work, and its recommendations are being
actively considered for implementation according to priority.
The Government firmly believes that non-governmental
organizations can play a pivotal role in demand reduction
activities and non-medical treatment or rehabilitation of drug
abusers. Caritas (Malta) has for many years been at the
forefront, carrying out its prevention work through seminars,
lectures and training courses for parents, teachers and the
community at large, and through its various publications. It
also runs its own structures which provide non-medical
rehabilitation programmes for drug abusers. More recently,
the Independent Organization for Assistance and Solidarity
(OASI), a non-governmental foundation, was set up to
undertake prevention activities within the community of
Gozo and to undertake rehabilitation programmes for drug
abusers and alcoholics. The Government concretely supports
such organizations.
The issue of law enforcement is a crucial aspect that
also has to be given priority. Malta is not a producing
country, but its strategic position, with a relatively long
shoreline, with its yachting facilities, increasing air traffic,
ever-expanding tourist industry and transshipment facilities
can make it an ideal location for transit traffic. But Malta
refuses to be a transit zone. Coordinated action between its
law enforcement
forces has already achieved modest
successes. Specialized courses have been run by foreign
experts for armed forces, customs and police personnel. The
setting up of a Customs Anti-Drug Squad was followed by
the formation of a sniffer dog section within the Squad.
In-service
and
identification are being run by the Customs Department for
all customs personnel. Police recruits at the Police Academy
awareness,
courses
on
drug
search
The creation of the National Drugs Intelligence Unit,
presently in its infancy, for the purpose of intelligence
gathering and dissemination,
is intended to enhance the
control of illicit traffic through cooperation and coordination
between all
three forces and with other national and
international or regional units.
Recognition must be given to UNDCP for a technical
and financial agreement which has made possible the
implementation of a number of the measures I have outlined.
Malta is committed to international cooperation.
It is
a member of INTERPOL, the Customs Cooperation Council
and the Pompidou Group.
It participates in the sessions of
the Commission on Narcotic Drugs as well as in several
international conferences and meetings.
It has entered into
bilateral agreements with other States with a view to
consolidating reciprocal efforts in controlling drug abuse and
It will also be participating in the so-called
trafficking.
Teledrug Operation, and the relevant
treaty with the
Government of Italy has been signed in this respect.
Malta is a party to the Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs of 1961, as amended by the 1972 Protocol, and to the
Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971. Although
not yet a party to the Convention against Illicit Traffic in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988, it is
our declared intention to become a party to it as soon as the
appropriate legislation is in place, and we are already
abiding by the reporting requirements under this Convention.
At present a bill to amend our Dangerous Drugs Ordinance
is before our Parliament, seeking to introduce in its provision
on, inter alia, money-laundering offenses, pre-trial financial
investigations and controlled delivery. We intend to present
other proposed legislation for consideration.
social and economic problems.
Unscrupulously, drug traffickers take advantage of areas
with political,
The
corruption and violence associated with drug trafficking can
destabilize a whole country or a whole region.
It can be a
threat to the security of any nation and of any region. For
instance, events in Central and Eastern Europe and the
flexibility with which drug traffickers can alter their routes
should make us look upon drug trafficking as being a threat
to the security of the Mediterranean region in the same way
as it is a threat to other areas of the globe. This means that
joint efforts should continue to be undertaken to strengthen
the operational efficacy of national and international law
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
enforcement bodies through provision of
financial and technical resources.
the requisite
Malta renews its pledge to support fully the concerted
efforts being made by the United Nations to control the
world drug problem. We commit ourselves to the Political
Declaration adopted by this Assembly at its seventeenth
special session. We endorse the recommendations presented
before us today and associate ourselves with the principles
enunciated in the Tehran Declaration as we too firmly
believe in the
"importance of human dignity and of human aspirations
to a decent
life based on moral, humanitarian and
spiritual values in a healthy and safe environment".
(E/CN.7/1993/2, p. 9)
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Alecos
Shambos, the Permanent Representative of Cyprus.
Mr. SHAMBOS (Cyprus): Over the past two decades,
illicit drugs has assumed unprecedented
the spread of
proportions. It has already reached every part of the globe.
No nation has remained immune to the devastating effects of
drug abuse. The magnitude of the problem was duly
highlighted by the General Assembly at the special session
in 1990. The relevant United Nations International Drug
Control Programme has done much to enhance the overall
structure and framework for drug-abuse control.
The
narcotic plague is, however, still with us, without any sign
of subsiding.
to eliminate the curse of drug abuse,
We have gathered here today, specialists and policy
makers together,
to think of new ways of facing more
resolutely the catastrophic manifestations of the evil of drugs
in human society. Thus far, in the light of the universal
commitment
the
determined approach of the United Nations to control drug
production and trafficking has drawn considerable support
and cooperation all over the world. The declared war on
drugs is indeed one of the ultimate priorities of the world
community, and that war cannot be won without concerted
international cooperation and action. To further this end, the
present deliberations of the Assembly will hopefully add new
determined efforts generating a greater impetus in the fight
against drug abuse and new resoluteness in facing the
challenges lying ahead.
Cyprus remains fully committed to the cause of
combating the scourge of drugs through coordinated regional
and international mechanisms which could yield effective
action and results - the more so since my country is
geographically situated in a region considered to be one of
though,
I should
the major crossroads of heavy drug trafficking.
emphasize,
that, despite some indications that
Cyprus is being used as a transit point for smuggling
towards Western Europe, the United States, Canada and
Australia, the country itself does not have a serious problem
of local drug consumption or drug abuse, and there is not a
considerable subculture of drug addicts, as there is in some
other countries. This is illustrated by the fact that cases of
hard drug use are rare, and that there has never been a drug-
related death. The authorities, however, always on the alert,
are concerned that the danger is now more apparent than
ever before, and that widespread use of drugs may grow in
the future. As a matter of fact, recent statistics show a
steady increase in the use of hashish and marijuana in
Cyprus. Almost all drugs consumed in my country are
smuggled either from neighbouring countries or through the
occupied part of Cyprus.
Believing, as we do, that the problem can be effectively
tackled only by drastic action and decisive international
cooperation, we participate in various United Nations bodies
combating the spread of narcotic drugs. Moreover, we
cooperate effectively with European organizations, such as
the Council of Europe, especially the Pompidou Group.
This participation is strengthened by our ratification of the
international Conventions against drugs of 1961, 1971 and
1988, and by bilateral agreements on drug control that we
have concluded with interested countries. Cyprus has also
acceded to the Council of Europe Convention on
Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of
the
Proceeds from Crime.
level,
On a national
legislation has recently been
promulgated, providing heavier penalties such as life
imprisonment and confiscation of proceeds
from the
trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
Cyprus serves as host to full-time drug liaison officers and
cooperates with INTERPOL and other
agencies on
international drug-trafficking cases.
It is worth mentioning
that 14 liaison officers from various countries are posted in
Cyprus on a permanent basis. Through coordinated action,
we have steadily been successful in effecting significant
arrests and seizures both in Cyprus and in other countries.
A serious impediment, however, to the combating of
crime by the police and enforcement agencies of
the
Republic of Cyprus is the fact that 37 per cent of our
territory has been under occupation since 1974.
This
unacceptable situation creates ideal conditions for drug
trafficking, as the illegally used ports and airports in the
occupied areas are not under the supervision and control of
the Government.
37th meeting - Tuesday, 26 October l993
29
Recently, the specially trained narcotics squads of our
police force have been reinforced and their
technical
equipment has been modernized. This, however, is not
adequate, as advances in knowledge and technology cause
rapid change. Consequently, the need arises for a constant
exchange of information and intelligence, and we attach
great importance to this exchange, as it enhances the drug-
fighting process and enables Governments to achieve greater
success in suppressing drug abuse.
Prevention,
treatment and rehabilitation constitute a
very significant component of our strategy in the fight
against drugs.
In this connection, although we are not yet
experiencing a serious drug-abuse problem within our
It
through a national committee for
country, the prospect of this dire and fatal danger to our
people - especially the youth - is foremost in our minds.
This is why our newly reviewed national policy against drug
abuse has a note of urgency and resolve.
involves
coordination of the efforts of Government agencies and the
private sector
the
prevention of drug abuse and trafficking. In the first stage,
our efforts concentrated on the precise extent of and trends
in the drug-abuse problem and the
and
characteristics of drug abusers and sources of supply. The
experts supplemented these efforts with studies on the
prevailing attitudes of various groups within the population
vis-à-vis narcotic drugs.
categories
Meanwhile, the Government is following a policy of
introducing preventive programmes based on education and
the dissemination of information. The main purpose of this
policy is the training of such persons as teachers, parents and
administrators on a nation-wide basis to sever as the focal
points in increasing awareness on all levels and, above all,
the utilization of the strong structure of the Cypriot family
against
the use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances.
The National
Information Committee is the body
responsible for offering advice and drug counselling. A
special programme is now under review to reinforce the
existing related services. Similarly, in the field of treating
drug abusers, our
special
detoxification centre. Rehabilitation is the other leg of our
policy. In our effort to reintegrate drug abusers into society
and to provide a social infrastructure, we offer professional
training to former drug addicts and encourage acceptance of
them by the public.
to establish a
target
is
Finally, I stress that resources are a very important
element in our fight against drugs. Cyprus, like other small
countries, has inadequate resources to combat effectively the
trafficking in and distribution of drugs. We hope that,
through an internationally regulated assistance project aimed
at securing improved education, training and equipment, the
fight against drugs will eventually emerge as a considerably
more effective fight throughout the globe, for the benefit of
the present and future generations of mankind.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
