United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
56th
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 16 November 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
AGENDA ITEM 26
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 46
COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED NATIONS
AND THE CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND
COOPERATION IN EUROPE
(a) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
(A/48/549)
QUESTION OF
(MALVINAS)
THE
FALKLAND ISLANDS
(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/48/L.18)
The PRESIDENT: With regard to this item I wish to
call the attention of the General Assembly to document
A/48/266, which contains a Joint Statement issued in Buenos
Aires and London on 12 July 1993 by the Governments of
the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.
Similarly,
taking into account General Assembly
decision 47/408 of 10 November 1992, I wish to inform
representatives that, following consultations on item 46,
"Question of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)", it is proposed
that the Assembly decide to postpone consideration of this
item and to include it in the provisional agenda of its forty-
ninth session.
May I take it therefore that the General Assembly,
taking into account decision 47/408, wishes to take note of
document A/48/266, to which I have referred, and that it is
also the wish of
the General Assembly to postpone
consideration of the item and to include it in the provisional
agenda of the forty-ninth session?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: The General Assembly has thus
concluded its consideration of agenda item 46.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
Sweden to introduce draft resolution A/48/L.18.
Mr. OSVALD (Sweden):
I have the honour to speak
both in my capacity as Permanent Representative of Sweden
and as representative of the Chairman-in-Office of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
It is my pleasure to introduce draft resolution A/48/L.18
on Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. Before
I continue my statement I wish to make two announcements.
First, to the list of sponsors in the printed version of the
draft resolution,
the following names should be added:
Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Greece, Hungary,
Ireland, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Liechtenstein, Malta,
Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation,
San Marino, Slovenia, Spain, Tajikistan, Turkey, Ukraine
and the United States of America.
I also wish to announce that in the English version of
the draft resolution, in the third preambular paragraph, there
is a typing error. Reference is made to Chapter VII of the
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87189 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.56
26 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Charter. That should be Chapter VIII of the Charter of the
United Nations.
This draft resolution is one reflection of the need jointly
to develop the elements of what has been called interlocking
institutions of European security. The challenges ahead, the
new possibilities given and the complex problems we are
facing in the CSCE region require us to adjust old structures
and interrelationships and complement
them with new
initiatives.
When Sweden assumed responsibility as Chairman of
the CSCE one year ago the central task was to develop the
CSCE as an instrument in the quest for peace. We therefore
wanted to consolidate the community of values, we wanted
to put emphasis on preventive diplomacy and crisis
management, and we wanted to improve cooperation with
other international organizations and continue to strengthen
CSCE structures.
The role of the CSCE as an instrument for conflict
prevention and resolution makes increased cooperation and
coordination between the United Nations and the CSCE not
only desirable but necessary. Pragmatic and effective work
in the field is necessary in order to prevent conflicts from
arising or at least from turning into armed ones
to
contribute to the resolution of ongoing conflicts.
and
It is in this spirit that Sweden during its tenure as
Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE has sought to assist in
finding new ways for this concrete cooperation.
The
framework for cooperation and coordination between the
United Nations Secretariat and the CSCE that was signed in
May this year by the Secretary-General and the Chairman of
the CSCE Council,
the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Sweden,
the
continuing development of our relations.
therefore an important expression of
is
The recent decision by the Assembly to grant observer
status to the CSCE will also enable us to develop closer ties
between the two organizations to the benefit of
the
development of cooperation in the long run and facilitating
our daily work. This arrangement also means that the
Secretary-General of the CSCE, Mr. Wilhelm Höynck, will
today address this Assembly for the first time.
Political support from the United Nations, not least
from the Security Council, to CSCE activities is an essential
contribution to United Nations-CSCE cooperation and in
particular to concrete conflict resolution activities. The
CSCE is consequently developing the means to provide
relevant information and support to the United Nations and
its decision-making bodies through appropriate channels.
Interaction between the CSCE and the Security Council
enhances a common strategy for common purposes.
In accordance with the framework on cooperation and
coordination the two sides now hold consultations on a
regular basis and uphold the frequent exchange of
information on relevant issues. Furthermore, close contact
is maintained with developments in each specific undertaking
in order to ensure coordination and complementarity and to
avoid duplication. Consultation on joint missions and
examination of the possibility of joint reports are other
important parts of the cooperation under way.
The need for mutual assistance in the field is an
important element of the framework. Cooperation on the
ground is of course essential and much time and effort have
been invested in order to find ways to implement
this
provision in various conflict areas.
Cooperation and coordination have just started. More
could and should be done.
In the field, as well as between
headquarters, political will should be transformed into
cooperative action.
When discussing cooperation between the United
Nations and the CSCE, it is important to bear in mind that
the two organizations have different competences and
different comparative advantages. Mutual support and
coordination should therefore, in our mind, be the guiding
principles for such cooperation.
In practice, this cooperation and coordination can take
in one conflict the two
and are taking different forms:
organizations might each tackle separate but coordinated
tasks, while in another, one of them might take the lead,
relying on political back-up from the other.
This concept, aimed at a common strategy, flexibility
and the avoidance of duplication of work, is well described
in numerous resolutions and statements issued by this
Assembly, by the Security Council, and by the Secretary-
General in his report "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277).
I would especially like to draw attention to the
statement made by the Security Council on 28 January 1993
inviting regional arrangements to study ways and means of
further improving the coordination of their efforts with those
of the United Nations. The Council stressed that
this
interaction should be flexible and adequate to each specific
situation.
Allow me to give a few examples of the way in which
this flexibility is carried out by the CSCE and the United
Nations in the CSCE region.
Let me first mention the importance the CSCE attaches
to the implementation of the United Nations sanctions
against
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
3
Montenegro). The coordinating role played by the CSCE,
together with the European Community, in monitoring the
sanctions should be regarded as an active and effective
contribution to the world community’s efforts to come to
grips with the tragic situation in the former Yugoslavia.
The CSCE is also preparing to take an active part in a
comprehensive restructuring and rehabilitation programme in
former Yugoslavia, to be implemented as soon as a peace
agreement is reached.
In The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the
long-term spillover mission of
the CSCE and the
UNPROFOR/Macedonia command are cooperating closely
to achieve their common goal of preventing the conflict in
former Yugoslavia from spreading to that Republic.
In Georgia, the efforts of the United Nations and the
CSCE are increasingly coordinated, on the ground as well as
in the ongoing endeavours to find a peaceful settlement of
the conflicts. The invitation to the CSCE to participate in
the future peace talks on Abkhazia organized by the United
Nations, and vice versa on South Ossetia, are important
steps. Mutual liaison in observer missions is a possibility to
be considered.
In Tajikistan, the United Nations and the CSCE can in
joint action play mutually supporting roles in trying to help
that country emerge from its present plight.
The efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in
and around Nagorny Karabakh within the CSCE Minsk
process is being strengthened by political support from the
Security Council, manifested once again last week with the
adoption of resolution 884 (1993).
A trilateral discussion on cooperation between the
United Nations,
the CSCE and the Council of Europe
regarding human rights and the human dimension was
initiated by the CSCE this summer with the aim of
promoting human rights and democratic values.
Forum of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE).
The Russian Federation believes in the development of
close and multifaceted cooperation between the United
Nations and the CSCE. We view the CSCE as the leading
pan-European organization, one which plays a priority role
with respect
to other European associations. We are
convinced that the CSCE is an institution that plays a unique
role in the strengthening of security and stability on the
European continent and in the Asian countries of the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), and in the
prevention and settlement of ethnic and other conflicts. The
Russian Federation believes in the active development of
collective mechanisms to be used by the CSCE for the
prevention and settlement of crises and for a substantial
increase in its peace-keeping potential; we feel that this
young international organization should be able to make
more active use of
the experience, both positive and
negative, accumulated by the United Nations in conducting
peace-keeping operations.
The Russian Federation believes that mutual support
and interaction in promoting peace and stability should
become the central element of cooperation between the
United Nations and the CSCE. At the same time, it seems
quite important that the role and potential of the United
Nations Security Council will increase as a result of the
development of active cooperation with the growing potential
of the CSCE.
It
is also our belief that
the CSCE, as a regional
agreement
in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United
Nations Charter, is the major partner of the United Nations
in the area of peace-keeping in the European and Atlantic
region. That is why we will, together with other member
States of the CSCE, continue in our efforts to strengthen the
legal and organizational basis of the CSCE as a regional
association. We hope the time will come when the CSCE
will change its name from the "Conference" to the
"Organization" on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
It is a great challenge, for both the United Nations and
the CSCE, to try to develop new forms of cooperation and
coordination in this volatile period in the CSCE region. The
General Assembly can make a contribution to this work here
today by unanimously adopting draft resolution A/48/L.18.
In this area, we have already taken some important
steps, and on behalf of my delegation I would like to follow
the representative of Sweden in welcoming here to this
meeting of the General Assembly the Secretary-General of
the CSCE, Ambassador Wilhelm Höynck.
Mr. SHUSTOV (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): First of all, I would like say that we share
the hope of the representative of Sweden that draft resolution
A/48/L.18, which we are discussing, will be adopted
unanimously. On behalf of my own delegation, I hope we
will act in this fashion because what is being discussed here
today will be discussed in Vienna on Thursday at the Vienna
The experience of peacemaking activities in former
Yugoslavia, Nagorny Karabakh, Abkhazia, South Ossetia,
Transnistria and other conflict areas has shown that the
efficiency of the efforts of members of the international
community depends largely on the measure of coordination
and the
responsibility between different
international and regional structures.
sharing of
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In this process, it is important to act gradually and
realistically. A simplistic and one-sided approach is out of
place. Experience has shown that the combination of efforts
by regional organizations with United Nations activities must
be flexible and must correspond to specific situations.
For that reason, without diminishing the importance of
other issues, it is important to pay particular attention to a
rational distribution of functions between the United Nations
and the CSCE in their anti-crisis actions.
eventual
broader
competence
The Russian delegation believes that the CSCE could
assume more solid political responsibility for peace-keeping
activities within its geographic zone. We would welcome
the
structural
reinforcement of the CSCE in decision-making and planning,
and in conducting peace-keeping operations and exercising
control over them. At the same time, the present concept of
CSCE peace-keeping activities continues to impose certain
limitations that exclude the elements of peace enforcement.
However, at this stage it may actually be an advantage in
terms of a division of labour between the two organizations.
and
It would be appropriate to focus the interaction between
the United Nations and the CSCE in the area of peace-
keeping on establishing a dialogue on doctrinal aspects and
the exchange of information, and on conducting joint actions,
including the establishment of joint United Nations-CSCE missions -
for example, observation or fact-finding missions.
In
addition, it would be appropriate to provide both for the
possibility of including individual representatives of one of
the organizations in the missions of the other and for the
establishment of full-fledged joint missions with a single
mandate and under common leadership. At the same time,
the Security Council in its resolutions could confirm and
support the decisions of the CSCE and also give instructions
to the CSCE, which is a regional organization.
The issue of cooperation between the CSCE and the
United Nations in mutually ensuring the security of mission
personnel is becoming ever more topical. This idea could be
implemented in practice at this stage through, for example,
the conclusion of an agreement between the United Nations
forces stationed in the territory of The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia and the CSCE mission deployed
there on the inclusion of CSCE representatives in United
Nations evacuation plans in case of emergencies.
In our view, it would be advisable for the CSCE in
coming years to consolidate its orientation towards early
warning and the use of preventive political and diplomatic
means of influence, without trying, for the time being, to
create within its framework the material base for peace-
keeping operations. The task of the CSCE should consist
first of all in detecting, localizing and seeking to avert crises,
establishing a dialogue between parties in conflict, and
ensuring observance of cease-fires.
The CSCE could consider
the specific issue of
assuming certain responsibilities in post-crisis settlement in
the former Yugoslavia, thus supplementing the efforts of the
European Community and releasing the United Nations from
its long-standing involvement in the rehabilitation of this
region.
I must say that a very interesting proposal in this
regard was submitted to the CSCE by the delegation of
Sweden. Incidentally, this could be a gesture towards those
countries that have shown concern about
the particular
attention apparently paid by the United Nations to the
Yugoslav crisis.
We are just beginning to comprehend the issue of the
rational distribution of responsibilities between the United
Nations and the CSCE in the settlement of crises and
conflicts throughout the territory of the Commonwealth of
Independent States. It may be precisely in this area that we
should test by practical experience the idea of joint United
Nations-CSCE missions. To start, we could try to apply this
idea in Tajikistan. Such a mission could, in particular,
promote dialogue between the Government and the
opposition, contribute to the solution of the refugee problem
and launch the development of guarantees of the rights of all
ethnic groups.
In the context of possible interaction between the
United Nations and the CSCE in the area of early warning,
ideas have been put forth concerning the establishment,
under the auspices of the CSCE, of its own peace-keeping
forces along the lines of the future stand-by forces of the
United Nations.
In our opinion, we could discuss at this
stage a formula for joint use of the future stand-by forces on
the understanding that the United Nations could promote the
use for CSCE purposes of contingents that were idle at any
given moment. At any rate, all these ideas deserve to be
discussed by the United Nations and the CSCE.
Peace-keeping, which I have discussed in some detail,
is the central but not the only sphere of cooperation between
the United Nations and the CSCE. There is a perceived
need to develop closer links between the CSCE Warsaw
Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and the
United Nations Centre for Human Rights, in particular to
ensure a more rapid exchange of information between them.
Such cooperation will undoubtedly stimulate the activities of
both organizations in the establishment of democratic values
and human rights.
We feel that the strengthening of interaction between
the CSCE Economic Forum and the United Nations
Economic Commission for Europe - with a view to
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
5
providing assistance to CSCE member States in carrying out
their economic reforms - also has good prospects.
The establishment of a regular exchange of opinions
and information between the United Nations Secretary-
General and the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of the
CSCE, as well as the CSCE Secretary-General as the
representative of the Chairman-in-Office, has acquired a
great importance.
In this connection, we attach particular
importance to the document entitled "Framework for
cooperation and coordination between the United Nations
Secretariat and the Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe". We hope that the provisions contained in this
document will be further developed.
We are certain that
the adoption by the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session of the draft resolution
entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe" and
co-sponsored by the Russian Federation, will, as the
Ambassador of Sweden has said, lend new impetus to the
strengthening of interaction between these two organizations.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that the discussion
of this problem in the General Assembly is of great practical
importance, since it is taking place on the eve of the meeting
in Rome of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the 53 CSCE
member States, which will serve as an important landmark
in the development of the CSCE as an effective international
organization. On behalf of our delegation, I should like to
ask the Secretary-General, Mr. Höynk,
to the
Vienna Forum of the CSCE on the discussion of the draft
resolution at
the General
Assembly.
the forty-eighth session of
to report
Mr. BOTEZ (Romania) (interpretation from French):
The formal coordination of the activities of the United
Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE) is a new subject that undoubtedly deserves
to be inscribed on the evolving agenda of the General
Assembly.
However, I feel that in fact such coordination did not
begin with the adoption by the General Assembly at its last
session of resolution 47/10, which opens the chapter of
institutional contacts and joint action. Rather, it seems to
me that this resolution gives formal expression to a structure
that has been coming into closer harmony since the mid-
1970s, when first the spirit and then the process which we
have come to call the "Helsinki" spirit and process were
established in the geographical space that generated the two
major conflagrations of this century. I believe that the world
today cannot be understood in isolation from the history of
the harmonization between the United Nations and the
CSCE.
Indeed, the international situation following the end of
the cold war gives us a different view of the past. To cite
Borges, every great writer discovers or even invents a line
of predecessors that justifies him.
In today’s world we
understand even better than we did in 1975 the importance
of the United Nations and the Helsinki process for the
Europe today and for mankind as a whole. From among the
ills of recent decades, it is their spirit that should be kept as
the precursor of the realities of 1993. But this new reading
of history also suggests a sort of distribution of roles which
was not noticed in the past but which can, I believe, be
sustained from our present viewpoint.
I would say, at the risk of didactic oversimplification,
that, at least for us in Europe, the United Nations and the
Helsinki Conference play complementary roles.
In the
United Nations the main issue was safeguarding peace, in an
attempt
to reduce as much as possible the risk of
confrontation between States or groups of States. We could
thus speak of a scope embracing external,
international
structures of peace and security.
In our view at least, the
Helsinki spirit also related to internal or intra-national
structures of peace and security. There is no need to repeat
that respect for human rights in prosperous and stable
democracies diminishes the risk of confrontation.
Allow me, as a representative of a country that
slumbered under dictatorship for almost half a century, to
mention here, for example, the immense role played by the
famous "third basket" concerning human rights for the
protection of anti-totalitarian dissent and for the development
of civilian society in Central and Eastern Europe, phenomena
in the absence of which the anti-communist revolutions of
1989 cannot be explained.
"Solidarnose" in Poland,
Charter 77 in Czechoslovakia and the Free Trade Union in
Romania, to give but a few examples, are all expressions of
the Helsinki spirit, and the new Europe remains extremely
grateful to those who embarked on and followed up this
process.
The collapse of communism in Central and Eastern
Europe opened up a new chapter in the history of the United
Nations,
in the evolution of the spirit and process of
Helsinki, and also in their possible relationships. The United
Nations, hindered for decades by the cold war, can finally
begin to shoulder its planetary responsibilities.
The Helsinki process has also gathered new momentum.
Differences between external and internal structures of peace
seem to be disappearing in a Europe where dictatorship has
disappeared and where,
least, pluralistic
democracy and market economies have triumphed. Even
more clearly than before,
the United Nations and the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
must be seen as different political expressions of the same
theoretically, at
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
spirit, marked by understanding, diversity and cooperation.
At the Helsinki Summit in July 1992, participating States
declared that the CSCE was a regional arrangement in the
sense of the United Nations Charter and that as such it
provided an important link between European and global
security. The cooperation between the United Nations and
the CSCE and with any other regional structure is on two
essential levels:
first, a conceptual and theoretical level
where an attempt is made to define the fundamental political
meaning of such cooperation and, secondly, a level of means
and practical action, from a pragmatic and operational
perspective.
United Nations, and Europe, or the Euro-Atlantic space, on
which the CSCE focuses, cannot, hence, be seen from the
standpoint of simple inclusion, as a mathematician might
say. There exists a globalist spirit and a European or Euro-
Atlantic spirit. There is a new awareness, evolved over
recent decades, that makes it possible to understand that
peoples, countries and regions can be and remain different
without any loss of pride or standing. This prospect of
tolerant globalization and constructive regionalization must,
I believe, dominate relations between the United Nations and
the CSCE. With this approach their cooperation becomes a
project to be defined rather than a decision to be taken.
Theoretically,
the scope of
the possibilities
for
cooperation is remarkable. Suffice it to mention here the
potential of
regional organizations in the discharge of
functions such as preventive diplomacy, the maintenance of
peace, the restoration of peace and the consolidation of
stability and peace after conflicts, as pointed out in the
excellent report "An Agenda for Peace" of His Excellency
the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. But this
theoretical scope of cooperation must be explored and
utilized. Our task here is that of creating the institutional
framework for such action.
From the standpoint of means and practical actions, the
Secretary-General’s report (A/48/549) of 2 November 1993
on cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE
paints a stimulating and promising picture. Suffice it to
mention by way of example the determination and
promptness with which the CSCE, upon the request of the
Republic of Moldova and in coordination with the United
Nations, got involved in the settlement of the grave situation
facing the Government of the Republic of Moldova in the
eastern part of the country, where the troops of a foreign
army are still to be found.
As we can all see, cooperation and interaction between
the United Nations and the CSCE is under way.
In
resolution 48/5 the CSCE was granted observer status in the
United Nations General Assembly. The exchange of letters,
in May 1993, between the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of the
CSCE was also a significant step in this cooperation.
It is
a duty, not merely an honour and a pleasure, to pay a special
t r i b u t e
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l ,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and Mrs. Margaretha af Ugglas,
Foreign Minister of Sweden and current Chairman-in-Office
of the CSCE, for their personal contribution to this process.
h e r e
t h e
t o
In the present era, saturated with holistic, systemic and
globalistic approaches, there is no longer any need to repeat
that the whole is not merely the mechanical sum of its parts
and that the part is not reducible to a mere fragment of the
whole. The world as a whole, which is the scope of the
It is often said that for a problem to be solved it must
first be correctly formulated. But it is a commonplace that,
particularly in the world of politics,
the formulation of
problems is the domain of dialogue. Draft resolution
A/48/L.18, prepared with remarkable diligence by the
Swedish delegation, assures us that such a dialogue will
continue next year. As a sponsor of this draft resolution, we
express the hope that it will be adopted by consensus.
Mr. SUCHARIPA (Austria): Austria fully concurs with
the Secretary-General’s view, expressed in "An Agenda for
Peace", that
"regional arrangements ...
in many cases possess a
potential that should be utilized". (A/47/277, para. 64)
Over the last year we have witnessed a considerable
increase in cooperation between the United Nations and
regional arrangements such as the Organization of African
Unity (OAU), the Organization of American States (OAS)
and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
(CSCE).
This positive trend finally brought about an
implementation of the principle of complementarity, which
is, of course, an underlying idea of Chapter VIII of the
United Nations Charter.
The participating States of the CSCE reaffirmed in the
Final Act signed at Helsinki in 1975 their
"full and active support for the United Nations and for
the enhancement of
its role and effectiveness in
strengthening international peace, security and justice".
(CSCE, Final Act, 1975, "Declaration on principles
guiding relations between participating States", third
preambular paragraph)
They also explicitly declared at the Helsinki Summit in 1992
that the CSCE is a regional arrangement in the spirit of
Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter, and, as such,
that it provides an important link between European and
global security.
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
7
Consequently, last year, in resolution 47/10, the General
Assembly had already stressed the need for enhanced
cooperation and coordination between the CSCE and the
United Nations. A month ago, it granted observer status to
the CSCE with the adoption of resolution 48/5. We
therefore
to welcome
Ambassador Höynck, Secretary-General of the CSCE, as
observer.
pleasure
today
have
the
Free of regulatory restrictions, the CSCE has been able
time to elaborate a
in a relatively short period of
comprehensive set of political
instruments for conflict
prevention and conflict resolution. Those already applied in
practice have proven to be extremely successful, as CSCE
missions in crisis areas have shown. They operate on the
basis of flexible mandates covering political, military and
human rights issues.
Let me just mention some examples and how they
relate to various United Nations efforts:
the CSCE has
deployed missions of long duration in Kosovo, Sandjak and
Vojvodina, in areas of conflict or potential conflict in former
Yugoslavia, where the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) is not deployed. The very presence and
activities of
these missions had a positive effect on
developments there; Austria was glad to have been able to
participate in those missions. The Belgrade authorities,
agreement
however,
authorizing the deployment of
thereby,
de facto, ending their activities. In response to that act, the
resolution 855 (1993),
Security Council
requesting the Belgrade authorities to reconsider
their
position and to cooperate with the CSCE. Unfortunately,
this has not been done to date.
refused to extend the protocol
the missions,
adopted its
Furthermore, the CSCE has assisted the neighbouring
States of Serbia and Montenegro in monitoring the
observance of sanctions imposed by the Security Council.
In this regard, cooperation with the relevant unit of the
United Nations Secretariat is vital.
The Security Council has on a number of occasions
supported the efforts of the CSCE, and in particular the
Minsk Group, to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict
in and around the Nagorny Karabakh region of
the
Azerbaijani Republic.
In this case as in some others, the
CSCE is taking the lead role according to an agreed
distribution of tasks between itself and the United Nations.
Cooperation on the ground between missions of both
the United Nations and the CSCE has begun in Georgia and
Tajikistan. We are aware of the complex situations there
and hope that the practical contacts between the United
Nations and the CSCE missions will soon be strengthened
and will lead to full cooperation.
These concrete examples clearly show the increasing
importance of enhancing cooperation and coordination
between the United Nations and the CSCE. Austria
therefore welcomes the exchange of letters of 26 May 1993
between the Secretary-General and the Chairman-in-Office
of the CSCE Council, which provides a framework for
cooperation and coordination between the United Nations
In those letters the two sides agreed to
and the CSCE.
maintain
coordination,
complementarity and mutual support, and to avoid possible
duplication in the planning and carrying out of activities. In
order to achieve these aims, consultations and contacts on a
daily basis are necessary. Let me take this opportunity to
pay a tribute to Ambassador Peter Osvald, Permanent
Representative of the Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE,
Sweden, whose Mission has pursued the implementation of
the framework in an exemplary manner.
contact
ensure
close
to
However, increasing the practical implementation of
cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE will
not be possible without having a United Nations liaison
mechanism to the CSCE at the site of most of its bodies,
Vienna. The framework set out in the exchange of letters
explicitly mentions three points of contact in Vienna:
the
delegation of the State holding the office of Chairman, the
CSCE Secretary-General and other CSCE institutions in
Vienna, such as the Conflict Prevention Centre. The current
developments, in particular the rapidly increasing activities
of the CSCE and the henceforth permanent meetings of the
relevant CSCE bodies, first and foremost the Committee of
Senior Officials - the Vienna Group - clearly necessitate
creating such a liaison mechanism between the United
Nations and the CSCE in Vienna. Given the presence of
various units and services of the United Nations Secretariat
in Vienna, such a step should not provide any administrative
problems.
While we welcome the growing cooperation, we see
room for improvement and a vast potential for intensification
to the benefit of all
interested parties. Austria firmly
believes that cooperation and coordination between the
United Nations and the CSCE in the interest of peace and
security should be further enhanced and developed.
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to propose that the
list of speakers in the debate on this item be closed now. If
I hear no objection, I shall take it that the Assembly agrees
to that proposal.
It was so decided.
Mr. HUSLID (Norway): Norway welcomes the report
of the Secretary-General on cooperation between the United
Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE). The need for enhanced cooperation and
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
coordination has been stressed ever since the CSCE summit
meeting took place in Helsinki 16 months ago.
The exchange of
letters of 26 May between the
Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Chairman-
in-Office of the CSCE on the arrangements for cooperation
and coordination established a framework for common
approaches. The decision of 13 October to grant the CSCE
observer status in the General Assembly strengthens further
the basis for increasingly close cooperation and coordination.
The decisions of the Helsinki meeting defined an
important CSCE role in early warning, conflict prevention
and crisis management. That role has been filled, through
concrete actions in conflict areas as well as areas of tension
involving national minority issues that have the potential to
develop into a conflict. Seven CSCE missions have been
dispatched to areas of the former Yugoslavia and the former
Soviet Union, and a peace-keeping operation has been
prepared for Nagorny Karabakh.
The High Commissioner on National Minorities plays
an important role in early warning. We consider that his
activities have been very useful and important. However,
there is scope for increasing the effectiveness of the CSCE’s
own activities. The CSCE has also an indisputable potential
for assisting the United Nations in carrying out United
Nations decisions on several important issues ranging from
human rights to conflict prevention.
It is stated in the CSCE Helsinki decisions that the
CSCE is a regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII
of the United Nations Charter and as such provides an
important link between European and global security.
It is
worth emphasizing that cooperative security can only be
built on complementarity and improved interaction among all
the relevant international organizations. Progress has been
made towards this end, but more should and can be done.
Rivalry must be avoided here, and a pragmatic approach is
necessary. There are really enough tasks for everybody.
The new tasks before the CSCE require enhanced
practical coordination and cooperation with the United
Nations. This is particularly important in conflict areas
where both the CSCE and the United Nations have a
presence, as in Georgia, Nagorny Karabakh and Tajikistan.
The activities in those areas should be coordinated in order
to be mutually reinforcing, and it is important to avoid
duplication in planning activities.
While the United Nations has a responsibility for global
security, the CSCE has a particular responsibility for the
security and stability of Europe. We therefore find it useful
that the CSCE and the United Nations consult prior to any
decision on establishing new missions in the CSCE area.
The aim of such consultation should be to obtain a division
of labour that would benefit all parties. The first question to
be raised is which of the two organizations is best suited to
establish a mission.
Norway would like to emphasize that this should be a
Formal arrangements for mutual
continuous process.
exchange of
information should be supplemented by
informal contacts as part of the normal working routines of
the CSCE and the United Nations personnel involved in
matters of common concern. At the same time, the dialogue
between the Secretary-General and the Chairman-in-Office
should continue on a regular basis. We are convinced that
this would result in increased efficiency and a wider capacity
for addressing new challenges. Frequent contacts at all
levels would facilitate a pragmatic division of labour in each
case.
I conclude by stating that Norway supports the draft
resolution on cooperation between the United Nations and
the CSCE.
(interpretation
Mr. BROUHNS (Belgium)
from
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the
French):
European Union on the question of cooperation between the
United Nations and the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
I should like to welcome
the presence among us of the CSCE Secretary-General,
Ambassador Wilhelm Höynck.
At the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly
we welcomed the inclusion of this new item on its agenda.
Today we reiterate our support for the consideration of this
item, which has recently taken on even greater importance.
The CSCE, which emerged from the cold war, must
today take up new challenges, including the resurgence of
nationalism, ethnic conflicts, intolerance and xenophobia.
The CSCE’s approach to those challenges is based on a
comprehensive concept of security, that concept establishes
a relationship between the maintenance of peace and respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It creates a
link between cooperation in the fields of the economy and
the environment, on the one hand, and, on the other hand,
peaceful relations between States. This comprehensive
concept is the basis of the CSCE’s preventive diplomacy.
Moreover,
the CSCE has
now acquired
The powers of
the Council and of
new
instruments.
the
Committee of Senior Officials have been strengthened,
enabling them, for example, to dispatch missions to crisis
regions. The establishment of the office of CSCE High
Commissioner on National Minorities has helped to
strengthen the CSCE’s capacity to avert tension and potential
conflict. Lastly, the CSCE now has peace-keeping tools,
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
9
such as the deployment of observation and monitoring
missions in conflict zones. In that connection, we welcome
the forthcoming meeting of the CSCE ministerial Council, to
be held on 30 November and 1 December in Rome, where
the mechanisms and structures of the CSCE are to be further
strengthened.
this connection, we welcome the efforts of the Swedish
Chairman-in-Office, and we trust that contacts will become
even stronger in future.
Mrs. Fritsche (Liechtenstein), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
At the end of the Helsinki Summit last July, the Heads
of State and Government of the CSCE declared their
understanding that the CSCE was a regional arrangement in
the sense of Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United
Nations. That declaration opened the way towards greater
cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE,
which the Secretary-General of
the United Nations
welcomed in his report, "An Agenda for Peace."
In the past few months cooperation between the United
Nations and the CSCE has been demonstrated in various
crises.
In support of United Nations efforts in the former
Yugoslavia the CSCE has deployed long-term missions in
Kosovo, Sandjak, Vojvodina and The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia. It has also assisted in investigations
of human rights violations, inter alia, by sending in 1992 a
mission to investigate human rights violations and to
examine living conditions in detention camps.
It has also
assisted neighbouring States to monitor compliance with
Security Council sanctions.
In other crises the CSCE, with United Nations support,
has become the principal mediator, particularly concerning
the conflict in Nagorny Karabakh, with regard to which the
Security Council has several times called upon the parties to
resume negotiations within the context of the Minsk Group
peace process.
While cooperation between the United Nations and the
CSCE in conflict prevention and resolution has been
strengthened, we should also emphasize cooperation with the
Commission on Human Rights in the human-rights field;
with the Economic Commission for Europe with regard to
the economy and the environment; and with the Office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees with
regard to refugees and minorities.
Exchange of information between the CSCE and the
United Nations is already well established. The Secretary-
General is represented at meetings of the Committee of
Senior Officials and will be sending a representative to the
Rome Council meeting. There is also a regular exchange of
information between the Mission of the CSCE Chairman-in-
Office in New York and the United Nations Secretariat. In
The examples I have given only illustrate the growing
cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE.
This cooperation should be strengthened in future. To that
end, Mrs. Af Ugglas,
the Swedish Foreign Minister and
Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE, had an exchange of letters
with the Secretary-General of the United Nations last May
with a view to establishing a framework for cooperation and
coordination between the United Nations and the CSCE. On
30 October last the General Assembly adopted a resolution
inviting the CSCE to participate in its work as an Observer.
In view of the complexity and diversity of the questions
that confront and will in future confront the United Nations
and the CSCE, cooperation and coordination between them
will have based more on pragmatism than on a rigid
framework of principles, which could very quickly prove to
be inadequate. The goal of maintaining peace in the CSCE
region cannot but benefit from greater cooperation between
the United Nations and the CSCE, which can in turn gain
from a flexible synergy of each organization’s experience,
competence, and means of action. We trust there will be
more active cooperation and coordination on the ground.
Where the situation justifies it, this could involve appointing
someone to represent both the United Nations and the CSCE.
stability,
Fully aware of the contribution that can be made to
global
this
cooperation and welcomes the debate now taking place in
the General Assembly on this item.
the European Union encourages
Mr. BREITENSTEIN (Finland): Last year Finland
co-sponsored the draft
resolution which initiated the
cooperation between the United Nations and the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). This year
the General Assembly has taken a step further as it has
unanimously invited the CSCE to participate in the
Assembly’s sessions and work as an Observer.
We welcome this development. The capacity of the
United Nations for action in conflict prevention and in crisis
management has for some time been stretched to the limit.
It is therefore both necessary and natural that the potential
of other institutions should be used whenever possible.
Recognizing this, the leaders of the States participating in
the CSCE decided at the Helsinki Summit in 1992 that the
CSCE should be considered a regional arrangement in the
meaning of Chapter VIII of the Charter. This decision is
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
fully in conformity with the concept of mutually supportive
roles for the United Nations and regional organizations as set
out in the Secretary-General’s report "An Agenda for Peace"
(A/47/277). The CSCE is indeed a natural partner for
cooperation with the United Nations.
During the past year cooperation and coordination of
activities between the United Nations and the CSCE have
been initiated in several conflict areas. Useful experience
has already been gained for instance in Abkhazia and South
Ossetia, where the United Nations and the CSCE both have
missions. A de facto division of labour has emerged
between the United Nations and the CSCE in other conflict
areas as well. The United Nations has the lead in Tajikistan,
where CSCE involvement is under consideration. The CSCE
plays a leading role in the attempts to settle the conflict
between Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorny Karabakh.
It is also involved in Moldova.
forms of
Furthermore, in the Framework for cooperation and
coordination between the United Nations and the CSCE it
was agreed that the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and the Chairman-in-Office of
the CSCE should hold
consultations on a regular basis on activities of common
interest. It is understandable that it will take some time for
the practical
this cooperation to evolve and
develop. The missions in Georgia show us how important
it is to achieve good and effective cooperation. Conflicts of
interest and duplication of work should, and can, be avoided
through a good working relationship between the missions.
Where difficulties occur, they can certainly be overcome
through mutual efforts and good will.
It is also imperative
that the respective missions present a harmonious and united
image to the local population; otherwise we risk losing
credibility. This should not be difficult, as the work of the
United Nations and that of the CSCE reinforce each other
and have the same goals.
The challenges which local and regional conflicts in the
These
In this, coordinated efforts by the
the CSCE and other European and
CSCE area pose are, unfortunately, enormous.
challenges must be met.
United Nations,
transatlantic institutions are needed.
The Government of Finland wholeheartedly supports the
further development of cooperation and coordination between
the United Nations and the CSCE. The present Framework
agreement provides a good basis for this. Additional efforts
by both institutions are, however, needed if we want to be
able to respond to the growing challenges.
Mr. FULCI (Italy): Two weeks from today, during the
ministerial Council
Italy will assume the
chairmanship of the Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe (CSCE). That is why I am speaking after our
in Rome,
Belgian colleague, who made a statement on behalf of the
European Union with which we of course entirely agree.
In the year of its chairmanship of the CSCE, Italy
intends fully to play the political role which is assigned to
the Chairman by CSCE documents and which includes
representing the CSCE in other countries and organizations.
In this context, we will work for closer and more regular ties
between the CSCE and other international organizations,
particularly the United Nations. All 53 States members of
the CSCE recognize the need for stronger ties with the
United Nations, whose increasing role in the management of
international crises has led it into areas where the CSCE too
has been forced to step up its engagement.
achieving
on
agreements
So far, the CSCE’s efforts to achieve cooperation with
the United Nations have followed two basic guidelines:
first,
the mechanism for
collaboration between the United Nations and the CSCE;
and, secondly, obtaining observer status for the CSCE in the
United Nations in order that
it may participate in the
proceedings of the General Assembly. New points of
contact have been established in New York, Geneva and
Vienna through the missions of the rotating chairmanship of
the CSCE.
This course of action has produced the outcome that we
hoped for, thanks in particular to the energetic work of the
Swedish delegation to the United Nations under
the
leadership of our colleague Peter Osvald, to whom I wish to
extend my warmest appreciation.
Thus began a deeper understanding of the respective
activities of the United Nations and the CSCE, and a more
concrete relationship. The first results of these efforts can
be seen in the understanding reached between the United
Nations and the CSCE on The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, as well as in the decision last April 28 by the
Committee of Senior Officials to begin negotiating an
agreement on mutual cooperation in Georgia.
As the next Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE, Italy aims
to further explore all
the possibilities, not only for
cooperation between our two organizations but for a true
coordination of their respective activities.
It is our intention, first of all, to implement all the
measures provided by the framework which has been set up
between the United Nations and the CSCE. Duplication of
activities and gaps should be prevented as much as possible.
The same applies to utilization of resources, which, as we
know only too well, are always limited. On a purely
pragmatic basis, the two organizations could even alternate
leading and supporting roles in certain peace initiatives.
Above all, we must take advantage of the potential synergy
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
11
between the two organizations. We intend to promote and
further develop this cooperation in a way appropriate to
varying circumstances,
in the framework of preventive
diplomacy, which in our view is and must remain the
CSCE’s primary vocation.
It
is our opinion that a greater, more harmonious
political and organizational relationship between the United
Nations and the CSCE could become a fundamental asset in
defining a response to tensions and conflicts in the CSCE
area. Concrete cooperation between the two organizations
has already begun. Let me also cite a few cases, some of
which have already been mentioned by previous speakers:
in the former Yugoslavia, through the long-term missions to
Kosovo, Sandjak, and Vojvodina mandated by Security
Council resolution 855 (1993); through the Corell Mission to
assess the human-rights situation in Croatia and Bosnia,
which contributed to the establishment of the International
Tribunal
through Sanction
Advisory Missions, which guarantee application of the
measures
resolutions
757 (1992) and 820 (1993); in Nagorny Karabakh, where the
work of
the full
encouragement and support of the Security Council; and in
Georgia and Tajikistan, where the situation on the ground
suggests that the CSCE and the United Nations can and
should join forces.
the CSCE’s Minsk Group has met
in resolution 808 (1993);
imposed
by Security Council
We believe that these opportunities should be further
studied, clarified and developed. The fact that the CSCE is
a regional organization, as provided for by Chapter VIII of
the United Nations Charter, carries both definite privileges
and inescapable burdens. Italy is well aware of this and will
do everything possible to consolidate this cooperation. We
are fully confident that our United Nations interlocutors in
New York, Geneva and Vienna, and in the specific contexts
of regional crises in the CSCE area, will share this approach.
Mr. BATIOUK (Ukraine): Ukraine willingly supports
the welcome trend towards closer cooperation and interaction
between the United Nations and the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in all fields of mutual interest -
first and foremost in those relating to conflict prevention
and conflict
resolution, as well as to protection and
promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Proceeding from this stand, Ukraine, as a participant of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe,
supported the statement of the participating States of the
1992 CSCE Helsinki Summit, which declared that the CSCE
is a regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the
United Nations Charter.
While considering the security of Ukraine inseparable
from that of all
its neighbours, Ukraine stands for the
establishment of a reliable all-European system of collective
on Security
the Conference
and
security wherein
Cooperation in Europe plays a crucial role.
In this regard,
we welcome the agreement reached between the United
Nations Secretary-General
and the CSCE Council’s
Chairman-in-Office on the framework of cooperation and
coordination between the United Nations and the CSCE. In
our view, the interaction envisaged by this agreement should
enhance the efficiency of peacemaking efforts by the
international community in the conflict areas of the CSCE
region and, at the same time, avoid unnecessary and costly
overlapping or duplication in these activities. A closer
cooperation between the two organizations will also promote
the regular exchange of information between the United
Nations and the CSCE, especially in the fields of early
warning and prevention of conflicts, as well as at the stage
of their resolution.
All peace-keeping and peacemaking activities should be
of a truly international character and must be carried out in
strict accordance with the United Nations Charter and the
fundamental CSCE documents. We oppose yielding to any
State’s claims for providing it with special powers from the
United Nations or the CSCE in the field of maintaining or
restoring peace in any region or subregion of the world or of
Europe. In accordance with the United Nations Charter and
the CSCE documents,
the mandate for peace-keeping
operations must be endorsed case by case and only at the
official request of the Government of the State whose
territory becomes the scene of those operations. Ukraine
believes it advisable to refrain from involving in peace-
keeping operations countries which are known to be able to
use their participation in peace-keeping activities
for
consolidating or
imposing their political, economic or
military interests in the region.
Current realities make it necessary to maintain close
contact between the United Nations and the CSCE in
carrying out various missions, ensuring their interaction and
the exchange of results derived from their activities. We
envisage and invite the possibility of joint missions, if need
be. In our opinion, the joint participation of representatives
and experts in relevant conferences and forums held within
the framework of the United Nations and the CSCE is
essential.
We believe that the present arrangement on cooperation
and interaction between the United Nations and the CSCE in
the field of preventing and resolving conflicts is but the first
step towards solving today’s most pressing and urgent
problems. That first step must be followed by additional
ones which would expand this cooperation to new and
important fields.
In particular, it is worth examining the
possibility of establishing closer ties between the United
Nations and the CSCE in all spheres of human activity.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The consequences of the recently aggravated problem
of forced migration and the influx of refugees constitute a
serious challenge to security and stability in Europe. None
of the CSCE participating States is able, alone, to cope with
streams of refugees fraught with tension and instability. In
this respect,
there is a need to develop
interaction between, on one hand, the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which undertakes
important and indispensable activities in this field, and, on
the other hand, the CSCE Office for Democratic Institutions
and Human Rights, which is located in Warsaw.
it appears that
The delegation of Ukraine joins those States which,
from this rostrum, have urged that draft resolution A/48/L.18
be adopted by consensus.
Mr. BATU (Turkey): As a country located at the very
epicentre of the area covered by the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) - an area that stretches
from Vancouver to Vladivostok - and as a founding Member
of the United Nations, Turkey is particularly pleased that we
are again considering an item entitled "Cooperation between
the United Nations and the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe".
Since the adoption of the Helsinki Document 1992 and
General Assembly resolution 47/10, important steps have
been taken to establish effective cooperation between the
United Nations and the CSCE.
In this context, Turkey
welcomes the exchange on 26 May 1993, between the
Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Chairman-
in-Office of the CSCE, of letters concerning a framework for
cooperation and coordination between the United Nations
and the CSCE. General Assembly resolution 48/5 of
13 October 1993, which invites the CSCE to participate, as
an Observer, in the sessions and work of the Assembly,
constitutes another encouraging development in the right
direction.
Having taken note of the Secretary-General’s valuable
report, my delegation wishes to reaffirm its resolute support
for his efforts to build on this process of institutionalizing
cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE.
the starting-point
Since the end of the cold war it has been our policy to
refer to the challenges of the new international order.
Despite a sufficiency of creative thinking, however, it has
not been possible to establish a clear strategy. We believe
that
for such a strategy should be
realization of the fact that action on the challenges we are
facing today is beyond the means and resources of a single
organization.
collective-security
architecture of mutually reinforcing institutions, in which all
elements have a role to play. The interaction between global
security and regional security requires effective cooperation
Thus, we need a
and coordination between the United Nations and regional
organizations.
In this connection, Turkey believes that the
still-developing institutionalization of cooperation and
coordination between the United Nations and the CSCE sets
a precedent.
As the Secretary-General observes in his report, there
has been valuable cooperation in some parts of the former
Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union. Turkey attaches
great
importance to effective coordination between the
activities of the United Nations and those of the CSCE in
the field of conflict resolution and prevention, particularly in
the Balkans and the Caucasus. In this respect, we regard the
refusal of Belgrade to extend the mandate of the long-term
CSCE missions as a further reason for concern. We share
the Secretary-General’s view that, until their withdrawal,
these missions contributed significantly to the maintenance
of stability in Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina. Therefore,
we strongly endorse the Security Council’s call,
in its
resolution 855 (1993), for their return at the earliest possible
date.
Following the end of the cold war, we embarked on the
process of collective and cooperative security. We must
admit, however, that quite a few opportunities have been lost
along the way. Hence, we believe that the United Nations,
under Chapter VIII of its Charter, should continue to develop
adequate channels of communication, coordination and
interaction with the regional organizations. We must
establish a more rational and cost-effective division of labour
between the United Nations and regional organizations, and
this must be based on transparency and complementarity.
The enhancement of security and stability in the vast
geographical area between Vancouver and Vladivostok is a
challenging task. It was in this context that my Minister, in
his address to the General Assembly on 30 September this
year, made the following call:
"Turkey lies at
the very epicenter of several
regions making up the most
turbulent part of the
Northern hemisphere. We are actively engaged in the
post-cold-war search for new approaches to build peace
through multilateral action.
Our objective is to
reinforce the international security system. Only the
United Nations can provide legitimacy to regional
arrangements and institutions should the latter decide to
act in the fields of ... preventive diplomacy, peace-
keeping and peace enforcement.
"All three of those categories of action are in
demand on Turkey’s periphery. My Government
deploys all of its available assets to help defuse and
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
13
resolve these crises. We strive to create and
consolidate interlinked areas of solidarity and processes
of cooperation." (Official Records of
the General
Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Plenary Meetings, 11th
meeting, p. 127)
We pledge our commitment to and our support for the
continued efforts to rise above the challenges of our times in
the field of global and regional security.
satisfaction
presence
Mr. PASHOVSKI (Bulgaria):
at
I should like, first, to
express my
the
of
Mr. Wilhelm Höynck, Secretary-General of the Conference
on Security
(CSCE).
Mr. Höynck has made a remarkable contribution to the
development of the CSCE process, and I have outstanding
memories of the work that we have done together.
and Cooperation
in Europe
Over the past year and a half we have witnessed
genuine and commendable progress in the cooperation
between the United Nations and the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe. The dynamic processes on the
European continent and the emergence of real and potential
conflicts and points of tension in the CSCE area demonstrate
the pressing need for a meaningful
response to the
challenges in the field of European and global security. The
direct
link between, on one hand, peace, stability and
security in the region and, on the other hand, peace, stability
and security in the world at
large has prompted the
beginning of a process of institutionalizing relations between
the United Nations and European organizations -
in
particular, the CSCE.
Barely a year and a half ago, at the CSCE’s Helsinki
Summit in 1992, the Heads of State and Government of the
participating States declared their understanding that the
Conference is a regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter
VIII of the United Nations Charter, and it is little more than
a year since the question of cooperation between the two
bodies was formally included in the agenda of the United
Nations General Assembly. Over this relatively short period
there has been significant positive development of the two
bodies’ common effort in a number of areas - from conflict
prevention and crisis management to human rights issues and
economic and environmental problems.
A sound basis for the promotion of the institutional
modalities of this process has been laid. Bulgaria welcomes
in this regard the conclusion on 26 May 1993 of an
agreement between the United Nations Secretary-General
and the Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE Council on the
Framework for cooperation and coordination between the
two organizations. By resolution 48/5, of 13 October 1993,
the Conference was granted Observer status at the sessions
and in the work of the General Assembly. Regular contact
and exchange of information and documents have been
established and maintained.
This has already yielded noticeable practical results in
the field. The United Nations and the CSCE have been
coordinating their actions
in peacemaking, achieving
valuable interaction in such areas of conflict or tension in
the CSCE area as Nagorny Karabakh, South Ossetia,
Moldova, Tajikistan and Abkhazia, and elsewhere.
In the
former Yugoslavia a positive framework of coordination has
started to evolve, joining the efforts of the United Nations,
the European Community and the CSCE, with the
indispensable contribution of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) and the Western European Union.
Cooperation has also been enhanced through the
introduction of new, more productive forms of coordination
in other equally important areas, such as preventive
diplomacy
the
strengthening of relations between the United Nations and
the CSCE in the spheres of human rights and humanitarian
issues,
including the questions of minorities, economic
cooperation and environmental protection.
peace-building. We welcome
and
The positive momentum of this process, achieved over
the past period, should be maintained and further developed.
The emerging principles of cooperation, taking account of
the need for coordination, complementarity, practical division
of labour and pragmatic approaches, should be further
strengthened and consistently applied.
The United Nations has formidable experience and
resources in a number of spheres pertaining to crisis
management, such as peace-keeping, problems related to
refugees and humanitarian assistance. The CSCE, for its
part, has a valuable record and capabilities in early warning
and democratic institution building. Both organizations have
established their presence in conflict regions across the
CSCE area.
The potential
for stepping up practical, mutually
reinforcing cooperation of the planning and carrying out of
various missions, ranging from fact-finding to peacemaking
and to assistance in strengthening democratic institutions,
should be built upon in an effort to provide for even greater
complementarity and synergy.
launched by the other
A greater integration of representatives from each
organization into missions
is
imperative for increased effectiveness. This could prompt a
further strengthening of the organizational modalities for
such coordination envisaged by the Framework of
26 May 1993. As a first step, a more efficient joint use of
logistics and personnel, including joint use at the expert and
higher levels, could be outlined and implemented.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The requirements of crisis management in the post-cold-
war period, given the complex nature of today’s conflicts in
the CSCE area, lead us to contemplate opportunities for
more global approaches to conflict resolution, involving the
United Nations and the CSCE.
In this regard, pilot case
projects could be launched. They could comprise action
programmes
followed by
post-conflict peacemaking and peace-building measures,
involving disengagement of forces, deployment of military
and civilian observers, provision of humanitarian assistance
and strengthening of democratic institutions.
for cessation of hostilities,
New ground for cooperation has been explored in such
relatively new spheres for both organizations as assistance in
the implementation of preventive and enforcement measures,
including the imposition of economic sanctions by the
Security Council. Practical cooperation and joint action has
been launched in this area through the establishment of the
European Community - CSCE Sanctions Assistance Missions
in countries neighbouring the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and close coordination
with the Security Council sanctions Committee has been
established. This effort should be pursued further, aiming to
expand its scope by devising forms of cooperation and
mutual support in addressing special economic problems
arising from the implementation of these measures.
Great opportunities are being offered by the ongoing
reform of the CSCE and its growing capabilities in early
warning, conflict prevention, crisis management, security
cooperation, peaceful settlement of disputes and planning for
peace-keeping operations. It presents new possibilities for
enhancing the institutional modalities of cooperation and
coordination which should also be examined and utilized.
We welcome the report of
the Secretary-General
(A/48/549) outlining measures of cooperation between the
United Nations and the CSCE presented to the Assembly at
its current session.
In keeping with the need for regular
examination and widening of the capabilities for enhanced
coordination, we invite him to continue to focus his attention
on this issue and to present his views, recommendations and
proposals at the next sessions of the Assembly.
In an effort to contribute to enhancing the cooperation
and coordination between the two organizations, a group of
CSCE participating States,
including Bulgaria, have
elaborated and put
resolution for
consideration in the current debate. We fully share the
comments made by the representative of
the CSCE
Chairman-in-Office, who introduced the draft on behalf of
the co-sponsors, and we hope that it will gain the support of
the Assembly.
forward a draft
Mr. CASSAR (Malta):
In November 1990 the Heads
of State or Government of the States participating in the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
assembled in Paris at a time of "profound change and
historic expectations" (A/45/859, p. 4) to celebrate the end
of an era of confrontation and division in Europe and to
adopt the Charter of Paris for a New Europe.
The Charter
required a steadfast commitment
to
democracy, based on human rights and fundamental
freedoms, prosperity through economic liberty and social
justice, and equal security for all CSCE States.
Europe was then liberating itself from the legacy of the
past. The dawning of this time of promise, however, was
soon to be clouded by instability and insecurity.When the
CSCE Heads of State or Government met in July 1992 at the
Helsinki Summit, they acknowledged that economic decline,
social
intolerance,
xenophobia and ethnic conflicts were threatening stability in
the CSCE area.
nationalism,
tension,
aggressive
The Helsinki Summit registered yet another reality
which had developed since the adoption of the Charter of
Paris.
In its Summit Declaration it stated:
"For the first
time in decades we are facing
warfare in the CSCE region. New armed conflicts and
massive use of
force to achieve hegemony and
territorial expansion continue to occur. The loss of life,
human misery, involving huge numbers of refugees
have been the worst since the Second World War.
Damage to our cultural heritage and the destruction of
property have been appalling." (A/47/361, annex,
para. 13)
the various
The challenge of change has brought with it a need to
examine and assess our international efforts to build a new
world order.
In acknowledging and respecting the distinct
contribution of
forums and
organizations towards building peace in our time, we cannot
but continue to explore and consolidate those avenues which
foster closer cooperation in preventing and settling conflicts.
It is within this context that the cooperation between the
United Nations and the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe must be viewed.
international
Malta is particularly honoured to have actively
contributed to formalizing such cooperation. The idea of
having the CSCE declare itself a regional arrangement in
terms of Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations
was explored within this building while the Deputy Prime
Minister
of Malta,
Mr. Guido de Marco, was presiding over the forty-fifth
session of the General Assembly, and was later proposed for
Foreign Minister
and
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
15
the consideration of the meeting of the CSCE Council of
Ministers in Prague early last year. During the Helsinki
Follow-Up Meeting, Malta was foremost among those who
proposed and promoted this declaration and submitted the
proposal for its adoption.
During this past year, thanks to the commitment of the
Foreign Minister of Sweden, who, as Chairman-in-Office of
the CSCE, devoted great energy to giving this declaration
concrete form, we have witnessed agreement on the
"Framework for cooperation and coordination between the
United Nations Secretariat and the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe", signed on 26 May 1993. This
cooperation is still in its initial phases, but even at such an
early stage it has been put to the test in those zones of
conflict which threaten stability in the CSCE region.
The understanding that
the CSCE is a regional
arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the Charter of
the United Nations provides an important
link between
European and global security.
Experience throughout the past year has shown that
results do not necessarily match efforts in conflict prevention
and peace-building. That is why a greater effort is required
to consolidate cooperation not only in areas which are
immediately connected with security, but even in others
which may be the root causes of future tensions, including
areas of cooperation in the human dimension and economic
cooperation.
That is why my delegation continues to regard the
discussion of this item as extremely important, and it is in
this spirit that my delegation supports the draft resolution on
this subject which has been submitted by the representative
of Sweden and which, together with other members of the
CSCE, we are most happy to co-sponsor.
The President returned to the Chair.
Mr. MALONE (Canada): The draft resolution we are
considering today addresses the enhancement of cooperation
between the United Nations and the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), a regional arrangement
in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter.
On 26 May of this year, the Secretary-General of the
United Nations and the Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE
exchanged letters signalling their acceptance of a framework
for United Nations-CSCE cooperation. This framework
provides an excellent basis on which to build mutual
cooperation in a variety of areas, particularly in maintaining
international peace and security and promoting respect for
human rights in the CSCE area.
Indeed, such cooperation is already occurring where it
counts most: on the ground. In former Yugoslavia, Georgia,
Nagorny Karabakh, Tajikistan and Moldova,
the United
Nations and the CSCE are cooperating and coordinating in
effective ways to build peace and security.
In Canada’s
view, such cooperation and complementarity of activity is
absolutely essential to conflict-management efforts.
Within the CSCE, Canada has concentrated on
developing the means for effective conflict management by
establishing a range of instruments from fact-finding and
good offices to mediation and preventive diplomacy.
Canada pioneered the idea of CSCE peace-keeping as a
necessary element
in the spectrum of CSCE conflict-
management instruments. We have sought, with other CSCE
to strengthen commitments in areas such as
partners,
minorities,
tolerance and democratic development. We
believe our approach to conflict management within the
CSCE complements the type of proposals outlined in the
"Agenda for Peace".
The relationship the CSCE enjoys with the United
Nations is among the most advanced of any regional
organization and, I would add, could serve as a useful model
for other organizations and regions. Both organizations will
benefit from cooperation and coordination in tangible ways.
For the United Nations, strengthening the capacity of
regional organizations to promote regional and global
security is one of
the key objectives outlined in the
"Agenda for Peace". A more important role for regional
organizations in peace and security will free up time and
resources for the United Nations, allowing it to concentrate
on those situations where only the United Nations with its
global political legitimacy, well-developed infrastructure and
resources - can make an impact.
(spoke in French)
For the CSCE, closer cooperation and coordination with
the United Nations will strengthen the CSCE’s own
capabilities in areas as diverse as early warning, conflict
prevention and crisis management, including fact-finding,
preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping. It will also ensure
that global political pressure - which only the United Nations
can marshal - is brought to bear if and when it is needed in
support of CSCE efforts.
Enhanced cooperation and coordination between the
United Nations and the CSCE will also make it possible to
reduce duplication of effort and to improve effectiveness.
This is an era of reduced resources and increased demands
on such resources. There must therefore be an effective
division of labour between the United Nations and the CSCE
when they are active in the same field.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
To improve communications,
there must be more
contacts. The CSCE has invited a representative of the
Secretary-General of the United Nations to attend meetings
of the CSCE Committee of Senior Officials and of the
CSCE Council.
the United Nations
regularly participate in CSCE meetings that deal with their
areas of competence. In this respect, we are pleased that the
United Nations, in resolution 48/5, has granted the CSCE
observer status in the General Assembly.
Some organs of
In order to further the mutual goals of the United
Nations and the CSCE in maintaining international peace and
security, we fully endorse the draft resolution that we have
co-sponsored and that has been presented to the General
Assembly by Sweden, in its capacity as Chairman-in-Office
of the CSCE, on behalf of all the States participating in the
CSCE.
Mr. ERDÖS (Hungary) (interpretation from French):
Hungary welcomes the consideration of
this item on
cooperation between the United Nations and the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), as events
show that
this cooperation is becoming increasingly
important. The activities and achievements of the CSCE,
which will soon be marking the twentieth anniversary of the
Helsinki Final Act - the first basic document of this process -
are too well known to Members of the United Nations for
me to dwell on them now. However, we wish to highlight
two elements to which we attach particular importance.
First, during the cold war, the CSCE was virtually the
only general forum for dialogue between East and West and
it played a decisive role in the dismantling of the closed
societies of Eastern Europe and in launching the process of
reconciliation with the ideals of political and economic
freedoms. Second, it is fitting to recall that, even at a time
when Europe was politically and physically divided and a
prey to an unprecedented ideological
and military
confrontation, the CSCE was able to provide a forum for
comprehensive negotiation and cooperation which even
today, because of its effectiveness and its infrastructure, can
serve as a model to other regions in the world. Although the
situation today is fundamentally different, it is important for
us to recognize, in retrospect, the historic merits of the
Helsinki process.
The CSCE is still a unique organization, including as it
does all the countries of North America and Europe and all
the former Republics of the former USSR, and thus bringing
together, on the basis of its declared principles of the rule of
law and democracy, a vast region extending from Vancouver
to Vladivostok. The scope of CSCE activities is just as
broad as its geographical dimension. They include all the
factors involving security in all its dimensions. They range
from military security to humanitarian and cultural
It also involves political principles governing
cooperation.
relations between the participating countries, as well as
matters concerning economic relations and protection of the
environment.
According to the 1992 Helsinki Summit declaration, the
CSCE is a regional arrangement under Chapter VIII of the
United Nations Charter. As such, it provides an important
link between European security and global security and
opens up new horizons for cooperation between the two
organizations. The granting of Observer status to the CSCE
by the General Assembly in October is certainly a significant
step in this direction.
Today, the CSCE faces new challenges.
It must seek
its new identity by adapting to the changes that have
occurred. Hungary highly values the CSCE activities aimed
at averting and dealing with conflicts in the region and in
promoting and consolidating human rights and the principles
of the democratic system. Today’s challenges include, in
particular, flagrant violations of principles governing inter-
State relations between CSCE countries,
ethnic conflict,
mass violations of human rights, including the rights of
minorities, problems relating to nationalisms of all kinds,
intolerance and xenophobia. The CSCE continues to deal
with these issues and seeks to find the most appropriate
ways of coping with these disturbing phenomena. Here we
attach particular importance to the establishment 18 months
ago of a CSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities.
That decision clearly reflects the relationship between the
rights of minorities and the maintenance of regional security.
It is undeniable that the way these rights are dealt with has
a decisive influence not only on stability in the CSCE region
but also on international peace and security. Unfortunately,
the litany of ethnic tension and conflicts in our region and
their impact on the world situation only strengthens the
validity of this statement.
Recently, cooperation between the United Nations and
the CSCE has become a tangible reality in many conflict
situations.
In the former Yugoslavia, one can mention the
long-term missions in Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina -
missions which, until
to extend their
mandate, were a concrete manifestation of the CSCE’s
preventive diplomacy. Given the continuing crisis in the
former Yugoslavia, we think it extremely important that
these CSCE missions resume their activities as soon as
possible.
the recent refusal
We also welcome the assistance given by the countries
the European Union,
to the
of
neighbouring States of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) in implementation of the sanctions
imposed on that country by the Security Council. Missions
to provide assistance in the implementation of the sanctions
through the CSCE,
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
17
represent a significant contribution to enhancing the
effectiveness of the sanctions regime.
The situations in Nagorny Karabakh, the Republic of
Moldova, Georgia and Tajikistan, provide other examples of
cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE. Of
course, we have to determine the nature of such cooperation
depending on the characteristics of the various situations. In
so doing, some difficulties in coordination are sometimes
inevitable, but
they can be easily overcome if there is
political will on all sides and if there is a willingness to act
together in pursuing the same goals.
We advocate broader cooperation between the two
organizations and the enhancement of its cooperation in all
areas of common interest. In the practical division of tasks
between the United Nations and the CSCE, it is important to
avoid duplication and to emphasize the complementarity of
their activities. We believe that the problems of cooperation
and coordination must be dealt with in a flexible and
pragmatic manner - not by using strict and rigid criteria -
and on the basis of a specific analysis of a given situation.
Accordingly, we fully support
the strengthening of
cooperation between these two organizations, and this is
reflected in our sponsorship of the draft resolution contained
in document A/48/L.18. We are confident that it will be
adopted by the General Assembly.
The PRESIDENT:
In accordance with General
Assembly resolution 48/5 of 13 October 1993, I now call on
Mr. Wilhelm Höynck, Secretary-General of the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
on
Security
Mr. HÖYNCK (Conference
and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)):
It is a great pleasure and
indeed an honour for the Secretary-General of the CSCE to
address the General Assembly on the issue of cooperation
between the United Nations and the CSCE.
I greatly
appreciate the friendly reception I have been accorded in this
august body by the preceding speakers.
The Assembly’s discussion today,
the granting of
Observer status to the CSCE, the formal establishment of a
framework for cooperation between the United Nations and
the CSCE - all this serves one purpose:
to firmly establish
and to improve mutually reinforcing cooperation.
As a regional arrangement under Chapter VIII of the
Charter of the United Nations, the CSCE wants to make a
contribution to the implementation of United Nations policy
concepts. They have been outlined in "An Agenda for
Peace", prepared by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His report stresses that
"regional arrangements or agencies in many cases
possess a potential that should be utilized in serving the
functions [of] preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping,
peacemaking
and
peace-building."
(A/47/277, para. 64)
post-conflict
One of the advantages of such regional action is that it can
considerably lighten the heavy burden of the United Nations
and in particular of the Security Council. This was the
intention of the founding fathers and mothers of the United
Nations. They laid down in Article 52 of the Charter that
the Members of the United Nations participating in such
regional arrangements
"shall make every effort to achieve pacific settlement of
local disputes through such regional arrangements ...
before referring them to the Security Council."
The CSCE was launched more than 20 years ago with
the Helsinki Final Act of 1975 as its founding political
constitution. But the fundamental changes in the geopolitical
environment within the CSCE area at the turn of the last
decade also led to a dramatic transformation of the CSCE
mission and profile. It became a vehicle for managing this
historical change, with new tasks and new activities in the
wide CSCE area from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
The new CSCE is based on a comprehensive concept of
security.
It closely relates the maintenance of peace with
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It links
economic and environmental solidarity and cooperation with
peaceful inter-State relations. This is the time for exploring
all opportunities
to
strengthening security.
revitalize and
consolidate the principle of indivisible security in the CSCE
area.
for new cooperative approaches
Now we must
that
The human dimension -
is, human rights,
democracy and the rule of law - is the centre of the CSCE.
Norms and commitments in this field have been elevated to
unparalleled high levels. They are politically binding, and
adherence is monitored in a cooperative system. When
human-dimension implementation gives rise to concern, a
variety of CSCE mechanisms is available, including fact-
finding and rapporteur missions.
At
the Moscow Human Dimension Meeting of the
CSCE in September 1991 the participating States declared
categorically and irrevocably that
commitments
undertaken in the field of the human dimension
the
"are matters of direct and legitimate concern to all
participating States and do not belong exclusively to the
internal affairs of the State concerned".
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the
levelled
breakthrough
almost
traditionally
This
insurmountable walls of national sovereignty.
In the
interests of peace and stability, it opened the way for CSCE
involvement at an early stage not only in external conflicts,
but also in internal conflicts related to human-dimension
issues.
Full
integration of the human dimension into the
broader range of conflict-prevention instruments is one of
the priority tasks of the new CSCE. On this basis, the
CSCE tries to face the formidable challenges of ongoing
wars, ethnic tensions and overall lack of progress towards
new stability in the CSCE area. Under the dynamic
guidance of
the
Swedish Foreign Minister, Baroness Margarethe af Ugglas,
new impulse has been given to CSCE operations,
consultations and negotiations.
the Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE,
CSCE operations have extended considerably. Concrete
and practical contributions to conflict prevention and, in
some cases, crisis management have been made by the
growing number of CSCE missions in the field, by the
expanding activities of the CSCE Office for Democratic
Institutions and Human Rights and by the CSCE High
Commissioner on National Minorities. The overall number
of CSCE missions operative this year has been eight. Some
were mainly conflict prevention; others in the first place
crisis management missions. These small-scale missions are
deployed in the Balkans, the Baltic and the Caucasus area.
All the missions contributed in varying degrees to stabilizing
the respective situations.
It is deeply regrettable - as preceding speakers have
already said - that the CSCE missions to Kosovo, Sandjak
and Vojvodina in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia
and Montenegro) could not continue their very useful
presence and work in the area because the authorities in
Belgrade did not extend the Memorandum of Understanding
constituting the working basis of these missions. With the
solid backing of the international community it should be
possible to achieve a review of this uncooperative decision.
The CSCE is, like the United Nations, faced with the
problem that the mandates of its missions continue to have
to be extended because further time is needed to achieve
satisfactory results. While we realize that, for conflict
prevention and crisis management by peaceful means,
patience is of the essence, regular and careful review of the
situation is undertaken in order to insure that all parties to
the conflict continue to be cooperative.
It has to be
underlined again and again that the conflicting parties cannot
expect the missions to solve their problems, but that they
themselves have to engage in a quest for settlement.
Since the beginning of 1992 the CSCE has been
increasingly involved in the conflict in and around Nagorny
Karabakh. With the repeated explicit support of the United
Nations Security Council,
the so-called Minsk Group
the CSCE have tried to move with the
countries of
conflicting parties towards a solid framework for negotiating
a solution. This framework must include a holding cease-
fire that might be observed by about 500 CSCE monitors.
It
is
the
common understanding of
all CSCE
participating States,
laid down in the decisions of the
Helsinki Summit 1992, that CSCE peace-keeping operations
will not entail enforcement action. This is one of the
compelling reasons for close cooperation and coordination
between the CSCE and the United Nations, because the
continuity of crisis management must be ensured if the
application of peaceful means proves to be ineffective.
As
all
are
crisis
efforts
settlement
becoming
increasingly difficult while the civilian population is exposed
to unbearable suffering,
the CSCE tries to improve its
potential for conflict prevention. The first CSCE High
C o m m i s s i o n e r
o n N a t i o n a l M i n o r i t i e s ,
Mr. Max van der Stoel of the Netherlands, took office in
January 1993. He has the task of providing early warning
and, as appropriate, early action at the earliest possible stage
in regard to tensions involving national minority issues. In
this framework, the High Commissioner has become active
in a great number of States, particularly in the Baltic and in
the Balkans. The very positive response to his intensive
activity in his first year of office showed that flexible,
discreet and authoritative advice based on broad international
support
the promising answers to our new
challenges.
is one of
During the past year CSCE consultations have also
achieved a new dimension. These consultations on all issues
pertinent to the CSCE have centred around the conflicts with
which the CSCE is seized. In addition, and as an important
element of
the development of a cooperative security
structure, participating States can raise and are raising
particular political and security concerns.
CSCE negotiations focused on measures of disarmament
and confidence- and security-building. In the CSCE area the
old threats of all-out military confrontation are gone. But
large military potentials remain, while the area is facing new
challenges. Furthermore, there is a risk of fragmentation of
European security. The immediate concern is localized,
typically small-scale resort
The CSCE is
developing new arrangements the better to respond to these
challenges and to counter the abuse of force externally and
internally. Decisions on transparency of defence planning,
stabilizing measures for
localized crisis situations and
principles of arms transfers and military contacts are now
to force.
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
19
under preparation. The new code of conduct governing
relations between States with regard to security-related
matters is being negotiated. That would be a landmark
contribution to cooperative security approaches.
This selection of CSCE activities underlines the
complementarity of CSCE and United Nations action. The
CSCE has a deep and sincere interest in mutually reinforcing
cooperation with the United Nations as well as with other
regional organizations. Each should preserve its own area of
action and responsibility. We have to look for a constructive
division of labour on the basis of comparative advantages.
Since our means will hardly suffice to meet all challenges,
we cannot permit duplication of efforts.
The many positive comments and the substantial
proposals made here today are really encouraging.
I
appreciate the prospect of the adoption of draft resolution
A/48/L.18, with its impressive list of sponsors. We all know
there is still room for deepening coordination and
that
cooperation between the CSCE and the United Nations.
I
am fully confident that we will make progress. This will
increase the potential available for solving the challenges
that we are facing. There is no other choice. Only a multi-
institutional structure can maintain the will and provide the
means necessary to reach our common aim - a lasting and
peaceful order in the CSCE area.
The PRESIDENT: Before taking action on the draft
resolution, I should like to announce that the following
countries have become
resolution
A/48/L.18: Belarus, the Czech Republic, Georgia, Iceland,
Luxembourg, Poland and The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia.
sponsors of draft
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/48/L.18.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/48/L.18 was adopted (resolution
48/19).
The PRESIDENT: May I also take it that it is the
wish of the Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 26?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 151 (continued)
UNITED NATIONS INITIATIVE ON OPPORTUNITY
AND PARTICIPATION:
DRAFT RESOLUTION
(A/48/L.19)
Mr. KOROMA (Sierra Leone): The Sierra Leone
delegation attaches importance to the timely initiative on
opportunity and participation formulated and proposed by the
Government of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea.
These concepts of opportunity and participation are not
only eternal verities but remain essential prerequisites for the
socio-economic development of the developing countries.
The importance of the proposal further lies in the fact that
both concepts are for the first time being addressed together
in this forum to highlight the imbalances that characterize
particularly the economic activities
in many of our
developing countries, where the vast majority are given or
offered a dismal fraction of the requisite opportunities to
enable them to participate effectively in the socio-economic
development of their respective countries.
Indeed, mineral as well as other natural resources in our
countries have to be mined or exploited to provide much-
needed revenue and foreign exchange for
the use of
Governments, but a cause for regret is the continuing dearth
of adequate educational and other meaningful opportunities
and facilities to enable the indigenous people to acquire not
only the opportunity but also the experience needed to hold
meaningful positions that will enable them to participate
effectively in the overall economic development of their
respective countries. In short, there is an urgent need for an
increase in the opportunities that are open to nationals of our
countries to serve as floodgates for meaningful participation
in the ongoing and future economic-development projects
and ventures in many of our countries.
The Sierra Leone delegation also welcomes the decision
of the Government of Papua New Guinea to submit what we
consider to be a well-thought-out proposal to have an ad hoc
panel of distinguished experts and experienced persons
broadly representative of
the international community
appointed as the "United Nations Panel on Opportunity and
Participation" to conduct a comprehensive, systematic and
thorough study of opportunity and participation, with
particular reference to the economies of the developing
countries, with the objective of finding practical options for
increasing and maximizing opportunity and participation in
the economies of developing countries.
It is expected that
that panel will review relevant areas of public policy, the
legal
finance and
banking,
contributions which
the private sectors and non-governmental
Governments,
system, administration, economics,
and will
assess
the
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
can make
in
linking
opportunity
to
circumstances in which people, particularly rural villagers,
women and other disadvantaged groups, spend their lives.
My delegation therefore fully supports the proposal and
commends the draft resolution for adoption.
Mrs. JAGAN (Guyana):
In this post-cold-war era the
United Nations is both challenged and stimulated by the
opportunities afforded it to transform the adverse conditions
under which so many of the world’s inhabitants labour.
The
from the more
range
peace-keeping,
recent
challenges
preoccupation with
and
preventive diplomacy, to the traditional tasks of facilitating
and promoting social and economic development and the
safeguarding of both sovereign and individual
rights,
including the right
to development and the equitable
participation of all in the benefits of that process.
peacemaking
The opportunities are similarly multifaceted.
The
prevailing environment in which the world is no longer
constrained by the forces of ideological polarity presents us
with an unprecedented opportunity to effect ready solutions
to the very challenges which confront us as a world
community. It is a chance to extend ourselves, to allow for
a greater involvement by all nations in a concerted attempt
to remedy the problems of the world.
The item on which the Assembly is now focused speaks
of
a United Nations
initiative on opportunity and
participation. The main theme of this subject is the issue of
development. This item brings a new perspective to the
development debate at a time when a fresh viewpoint is
badly needed. After all these years, is it not time to focus
on practical ways of enhancing international cooperation so
that
of
implementation? Developing countries are not helped by
declarations which restate old platitudes without a concurrent
commitment of political will and resources. It is a sad, but
I fear accurate, statement that our countries are further away
from the goal of attaining a better life for their peoples than
they were when we first began this dialogue in the
international arena some 30 years ago.
the means
attention
focus
on
can
truly
It is indicative of the measure of importance that the
membership of the Organization attaches to the issue of
development, and to the role of the United Nations in
achieving it, that we at this particular juncture are dealing
with so many aspects pertinent to its global attainment.
Many representatives speaking at the current session, as well
as at the last session, have called for the launching of an
agenda for development, on which we eagerly await the
report of the Secretary-General.
20
organizations
participation.
The appropriate nature and timeliness of the Papua New
Guinea initiative for most developing countries cannot be
overemphasized. The unhealthy nature of the economies of
many developing countries, the reduction of flows of official
development assistance and the increasing competition for
foreign aid, investments and loans are additional reasons to
undertake a study that will focus attention on and identify
the underlying causes of the poor performance of the
economies
aspects of many
developing countries and to emerge with recommendations -
including hard work, of course - as to how to overcome our
poor economic performance and underdevelopment.
and other development
Secondly, there is the time-frame within which the
panel should commence and complete its work and its
mandate. Unlike other proposals before the United Nations
that do not have any stated dates for the beginning and
completion of their implementation,
the proposal under
consideration specifies January 1994 as the date on which
the panel should commence its work, and the report should
be submitted for consideration by the time of the fiftieth
session of the General Assembly, in 1995.
In addition, in
the draft resolution the Secretary-General is requested to
submit a progress report on the work of the panel to the
General Assembly at its forty-ninth session next year. This,
we believe, underlines the urgency of the situation and what
is expected of the panel that will be so constituted.
The Sierra Leone delegation is persuaded that
further burden the resources of
this
initiative will not
the
Organization in as much as resources for its implementation
will be sought from voluntary contributions from Member
States and other international organizations. This initiative
should not only complement the proposed new agenda for
development which is under preparation by the Secretary-
General but should catalyses the implementation of the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s and the Programme of Action for the Least
Developed Countries for the 1990s and should act as a
further
of
Agenda 21. The recommendations presented by the panel,
which it is proposed to establish, should also include a
definition and elaboration of what opportunities
for
participation should entail in the context of the forthcoming
United Nations World Summit for Social Development and
the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of
Small Island Developing States.
implementation
commitment
full
the
to
Finally, the proposal deserves the support of every
delegation at the United Nations because it is, above all,
people-oriented. It underscores the mobilization of people
and resources, on the basis of an awareness of the actual
56th meeting - Tuesday, 16 November l993
21
It is not by coincidence that both the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries and the Group of 77 have endorsed
an initiative for the reactivation of the North-South dialogue.
Meanwhile we continue to deliberate on the implementation
of Agenda 21 and the sustainable development of small
island and low-lying coastal States;
on the situation
concerning least developed and land-locked countries; and
on the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s, to cite but a few of our developmental preoccupations
in this body.
Whether one speaks of opportunity and participation in
the economic and social process at the national level, in the
context of activities of the United Nations, or in relation to
the role and activities of the private sector, a common thread
is the development goal that is the object of consideration.
The attainment of the goal of economic and social
development is of paramount importance for our countries.
Such development must be balanced and sustainable.
It
must take account of our physical and cultural heritage and
diversity.
It must also take account of the requirement for
bequeathing this heritage to future generations.
It must
ensure the rational development of all our resources, both
human and material.
The developmental process in which we are engaged
must be equitable. It must meet the needs and requirements
of every group in our society at the national level, and of
countries large and small at the global level. The equitable
distribution of resources and the opportunity for all to share
in their benefits are critical elements in the development
challenge with which we are faced.
The Guyana delegation is of the view that we must
therefore respond to this challenge in a rational way. The
time has come for us to bring together
the various
approaches to a possible solution in a single, common
agenda. The opportunity for concerted action to address the
development
the
General Assembly. We wish to commend the Government
of Papua New Guinea for this laudable initiative and we
invite the Assembly to collaborate in charting the way
forward.
imperative rests with this session of
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
