United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 24 (continued)
UNITED NATIONS NEW AGENDA FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AFRICA IN THE 1990s
(a) REPORTS OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
(A/48/334, A/48/336 and Corr.1)
(b) NOTE BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
TRANSMITTING A REPORT BY THE FOOD
AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (A/48/335 and Add.1)
Mrs. GHIMIRE (Nepal): The continued economic
stagnation of the industrialized countries, resulting in higher
unemployment rates and increasing protectionist measures,
is a matter of serious concern to all developing countries.
This is especially true for those African countries - in
particular the countries of sub-Saharan Africa - which have
embarked on structural reforms and open market economic
policies.
The African countries, despite serious economic
hardships and untenable social conditions, forged ahead with
the process of reforms with new vigour and enthusiasm on
the strength of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s. The understanding
reached between the international community and the
African countries is crystal-clear. While the African
countries have the basic responsibility of implementing
economic
the
development,
reforms
for
sustainable
50th
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 4 November 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
international community has agreed, inter alia, to find a
solution to the debt problem and provide additional support
for economic diversification and integration. Even without
my going into an in-depth review of the implementation of
the New Agenda for Africa, the current situation of the
African countries speaks for itself.
Most developing countries in Africa face the problems
of high population growth, widespread hunger, disease,
malnutrition and absolute poverty. The economies of most
of these countries, in particular those of sub-Saharan Africa,
have become marginalized in recent years, and the economic
situation in the least developed countries has become
extremely precarious. Economic growth in these countries
has remained stagnant, and has even declined in some States,
and their per capita output is steadily diminishing. People,
especially children, are dying every day from hunger and
malnutrition.
Moreover, the rate of inflation has exacerbated the
situation in these countries. As a result,
their export
earnings have declined tremendously. The last decade has
seen civil strife and political instability in several African
countries. Drought and desertification have become the
other two major problems in Africa, especially in the eastern
and southern regions.
My delegation notes with appreciation the initiative of
the Secretary-General in presenting two very useful reports
(A/48/335 and A/48/336) relating to the establishment of a
diversification fund and to overall resource flows to Africa.
In this context, we also commend the efforts of international
agencies and financial
to ameliorate the
socio-economic problems of Africa. One report reaches the
conclusion that:
institutions
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87086 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.50
24 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
"A combination of
rising indebtedness,
rapid
population growth, environmental degradation, political
instability and civil strife, over-dependence on a few
primary commodities for export earnings and a steep
decline in their prices has led to a long-run fall in per
capita incomes and a sharp deterioration in the
nutritional situation in the region." (A/48/335, annex,
Summary para. (ii))
My delegation fully supports the implementation of the
recommendations of the reports. International and regional
financial institutions, including the African Development
Bank, can play a pivotal role in the implementation of the
programmes. Likewise, United Nations bodies such as the
United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization, the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development and the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations can be
instrumental in helping to evolve commodity diversification
programmes. We believe that the African countries can
benefit greatly from export diversification projects by
invigorating their economies through the "multiplier effect".
It is a matter of great satisfaction that a diversification
facility for African commodities has been recommended to
be established in the African Development Bank for an
initial period of three to four years, with resources of about
$50 million to $75 million for commodity diversification
programmes and projects. The establishment of national
diversification councils, as proposed, will be the mainstay of
the programme’s sustainability. There is also a need for
development assistance to prepare viable diversification
projects so that these will be feasible and result-oriented. It
is not necessary to reiterate that the need for additional
resources and debt-relief measures
these African
countries has never been so profound.
for
My delegation appreciates the efforts of the Japanese
Government, the United Nations and the Global Coalition for
Africa in organizing the Tokyo International Conference on
African Development on 5 and 6 October this year. We are
of the view that the recommendations of this Conference on
issues such as aid, trade, debt strategy and investments are
very useful and timely in taking up the development
challenges. We are pleased to note the concerns and
solidarity expressed by the European Community and the
Nordic countries with regard to the developing countries of
Africa, especially the least developed ones.
Nepal, as a land-locked and least developed country in
South Asia, has great sympathy and support for its African
brothers and sisters in their endeavours for a better future.
As a matter of fact our socio-economic problems are similar
in nature. We express our solidarity with the countries of
Africa. Nepal is also engaged in securing a better future for
various
economic
development
through
people
its
programmes.
In this context, we urge the international
financial institutions and the donor countries to give special
priority to the development needs of the least developed
countries.
In
that
believe
conclusion, we
socio-economic
development can be accelerated through the practice of more
liberal international trade policies, North-South cooperation,
and better
international understanding and economic
cooperation for resolving the problems of the developing
countries.
Mr. NYAKYI (United Republic of Tanzania): My
delegation has been looking forward with eagerness and
expectation to this debate on the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s in the
belief that it will provide us with an opportunity for a
comprehensive review of the programme and follow-up
mechanism. We associate ourselves with the statement made
by the Permanent Representative of Egypt, Ambassador
Nabil A. Elaraby, who spoke on behalf of Africa, outlining
the challenges which confront the African region and making
suggestions to improve the worsening situation. May I also
express my gratitude for
the statement made by the
Chairman of the Group of 77, the Permanent Representative
of Colombia, Ambassador Luis Fernando Jaramillo, which
my delegation fully supports.
This General Assembly debate marks the first of the
five steps expected to be taken by the General Assembly and
the Economic and Social Council, respectively,
in the
follow-up, assessment and evaluation programme of the New
Agenda for the Development of Africa, namely, preliminary
consideration of the implementation of the Agenda. The
Secretary General’s report (A/48/335) entitled "Need for and
feasibility of the establishment of a diversification fund for
Africa’s commodities" is a welcome contribution to the
process at a time when the overall picture on African
recovery has been bleak and disappointing. Africa’s
recovery has been slow, and growth performance has
remained extremely poor. Per capita incomes today are well
below the 1970 levels.
In all, Africa has been suffering
from a continuing deterioration of its external environment.
This debate gives us an opportunity to examine the
successes and failures of the United Nations Programme of
Action for African Recovery and Development 1986-1990.
Looking back, it is quite clear that the diagnosis of Africa’s
problems as outlined in the Programme of Action was
correct and the prescription very appropriate. Unfortunately,
the administration of
the Programme was flawed and
inadequate, and so it failed to meet the challenges of African
development in the late 1980s. Therefore, none of the goals
of the Programme of Action were fully realized. Targets for
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
3
growth, food security, human investment and debt reduction
were missed, so declines, rather than hoped for increases,
were recorded by many States and by Africa as a whole.
to net
of Action
for African Recovery
The reason for the failure of the United Nations
and
Programme
Development 1986-1990 was clear.
It was, quite simply,
lack of adequate resource flows to Africa. The bilateral and
multilateral performances with respect
resource
transfers and debt burden reduction were below expectation.
Africa suffered from a serious fall in commodity earnings.
Wars, civil strife and other exogenous events, such as
drought, desertification and a collapse in the terms of trade,
imposed devastating costs.
The decrease in overall
performance was, in part, accounted for by an unsatisfactory
export situation, which resulted in an overall growth of
African economies from 1986 to 1990 averaging less than
2.5 per cent a year. In countries ravaged by war and natural
calamities such as drought, the scarcity of food supplies led
to famine.
of
The
structural
implementation
adjustment
programmes, whatever their likely favourable medium-term
and long-term impact, has not been without social stress,
disruption and political risk. The reduction in the levels of
per capita consumption and of imports has had social costs,
in particular for health, education, nutrition, employment and
the maintenance of social institutions. Despite the agreement
in the Programme of Action to deal urgently with
commodity issues, taking into account the special interests
of the African countries, no additional efforts were made to
provide measures of stabilization, at reasonably renumerative
levels, of earnings for those commodities and minerals that
are of primary interest to Africa. The decrease in overall
performance was, therefore, in part accounted for by the
unsatisfactory export situation. Trade gains fell below
expectations and in many key commodity areas Africa
suffered a decline in market share.
However, the Programme of Action was not a total
failure.
It focused world attention on African economic
problems and by doing so it achieved policy and efficiency
gains and averted a more severe decline in net resource
flows, and as a result the economic decline afflicting Africa
was slowed down. Furthermore, the process of African
policy restructuring and its interaction with development
partners have led to substantial lessons being taught.
The most hopeful development
in the area of
commodities occurred during the seventh session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), with the agreement establishing the Common
Fund for Commodities. The Conference acknowledged the
need for lasting solutions to deal effectively with the
short-term, medium-term and long-term problems of the
sector and recognized that
international
commodities
cooperation between producers and consumers was necessary
for the achievement of these objectives. The Conference
also called for the implementation of a number of policies
and measures,
including diversification, as an important
long-term objective.
It was against this background that the United Nations
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
was launched almost three years ago. The Agenda offers yet
another opportunity for renewal of the commitment of the
international community to support Africa’s own efforts to
achieve
and
development.
is also an occasion to refocus world
attention on the socio-economic difficulties which continue
to face the African continent.
socio-economic
self-sustaining
growth
It
A priority objective of
the New Agenda is the
acceleration of the transformation, integration, diversification
and growth of the African economies, in order to strengthen
them within the world economy, reduce their vulnerability to
external shocks and increase their dynamism, internalize the
It also
process of development and enhance self-reliance.
accords
to
increasing productive employment and to promoting rapid
progress towards the achievement of human-oriented goals
by the year 2000.
special attention to human development,
But in order to achieve those objectives it is necessary
for the international community to enter into a new and
stronger accord with Africa, which spells out clearly the firm
commitment of the international community to support and
assist Africa in its efforts to implement successfully its
development agenda, and reduce, and possibly eliminate,
external impediments and obstacles to Africa’s accelerated
socio-economic transformation.
The Agenda clearly spells out the fact that the critical
element in support from the international community is the
provision of adequate resource flows to Africa.
The
Secretary-General has estimated that for African countries to
achieve an annual growth rate of real gross national product
of at least 6 per cent over the course of the 1990s, the
required minimum $30 billion in net official development
assistance would need to grow at an average rate of
4 per cent per annum.
The New Agenda has provided the African countries
with the opportunity to renew their commitment to their own
development. Africa is committed to the implementation of
policies to transform the structures of its economies in order
to achieve growth and development on a sustained and
sustainable basis. It has also resolved to pursue with vigour
the policy of achieving effective regional and subregional
economic cooperation and integration and, eventually, the
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
establishment of the African Economic Community. The
promotion of sectoral integration to ensure the development
and maintenance of a reliable network of agricultural,
physical, industrial and institutional infrastructures on the
continent falls squarely within the commitments of Africa to
the New Agenda.
However, those commitments will not reap the intended
benefits without a favourable investment atmosphere.
Therefore, Africa is also committed to the creation of an
enabling environment within the New Agenda that attracts
foreign and domestic direct investment, encourages savings,
flight capital and promotes full
induces the return of
participation
including
by
non-governmental
and
development process.
organizations,
private
growth
the
sector,
in
the
The World Economic Survey, 1993 has, if anything,
dampened our hopes of realizing positive developments in
the first three years of implementation of the New Agenda.
It shows that while the economies of the other developing
countries grew substantially in the period 1992-1993, in
Africa, which accounts for as much as one fifth of the
population of the developing world, per capita output has
continued to decline almost every year since the 1980s. The
Survey adds:
"In sub-Saharan Africa,
the record was far worse.
Affected by drought, political crisis and civil strife,
output in the region barely grew while human suffering
increased ...
"The drought increased pressure on the balance of
payments, owing to higher food imports and lower
exports, and on fiscal budgets, as a result of relief
programmes implemented."
(E/1993/60-ST/ESA/237,
pp. 40-41)
Since the beginning of the present decade the net
aggregate resource flows to Africa have declined; they were
lower by 22 per cent in 1992 than in 1990. Africa’s share
of net aggregate resource flows has been falling, despite a
rise in total flows to developing countries. By comparison,
net aggregate flows to Europe and Central Asia jumped from
$15.2 billion in 1990 to $31.9 billion in 1992. During the
same period net aggregate flows to the East Asia and Pacific
region rose from $26.3 billion to $34.7 billion; to Latin
America
to
$18.4 billion; and to South Asia from $7.8 billion to
$10.1 billion.
from $15.6 billion
the Caribbean
and
As I have said, African countries have renewed their
commitment to their own development within the framework
of the New Agenda. The new enabling environment being
promoted by many African countries in the 1990s promises
of
reform measures.
the New Agenda
In the three years of the
vast commercial potential.
implementation
important
macroeconomic policy measures have been undertaken
within the overall programme of budgetary restraint and the
consolidation of
currency
devaluations were implemented,
the
operations of public enterprises was launched and lay-offs of
staff and other actions calculated to increase the efficiency
of the civil service were carried out. Efforts to deal with the
disequilibrium in the domestic economy and to reestablish
financial stability have led many African countries to
continue to implement austerity programmes.
rationalization of
Large
However, economic reform has not brought a significant
increase in investment, according to the World Economic
Survey, 1993. In almost all African countries it remains far
below its peak levels of the mid-1970s. Foreign exchange
scarcity, associated with debt servicing, low and declining
prices of commodities and terms-of-trade losses, has limited
the capacity to import capital goods.
Those policy measures were pursued under extreme
fiscal and budgetary constraints. Government investment
expenditures, and especially social spending, have been
affected by the fiscal cut-backs. Consequently, education,
health, sanitation and many other social services have
become increasing inaccessible or lacking.
In the least
developed countries of Africa, of which my country is one,
the share of gross domestic investment in gross domestic
product averaged 15 per cent, against only 3.8 per cent for
gross domestic savings. The number of least developed
countries in Africa has risen from 21 in 1981 to 32 in 1993.
Africa’s dependence on official development assistance
has increased sharply over the past decade and is now nearly
total, due to its limited access to private loans and foreign
direct investment. Both exogenous and endogenous factors
have caused the lower inflow of foreign direct investment
into Africa. The exogenous factors have included the poor
outlook for prices for African commodity exports and the
increased competition from other regions. The endogenous
factors
the uncertainty surrounding commitment
programmes, high levels of external debt and other factors
that limit short-term growth prospects.
are
Africa’s financial needs in the 1990s have to be
addressed in the face of declining resources available from
official sources, commercial banks and foreign direct
investment. It is a fact that African countries have suffered
substantial losses of earnings since the 1980s due to adverse
terms of trade.
At the same time, many African countries are burdened
with high external debt and high debt-service payments, with
many of them accumulating arrears. The extent of the
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
5
African debt burden has become part and parcel of the
financial resources necessary for the economic recovery and
development of the continent. The elements of the new
strategy should encompass action on all categories of
external debt - bilateral, multilateral
and commercial.
Priority attention should be given to bilateral debt, given its
predominance in Africa’s external obligations.
Africa’s share of international trade has been declining
even in the areas of primary commodities, which dominate
Africa’s exports, and that trend continues. Manufactures still
constitute only around 10 per cent of Africa’s exports, and
most of them are low-value consumer items and other light
manufactures
that are primarily traded internationally
between neighbouring countries.
In 1992 the prices of
virtually all primary commodities were lower. The prices of
coffee and cocoa - the region’s most important exports after
crude petroleum - fell another 15 per cent to their lowest
levels in over 20 years.
that
The report of the Secretary-General on the need for and
the feasibility of establishing a diversification fund for
Africa’s commodities is both timely and urgent. The report
rightly points out
there is a gap in development
assistance for the preparation of diversification projects that
are attractive to investors. It is suggested that to fill this gap
a special facility be established for the purpose of financing
the pre-investment phase of commodity-diversification
projects. Such a facility could provide a necessary focal
point for channelling and augmenting assistance in this
priority area. According to the Secretary-General’s report,
it could also result in more extensive and more cost-effective
use of
the
specialized agencies, such as the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations and the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization.
technical services and of
the expertise of
The total amount that would be required to establish
such a pre-investment facility is $50 million to $70 million.
It is expected that the facility’s resources would be raised
from bilateral donors on a voluntary basis, and that there
would also be contributions from multilateral financing
institutions. We understand that
the amount spent on
external assistance for commodity-diversification projects in
Africa is less than $1 a head - or 2 per cent of the earnings
from exports of primary products - which is a tiny fraction
of the total external-assistance requirement. For this reason,
we urge our development partners and multilateral financial
institutions to contribute to the diversification fund with a
view to
than
December 1994.
operational
becoming
its
not
later
I should like, in conclusion, to appeal once again to the
international community to increase the flow of financial
resources to Africa, as these are crucial to the regeneration
In
and sustainable development of African economies.
particular, we urge States that have not yet met the target
allocation of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product for
official development assistance to do so in this decade with
a view to the creation of a better environment for realizing
a 4 per cent rate of real growth in annual financial-resource
flows to Africa, as outlined in the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
We commend the Government of Japan, the United
Nations and the Global Coalition for Africa for organizing
the Tokyo Conference on African Development. This was
a step in a direction that we hope others will take. We
request Governments, organs, organizations and bodies of
the United Nations system and intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations to take appropriate measures
to honour
the commitments contained in the Tokyo
Declaration.
We strongly believe that if the international community
meets its obligation, as outlined in the New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s, Africa will be able to
join the rest of humankind in celebrating the start of the
twenty-first century with optimism, confident of a better
future for its peoples.
Mr. HAJNOCZI (Austria): Austria welcomes the
opportunity provided by the scheduling of this evaluation of
the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the l990s
to focus our attention on Africa once again. The very length
of the list of representatives who want to speak on this item
indicates that, at a time when warnings of the imminent
marginalization of Africa are being voiced in different
quarters, Africa’s concerns and aspirations continue to be
given their due weight in the General Assembly.
At the heart of the agreement on the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s - the agreement
recorded in resolution 46/151, which was reached only after
difficult negotiations - lies recognition of the fact that the
development of Africa is a task to be carried out
in
partnership. The New Agenda states clearly that Africa’s
development is primarily the responsibility of Africans.
It
states also that
the international community accepts the
principle of shared responsibility and full partnership with
Africa and therefore commits itself to the provision of full
and tangible support for the African effort.
Only through such joint endeavours, involving first and
foremost the African Governments themselves, can we avoid
the loss of another decade in the development of Africa.
This is the first review exercise. Let us conduct it honestly
and courageously - even though we may have concluded that
both partners in this joint endeavour could have done
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
better - so that in the years to come we shall indeed be able
to do better.
The famous saying that "development" is another word
for "peace" has become almost commonplace. There is
cause, however, to turn the saying around and underline the
fact
that peace is an indispensable prerequisite for
development. The end of the cold war should have opened
up opportunities for the peaceful resolution of conflicts; yet
fratricidal wars continue to rage. With 6 million uprooted
people, Africa is the continent with the largest number of
refugees and internally displaced persons. There are major
United Nations operations going on in eight different African
countries. Against this backdrop of intense suffering and
colossal waste of productivity, we welcome the recent
creation of a regional conflict-prevention mechanism, in the
context of the Organization of African Unity, as being
particularly timely.
Statistical evidence seems to indicate that economic
development ceases when population-growth rates go above
a certain range. With these rates going far above this range,
Africa faces another major challenge, which only Africans
can tackle successfully.
Let me now turn to the signs of hope.
First of all, there is universal awareness of the fact that
the problems threatening African development must be
addressed efficiently. In this context, I should like to pay a
tribute to the Government of Japan for organizing and
hosting the international Conference on African Development
in early October. The Tokyo Conference went a long way
towards forging a new Africa-donor partnership.
Secondly, I should like to pay a tribute to the many
African leaders who have had the courage to face up to
difficulties of near-overwhelming proportions and have
started to develop their countries. In a number of countries,
adjustment and reform programmes have been successfully
implemented, and sound macro-economic policies have been
adopted. It is high time for the international community to
do its part. Austria is working towards the provision of
better access to markets for African exports - in particular,
in the context of the Uruguay Round. We are striving to
gear our technical assistance better towards the needs of
recipient countries. We are endeavouring, despite difficult
circumstances, to at least maintain the level of our financial
aid through official development assistance and debt relief.
While progress has been made since the adoption of the
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s,
the improvements are not sufficiently far-reaching. While
the New Agenda aims at an annual growth rate of 6 per cent
for African economies, the Secretary-General’s report on
financial - resource flows to Africa tells us that the real
growth in Africa’s gross domestic product in 1992 was
1.5 per cent - half of the region’s population growth rate.
Financial flows to Africa seem to be decreasing rather than
increasing. Net aggregate resource flows to Africa in 1992
were lower by 22 per cent, in real terms, than those of 1990.
The debt burden is still crippling a large number of African
countries. It is clear that renewed efforts by the international
community are called for.
One proposal
to give concrete form to a renewed
commitment to the development of Africa is before us in the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
(FAO) report contained in the annex to document A/48/335,
entitled "Need for and feasibility of the establishment of a
diversification fund for Africa’s commodities."
to fall
Austria is prepared to study this proposal very carefully.
We are indeed interested in hearing the reactions of all our
partners. We would like to point out at this stage that great
care should be taken not
to duplicate already existing
structures or mechanisms such as the Lomé Conventions or
the Common Fund for Commodities. Care should also be
taken not
into the trap of seeing the proposed
diversification fund for African commodities as a panacea
for all the problems beleaguering the African continent.
FAO, in proposing the creation of this fund, underlines that
it will work only if Governments succeed in creating the
right enabling environment, including favourable legal and
tax systems, adequate infrastructure, well-functioning capital
markets and human resource development. In pursuing the
idea of a diversification fund for African commodities, it
would also seem imperative to take into account
the
expertise of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD) in commodity matters and the
pertinent comments of the Secretary-General.
Finally, I should like to make some remarks on my
country’s policies with regard to the African continent.
Mindful of
further
the importance of
intensifying
Austria’s relations to African countries, the Austrian Foreign
Ministry is elaborating a framework concept, called "Africa
2000". This concept will be finalized by the end of this year
and will contain guidelines for Austria’s foreign policy in the
political, economic, cultural and administrative domains.
With regard to development cooperation proper, I
should like to point out
that Austria’s development
cooperation emphasizes the creation of framework conditions
conducive to social and economic development
is
environmentally sustainable and aims at eradicating poverty,
fulfilling basic needs and enhancing the country’s capacity
to participate successfully in the world economy. The
three-year programme for development cooperation for 1994
that
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
7
through 1997 was adopted by the Austrian Government this
past July. It concentrates Austrian development cooperation
efforts on eight countries. Among these eight countries, six
are in Africa.
Austria also participates in the debt relief endeavours of
the Paris Club. Furthermore we take an active part in the
ongoing negotiations to elaborate a framework convention to
combat desertification in those countries that experience
serious drought or desertification, particularly in Africa. The
Austrian Government continues to strive for the realization
of the official development assistance target of 0.7 per cent
of our gross national product.
Let me conclude by reiterating Austria’s commitment
to contributing our share towards the implementation of the
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the years to
come.
Mr. AYEWAH (Nigeria): My delegation is pleased to
speak on agenda item 24, entitled "United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s".
It will be recalled that in its resolution 45/178 A of
19 December 1990, the General Assembly - by establishing
an Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole of the forty-fifth
session for the purpose of preparing, for the forty-sixth
session, the final review and appraisal of the implementation
of the United Nations Programme of Action for African
Economic Recovery and Development 1986-1990 - had set
the tone for a productive dialogue between African countries
and the international community on the resolution of the
region’s socio-economic problems. The adoption of the
Programme by the General Assembly five years earlier at its
Thirteenth Special Session, in June 1986, had taken place
amidst high hopes, unqualified optimism and general
expectations that Africa’s socio-economic problems would
finally begin to receive commensurate attention from the
international community. The latter was required to provide
the crucial, supportive environment, in terms of increased
financial
resources and technical assistance to African
countries in order to foster sustained economic development,
human resource development, and trade and commodity
diversification and expansion. African Governments, in
committing themselves irrevocably to the pursuit of policies
the economic
and programmes that would ensure that
situation
undertaken
fundamental reforms and adjustment programmes, painfully
executed at great sacrifice to their economies and peoples.
improved,
region
had
of
the
It was therefore with the full acknowledgement of the
international community that Africa was proclaimed as
constituting one of the five priorities of the United Nations
in the 1990s, that my country - and indeed the entire African
continent - hailed the unanimous adoption by the forty-sixth
the United Nations General Assembly of
session of
resolution 46/151 on the New Agenda, designed primarily to
serve as a catalyst, and to provide political impulse and
strength to the other activities taking place within and
outside Africa. The conclusion was that the results achieved
so far had fallen far short of the expectations both of African
countries and of the international community. Hence the
renewed commitment to African development, based on the
principle of shared responsibility and full partnership
between Africa and the international community. More
importantly,
the New Agenda set specific targets to be
achieved in the 1990s, and these include an average annual
growth rate in gross domestic product of at least 6 per cent
and a minimum of $30 billion in net official development
assistance in 1992, after which gross domestic product would
need to grow at an average rate of 4 per cent per annum.
It
the
can no longer be denied that
critical
socio-economic situation facing Africa since the early 1980s
has not received the requisite attention from the international
community. A recent survey of economic and social
conditions indicates that, after
losing the development
momentum during the 1980s, African countries have not yet
experienced durable and self-sustaining economic recovery.
in 1992,
The continent’s economic output grew by a mere
1.5 per cent
after having grown by only
2.3 per cent in 1991 and just 3.1 per cent in 1990. Indeed,
from 1980 to the present, Africa is the only region in the
world which has suffered and continues to suffer a decrease
in average income and where the incidence of poverty has
increased. African countries continue to be weighed down
by a heavy external debt burden. The service of this debt
consumed about 24 per cent of the region’s export revenues
last year, and in some countries the debt service burden was
much higher.
The continued lackluster economic outlook of the
African countries is proof that the reforms which have been
tackled the fundamental
implemented so far have not
structural weaknesses.
Until
these inadequacies are
corrected, countries will not break the shackles of under-
development
to define for themselves new comparative
advantages within a changing world economy.
Vast amounts of resources need to be mobilized now,
both from within Africa and from external partners, and
invested in a massive programme to upgrade human
productive capacities, modernize institutions, and transfer,
adapt and disseminate science and technology.
Increased
inter-African trade and trade with the rest of the world are
vital to Africa’s sustained economic recovery and growth.
In this connection, my delegation wishes to place on
record its gratitude and appreciation to the Secretary--
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
for
the
the
of
three
reports:
the welcome
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
submission
preliminary
on
consideration of the implementation of the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s (A/48/334); on the
need for and feasibility of a diversification fund for Africa’s
commodities (A/48/335 and Add.1); and on overall resource
flows to Africa (A/48/336 and Corr.1). We commend the
Secretary-General’s
successful
implementation of
the New Agenda. We note, with
appreciation,
to
advise and assist him on African development, in particular
on the implementation of the New Agenda. We request this
panel to continue to meet regularly under the chairmanship
of the Secretary-General and to make its recommendations
available annually to Member States.
the establishment of a high-level panel
ensure
effort
to
We also welcome with appreciation the Tokyo
Conference on African Development convened by the
Government of Japan, which has just concluded, and the
unanimous adoption by the participants of
the Tokyo
Declaration, an instrument designed to convey a high-level
political commitment to African development, with clear
reference to the United Nations New Agenda for African
Development and its priorities.
The Secretary-General, in his report, drew the attention
of
the international community to the need for, and
feasibility of, a diversification fund for Africa’s commodities
as prepared and recommended by the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
Indeed, a
combination of rising indebtedness, rapid population growth,
environmental degradation, political
instability and civil
strife, over-dependence on a few primary commodities for
export earnings and a steep decline in their prices has led to
a long-run fall in per capita income and a sharp deterioration
in the state of nutrition in the region.
The need for
diversification is very compelling. The region relies on too
few commodities for export earnings, and export of those
commodities has been stagnant and offers little prospect for
growth.
In these circumstances, diversification is a logical
step in the promotion of development by strengthening the
commodity sector and fostering economic links between
various sectors.
My delegation therefore calls for the establishment of
a diversification facility for Africa’s commodities within the
African Development Bank for an initial period of three to
four years with adequate resources to assist the preparation
of commodity diversification projects and programmes.
We urge Member States and multilateral organizations
to contribute to this diversification facility with a view to
making it operational no later than 31 December 1995. We
urge African countries to establish national diversification
councils comprising representatives from the government, the
the scientific community and multilateral
private sector,
organizations, in order to generate project proposals that fit
into national diversification programmes and priorities.
the support
Another critical element of
from the
international community is the provision of adequate
resource flows to Africa. These resources are needed to
contribute to achieving the required levels of growth and
development. While the need for
financing Africa’s
economic recovery and development is becoming critical,
financial resources are shrinking. The financial resources
required for Africa as a whole are estimated to be in excess
of $56 billion annually; between 1993 and 2005, Africa’s
estimated need will be $950 billion or $90 billion per year
(in 1990 dollars) in external financial resources, of which
$490 billion should be in debt relief or cancellation. By
contrast, there is great concern that international support for
Africa’s economic recovery may not be forthcoming. Net
transfers to Africa fell from $14.4 billion in 1990 to about
$12.6 billion in 1991. The terms-of-trade losses for Africa
as a whole are estimated at $5.6 billion in 1991, or between
1.5 and 2 per cent of the gross domestic product.
Indeed,
the slow progress, in the last two years, of the Uruguay
Round of trade negotiations of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) cannot but be viewed with serious
concern by African countries.
The importance Africa
attaches to expanding international trade, free of protectionist
barriers, and the need to expedite the conclusion of the
negotiations that have been stalled cannot be minimized.
It has become abundantly clear and universally
acknowledged that the problems of the continent are not of
a short-term nature alone.
Immediate and drastic action to
help Africa overcome the present crisis and then to achieve
sustained growth in the long run is not only essential on
humanitarian grounds but is also in the interest of the entire
international community. The world can hardly be safe,
stable and peaceful when millions of people across an entire
continent are dismally poor and ill-fed.
As the United Nations New Agenda for African
Development in the 1990s illustrates, what needs to be done
both at the national and at the international level is clear.
The time for reflection, study and discussion has indeed
passed. Now is the time for action.
Mr. PENNANEACH (Togo)
(interpretation from
French): Two years ago, following the failure of the United
Nations Programme of Action for African Economic
Recovery and Development 1986-1990,
the international
community, in a spirit of solidarity, adopted the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s, a strategy for saving our continent from its present
economic stagnation. Today the international community
meets again for a preliminary assessment of the action taken
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
9
to give fresh momentum to the pursuit of the objectives of
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s.
We pay a tribute to the Secretary-General, whose
reports contain substantive proposals and recommendations
for the success of the Agenda. We wish also to thank the
Bureau of the Special Coordinator for Africa and the Least
Developed Countries, under
leadership of
Mr. Ould Abdallah.
able
the
I join other representatives who have already spoken in
noting that despite
the Secretary-General’s personal
commitment to the quest for the necessary resources, the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s has had a difficult time getting under way.
Hence, today’s debate is vital, in the light of the economic
crisis that continues to assail the continent. We all know
that Africa is experiencing serious difficulties resulting from
the external-debt burden, deteriorating terms of
trade,
dwindling capital flows, natural disasters and inadequate
assistance.
Today’s debate bears witness to the international
community’s commitment to the development of Africa,
which is one of the five priorities of the United Nations.
Solutions proposed by various quarters to rescue Africa from
the crisis clearly show that the problem of Africa is not an
isolated one:
it is linked to the international climate.
From past failures, Africans have learned useful lessons
with respect to enacting far-reaching reforms for Africa’s
lasting development. Thus, in the economic sphere, more
than two thirds of African countries have agreed to drastic
programmes of structural adjustment;
they have taken
courageous measures to reform their financial and monetary
systems; they have created the conditions necessary to attract
foreign investment, in particular by adopting very liberal
investment codes. Similarly, most of these States have
withdrawn from commercial activities and have privatized
many enterprises.
In the agricultural sector, there has been an effort to
diversify production. Unfortunately, this has often been
limited by a lack of financing and by other factors such as
drought.
In the area of economic integration, although trade
within Africa still accounts for less than 5 per cent of the
regional total, African Governments are clearly determined
to hasten the process of integration.
It is clear that the
obstacles that continue to hamper the free movement of
persons, goods and capital are gradually disappearing.
arena,
that
I would note
In the political
the
democratization of institutions has begun, in keeping with
the aspirations and situation of each country. That process,
turbulent though it may be, will be consolidated in the long
term and will inspire much greater investor confidence.
Are those measures enough to end Africa’s crisis?
Obviously not, especially as the structures remain fragile.
My delegation therefore believes that the severe crisis in
Africa cannot be resolved by speeches, studies and analyses
that are never translated into action. We continue to believe
that concrete action is needed to solve Africa’s socio-
economic problems.
The priority is to find a proper solution to the debt
problem, which is hampering Africa’s recovery. For it is
clear that the debt burden is a major obstacle to development
financing. That is why Togo continues to champion the idea
of convening an international conference on Africa’s external
debt and supports the proposals on the debt question made
at the Tokyo Conference of 5 and 6 October 1993.
My country is also concerned by the steady fall of
commodity prices, which continues to deprive our countries
of the resources they need for development financing.
Justice dictates that our commodities be purchased at
profitable prices. Togo is also in favour of the creation of
a diversification fund for commodities, which would be a
vital tool for supporting development.
From the standpoint of the increased liberalization of
international trade, it is also important to lift protectionist
measures that limit access by African products to world
markets.
In that connection, my delegation hopes that the
conclusions of the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations
under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
will meet the expectations of developing countries in general
and of Africa in particular.
The success of the New Agenda depends above all on
the availability of sufficient internal and external financial
resources.
In that connection, my country appeals to the
international community to make a greater contribution to
African recovery through a substantial provision of capital.
It is by concerted, unified action that we can reach the
the
the United Nations New Agenda for
goals of
Development of Africa in the 1990s.
My delegation sincerely hopes that our assessment of
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s will help spur the implementation of this
programme, which is among the best the United Nations has
ever set in motion to stimulate development in our continent.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
As the Secretary-General has said,
"The New Agenda for the Development of Africa
is a new departure in international cooperation for
development.
It must yield results."
Let us therefore act
let us take up the
challenge. Let us not think that our speeches constitute
action and our intentions deeds.
together;
Mr. MUMBENGEGWI (Zimbabwe): Allow me to
begin by expressing our appreciation to His Excellency
Ambassador Elaraby of Egypt for his statement on behalf of
the African States and to His Excellency Ambassador
Jaramillo of Colombia for the statement he made on behalf
of the Group of 77.
Let me express our
sincere appreciation to the
Secretary-General for the information before us in his report
(A/48/334) on the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the l990s; the report (A/48/336
and Corr.1) on the "Mobilization of additional resources for
African economic recovery and development: a study on
overall resource flows to Africa"; and the note (A/48/335
and Add.1) on the "Need for and feasibility of
the
a diversification fund for Africa’s
establishment of
commodities". We have found the reports to be both
analytical and comprehensive and, in that regard, they have
greatly facilitated our consideration of this very important
subject.
It would be well at this juncture to recall that when the
General Assembly carried out a final review and appraisal of
the ill-fated United Nations Programme of Action for
African Economic Recovery and Development 1986-1990,
the international community came to the sad but unequivocal
conclusion that the Programme had failed to become the
focal point for the recovery and sustained growth of our
continent. A number of reasons were cited for this failure,
among them such endogenous factors as institutional and
infrastructural weaknesses,
inadequate human resources,
drought and protracted armed conflicts and political unrest
which continued to affect some parts of the continent. Yet
there were also some serious exogenous shortcomings which
contributed to the failure of UNPAAERD, foremost among
them the failure of Africa’s bilateral and multilateral partners
to provide the necessary financial resource flows on an
adequate and assured basis, the crushing debt burden, a
sharp decline in commodity prices on the world market and
worsening terms of trade. It was for the primary reason of
addressing and overcoming these very problems that the
General Assembly adopted the United Nations New Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
Two years after the adoption of the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa, can we truthfully say that this
new compact has succeeded, even in the most modest of
terms, where the 1986-1990 Programme so dismally failed?
My delegation has studied carefully, and wishes to express
its appreciation for, the actions which the United Nations
system in particular, but also other actors, have taken so far
in implementing the New Agenda. We commend the efforts
of
the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, particularly his initiative of establishing the
Panel of High-level Personalities on African Development to
assist and advise him on practical measures and options to
advance the implementation of the New Agenda. We note
that that Panel has already held two meetings within the
space of six months to review some of the issues which are
of very critical importance to the implementation of the New
Agenda. We have also noted with appreciation the activities
of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in
this regard, particularly through the special programmes of
the National Long-Term Perspective Studies and the African
Capacity-Building
intensified
collaboration with the Organization of African Unity, the
Economic Commission for Africa
and the African
Development Bank. Our appreciation is also due the
Government of Japan which, in collaboration with the United
Nations and the Global Coalition for Africa successfully
organized and hosted the recently concluded Tokyo
Conference on African Development.
Indeed, the value of
this initiative, and others of a similar nature, cannot be
overemphasized.
Initiative
and
through
Yet the numerous reports before this General Assembly
clearly indicate that the situation in many African countries
has not become better in the last two years, but has rather
taken a turn for the worse. My delegation would indeed
agree with the conclusion of the Administrator of UNDP in
one of his recent reports on the role of UNDP in the
implementation of the New Agenda that the New Agenda
"... has so far failed to become the focal point for
catalysing international and regional support for the
continent’s development". (DP/1993/17, para. 4)
When the New Agenda for the Development of Africa
was adopted,
it was universally recognized that a critical
element in the support of the international community for
Africa’s own efforts was the provision of adequate resource
flows.
If I may recapitulate the agreement at that time, it
was envisaged that, for African countries to achieve an
average annual growth rate of real gross national product of
at least 6 per cent in the 1990s, a minimum of $30 billion in
net official development assistance would be required in
1992, after which real net official development assistance
would need to grow at an average rate of 4 per cent per
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
11
annum.
report on the mobilization of additional resources that
It is dismaying to note in the Secretary-General’s
"Since the beginning of the present decade, the net
aggregate resource flows to Africa have declined and
were 22 per cent
than in 1990".
(A/48/336 and Corr.1, para. 4)
lower in 1992 ...
Indeed, that report places this parlous state of affairs in
its proper context and perspective when it goes on to say:
"The decline in the net aggregate resource flows in the
1990s seems to indicate that Africa has been bypassed".
(A/48/336 and Corr.1, para. 5)
The Secretary-General also points out in his report on
the implementation of the New Agenda (A/48/334) the
anomalous situation in which
international
"Although the
community has
consistently expressed its full support for economic
reforms in Africa that support has not been translated
into adequate financial assistance". (A/48/334, para. 31)
Bilateral assistance to our continent in fact declined from
$12 billion in 1990, when many of us embarked on the
stabilization and structural-adjustment programmes,
to
$10.7 billion in 1991. What is even more ironic is the fact
that, as stated in the 1993 World Economic Survey
(E/1993/60 - ST/ESA/237), the only geographical region of
the developing countries that had a negative transfer of
resources in 1992 was Africa.
No new initiative, programme of action or strategy
could possibly succeed in Africa if comprehensive measures
are not taken urgently to address and solve the continent’s
excruciating debt problem. As has been clearly indicated in
many recent reports, including those before us today, Africa
has the highest ratios of debt to gross national product and
debt to exports of all developing regions of the world:
100.1 per cent and 281.3 per cent, respectively. Such are
the magnitude and crippling effects of the continent’s
external debt problem. We fully concur with the
Secretary-General when he states that
"Africa’s debt issue cannot be dissociated from that of
the resources necessary for the economic recovery and
development of the region." (A/48/334, para. 72)
We would also wish to reiterate the urgent need for a
new, comprehensive initiative covering all types of Africa’s
external debt: bilateral, multilateral and commercial. In that
regard, we support the Secretary-General’s proposals for
further efforts on the part of the donor countries to arrive at
a write-off of official-development-assistance debt, and for
a substantial increase in net transfers from the multilateral
financial institutions; we also agree with him that there is a
need for an early start to commercial-debt-reduction-facility
operations.
Another, interrelated, issue that is critical to Africa’s
recovery and development is that of the continent’s terms of
trade. According to the reports before us, there was a
substantial fall in the terms of trade in a significant number
of African countries in 1992, particularly as a result of
falling commodity prices and lack of market access. As the
report in document A/48/336 and Corr.1 illustrates, it has
been estimated that a significant number of sub-Saharan
African countries experienced net-trade-loss terms to the
tune of $16.5 billion on the basis of 1990 exports, or the
equivalent of 6.6 per cent of gross domestic product. On the
whole, we are deeply concerned that Africa’s share of world
trade, accounting for only 2.1 per cent of global exports, has
remained appallingly low in 1993. The aggregate effect of
such an unsupportive international environment is known to
all: poor savings and foreign exchange earnings, net outflow
of resources, and a negative impact on the ability of the
economic reforms we are implementing to be effective in
stimulating recovery and sustained growth.
the United Nations, on behalf of
As the report prepared by the Food and Agriculture
Organization of
the
Secretary-General, on the need for and feasibility of the
establishment of
a diversification fund for Africa’s
commodities points out, most countries in the region rely on
too few commodities for their export earnings, and the
exports of these commodities have been stagnant and offer
little prospect for growth. The reasons for such stagnation
losses
and
commodity-export
resultant
earnings - reasons that
include the lack of international
market opportunities - are well articulated in the document.
the
in
The need for diversification of the commodities sector
in Africa has once again been reiterated. My delegation is
therefore gratified by and welcomes, as a first step, the
Secretary-General’s recommendation for the creation of a
special facility within the African Development Bank for the
financing of
the pre-investment phase of commodity-
diversification projects. It is our hope that in the long term,
as initiatives such as this are put in place, concrete measures
will be taken to stabilize Africa’s terms of trade and to
create market access to Africa’s new diversified range of
export commodities. In this regard, we would also reiterate
the urgent need for an early, balanced, comprehensive and
successful outcome of the Uruguay Round of multilateral
trade negotiations.
I now turn to an issue which is also closely linked to
Africa’s economic recovery and development. Nearly one
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to implement
and a half years after the conclusion of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de
Janeiro in June 1992, many African countries have taken
positive and determined measures
the
programmes contained in Agenda 21. The interrelationship
between environment, sustained economic growth and
sustainable development, population and the eradication of
poverty is clear and direct. We are deeply aware that
poverty, characteristically manifested by the gross imbalance
between population and available resources,
is a major
source of environmental degradation on the continent.
Poverty has led to tremendous pressure on land resources,
including forests, overgrazing and backward agricultural
methods, all of which has resulted in deforestation, soil
erosion and desertification.
As the Secretary-General points out in his report, fully
aware of the need to halt and reverse these trends,
"African countries have promoted environmental
protection, individually or collectively, by the control of
deforestation, the management of natural resources and
the introduction of environment laws in the mining and
industrial sectors".
(A/48/334, para. 40)
While we
remain committed to honouring our
responsibilities under Agenda 21, it is clear that, as we have
already stated, we cannot face this challenge alone. We are
aware of the need to develop our national capacities in order
to implement the programmes envisaged under Agenda 21.
Yet for us to be able to do this there is a need for substantial
new financial and technological resources.
These will
require international cooperation. In keeping with the spirit
and commitments of Rio, we would call on the international
community to lend its full support to Africa’s efforts to
ensure sustainable development with the provision of
adequate new and additional financial resources and the
transfer of and access to environmentally sound technologies
on a concessional basis. Above all, we call for a free, open
and unrestricted trade system and a supportive international
economic environment.
Africa remains committed to the implementation of the
New Agenda by scrupulous adherence to its side of the
compact: greater popular participation, the creation of an
enabling environment, the implementation of population and
environment policies, and the promotion of subregional and
regional economic cooperation and integration. We now call
on the international community to renew its solidarity with
the African continent.
Mr. THAKUR (India):
I am speaking with pleasure
and considerable optimism on agenda item 24, entitled
"United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s". The critical economic situation in Africa has
been on the agenda of the United Nations since the early
1980s. Even at that time, various agencies of the United
Nations, including the Economic Commission for Africa, had
sounded dire warnings that the economies of the African
region were faced with the prognosis of stagnation or even
a decline in the already unacceptable low levels of per capita
and gross output.
It had been emphasized that such a situation should not
and could not be allowed to continue. What emerged in
reality was what has been aptly described by many as the
"lost development decade". Alarmed at the continued adverse
performance of African economies,
international
community, at
the General
Assembly, adopted the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s. Two years have since
elapsed. We have today a useful opportunity to review the
progress that has been made as well as to draw attention to
the slippage that may have taken place.
the
the forty-sixth session of
I should like to draw attention to some of the elements
in the New Agenda, which, in our view, embodies the
emerging concepts of global partnership for development.
The Agenda recognizes that the international community has
a shared responsibility and a full partnership with Africa in
supporting Africa’s own efforts to achieve self-sustaining
socio-economic growth and development. While committing
the countries in Africa to undertake various economic
it has also drawn attention to the necessary
reforms,
accompaniment
in terms of a supportive international
economic environment.
protecting
the
therefore,
promotion,
While paying attention,
to encouraging
investment
environment,
encouraging agricultural and rural development,
food
security and integrating population trends with development,
it needs to be appreciated that the African economies need
catalytic and sustaining support from external variables.
These include additional resource flows, better terms of trade
for commodities, diversification of production and trade,
development of complementarities at the subregional and
regional levels and enhanced foreign direct investment. Debt
reduction and rescheduling also must be an inalienable part
of this strategy.
A review of the socio-economic indicators pertaining to
the economies in Africa makes it painfully clear that the
results attained so far are still below not only expectations
but even lower
The
structural adjustment measures being undertaken in several
countries make it imperative that increased aggregate transfer
than the essential
requirements.
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
13
of resources be ensured to enable the reforms to proceed.
The adjustment programmes undertaken in many of these
countries are still at a very fragile stage. They invariably
entail social costs, sometimes to the point of threatening
stability and in popular perception even challenging the very
sustainability or desirability of the reform process. Going by
the experience of my own country, in a major innovative
attempt at restructuring our economy, we have set up a
National Renewal Fund to meet the social costs. This has
mitigated to some extent the social costs of transition. We
initially dealt with the most vulnerable sections on a priority
basis.
Resource constraints have, however, affected
somewhat the acceleration and deepening of the transition
process with a human face.
is
a
that
consensus
Africa’s economic recovery appears, unfortunately, still
remote. The Secretary-General’s report on "Mobilization of
additional resources for African economic recovery and
development: a study on overall resource flows to Africa"
(A/48/336) has appropriately drawn attention to the need for
enhanced private capital flows and foreign direct investment.
There
considerable
investment-savings gap must be filled by external resources.
The United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s had recommended a minimum of
$30 billion in net official assistance in 1992, if an average
annual growth of real gross national product of at least
6 per cent until the year 2000 is to be achieved. But the
average annual
into
Africa has come down from a level of $2.5 billion in the
1980s to $2 billion in the 1990s. The comparable figures for
sub-Saharan Africa declined from $1.3 billion to $1 billion.
inflow of foreign direct
investment
the
The picture on private loans is equally dismal. In fact,
Africa’s access to private loan flows became negative after
1990. Commercial
loans and private investment now
represent less than 5 per cent of resource flow to this region.
The region also saw an adverse net transfer of financial
flows.
It is quite obvious that, if the picture is to be altered on
a long-term basis, the basic structure of production and trade
must change. Diversification, expanding the resource base,
value addition in production and so on have to be the
essential components. The Secretary-General’s report on the
"Need for and feasibility of
the establishment of a
diversification fund for Africa’s commodities" (A/48/335)
has once again appropriately pointed out that a combination
population
of
growth,
environmental degradation, political
instability and civil
strife, and over-dependence on a few primary commodities
for export earnings, as well as a steep decline in their prices,
have led to a long-term decline in per capita incomes.
indebtedness,
rising
rapid
It is disturbing indeed to note that there has also been
a sharp deterioration in the nutritional situation in the region.
In this context, I would like to draw attention to the
recommendation made by the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations that a diversification
facility for African commodities be set up in the African
Development Bank for an initial period of three to four
years, with resources of roughly $50 million to $75 million.
The world community is aware that economies in
Africa have also been affected adversely because of the
shackles of colonialism and apartheid in South Africa. With
the independence of a large number of African countries in
the 1960s, the scourge of colonialism has to a large extent
disappeared from the African continent. Apartheid, we hope,
will soon come to an end in South Africa with the holding
of elections in that country next April. The socio-economic
disequilibrium created by such inhuman and uncivilized
practices will, however, continue to affect the lives of a
majority of the African population.
It is of the utmost
importance, therefore, that efforts for the development of
Africa should also address these socio-economic inequalities
so that
the people can enjoy equality in economic
opportunity and social status along with political rights.
We applaud the efforts made by the Special Committee
on decolonization and the Special Committee against
Apartheid in generating a strong international movement to
address these problems.
to our
India for
The support of
fundamental principles.
the African freedom
movements and for the efforts of the African countries to
achieve sustainable economic growth is based on a deep
commitment
It has
manifested itself in tangible terms in the form of the Africa
Fund, which was established at our initiative to provide
project and other technical assistance to the front-line States
in various areas, including human resource development and
drought relief. By 1992, the Fund had disbursed up to
$500 million in such assistance. Our cooperation with the
Southern Africa Development Community is yet another
expression of our desire to be an equal partner in the
development efforts in Africa. We have participated actively
in the economic development of Africa, inter alia, through
our Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation Programme,
under which we have interacted with several countries in
Africa through technical assistance in the form of execution
of projects, extension of
in India,
designation of Indian experts, feasibility studies, providing
consultancy services and organizing study visits. It is worth
noting that more than 20,000 nominees from foreign
countries, most of them from Africa, have been trained in
India under this Programme.
training facilities
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
and water
resources management,
Among the projects currently in hand are the setting up
of a remote sensing centre in Nigeria, a vocational training
programme centre in Senegal and several projects in
Mauritius. We have offered training facilities in a wide
range of fields such as banking, financial management,
hydrology
urban
development, mass communication, fisheries, electronics,
satellite image-processing, packaging, food processing, small
industries, crop research, sericulture, bio-gas technology,
manpower planning and training, and so on.
In July 1991,
India decided to send volunteers as part of its commitment
to South-South cooperation to interact with other developing
countries in their development programmes.
It has been
decided to initially send 50 special volunteers in this regard
to 10 selected countries in Asia and Africa.
In conclusion, I should like to assert that consensus
programmes for the economic development of Africa exist.
We have the United Nations New Agenda. The Declaration
on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the
Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the
Developing Countries and the International Development
Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade
(1991-2000) also encompass the countries in the African
region. Work is at present going on regarding an agenda for
development. It is quite obvious that what is lacking is not
a set of plans and programmes, but
the ability and
willingness to translate these into reality. The focus of our
discussions and attention should therefore be on ways in
of
which we
our
commitments, undertaken with speed and efficiency.
implementation
the
can
ensure
Let me assure the Assembly that India remains firmly
committed to lending its vigorous support to this endeavour.
Mr. ABIBI (Congo) (interpretation from French): My
delegation fully agrees with the statement made here on
behalf of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) by the
Ambassador of Egypt, and highly values the support given
on behalf of the Group of 77 by the Ambassador of
Colombia.
The critical situation affecting the economies of African
countries weighs heavily on the consciences of us all and
gives the present discussion on the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s a special
dimension, in view of the expectations of thousands and
thousands of human beings subjected to the trials of hunger,
abject poverty and natural disaster on that continent.
Africa, while not trying to catch up with the others at
any cost, needs to walk at their side, thanks to continuous
progress in its economic development. But, as can be seen
from the various studies and documents submitted for our
consideration, the economic and social situation of most
African countries has deteriorated.
The ever-growing debt burden, the gradual drop in
official development assistance, the drying up of foreign
capital, the deterioration in the terms of trade, the sharp
population increase,
repeated natural disasters, political
instability, prolongedinternal conflicts and the deterioration
of
the environment are causing a situation which is
threatening many African countries with the spectre of abject
poverty and thereby dimming prospects for sustainable
development in the continent, especially sub-Saharan Africa.
Africa’s continued dwindling share of world markets
reflects a clear gradual marginalization. In such a situation,
the survival of Africa depends on its ability to face up to all
these challenges, both through its own efforts and through
sustained international solidarity.
That is why the adoption of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s gave
rise to so much enthusiasm in our countries, as a moral
contract between our continent and the international
community.
It is certainly too soon to judge the results of
this important solidarity pact. But already it would seem
necessary to develop ever bolder measures so that the slight
results we have seen here and there might be transformed
into decisive action to begin a true economic takeoff for the
continent. My delegation therefore supports unreservedly the
plan to create
a diversification fund for Africa’s
commodities, and hopes that the multilateral Uruguay Round
of trade negotiations will be concluded very quickly so that
the efforts made by African countries are not negated by an
unbalanced system of
in effect
internationally.
trade which is
still
factors linked to the world crisis.
Congo today faces a situation of economic and financial
bankruptcy resulting both from a disastrous policy pursued
for more than two decades and the negative effect of
external
The new
economic policy that President Pascal Lissouba intends to
implement is based on economic freedom and the freedom
for all to be entrepreneurs, to create and innovate.
It is
based politically on democratization, which is to replace a
single authority with pluralism, thereby ensuring the broadest
possible participation in defining a policy for renewal and in
its implementation.
In "liberating freedom", we hope that democracy will
foster creativity,
the source of innovation, and thereby
safeguard the progress of the spirit of enterprise and job
creation, bringing wealth to the nation and thus creating
economic development.
The establishment of a State
governed by law, where the rule of law applies to all and
where individual freedom in all its forms is respected and
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
15
protected, is designed to create an institutional environment
favourable to the development of private enterprise and the
spread of civil society.
Some thoughts result from this plan. The first is that
it is possible to build economic development and social
progress by emphasizing initiative, individual creativity and
civil society, combined with international assistance, an
improvement in the terms of trade, foreign investment and
limited State intervention in sectors coming within its
purview, such as national infrastructures.
That was the objective of the workshop organized in
Pointe Noire in 1992 on the subject "The management of
innovation, creativity and the entrepreneurial spirit", which
benefited from the contributions of many international
experts
from the United States of America, France,
Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Côte d’Ivoire, Zaire and the
Central African Republic.
inter alia,
recommended the establishment of a financial company for
innovation, a venture capital company, whose role would be
to take over from conventional banks in financing innovative
enterprises where the risk is real.
The symposium,
The second thought concerns the importance of human
resources in facing up to the technological challenge which
is certainly a limiting factor in the economic development of
the continent. One major contributor to worsening the crisis
in Africa is the fact that development no longer depends
simply on the ability to invest in various essential areas of
production, nor on the possession of
raw materials;
increasingly,
it depends on the ability to manage these
investments and to make use of scientific and technological
information pertaining to them.
The existence of synthetics, simple or composite, with
a concomitant decreasing call upon agricultural or mineral
raw materials but without totally displacing the latter, has led
to a collapse in the prices of African exports and therefore
of African earnings. But African countries are heavily
dependent on exports of raw materials, or semi-finished
goods in the best of cases.
The survival of Africa today, therefore, requires an
effort at endogenous creativity and subregional and regional
economic integration, as well as a real ability to absorb
foreign
sustained
development.
technologies
for
accelerated
and
country in varied economic spheres and who may wish to
take Congolese citizenship.
Obviously, crises are a constant phenomenon in the life
of mankind, whether created by epidemics, endemics,
famines, wars or natural disasters. However, at the threshold
of the twenty-first century, should we still be expecting
things to be settled by catastrophe? Today it is possible to
answer "No," thanks to deliberate, responsible and concerted
action on the part of all mankind.
Mr. HUARAKA (Namibia): My delegation would like
first of all to take note of and support the statements made
by the delegations of Egypt and Colombia on behalf of the
African Group and the Group of 77, respectively.
for
The General Assembly, at
its forty-sixth session,
adopted the United Nations New Agenda
the
Development of Africa in 1990s at its forty-sixth session
with great optimism because it believed that it offered a
good, comprehensive multilateral framework for addressing
the diverse critical economic-development problems of the
African continent. Today, along with others, the Namibian
delegation is still convinced that the New Agenda can be a
vehicle for ensuring that Africa is at the focus of attention
in the United Nations throughout the 1990s. The New
Agenda should act as a catalyst, giving political impetus and
strength to the other developmental activities going on within
and outside the African continent.
Mr. Kharazzi
(Islamic Republic of Iran), Vice-
President, took the Chair.
Africa’s output grew by about 1.5 per cent in 1992 after
a similar rate of growth in 1991. Per capita output declined
once again, as has been the case since the early 1980s.
In
1992 southern Africa and part of eastern Africa were
severely ravaged by drought.
In my own country alone,
cereal production declined by more than 70 per cent. The
drought
increased pressure on the balance of payments
because of higher food imports and lower exports, and on
fiscal budgets as the result of relief programmes. Drought
hit not only agriculture but also agricultural-processing
industries and other manufacturers, either because water-
generated electricity became more expensive and water
scarcity affected the production processes requiring water, or
because lack of water had a negative effect on the
productivity of the labour force.
In that connection the transfer of know-how can play a
special role in giving impetus to many economic sectors.
Fostering that kind of cooperation, the Government of the
Congo recently proposed and the Parliament adopted an
amendment
to our nationality code to facilitate the
naturalization of foreigners who have been working in our
Thus, Namibia would like 1994 to be a year of renewed
efforts and commitments to the effective implementation of
the New Agenda by the international community. The
efforts of African countries in their quest for growth and
development will yield little if the international
trading
system does not allow exports from African countries access
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
If the world
to the markets of the developed countries.
economy is not reformed to provide equity and fairness for
all, our efforts will be futile.
Mr. HUSLID (Norway):
I am pleased to have an
opportunity to speak on this subject, which is close to my
heart.
It is quite clear that the Secretary-General has made
serious efforts to ensure the successful implementation of the
New Agenda. This is commendable. This, however, should
be complemented with concrete and positive measures - by
African countries,
in particular, but by the rest of the
international community as well - to secure growth and
development on a sustained and sustainable basis on the
African continent.
We are mindful of the need for Africa to diversify its
primary commodities to stabilize or increase its export
earnings in the face of the persistent fall in the prices of
primary commodities and the continuous deterioration of the
terms of trade. We in Namibia have committed ourselves to
pursuing vigorously our responsibility and commitment
under the New Agenda to achieve growth and development
on a sustained and sustainable basis. We thus call upon the
international community to provide us with the support to
which we all committed ourselves in the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s. There is an urgent
need for the establishment of a diversification fund within
the African Development Bank to assist in the preparation of
commodity-diversification projects and programmes
in
Africa. Member States and multilateral organizations should
contribute to that diversification facility with a view to
making it operational as soon as possible.
The decline of financial-resource flows to Africa, which
is the only continent experiencing a negative net transfer of
resources in 1990s, is a matter of great concern to Africa.
The provision of adequate resource flows to Africa is a
critical element
from the international
community. It is needed to contribute to achieving sustained
real growth in per capita gross national product.
in the support
In the light of all that, my delegation appeals to the
international community to increase financial resource flows
to Africa, as these are crucial to regenerating the growth and
sustainable development of the African economies and also
to providing effective support to the political and economic
reforms in which many African countries are now engaged
and thus to helping cushion their severe social impact.
I have the honour of making this statement on behalf of
the Nordic countries - Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Sweden
and Norway.
The Nordic countries welcome this first opportunity in
the General Assembly to take part in an evaluation of and a
debate on the implementation of the New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the l990s, which was adopted
nearly two years ago. As is stated in its own text, the
document constitutes a renewed commitment to Africa’s
development, based on the principle of shared responsibility
and full partnership between Africa and the international
the Agenda defines the
community.
respective responsibilities of the African countries,
the
international community and the United Nations system.
In this context,
The Nordic countries commend the Secretary-General’s
report contained in document A/48/334, which describes
clearly the main features of
the economic and social
development, underlines some of the basic problems and
points to the challenges ahead. We commend the Secretary-
General for the personal interest that he has taken in these
questions.
As for recent development, it has to be recognized that,
The report
is far from satisfactory.
on the whole,
summarizes the situation by stating:
it
"To varying degrees, as they did in the 1980s,
African countries have
entered the 1990s with
multifaceted crises in such major areas as food security,
population, housing, public health, education, energy,
industrial production,
trade, debt and environment."
(A/48/334, para. 52)
It should be noted that during the first three years of the
present decade the internal domestic product of the region
grew at an average rate of only 2.1 per cent per annum.
With an average annual population growth of about
3 per cent, this means that per capita income continued to
fall. There is no doubt that the extremely rapid population
growth represents a great challenge to African countries.
This matter too is mentioned in the report.
However, the rather unsatisfactory overall figures that
are quoted hide large differences in economic performance,
and it can be noted with satisfaction that several countries,
which are implementing economic and social reforms with
determination, have recorded satisfactory growth figures.
Still, it is a regrettable fact that forecasts made by the World
Bank and by others indicate that the number of people in
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
17
Africa living in absolute poverty - Africa being the only
region of the world of which this is true - will have
increased from some 85 million in 1985 to a projected
265 million in the year 2000.
This unfortunate situation calls for concrete action -
first and foremost, by the countries of Africa themselves, but
also by the world community, which, according to the New
Agenda, has promised full and tangible support for the
African effort.
Time obliges me to be rather selective in dealing with
initiatives and measures to address the challenges facing
Africa. Permit me, on behalf of the Nordic countries, to
point to several sectors - starting with the important question
of debt.
We know that sub-Saharan Africa is still plagued by
severe external indebtedness. On average, contractual debt-
service charges in low-income Africa amount to a staggering
80 per cent of annual export income. There will be very
little comfort in stabilizing, or even slightly declining, debt-
service ratios so long as arrears continue to pile up.
Although countries’ circumstances differ quite substantially,
we are faced in many cases with a most serious mismatch
between debt-service obligations and capacity to make
payments.
is equally clear that official development
assistance can never fill the financing gaps and thus solve
the problem. We must, therefore, attack the African debt
overhang head-on - and we must do so fast. If Africa enters
the next century still caught
in a quagmire of massive
external debt, the effect will be truly disastrous.
It
Against this background, the Nordic countries welcome
the recent recognition by several Paris Club creditors that a
number of the severely indebted countries need debt relief
that goes well beyond the present 50 per cent. We welcome
also the fact that the stock-of-debt approach has been put
firmly on the Paris Club’s
In the case of the
poorest African countries in particular, there is an acute need
for such measures. Provided that those African countries are
committed to economic reforms and structural adjustment,
the Nordic countries remain willing to grant them stock-of-
debt reduction of up to 80 per cent. We urge the Paris Club
to move fast on this pressing issue. Early action is badly
needed, and exceptional flexibility is called for; and creditors
outside the Paris Club should follow suit.
agenda.
Moreover, the best possible use must be made of a
number of existing multilateral mechanisms that have proved
themselves highly useful to African countries. The recently
replenished International Development Association debt-
reduction facility - the so-called sixth dimension - which
facilitates secondary market buy-backs of private bank debts,
must be fully utilized.
In the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), a new, enhanced structural-adjustment facility must
be agreed upon before the end of this year, and the
concessional element must be no less than that in the present
scheme. The IMF’s rights accumulation programme for
clearance of arrears might also need refinement or, at least,
some sort of follow-up. Moreover, donor countries should
consider contributing to the World Bank’s fifth dimension,
which now subsidizes, by as much as 90 to 100 per cent, the
bank-interest dues of International Development Association
countries, many of which are African. Bilateral grants could
facilitate increased coverage of parts of
the principal
repayments as well.
economic-reform process
provides
the
the Programme
As regards financing, the Nordic countries have found
the World Bank’s Special Programme of Assistance (SPA)
for low-income, debt-stressed sub-Saharan African countries
to be a very successful coordination mechanism for
supporting
in Africa.
Currently,
quick-disbursing
balance-of-payments support to 27 poor and debt-distressed
African countries
that are undertaking comprehensive
economic-reform programmes. The Nordic countries have
supported the programme since it was launched in 1987, and
we welcome the fact that bilateral donors, together with the
United Nations Development Programme,
the African
Development Bank and the World Bank, agreed recently to
launch a third phase of the SPA, covering the period
1994-96.
The Nordic countries also participate actively and
constructively in the ongoing replenishment negotiations for
the African Development Fund. Given the great needs for
concessional resources in Africa, the African Development
Fund plays a crucial role as a channel for such resources to
the continent.
The Nordic countries wish to draw the attention of this
Assembly to the Tokyo Conference on African Development
held in October this year. This Conference and the Tokyo
Declaration on African Development
in our
opinion, a significant step in the work of strengthening an
emerging new partnership for sustainable development in
Africa, and that is well in line with the Agenda.
represent,
We fully agree with the Tokyo Declaration on the
importance of the process of simultaneous political and
economic reform, the necessity of private sector participation
in domestic economic activity and the particular importance
of promoting regional cooperation in Africa, while at the
same
learning from the valuable development
experiences in successful Asian countries.
time
The Nordic countries have also actively supported the
Global Coalition for Africa (GCA), with, as we know, both
African and non-African participation. Launched only a few
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
years ago, the GCA was and continues to be an important
policy initiative providing support for Africa and a forum for
equal partnership between African countries and donors. We
are satisfied that GCA takes a keen interest in a number of
the important issues addressed by the international agenda,
that is, the United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s.
We welcome the concentration of future GCA activities
on the highest priority issues such as democracy and good
governance, the enhancement of economic reform measures,
regional integration, and agricultural policy reform. The
Global Coalition for Africa can make an important
contribution if activities are properly coordinated with other
policy initiatives and international organizations. The Nordic
countries would like the GCA to take an even more active
role in exploring the linkage between political and economic
reform and the conditions for a sustained democratization
process in Africa.
continue
to
role
in
play
an
important
It goes without saying that the United Nations system
the
must
implementation of the New Agenda. Time does not permit
me to comment in any further detail on this action, which
should, I would emphasize, draw on all United Nations
programmes as well as on the specialized agencies. It is
important, as stated in the Secretary-General’s report, that
there be adequate coordination among the various policies
and programmes within the system so as to increase
efficiency.
the
Administrative Committee on Coordination, under the able
leadership of the Secretary-General himself, should be used
to its fullest extent.
the machinery of
In this context,
Let me, in conclusion, make some comments on the
very important subject of diversification.
The Nordic
countries have studied with great interest the note by the
Secretary-General entitled "Need for and feasibility of the
establishment of
a diversification fund for Africa’s
commodities" (A/48/335). This document gives a useful
description of the economic situation in Africa, and it paints
a rather gloomy picture of today’s situation and the future
perspectives for most of the African countries. On the other
hand, the note points out the possibilities and potential for
diversification. We know that several African countries have
undertaken considerable efforts to reform their economies,
and this despite considerable social costs.
The Nordic countries agree with the statement in the
report that the responsibilities for diversification will rest
first and foremost with the national authorities and that
mobilization of national resources is a key element in the
diversification process. We do, however, realize that many
countries are in need of external assistance to complement
their national efforts.
Such assistance is today being
and multilateral
channels
provided through bilateral
institutions such as the World Bank,
the International
Monetary Fund, the African Development Bank and the
Common Fund. In addition, technical assistance in the field
of diversification is provided by a number of other
programmes and organizations within the United Nations
system. But the report argues that the resources allocated
for diversification measures are inadequate, and that there is
thus a need to establish a new facility within the African
Development Bank for this purpose.
The Nordic countries are strongly committed to
supporting the African countries in their diversification
process. We think, however, that the issue of diversification
needs to be seen in a wider context and should not be
defined too narrowly. Successful diversification is linked to
structural adjustment policies, good governance, an enabling
environment for private investments, existing infrastructure,
and policies for human resource development. Thus the
Nordic countries would have appreciated a more integrated
approach in the report regarding diversification measures.
This having been said,
the Nordic countries will,
however, continue to consider the report and, together with
other countries, take part in the discussion on this important
subject.
The New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s constitutes a challenge for Africa, for the world
community and for the United Nations system. The Nordic
countries will take their part in meeting this challenge.
The preceding was my intervention on behalf of the
Nordic countries. Before I leave this rostrum, permit me
just briefly and personally, as Chairman of the committee
that negotiated the New Agenda two years ago, to try to give
at least a partial answer to the question that I have heard
asked several times today by speakers here, which is with
some variation more or less as follows: What has the
Agenda led to? What has been its result? It is a good and
pertinent question, and not one that is easy to answer. But
maybe it would be useful for us all to try to realize what this
Agenda can do and also what this Agenda cannot do.
The Agenda is first and foremost, we should bear in
mind, a political document. It is not a perfect document, as
it is a compromise hammered out more or less during an all-
night session in September 1991; and it is not a panacea that
can solve the problems of Africa. The Agenda does,
however, contain some important principles and goals which
have been adopted by both Africa and the world community
through consensus in this General Assembly.
One of those principles is that of shared responsibility
and full partnership. Another is that of giving full and
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
19
tangible support to African efforts. Yet another goal is that
of 6 per cent growth per annum.
the negative trend and to put their devastated economies in
order.
These are goals and principles
that cannot be
though they were Security Council
implemented as
sanctions; they can and should, however, serve as points of
reference and political obligations for action both within the
United Nations system and outside it. As such, they should
serve as inspiration and impetus for practical action, both
multilateral and bilateral.
To that end, stabilization and structural-adjustment
programmes sponsored by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) and the World Bank were put in place by virtually all
of our countries. Economically restrictive and socially
costly, the programmes of reform and structural adjustment
on which our countries have courageously and far-sightedly
embarked have still failed to achieve the expected results.
Used in that manner, I would think the Agenda could
serve a very useful purpose all through the 1990s, during
which, as we know, the United Nations will come back to it
several times. But we must remember that it is up to us all
to implement and keep alive those principles, to which we
have all subscribed.
Mr. ABDELLAH (Tunisia)
(interpretation from
The Tunisian delegation has a number of
French):
comments to make on agenda item 24, "United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s".
Let me begin by welcoming the
international
community’s interest in the difficult economic situation that
has prevailed in Africa for several decades. The United
Nations Programme of Action for African Economic
Recovery and Development 1986-1990 was an expression of
United Nations commitment to African development. That
agreement between the States of Africa and the United
Nations was the first of
it has now been
supplemented by the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s, which reflects a
renewed United Nations commitment to support African
development efforts. For all our States, it is an act of faith
and a sign of hope that sustains our decisions despite the
uncertainties of the international situation and the difficulties
of the moment.
its kind;
We should recall that the African economic and social
crisis of the 1980s, which persisted throughout that decade,
has not yet come to an end in vast areas of the continent.
Combined with prolonged drought, this situation could not
but
lead to social upheaval undermining the already
vulnerable stability of countries many of which had grown
extremely fragile.
Those endogenous factors,
themselves destabilizing,
were compounded by the international situation and its raft
of difficulties. Deteriorating terms of trade, the crushing
weight of debt servicing, stagnating - even diminishing -
flows of external resources, are only the most striking of the
common hardships of the countries of Africa. In that hostile
context, African countries had to adopt policies to reverse
In that context, I wish to refer to one of the reports of
the Secretary-General on this item, document A/48/336
and Corr.1, entitled "Mobilization of additional resources for
African economic recovery and development". We read in
that document that more than 30 African countries have
undertaken vigorous structural-adjustment programmes. We
also read that each year the gap between the developed
countries and Africa is widening. Even worse, the gap
between Africa and other developing regions is also
growing. In that connection, I would recall that in 1981, 21
of the least-developed countries were found in Africa; in
1991 that number rose to 32.
Continuing its analysis, the report of the Secretary-
indicates that Africa’s access to international
General
financing is becoming increasingly limited. In the future the
continent will also have to face increased competition by
some 20 countries of other regions, countries also eligible to
receive such financing.
Yet, at a time when there is a consensus that the human
being should be the end and the means in the service of
peace, security, progress and development, economic growth
in Africa has not kept up with population growth:
there has
been no improvement in the standard of living of the most
severely disadvantaged groups.
The greatest challenge
facing Africa today is to eradicate poverty and resume growth -
which is necessary to ensure the development of the
countries of the continent and the well-being of their
peoples.
Hence, Tunisia considers it urgent that complementary
measures be considered by the international community with
a view to reversing the trend and attracting financing to the
African continent to enable our countries to return to the
path of growth and to guarantee our peoples the well-being
to which they aspire.
To that end, in our view, the solution of the African
debt problem must be the cornerstone of any endeavour to
help our countries break their dependency and enable our
continent to play its proper role on the international scene,
both politically and in the areas of trade and economic
activity.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
My country, which through the last decade constantly
advocated at the highest level this approach, also welcomes
today the guidelines and the programme of action prepared
by the United Nations in the United Nations New Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, particularly with
regard to the thorny problem of debt.
In this regard, I wish once again to refer to the report
of the Secretary-General on this question, which notes that
"There is now a common agreement among
the international community and
African countries,
international organizations that Africa’s debt
issue
cannot be dissociated from that of financial resources
necessary for the economic recovery and development
of the continent." (A/48/336, para. 56)
The same document goes on to say,
"... it is the right time for a new initiative on Africa’s
debt". (ibid.)
The strategy thus adopted fully meets our concerns, as it
covers all categories of external debt - bilateral, multilateral
and commercial.
Another question my delegation wishes to address here
relates to Africa’s responsibility and commitment in the
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa. On this point allow me to recall in
particular the results of the recent Tokyo International
Conference on African Development, which took place on 5
and 6 October this year. That important event, in which my
country participated, afforded the participants from Africa
the
primary
responsibility of the Governments and the peoples of our
continent in the development of our respective countries.
reaffirm solemnly
opportunity
the
to
The Tokyo Declaration on African Development,
entitled "Towards the 21st Century",
thus renewed the
commitment of African States to pursue and carry out
structural-transformation policies for their economies, a
deeper implantation of democracy in their societies and
improvements in the management of their local resources.
The President returned to the Chair.
The Tokyo Conference was also an opportunity for
developed-country partners to confirm their commitment to
supporting efforts made by Africa in its development
process. As the diversification of African economies is one
of the priorities underscored in the New Agenda to help the
continent emerge from dependency on commodity exports,
the Tunisian delegation hopes that the avowed support of our
developed-country partners will henceforth materialize in
their contribution to the establishment of a diversification
fund for Africa.
In conclusion, the Tunisian delegation wishes to touch
on the subject of South-South cooperation, which is one of
the points that Africa has emphasized in its commitment to
the New Agenda. In this respect I am pleased to recall that
Tunisia had the honour and privilege to organize last month,
in cooperation with the Organization of African Unity and
the Arab League, the first Arab-African Trade Fair. The
Fair, which was a concrete step towards cooperation between
the Arab and African communities, to both of which we
belong, took place in Tunis from 22 to 29 October 1993.
This important example of South-South cooperation
happily coincided with the Twelfth Conference of African
Trade Ministers, held in Tunis on 23 and 24 October. These
two events thus enabled our economic officials and decision-
makers to compare their experiences and to emphasize the
necessary strengthening of intraregional and interregional
South-South exchanges. The documents and resolutions
adopted by the African Ministers at the conclusion of their
meeting reaffirmed this fundamental approach.
is
in
connection
consonance with
The approach adopted by the African Trade Ministers
this
the
in
recommendations of a new order with regard to South-South
cooperation. We hope the treaty for the creation of the
African Economic Community, signed in June 1991 in
Abuja, can soon become operational
through concrete
actions.
As to our subregion,
to express its satisfaction at
the Maghreb, my country’s
delegation cannot fail
the
achievements of the five States members of the Arab
Maghreb Union on the road to complementarity. The many
treaties and agreements today in force attest to a promising
dynamic that will
lead to the Arab Maghreb Union’s
recognition as a regional partner both in our continent and
in the Mediterranean and Arab contexts.
Mr. AKRAM (Pakistan): At the recently held Tokyo
International Conference on African Development,
the
Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), describing the poorest of the poor, referred to
"the face of a young mother escaping with her child
from war, hunger and deprivation somewhere in
Africa".
This face appears on the cover of every journal and on every
television screen; it arouses great sympathy. Unfortunately,
we have yet
to translate this sympathy into concerted
international action to avert the growing human suffering and
mounting social upheaval in Africa.
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
21
In Africa last year, gross domestic product grew by
only 1.5 per cent. This was half the rate of the continent’s
population growth.
the African
countries, gross domestic product declined by 1.1 per cent.
the majority of
For
All other major economic indicators are similarly
sombre. The savings rates in African countries continue to
decline, and the least developed among them are heavily
dependent on external financial resources. At the same time,
official development assistance flows for sub-Saharan Africa
declined by 22 per cent
Private flows are
concentrated on only a few African countries. Africa has
been virtually bypassed in the competition for foreign direct
investment.
for 1992.
The debt burden remains onerous for most African
countries, despite the cancellations by certain donors of a
part of their official debt. Further efforts for amelioration of
official debt, both bilateral and multilateral, are essential.
Africa’s export earnings have also stagnated. There has
been a continuous decline in the terms of trade of the 25
sub-Saharan countries. It is estimated that between 1990 and
1992, they suffered a trade loss of $16.5 billion due to such
deterioration in the terms of trade. The setback, due to slack
commodity prices, is aggravated by protectionism. As the
Secretary-General’s report states:
"It has been estimated that developing countries
lose about $100 billion a year in export revenues as a
result of market barriers in developed countries, or
almost
twice the [official development assistance]
(ODA) that developed countries provide. As a result,
taxpayers in the developed countries pay both for
economic assistance and for costlier imports, while
developing countries lose more in trade than they gain
in aid. Compared with the massive terms of trade
losses, net
increases in ODA to the sub-Saharan
countries averaged only $2.5 billion ... between 1980
and 1990. This is one of the incoherences in policies
toward the developing world".
(A/48/336, para. 16)
Since 1985, Africa’s share of trade has fallen to under
2 per cent of world trade. The special arrangements made
under the Lomé Convention for many African and other
low-income countries have so far proved insufficient to
respond to their goals of
economic diversification,
industrialization and export expansion.
Clearly, Africa is becoming increasingly marginalized
the
in the world economy.
Development of Africa recognized that positive change and
recovery in the African economic crisis required both
national and international support. While stressing that
Africa’s development
is primarily the responsibility of
The New Agenda for
Africans, the world community made a commitment to give
full and tangible support to African efforts.
It is clear that
the States of Africa cannot
succeed in meeting the
challenges they confront unless they receive external
financial assistance and strengthened international efforts are
made to create a global economic climate conducive to
African development efforts. The New Agenda set out the
priority objectives of the African countries, which are the
accelerated transformation, integration, diversification and
growth of their economies to integrate them in the world
economy, reduce their vulnerability to external shocks,
increase their dynamism and enhance their self-reliance.
Africa’s commitment to the New Agenda is reflected in
the reform measures instituted in economic management,
exchange rates, public enterprises, population planning and
the agricultural sector, despite the often high political, social
and economic costs of such measures. The people of Africa
have borne the sacrifices involved with courage and dignity.
They rightly expect that their personal impoverishment will
now end and that genuine international economic cooperation
will lead to national revitalization and recovery.
Africa has shown great seriousness in keeping its part
of the bargain under the New Agenda. Most African
countries continue to pursue policies of reform and structural
adjustment designed to improve their economic performance
and to pave the way for sustained growth and development.
Despite earnest efforts to carry out structural adjustments in
their national economic policies, most African countries have
found little reprieve from the unfavourable external
economic environment, harsh climatic conditions, civil war
and strife.
The adverse effects of domestic and external resource
constraints on African productivity have outweighed the
positive impact of policy reforms. On the other hand, the
international community has not been as forthcoming as
anticipated in fulfilling its part of the compact. We are fast
losing the initiative taken in 1991 to deal with the African
crisis.
is most disturbing that 85 million people are
projected to be added to the number of those living in abject
poverty in Africa.
It
Can the international community stand back and watch
in silence as hunger, deprivation, pain and misery continue
to haunt a proud people that suffers so many indignities
through no fault of its own? How many States are we
willing to watch fail before we mobilize the collective
political will
to overcome the problems of economic
stagnation and social disruption which lie at the root of the
multiple crises we confront on the great continent of Africa?
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
As the Managing Director of the International Monetary
Fund stated at the Tokyo international Conference:
"The international community must
its
commitment in three ways: by providing access to
markets for African exports; by extending technical
assistance; and by providing financial assistance."
fulfil
The prescriptions are clear: what we need is action by the
world community.
Pakistan is a developing country. We ourselves
confront many challenges. We have succeeded in ensuring
a fairly encouraging rate of economic growth despite these
challenges. One of the principles of our external relations is
to promote cooperation and solidarity with other developing
countries.
In this spirit, Pakistan has established an Africa
Programme for the promotion of cooperation with the States
of that great continent. This cooperation is being pursued in
multifarious ways. Hundreds of young Africans train in
Pakistan in various fields each year. Hundreds of Pakistani
doctors, engineers and other professionals participate in
Africa’s development process. The possibilities for technical
cooperation under this Programme are open to all our
African brothers. We look forward to enlarging this
Programme to respond in a modest way to the challenges
and needs of Africa - a continent which we are certain will
succeed in the battle for economic and social development
because of the courage and sacrifices of its peoples and, we
hope, the solidarity of the world community.
Mr. MUTHAURA (Kenya): At its forty-sixth session,
the General Assembly in resolution 46/151 adopted the New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s to serve
as a catalyst, giving political impetus and strength to other
activities within and outside Africa for the mobilization of
international support in favour of the continent. The New
Agenda recognizes Africa’s vast potential
in both the
material and the human resources necessary for growth and
sustainable development. It also recognizes the fact that the
primary responsibility for its implementation lies with the
African Governments themselves.
These efforts must,
however, be complemented by the international community
through multilateral and bilateral assistance.
and
commitment
in
Africa’s
responsibility
the
implementation of the programmes of the New Agenda
cover a wide range of areas.
They include regional
economic cooperation and integration; intensification of the
democratization process; creation of a climate conducive to
attracting foreign investments; adoption of a people-centred
development; protection of the environment; pursuit of
strategies targeted at achieving food security; and eradication
of poverty, disease and illiteracy in the continent.
The international community, on the other hand,
committed itself to assisting Africa in the solution of the
debt problem; the provision of adequate resource flows for
development and investments; the diversification of primary
commodities;
the lifting of trade barriers in favour of
Africa’s exports; and support
regional economic
integration. The United Nations has a central role to play in
the coordination of the implementation of the Agenda
programmes, especially as they relate to the Second United
Nations Industrial and Transport and Communications
Decade for Africa.
for
The crisis which began in Africa in the 1980s has
continued into the 1990s, and the prospects for economic
recovery are still remote despite the prevailing signs of
modest growth in the world economy. African countries are
experiencing an increasing debt burden, rapid population
growth,
recurring droughts, encroaching desertification,
environmental degradation, overdependence on a few
primary commodities for export earnings, deteriorating terms
of trade and the negative effects of structural adjustment
programmes.
The decline in the performance of the economies of
African countries is well documented in the various United
Nations records. For instance, agriculture, the backbone of
African economies, has grown by only 2.3 per cent per
annum on the average in the last three decades, a rate below
that of population growth. At the same time, the prices of
export commodities have been fluctuating since 1980. By
last year the real export prices of coffee and cacao had fallen
69 per cent, palm oil by 49 per cent and sisal and cotton by
47 per cent from the beginning of the 1980s.
At the same time, the increase in resource flows to
Africa was marginal,
from $15.8 billion in 1985 to
$18.4 billion in 1992, according to World Bank figures for
49 indebted African countries. According to the same source,
the aggregate net
transfer to Africa
declined from $7.2 billion in 1985 to $5.3 billion in 1992.
long-term financial
The African countries continue to make every effort to
live up to their commitments as contained in the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s. In recent years, they have made tremendous efforts
to maintain the momentum for development despite the
decline in external resource flows. They have also created
the necessary political and economic climate to attract
foreign investments and to diversify their economies with a
view to expanding their export base. However, the recent
trend whereby investment resources are being diverted to
other regions of the world is a matter of concern to African
countries, since this is likely to lead to marginalization of the
continent and a drying up of direct investment capital.
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
23
As
supports
investments, Kenya
the
regards
the proposed diversification fund for
establishment of
Africa’s commodities.
The proposal, as contained in
document A/46/335, reveals that the proposed fund should
be accorded a high priority. Kenya is of the view that in
addressing the issue of the diversification of commodities,
account should be taken of the need to promote both
horizontal and vertical diversification to ensure that
the
products are given greater value-added through processing,
marketing, distribution and transportation. This approach
calls
investments and the transfer of
appropriate technology to African countries to achieve that
objective.
substantial
for
are
African countries
implementing far-reaching
structural adjustment programmes to achieve sustainable
development. In the short term, these programmes can have
profoundly negative social and economic effects in terms of
production, employment, health, education and housing, to
mention but a few.
African countries implementing
economic reforms are increasingly finding themselves unable
to provide adequate health care, equip their schools or
provide a social safety net to the poor. This situation is
exacerbated by the debt burden, declining commodity prices,
dwindling external assistance, deteriorating terms of trade,
balance of payments problems, frequent droughts resulting
in food shortages, and the influx of refugees owing to some
of the conflicts on the African continent.
African countries have established subregional and
regional economic cooperation arrangements intended to
achieve self-reliance and integration in the continent and to
supplement North-South cooperation. These arrangements
include the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern
Africa, the Economic Community of West African States,
the Arab Maghreb Union and the Southern Africa
Development Community.
They are already yielding
tangible economic benefit for their member countries, and
they will lead to the eventual achievement of the African
Economic Community.
The arrangements require the
continued support of the international community so that
they may contribute to sustainable regional integration and
development.
New developments have taken place within the United
Nations since the adoption of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. Last
year, the international community adopted Agenda 21 in Rio
de Janeiro, which, inter alia, incorporates environment into
the development process. Africa is prone to environmental
problems such as desertification, drought, soil erosion and
deforestation. To this end, African countries should benefit
from the additionality of resources and the transfer of
environmentally sound technologies for the implementation
of Agenda 21. African countries also look forward to the
successful elaboration of an international convention to
combat desertification in those countries experiencing serious
drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa, by June
next year.
In conclusion, Kenya believes that the political will that
led to the adoption of the New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s must be backed by the necessary
means. The United Nations is best suited to coordinate
implementation of the various programmes of the Agenda.
In this regard,
the various United Nations specialized
agencies and programmes should be adequately equipped
with
support
programmes and projects in their respective areas and
sectors.
personnel
resources
financial
and
to
Mr. GERVAIS (Côte d’Ivoire) (interpretation from
In its follow-up machinery, the United Nations
French):
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
provided for the carrying out by the General Assembly this
year of a preliminary review of the progress of the Agenda,
which followed on the United Nations Programme of Action
for African Economic Recovery and Development. My
delegation would like to take the opportunity offered by the
discussion of this agenda item to make some comments on
the difficult economic situation in Africa.
In briefly recalling the record of the United Nations
Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and
Development,
the
Department
and Social Development,
Mr. Ji Chaozhu, said in introducing this new agreement:
the Under-Secretary-General
of Economic
of
"Since 1986,
the General Assembly has annually
addressed the various aspects of the execution of the
United Nations Programme of Action for African
Economic Recovery and Development
and has
repeatedly expressed concern at
the slow rate of
progress. Regrettably, at the end of 1990, it became
clear that the economic crisis in Africa had worsened
and that the international community would have to
make even greater efforts.
It should be noted in this
respect that the African countries in the period 1986-
1990 undertook far-reaching political and economic
reforms which will assist the international community
in providing support and in fulfilling its commitments
to the continent."
Therefore we can say that the economic situation in
Africa has steadily worsened in the course of the last decade.
Today the distressing fact is that of the 47 least developed
countries, 32 are in Africa. Of the 173 countries classified
in the last United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
report on human development, 41 of
the 53 African
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
countries on the list are in the bottom 50 of
classification.
the
Agenda effective while there is still time, for it should not
be allowed, like its predecessor, to remain a dead letter.
The external debt of African countries is today
in the world; debt servicing
proportionally the highest
represents on average 32 per cent of export earnings; their
economies are the least diversified; the deterioration in terms
of trade, primarily associated with the abnormally low prices
of commodities, continues to undermine the structural
adjustment endeavours of almost all African countries,
endeavours with extremely burdensome social and political
consequences
by
unprecedented circumstances in their history.
penalized
already
for
countries
In the social area in particular the rise - I might even
say the general spread - of unemployment is the greatest
threat
to peace and social cohesion. The demands of
management, which often pays very little attention to the
human dimension, and the slow-down in the creation of jobs,
have resulted in a marked worsening in general
living
conditions for
the peoples concerned and by growing
impoverishment. Such a situation has a negative impact on
education, health and social protection for women and
children, and imperils the chances of a return to economic
growth, which is at the same time the goal of structural
adjustment.
On the political level the goal of democratization seems
elusive because economic and social conditions are not
improving, not to mention the endeavours to safeguard the
world’s environment and the effort to promote respect for
human rights in a context dominated by poverty, climatic
fluctuations and the political uncertainties that such poverty
generates.
If we take the view these days that human rights
include the right
to development, why should we not
consider the right to nutrition, the right to better living
conditions to be fundamental human rights? Following the
World Conference on Human Rights which took place in
Vienna in June this year it would be desirable for the
international community to turn its attention to these aspects
of development and for the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s to incorporate them
among its principles.
it
In addition to national programmes the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa does,
is true, offer an
appropriate framework established in agreement with the
international community, which sets out to sustain Africa’s
development. It is a matter for concern that two years after
the adoption of the Agenda little progress has been made in
putting it into effect. We believe that we need to look for
the reasons for this and take measures to make the New
Our countries are only too well aware of the importance
of economic and social development. They are also aware
of the need to make their own efforts to restore growth.
With this in mind, and by making heavy sacrifices, they
have accepted the principles of the structural adjustment
policy. But in order to achieve their aims they are aware of
the need for assistance from Africa’s partners without which
it would be impossible to escape marginalization.
In this context it might perhaps be appropriate, in order
to be in a position to carry out an objective review midway
through or at the end of the Agenda, to envisage convening
a meeting to assess the commitments of the developed
countries where the readiness to assist Africa would this
time be expressed in concrete terms and by specific political
commitments. Assistance for the development of Africa can
no longer be reduced to the preparation of texts of projects,
however well written they may be.
It would seem to us to
be equally necessary for the programme budget of the
United Nations to reflect in a proper fashion the proposals
of the new agreement. Each United Nations body involved
in cooperation for the development of Africa should also
prepare a clear table of its commitments to the programme
for the consideration of the Economic and Social Council,
thus highlighting the additional resources which would
reflect the reality of the needs and priorities defined in the
programme.
My delegation would like at this point to thank the
Secretariat and the various institutions that took part in the
preparation of
for our
consideration.
the reports placed before us
Document A/48/334 paints a clear picture of
the
international economic context and spells out once again the
priorities concerned while assessing the possibilities for
international assistance.
In this respect one should recall the extent to which
official development assistance and financial
inputs on
favourable conditions are necessary for the African countries
that have been hard hit by the economic crisis. Despite the
difficulties being encountered by the developed countries it
is desirable to increase the resources going to African
countries for their development. Africa knows that
its
present state of poverty is not predestined.
It will recover
one day and will reward properly those who have been able
to assist it and remained constant in their concern.
In this respect we welcome the initiatives taken to
promote the New Agenda for the Development of Africa.
We are grateful to the Secretary-General for setting up a
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
25
Panel of High-level Personalities on African Development
and appointing a Special Coordinator for Africa and the
Least Developed Countries. We hope that their hard work
and their commitment to make the new agreement a reality
will be an opportunity for concrete action that will benefit
Africa.
for
In the same context we are grateful to the Japanese
Government
its initiative in convening the Tokyo
Conference on African Development a few weeks ago. The
Tokyo Declaration is one more commitment which attests to
the care and concern that Africa today so sorely needs.
With respect to document A/48/335 on the need for the
establishment of
a diversification fund for Africa’s
commodities, I should like to underline the prestige and
importance of the agencies that took part in its preparation
jointly with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations (FAO):
the African Development Bank, the
African Project Development Facility, the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
the
Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), the World Bank,
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
the United Nations Industrial Development Organization
(UNIDO), and many others. Despite the modest level of this
diversification fund - only $70 million for the whole of Africa -
we would none the less wish to thank them and hope that
this will be only the first step.
reject
community must
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to reaffirm that the
international
of
marginalizing any part of our world. Never have we had
such a good opportunity to demonstrate solidarity, and we
must seize it now by giving specific commitments. The last
three decades have clearly taught us about the plight of
Africa. Hence we hope the time has come for fruitful
action.
idea
the
Mr. ISAKOV (Russian Federation) (interpretation from
Russian): The Russian Federation takes a sympathetic view
of the complex problems now facing the African countries
and is prepared to help in their solution, both on a bilateral
basis and in the context of broad international efforts. Of
special importance in this respect is the implementation of
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s.
I must be blunt and say that at present Russia’s capacity
to provide assistance is limited, because of the problems that
the country is facing during a transitional period. However,
we have no doubt that the successful resolution of these
problems will open up fundamentally new possibilities for
mutually advantageous cooperation with all countries -
including, of course, African countries - as well as for
Russia’s early return to the ranks of donor countries.
for
trade,
World-wide experience has demonstrated convincingly
investment,
that where normal conditions
cooperation and the implementation of other forms of
mutually advantageous economic ties exist, economic
development proceeds apace, and in the final analysis
conditions are created for a rise in people’s living standards.
Despite the importance - in some cases, the indispensability -
of external assistance, the most effective way to solve a
country’s economic and social problems is to mobilize its
internal resources, making use of the entire arsenal of
effective means
advantageous
international economic cooperation.
securing mutually
of
We note with satisfaction that that is the approach in
several of the conclusions of the reports (A/48/334 and
A/48/336) of the Secretary-General that are before us.
In
particular, paragraph 50 of document A/48/336 states that
with the creation in recent years by a number of African
countries of favourable conditions for foreign investment,
better prospects now exist for attracting enhanced inflow.
As is pointed out in paragraph 3, external finance is an
important source of economic growth. The same ideas are
set out in paragraph 70 of document A/48/334.
Russia, for its part, is prepared to step up, and to put on
a new basis, its economic ties with African countries. Of
course, we expect to be met half way. We expect from the
other side equal willingness to solve these problems, which
have accumulated over the years.
One problem is the great indebtedness of a number of
African countries to the Russian Federation. Well aware of
the complexity of these problems, we feel that there must be
joint search for innovative approaches to their solution,
including use of the accumulated experience of the world
community.
It would seem that it is now especially important that
trade and economic relations between Russia and African
countries be organized in such a way that the debt problem
will not impede the development of mutually advantageous
cooperation.
In particular, Russia is prepared to consider
various types of debt-equity swaps with African countries -
transfers to the equity of national enterprises of debtor
countries - and so on. This would be a means of solving a
double-edged problem - reducing African countries’ debt to
Russia and, at the same time, securing the creditor’s direct
participation in the efforts to revive their economies. The
advisability of such approaches is mentioned in paragraph 72
of document A/48/336, which says that debt-equity swaps
are useful in this regard. The effectiveness of such measures
in combination with privatization programmes is mentioned.
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
that
We feel
these factors should be adequately
reflected in a new, comprehensive strategy for the settlement
of African debt - bilateral, multilateral and commercial. The
need for such a strategy is rightly mentioned in paragraph 56
of that report.
In our view, paragraph 73 is correct in what it says
about
the need for the international community to take
measures to support the efforts being made by the African
countries themselves to attract foreign investment. The
Government of Russia has given the green light
to
investment activity by Russian entrepreneurs in African
countries. We believe that these and other measures can
raise our economic relations with those countries, as with
other developing countries, to a qualitatively new level.
In talking about
the important possibilities of the
economic recovery of Africa, one cannot fail to mention the
need for reduced military expenditures by African countries
themselves. Unfortunately, there has been no real movement
in this area in recent years, as is mentioned in document
A/48/336. We feel that there is a need for further serious
work on the idea - expressed in paragraph 73 of document
A/48/334 - that the task of democratizing Africa and, in
broader terms, of securing the general economic and social
development of the continent is inseparably linked to solving
the problem of reducing the military expenditures of several
African countries.
In general, we feel that, from the point of view of the
need to seek new approaches to the solution of Africa’s
economic problems, the conclusions and recommendations
contained in the document (A/48/335) on the need for and
feasibility of the establishment of a diversification fund for
Africa’s commodities are useful.
Mr. SOEGARDA (Indonesia):
I should like at the
outset to express to the Secretary-General my delegation’s
appreciation of his informative and comprehensive report
(A/48/334) on agenda item 24, concerning the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s. While we concur with the views expressed this
morning by the Chairman of the Group of 77, my delegation
would also like to contribute to this critical and important
discussion by highlighting some issues that we believe to be
of particular
the
Agenda.
importance to the implementation of
between Africa, the international community and the United
Nations system.
In our view, African countries have made a significant
effort to honour their commitments under the New Agenda,
especially by undertaking economic and social reforms, such
as diversification of their economies, to overcome various
structural handicaps to meeting their development needs.
Yet, no matter how extensive such reforms have become,
they are very dependent, in our increasingly interdependent
world, upon the external environment.
that
environment is favourable, all such efforts will come to
naught. Therefore, the international community - especially
the major economic actors, who make the greatest impact on
the world economy - should ensure that their commitments
under the New Agenda are honoured in a timely fashion.
Unless
Obviously, the first two years of the period covered by
the New Agenda saw a world economy in deep malaise, in
which the economic and social crisis confronting Africa has
been compounded by natural emergencies and social turmoil.
Under such circumstances,
the
situation in Africa has been persistently bleak.
If the
implementation of
the New Agenda is not addressed
comprehensively, the record for the remainder of the decade
will not improve.
is not surprising that
it
It is therefore urgent that action now be taken at the
international level. Indonesia regards the question of debt as
the most critical question and as central to many of the
development problems of Africa. Obviously, the current
level of debt stock and debt burden is entirely unsustainable
and thus constitutes a vast disincentive to the flow of
investments to the continent. We believe that both the debt
stock and the debt-service burden of those countries should
be significantly relieved.
In this regard, we urge the
adoption of the Trinidad terms, since this would, inter alia,
reduce debt stock by two thirds. The problem should be
addressed in such a way as
to allow growth and
development to take root and thus to provide a viable means
for these countries to grow out of their predicament. In this
regard,
the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, is in the midst of
preparations for the convening of a meeting on the debt
problem for the purpose of exploring ways and means of
how best the Movement can contribute towards resolving the
chronic problem of
indebtedness in severely indebted
developing countries, particularly in Africa.
in its capacity as Chairman of
Indonesia,
The New Agenda for the Development of Africa has
been hailed as an unique departure in international
development cooperation. As is rightly pointed out
in
document A/48/334, a major difference between the New
Agenda and earlier programmes is that it sets specific targets
to be achieved in the present decade. It is also based on the
principle of shared responsibility and full partnership
Associated with the problem of debt is that of resource
flows. Commitments to supporting reforms and restructuring
under the New Agenda for the Development of Africa
should be made fully tangible by translating them into
adequate financial assistance. In that regard, we believe that
the commitments made by development partners to fulfil
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
27
their aid target of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product
should be implemented without tying such aid to detrimental
conditionalities. The international community should also
explore new ways to ensure that development assistance is
concentrated in the least developed of the African countries.
be
should
towards
channelled
As to commodities, we firmly believe that international
efforts
supporting
diversification policies and that
the establishment of a
diversification fund deserves our serious consideration.
In
the short and medium term we should focus on both
compensatory financing mechanisms and on efforts to
increase and stabilize commodity prices at levels both fair to
the consumers and remunerative to the producers. This is
even more critical in the context of the African countries,
since almost all of them depend on commodities.
My delegation can fully agree with the point made in
the report (A/48/334) that traditional assistance in the form
of the provision of food and other essential commodities and
services has significantly helped to save lives and alleviate
mass suffering. The international community should go
beyond purely humanitarian considerations to encompass
rehabilitation and development for long-term results. Overall
international efforts should be undertaken to ensure that
African policies
rural
development and food security are fully supported and that
the food producers, including women, are furnished with the
necessary resources in adequate quantity.
in agriculture,
and strategies
Another area that the international community should
support is that of economic cooperation and integration in
Africa. Obviously, domestic markets are not strong enough
to undertake large-scale projects
in terms either of
production or of infrastructure. Thus, it is necessary to
emphasize the larger regional economic area as a feasible
these essential purposes and to plan
framework for
accordingly.
Institution-building, human resources and
capacity-building should thus be part and parcel of this
process. We are therefore pleased to note that the treaty on
establishing the African Economic Community, having been
signed already, is now being implemented. We see the
value of
in the New Agenda, on such
integration, and we believe that any initiative in this regard
should be fully supported by the international community.
the emphasis,
Before concluding, I would like to refer briefly to the
role of the United Nations. We can fully support the idea
advanced in the report of the importance of the United
Nations role in implementing the New Agenda. More
specifically,
the United Nations should ensure greater
coordination among the various programmes for Africa so as
to reduce overlap and to increase efficiency. Moreover it
should also continue to strengthen cooperation between the
Bretton Woods institutions and other bodies of the United
Nations system with respect to Africa.
Africa, the international community and the United
Nations should collectively ensure that the vast potential of
human resources in Africa is not squandered. Rather,
working together in a true partnership to implement the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s can unquestionably halt the economic drift, put
Africa’s development on a sound basis and bolster its
recovery in this decade.
Mr. GELBER (United States of America): The United
States is pleased to address the question of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s. The Agenda is one which we endorse and which we
consider vital to expediting Africa’s stable, viable growth
and its integration into the community of developed nations.
The United States shares the United Nations view that
African participation and human resources development must
be cornerstones of successful programmes for African
development. African participation and leadership are
essential for promoting long-term sustainable development.
African capacity must be strengthened by investments in
people and institutions.
it
is important
We likewise support the efforts of the United Nations
Development Programme to promote the coordination of
development programmes in Africa.
In an era of resource
to deploy donor resources for
scarcity,
African development as efficiently as possible. This requires
close coordination among donors and better targeting of
resources to African countries where they will have the
greatest development
impact. We have observed that
countries
committed
political
democratization fare far better on the development scale than
those which resist democratic political reform and full
participation in the free market.
economic
and
to
It is the democratic nations of Africa, reflecting the will
of their people, that are best positioned to make the kind of
economic changes that improve the lives of their citizens.
The development challenge facing most African nations
remains imposing, but it is within the capacities of free-
market democracies to overcome it.
Economic crises still afflict many of the nations on the
African continent. For many countries, per capita incomes
have been stagnating or falling; trade and investment flows
have remained weak; debt burdens stunt the prospects for
new growth. Drought, famine and civil war have turned
crises into calamities; no region of the continent has been
spared the ravages of man or nature.
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
transfer
The trend towards democracy in Africa must be
reinforced by sustainable economic development. The peace
and stability that democracy brings can lead to desperately
needed private investment, and with it development capital,
technology
expertise.
Disinvestment in Africa will be reversed only when Africa
makes itself a more attractive place for new capital.
Applying the rule of law, assuring the remittance of profits,
and building more skilled workforces: all of these things
will help give Africa a far greater role in the global
economy.
technological
and
The first responsibility for building that capacity rests
with the African countries themselves; but the developed
nations of the world - including the United States - share the
the United States, provide
responsibility to help. We,
bilateral development funding for Africa.
In addition, we
provide humanitarian and other assistance to Africa.
The United States will be more willing to support the
economies of African nations that have embarked upon
serious reform. We are working with other creditor nations
to provide additional debt reduction for countries cooperating
with
adjustment
programmes.
International Monetary
Fund
the
New trade policies also will help African nations to
compete in global markets.
Protectionist barriers still
impede Africa’s competitiveness and its prospects for
growth. Africa has much to gain from a successful
conclusion of the Uruguay Round negotiations that
the
United States is pushing to complete by the end of this year.
Africa’s economic future is inseparable from its
environmental future. An Africa that is yielding to the
desert sands and scrub, and an Africa whose soil is eroding,
is an Africa diminishing its capacity to feed itself. An
Africa that is losing its forests and renewable water supplies
is an Africa that is compromising its ability to meet basic
needs for the future.
One African leader has said that the problem of soil
erosion has become so serious that his country, viewed from
space, appears to be bleeding into the ocean. The United
States is helping to heal these environmental wounds.
Sustainable development cannot be accomplished
without a renewed sense of urgency about population growth
rates that will double the size of many African nations in 15
to 20 years. Rapid population growth imperils efforts to
combat poverty and protect the environment. No longer will
the United States pretend this problem does not exist.
Instead, we will work in partnership with nations in Africa
and elsewhere to provide a full range of family planning and
reproductive health services, and we will work to improve
the status of women.
Today, the world is entering a period of great hope and
opportunity. Those who have addressed the Assembly today
have made clear Africa’s desire to meet the challenge and to
participate in the needed effort to build a better future, based
on democratic institutions, human rights, and free markets.
Africa’s commitment to these goals is our encouragement.
The PRESIDENT:
In accordance with General
Assembly resolution 2011 (XX) of 11 October 1965, I now
call on the Observer for the Organization of African Unity.
Mr. SY (Organization of African Unity) (interpretation
from French): First of all, I would like to endorse what was
said this morning by the representative of Egypt in his
capacity as
the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), as well as the
remarks of the representative of Algeria, in his capacity as
Chairman of the Group of African States for the month of
November 1993.
the Chairman of
representative of
It will soon have been two years since the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s was adopted by the General Assembly. Like its well-
known predecessor, the United Nations Plan of Action for
African Economic Recovery and Development 1986-1990
(UNPAAERD), the New Agenda has raised many hopes and
expectations in Africa.
Indeed, the economic situation in
most African countries continues to be difficult, and the
economic crisis that started at the beginning of the 1980s in
Africa is still being felt.
UNPAAERD did not meet expectations for several
reasons, of which the most frequently cited are:
the
inadequacy of external financial resources, despite the reform
efforts of African countries; the emphasis placed on the
narrow and often inappropriate concept of
structural
adjustment; and the absence of appropriate solutions to
external African debt, which continues
to undermine
economic recovery for African countries. Finally, the many
follow-up mechanisms were not really coordinated in their
operation and did not allow for real multilateral cooperation
between Africa and the international community, still less for
the timely adoption of corrective measures.
The United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s is intended to correct some of these
deficiencies by basing itself more on reform programmes
conceived by Africans themselves and with a longer period
of application. Thus the New Agenda
as
its
"has
accelerated
transformation, integration, diversification and growth
objectives
priority
the
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
29
of the African economies, in order to strengthen them
within the world economy, reduce their vulnerability to
external
dynamism,
internalize the process of development and enhance
self-reliance".
(resolution A/46/151, annex, chap. II,
preambular para. 6).
increase
shocks,
their
and
To achieve these priority objectives, it is agreed that the
international community will enter into a new and stronger
contract with Africa which would clearly set forth the
international community’s firm commitment to support and
bolster Africa in its efforts to implement successfully its
agenda for development and to reduce, if not eliminate
completely, the external impediments and obstacles to the
accelerated socio-economic transformation of Africa.
The New Agenda is thus first and foremost a contract,
and each partner is responsible for the obligations to which
it has agreed.
a
climate
As for
the Organization of African Unity, which
includes almost all African States, in its efforts to implement
the New Agenda it has granted priority to the establishment
of
to peace, democracy and
development. The OAU has thus geared its efforts to the
settlement of conflicts in Africa, and as was stated by the
Heads of State and Government of the OAU on the thirtieth
anniversary of that organization,
conducive
"the achievement of the objectives of development,
integration, democratic transformation and strengthening
of democratic institutions requires peace and stability
not only on the domestic level but also among African
States themselves and in their relations with the outside
world".
That is why the OAU is devoted to establishing a
mechanism to prevent, manage and settle conflicts in Africa.
Furthermore,
is making an active contribution to the
restoration or maintenance of peace in several hot spots,
such as Liberia, Somalia, Rwanda, Mozambique and
Burundi.
it
These activities, which supplement and strengthen those
of the United Nations in the maintenance of world peace and
security, are aimed at preventing and containing the negative
socio-economic consequences of conflicts. Thus we feel it
is crucial to emphasize the importance of the support the
United Nations must lend to these initiatives of the pan-
African organization.
The second aspect of the OAU’s activities to establish
a climate conducive to economic development is support for
the process of democratic transition. Thus the OAU, since
the adoption of the New Agenda, has sent observer missions
to 15 African countries. Similarly, it has taken initiatives to
help to correct the situation when the transition process has
been impeded.
In the matter of economic cooperation and integration,
which are important aspects of the New Agenda, the OAU
and its member States have made significant progress since
the signing in Abuja in 1991 of the Treaty establishing the
African Economic Community. The number of ratifications
has now exceeded 50 per cent of the members, and we hope
that we will soon attain the two-thirds majority necessary for
the entry into force of the Treaty. The parallel process of
studies and protocols to be annexed to the Treaty is
continuing. Consensus has been reached on the draft
protocol on relations between the African Economic
Community and the regional economic communities, as well
as
and
communication and the draft protocol on freedom of
movement and the right to residency and settlement in the
Community.
transportation
protocols
draft
the
on
on
A large number of proposals on urgent actions for the
restructuring and revitalization of the integration process
have been put forward and endorsed by Member States.
They include the need to include decisions on and
commitments to integration in national plans, policies and
programmes,
the
population to participate in the integration process, and an
increase in the capacity of communities to set in motion
multinational projects in priority sectors of the infrastructure,
energy, basic industries and agriculture.
the encouragement of all sectors of
The OAU, together with the United Nations Economic
Commission for Africa (ECA) and the African Development
Bank, is actively encouraging African countries to continue
to improve the management of economic programmes and
policies as well as to promote private initiatives and
competitive markets. Similarly, with regard to adjustment,
it has been deemed important to go beyond conventional
national approaches in order to prepare and implement
subregional adjustment programmes. Those programmes
would promote mutual assistance between countries in their
efforts to liberalize trade through the expansion of regional
trade and the achievement of greater integration.
the OAU,
In the area of human resources,
in
cooperation with the ECA and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA), organized at Dakar, Senegal,
the Third African Population Conference, which adopted a
Declaration
and Sustainable
That Declaration represents Africa’s
Development.
contribution to the International Conference on Population
and Development, scheduled for September 1994 at Cairo,
Egypt.
on Population, Family
30
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In November 1992 the OAU also organized,
in
conjunction with the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF), the International Conference on Assistance to
African Children to promote the implementation of the Plan
of Action of the 1990 World Summit for Children.
With respect to the promotion of the role of women in
the OAU has strengthened the unit of its
development,
secretariat responsible for women’s questions.
It has also
drawn up strategies and policies with regard to areas where
women can play a part in development.
Lastly, in order to coordinate activities and improve the
health of
the Heads of State and
Government of the OAU adopted two important declarations
on the crisis in the health sector and on the AIDS pandemic.
their populations,
In the area of the environment, the OAU initiated action
that culminated at Rio in the decision to draw up a
convention on the struggle against desertification.
Those are some of the actions taken by the African
countries within the framework of the OAU to foster the
inclusion in the United Nations New Agenda for
the
Development of Africa a number of clear-cut priority areas.
Those initiatives have been taken in an economically
difficult context. Thus, in his report to the last session of
the OAU Council of Ministers, the Secretary-General of the
OAU stressed that Africa’s economic situation has continued
to worsen despite the serious efforts made by the African
countries to ensure recovery and economic development, and
notwithstanding the structural-adjustment programmes and
political reforms being undertaken in most of our countries.
the
Similarly,
international
Underlying that situation are such internal factors as
inadequate policies, poor economic management and the low
growth rate.
economic
environment has had a negative effect on Africa’s economic
performance. Continued recession in the industrialized
countries has had a negative impact on the demand for
further depressing their prices.
African raw materials,
Africa’s external debt has continued to rise,
reaching
$288 billion in 1992. That situation has been created not by
new loans but, rather, by the capitalization of interest, which
the African countries have not been in a position to pay.
As the report of the Secretary-General of the OAU also
indicates, debt-servicing payments
in 1992 exceeded
$26 billion, or nearly a third of Africa’s total export
earnings. Obviously, the African countries cannot achieve
significant progress in their socio-economic development
until and unless a lasting solution is found to the debt
problem, which is the major impediment to development in
the continent.
the OAU,
the United Nations system,
Faced with that situation, what has the United Nations
New Agenda contributed? If we consider the efforts made
by the international community to promote implementation
of the New Agenda, the United Nations has taken a number
of steps, such as the System-Wide Plan of Action for
African Economic Recovery and Development; the United
Nations Inter-Agency Task Force on African Economic
Recovery and Development, which includes all organizations
of
the African
Development Bank, the Global Coalition for Africa, and the
non-governmental organizations, has begun its work. The
Tokyo Conference on African Development was also an
the Panel of High-level
important
Personalities on African Development
is a welcome
innovation.
pleasure
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s personal participation in that
Panel and the leadership and energy he has lent to its work.
We would express the hope that such consciousness-raising
efforts will continue, and with increased intensity, in order
to keep Africa a priority matter among the international
community’s concerns.
The OAU has
noted with
initiative.
Lastly,
Although two years is too short a period to make an
accurate assessment of the implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa, some
unsettling indicators have emerged. First, the Secretary-
General’s report mentions the fact that the international
community has not provided financial support commensurate
with the magnitude of the economic reforms being carried
out
in Africa. The volume of bilateral assistance, for
example, dropped from $12 billion in 1990 to $10.7 billion
in 1991.
Such inadequate support is one of the causes of the
low rate of growth in Africa since the beginning of this
decade. Per capita income fell by 15 per cent from 1980 to
1992. More seriously, the continent’s self-sufficiency ratio
in major foodstuffs has stagnated or has actually declined.
Lastly,
fell by almost
15 per cent
those factors
demonstrate that
the situation in Africa is disquieting
globally.
from 1990 to 1992.
sub-Saharan Africa’s
exports
All
This session of the Assembly should therefore provide
an opportunity to examine the requisite ways and means to
implement the New Agenda. On the national level it will be
important for the African countries to continue their efforts
to achieve economic and political reform. However, it is at
the level of the international community that the greatest
efforts are required. First, there is an urgent need to adopt
measures that can lead to an effective reduction of the debt
stock beyond the Toronto terms.
It is also important for
donors to provide additional support to efforts designed to
ensure Africa’s economic integration. A decision must also
be taken to create within the African Development Bank a
50th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
31
commodities will
mechanism for the diversification of African commodities,
for without such diversification the African economies will
never become competitive and their dependency on one or
two
their
marginalization. This, then, is a proposal important for
Africa, and we call upon all our partners to study it in the
spirit of solidarity and partnership that the New Agenda
seeks to foster.
exacerbate
inevitably
Another
issue calling for urgent measures is the
strengthening of the machinery for following up the Agenda.
The Bureau of the Coordinator clearly suffers from a lack of
resources, especially human resources.
Governments and peoples of Africa for their perseverance in
the face of prolonged adversity.
Despite some occasional setbacks, the trend towards
democracy and wider popular participation continues.
Understanding and support for Africa comes not only from
the industrialized countries, but
from other developing
nations which also struggle with the heavy burden of
external debt, with adverse terms of
their
commodities, with threats to their environment and with the
pressing need, notwithstanding the sluggish world economy,
to develop their human resources and to exploit
their
economic potential. Africa’s efforts surely merit our
understanding and support.
trade for
be
Similarly,
established
procedures must
for
consultation and concerted action between the United
Nations, the OAU and African Governments, particularly
with respect to monitoring the implementation of the New
Agenda.
In this connection it would be desirable for the
consciousness-raising machinery to be organized on several
levels and with greater involvement by non-governmental
organizations.
The New Agenda has been very slow off the mark.
Distribution of the documentation available at this session
has been very late, although its quality has been good.
It
will therefore have a delayed impact on the ground.
It is
quite clear that sustained efforts will be required if the New
Agenda is not to meet with the same fate as the United
Nations Programme of Action for African Economic
Recovery and Development.
The spirit of partnership
underlying that Programme must be revived and new
initiatives, particularly with regard to lightening the debt
burden, will be required.
is
to
a
Africa
now committed
of
democratization that requires consistent economic support if
it is to succeed. Thus, we hope that the measures taken to
support democracy in other regions of the world will be
extended to Africa. That, as we see it, is the message that
should go forth from this discussion.
process
The PRESIDENT:
I should now like to make a few
remarks on my own behalf at
this
important debate on the New Agenda for the Development
of Africa.
the conclusion of
The conditions of
life in many countries of
that
continent, as described in the Secretary-General’s reports,
remain very difficult. Yet
the
Governments have been willing to attempt bold, though
painful, economic reforms and to stay the course while those
reforms take effect. The African peoples have accepted a
degree of austerity that not many others would be prepared
to bear.
I would therefore like to commend the
the reports show that
solidarity
international
truly measures
For many years,
Secondly, I should like to emphasize that the New
Agenda
and
commitment.
the Assembly has been
promoting the social and economic development of its
growing number of member States. In 1986, it held the first
and only special session directed to one continent, and
created the United Nations Programme of Action for African
Economic Recovery and Development. When this
Programme was
the
international community reaffirmed its partnership with
Africa and offered full and tangible support for Africa’s
economic development.
in September 1991,
reviewed
The progress of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s therefore reflects
Member States’ capacity for effective partnership.
In this
context, I should like to join in the general expression of
appreciation to Japan for organizing,
together with the
United Nations and the Global Coalition for Africa, the
important Conference last month.
Thirdly, this programme, to which the United Nations
has accorded priority, provides a challenge for our system in
the field of development that parallels its challenge in the
domain of peace.
It anticipates the combined development
efforts brought to bear on the neediest continent by the
United Nations, the specialized agencies and the Bretton
Woods institutions.
We are in the process of preparing and adopting a new
agenda for development, and already Africa offers a testing-
ground for the will and capacity of United Nations agencies
to work together to achieve tangible results that improve the
lives of millions of people. We look forward, therefore, to
considering, before the end of this session, a draft resolution
which will refer to progress on the undertakings entered into
by the Assembly two years ago, and will also take note of
the thoughtful reports provided by the Secretary-General and
reflect the tenor and content of the debate just concluded.
32
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
throughout the world who are victims of especially difficult
circumstances, including armed conflicts".
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include this additional item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
In paragraph 2 (b) of the report,
the General Committee also recommends to the Assembly
that the item be allocated to the Third Committee.
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts that
recommendation?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: The Chairmen of the Second and
Third Committees will be informed of the decisions just
taken.
The meeting rose at 7.20 p.m.
May I, finally, thank the Office of Conference Services
for making an exception to our rules and for giving us some
extra time to allow for the conclusion of this important
debate today.
I should like to inform members that the Assembly will
consider at a later date, to be announced in the Journal, a
draft resolution to be submitted under agenda item 24.
AGENDA ITEM 8 (continued)
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ORGANIZATION
OF WORK:
REPORTS OF THE GENERAL
COMMITTEE (A/48/250/Add.6)
contained
in
The PRESIDENT:
I draw the
to the seventh report of
attention of
representatives
the General
Committee,
document A/48/250/Add.6,
concerning a request for the inclusion in the agenda of an
additional item submitted by Rwanda, and a request for the
inclusion in the agenda of an additional item submitted by
Cuba.
In paragraph 1 (a) of the report, the General Committee
recommends the inclusion in the current session’s agenda of
an additional item entitled "Emergency assistance for the
socio-economic rehabilitation of Rwanda".
May I take it that the Assembly decides to include this
additional item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
In paragraph 1 (b) of the report,
the General Committee also recommends to the Assembly
that the item be allocated to the Second Committee.
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts that
recommendation?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: Next, I should like to draw the
attention of representatives to paragraph 2 (a) of the report
of the General Committee.
The General Committee recommends the inclusion in
the current session’s agenda of an additional item entitled
"Necessity of adopting effective measures for the promotion
and protection of the rights of children
