United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
ADDRESS
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
BY MR. GLAFCOS CLERIDES,
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Cyprus.
Mr. Glafcos Clerides, President of the Republic of
Cyprus, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Republic of Cyprus, His
Excellency Mr. Glafcos Clerides, and to invite him to
address the Assembly.
President CLERIDES: Mr. President, it is with great
pleasure that I congratulate you on your election as President
of the General Assembly. This is not merely a recognition
of your long experience and your outstanding ability and
diplomatic skill, but also a reflection of the esteem in which
your country, Guyana, is held in the United Nations. We are
certain that, under your able guidance, the work of this
session of the General Assembly will be a landmark in the
new international scene and in facing the new challenges for
peace, democracy and progress.
I should like also to pay a warm tribute to the
Secretary-General of
the United Nations, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, for the determined leadership that he has
16th
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 5 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
international
demonstrated on vital
issues and for his
excellent report on the work of the Organization, which
provides much food for thought and indicates various areas
of important activities that are the object of soul-searching
consideration in this debate.
May I remind Members that, from the beginning of its
existence as an independent State after many years of
colonial rule until its admission to the United Nations in
1960, Cyprus has consciously made the principles of the
United Nations Charter central to its foreign policy, and,
within its limited possibilities, has endeavoured in every
possible way to be supportive of the Organization.
Frankly, I have to admit that we followed this approach
in our foreign policy both as a matter of principle and as a
matter of self-interest. We have always believed that the
United Nations was mankind’s best hope for a system of
international order, despite the fact that we were aware of
the possibilities of non-adherence to it and of the limitations
to the effectiveness of the world Organization resulting from
the existence of military blocs. Our self-interest as a small
and militarily weak country made us feel the need for the
protection of the world Organization, and, as a developing
country, we stood to benefit from multilateral
technical
assistance and know-how.
The Secretary-General’s excellent report testifies to the
fact that, in today’s post-cold-war era, the United Nations is
at a crossroads. Some years ago, in the context of the
East-West divide and the continuing build-up of nuclear
arsenals, we were agonizing in international forums over the
future of our civilization. The cold war is finally over,
opening up new prospects
in
international policies. New prospects are also opening up
for concerted action and a global approach to the problems
we face.
for positive
change
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86746 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.16
21 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In some parts of the world,
the old regimes have
collapsed and a move to pluralistic societies and the free
market economy is being made. However,
the newly
acquired freedom has revived old enmities. This is not a
strange phenomenon because, as the eminent, late Prime
Minister of India, Mr. Nehru, said, the walk to freedom is
not an easy one. World developments indicate, and clearly
demonstrate, that unless the international community adopts
a more unified approach in its understanding of
the
challenges it faces and promotes the necessary solutions,
human rights abuses, increasing insecurity and hunger and
suffering will create an explosive situation that will spare no
one; we are,
though, gradually becoming aware of the
complexity and scope that even minor issues acquire in an
interdependent world.
is
to
strengthen
responsibility
The world is full of challenges and opportunities. Our
common
the world
Organization in order best to respond to these challenges and
increase mankind’s expectations of peace, prosperity and
democracy. These expectations can be met only by making
the United Nations more
the
implementation of its own resolutions and the mandatory
provisions of the Charter.
effective,
through
The General Assembly, based on the principle of
sovereign equality, has much to offer and must continue to
play its important role under the Charter.
Nowadays, however,
the Security Council has a
substantially enlarged agenda. As the Charter envisages, it
is able to decide and act. At present it is able to act in a
more effective manner in the crucial areas of international
peace and security.
It is evident that the Security Council
can now play a much more important role than ever before.
This is a welcome development, and within the context of
this expanded role a review of its membership to reflect the
realities of today’s world is highly appropriate.
However, the effectiveness of the Security Council, the
highest organ of the United Nations, can be achieved only if
it applies
the practice of acting with determination.
Experience has demonstrated that in those cases where the
international community has shown determination to uphold
the principles of international instruments and fully apply
their provisions, progress can be made. In those cases where
unity of purpose has not been shown or interests of nations
have been placed above universal principles and rule of law,
the problems remain, and peace is elusive.
I wish to point out with emphasis that gaps in
to uphold
law and practice
failure
international
-
international law and human rights, or upholding them in
one situation and closing our eyes to their violation in others
- must no longer be acceptable behaviour, particularly in the
new world order to which we all aspire.
In
plays
economics
today’s world, where
an
increasingly important role, the United Nations, through the
Secretariat, the United Nations Development Programme and
the various specialized agencies, carries out multi-purpose
activities for the betterment and economic well-being of
people throughout the world. These activities are outlined
in the Secretary-General’s report, and in the interest of
saving time I do not intend to comment on them other than
to declare that we fully recognize their importance and
support them. We look forward to receiving later in this
session the Secretary-General’s integrated approach to
development
for
development, which will no doubt appropriately complement
his groundbreaking "An Agenda for Peace" in matters of
peace and security.
forthcoming agenda
in his
issues
In the light of our overall philosophy, as I indicated
earlier, we attach much importance to the effective
functioning of the principal judicial organ of the United
Nations, the International Court of Justice. The increase of
its jurisdiction in contentious cases is encouraging, and we
also attach importance to the possibility of clarifying legal
points in political disputes through advisory opinions. The
International Court of Justice is indeed an integral part of
United Nations peace
the
Secretary-General’s proposal that he be authorized to seek
advisory opinions from the Court as an important component
of the United Nations peacemaking apparatus as a whole.
and we
support
efforts
it
in
of
conditions.
today’s world
The Secretariat’s role in an improved and more
effective United Nations is indisputable, and we pay tribute
to the many men and women in the international civil
service whose competence and dedication enable the
Organization to respond to the ever-increasing demands
made
The
Secretary-General has already done much in the direction of
rationalizing and streamlining the Secretariat, as well as in
putting in place effective machinery for inspections and
investigations whenever necessary, and he certainly has our
support
in the additional measures needed to carry out this
Herculean task. We join in recognizing the undoubted need
for an adequate financial basis for the Organization and for
assessed contributions to be
paid early and in full by
Member States, in terms of both the regular budget and the
costs of peace-keeping. Voluntary contributions are also to
be encouraged in order to carry out the tasks at hand, and I
might recall that Cyprus, besides endeavouring to play its
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
3
modest role in as many such cases as its means allow, has
also undertaken to make, on a continuous basis, a major
contribution towards the financing of the United Nations
Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP).
Past and recent experience in every region of the world
has
demonstrated that the protection and promotion of
human rights is an indispensable ingredient of a stable world
order. Over the years the United Nations has played its full
part in affirming human equality, which is, indeed, the heart
of all rights, and in building bridges across the divides of
race, ethnicity, culture, socio-economic disparities and
political philosophies. Democracy and human rights are two
of the United Nations Charter’s most cherished principles,
and they have always figured prominently in United Nations
conferences.
Democracy is the only system of government that can
safeguard the liberty of the people, respect for human rights
and quality of life. We have a duty to remain vigilant and
continue to look for ways in which these new opportunities
presented by world developments may be used for the
promotion of international peace, the advancement of the
rule of law and the protection of human rights.
The world community must clearly oppose chauvinistic
nationalism, take a clear-cut stand against policies of "ethnic
cleansing" and unequivocally continue making all efforts
until we achieve the complete dismantlement of the unjust
and inhumane social systems based on ethnic political
segregation and the development and consolidation of a
non-racial, democratic South Africa.
The effective promotion of human rights cannot be
separated from the global trend towards democratization.
Cyprus is in the forefront of States that have become party
to treaties for the protection of human rights, both at the
global level, within the United Nations, and at the regional
level, primarily through the Council of Europe. We are
especially sensitive on this subject,
since one large
component of the Cyprus problem in its present dimensions
is the massive violation of the human rights of the displaced
persons who have been evicted by force from their homes by
the Turkish forces of occupation.
Their homes and
properties have been usurped by illegal settlers imported
from Turkey to Cyprus in an effort by the aggressor to
change the demographic composition of the population of
Cyprus.
All these flagrant violations of human rights have been
committed by Turkey, a Member of the United Nations,
despite General Assembly and Security Council resolutions
actions which
the
calling on all United Nations Members to respect
independence and territorial integrity of the Republic, avoid
any
demographic
composition of the population of Cyprus, withdraw all
foreign forces from the territory of the Republic and allow
the return of the refugees to their homes under conditions of
safety.
change
could
the
Cyprus is a case in point of the complete defiance of
General Assembly and Security Council resolutions by one
of its members. In reality, the intransigence of the Turkish
side, which has rendered every effort to find a solution
impossible, accounts for the hesitation of the Security
Council
for compliance with its
resolutions.
If a viable and lasting solution of the Cyprus
problem is to be arrived at without further delay and a
federally united State is to be established without occupation
troops and settlers, concerted action is required by the
international community as a whole.
to adopt measures
It is not only in the solution of the Cyprus problem that
Turkey shows intransigence. The Turkish intransigence
extends to purely humanitarian issues, such as cooperation
in ascertaining the fate of missing persons and in
implementing the third Vienna agreement regarding persons
enclaved in occupied areas.
action
determined
I wish to express appreciation for the support extended
to Cyprus by the General Assembly, the Secretary-General
and the Security Council. We consider a good omen of
further
the
Secretary-General in his most recent report to the Security
Council on Cyprus, and the Council’s positive response to it,
that unless progress is made on the Cyprus problem he will
request the Security Council to consider alternative ways of
securing compliance with the many resolutions of the United
Nations on Cyprus.
declaration
the
of
for
of
of
the
suggestions
constructive
We have had occasion in the past
to express our
support
the
Secretary-General for improving the potential of United
Nations peace-keeping operations in today’s increasing
demand for them, including the training of personnel, the
strengthening
of Peace-keeping
Operations and the earmarking of appropriate equipment and
personnel for use by the United Nations. We are encouraged
that progress has been made in all these areas and in the
setting up of a peace-keeping Reserve Fund, but, in view of
the ever-increasing demands and the worsening of financial
problems associated with these operations, complacency is
not justified and we should all continue to do our best to
the Department
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
assist in discharging this major responsibility thrust on our
Organization.
to achieve successes but also to experience failure."
(A/48/1, para. 512)
community,
and more
particularly
involvement
With regard to peace-keeping, it has been said - not
without justification - that the United Nations should avoid
open-ended
in peace-keeping operations.
Cyprus has been pointed out as an example of over-long
United Nations peace-keeping involvement. The broader
lesson to be drawn from the experience of United Nations
involvement in peace-keeping and peacemaking in Cyprus is
that, so long as one of the parties concerned is not willing to
comply with the dictates of the international community as
spelt out in unanimously adopted and binding resolutions of
the Security Council; and so long as the members of the
international
the
permanent members of the Security Council, are not willing
or able to act effectively in order to implement resolutions
for which they voted, peacemaking will lag behind peace-
keeping, resulting in the indefinite perpetuation of the
problem and of the peace-keeping operation concerned. This
is, obviously, an unsatisfactory situation - unsatisfactory to
the Government and the country directly concerned;
unsatisfactory to the countries contributing to the cost of the
peace-keeping operation; and of course, unsatisfactory to the
United Nations.
in
abandoning the peace-keeping effort and thereby abdicating
responsibility, leaving the weak at the mercy of the strong
and striking a blow against longstanding efforts to solve the
problem, but in pressing on with effective peacemaking
through the implementation of the relevant Security Council
resolutions by all available means, so as to reach a solution
consistent with the Charter and the United Nations
resolutions. Cyprus is indeed a test-case, not, however, with
regard to peace-keeping, but with regard to the effectiveness
of the United Nations in peacemaking.
the answer lies not
I submit
that
If I set out at some length our views on "An Agenda
for Peace", I did so not only because it is very important,
but also because Cyprus is itself a case-study of most of the
problems it raises.
I shall refrain from commenting on the
long litany listed in this year’s report of international
problems in which the Organization is actively engaged and
which extend to all five continents. Each presents its own
complications and special characteristics. They provide a
measure of the enormous expectations placed upon the
United Nations,
the awesome burden of the Secretary-
General’s responsibilities, and the respect and admiration he
deserves in carrying out these responsibilities. As he rightly
points out:
"The United Nations, by undertaking a range of
problems as wide as the globe itself, must be expected
While in the past few years the world has witnessed the
creation of new areas of tension and conflict through the
unleashing of destructive and centrifugal forces of excessive
nationalism and ethnic strife, there have also been some
notable successes through the solution of several regional
issues and the withdrawal of foreign forces following the
end of cold-war antagonism. We have witnessed in many
parts of the world the triumph of democracy and the
emergence of free-market economies. More concretely,
there has been the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the
historic reunification of Germany; major progress towards
ending the odious practice of apartheid in South Africa has
been achieved; and, as recently as last month, the historic
accord between Israel and the PLO was signed at the White
House, marking a new era in the Middle East. All three
situations had appeared to present
the insurmountable
problems of unending and seemingly irreconcilable conflicts.
And yet, with vision and imagination, the political will for
solutions was found.
In contrast, the problem with which my own country
has been confronted for too long has remained intractable,
despite the existence of unanimously adopted United Nations
resolutions and despite the mutually acceptable procedure of
the good offices of the United Nations Secretary-General.
In our view, the problem is solvable and must be solved, yet
the efforts of many years have come to no result owing to
Turkish intransigence backed by Turkish military might.
We remain committed to reaching a peaceful solution
on the basis of the United Nations resolutions and the high-
level agreements. As clearly emerges from successive
reports of the Secretary-General, we have cooperated with
him in all sincerity in the exercise of his good offices for an
overall solution, and we have responded positively to his
proposals for the adoption, as a first step, of the confidence-
building measures and in particular the placing of Famagusta
and the opening of the Nicosia airport under United Nations
administration.
In 1945, the founding fathers signed the Charter in San
Francisco, in the aftermath of a devastating war, with the
vision of establishing the foundations of a better and more
peaceful world. As it nears its fiftieth anniversary, a
watershed in its history, the United Nations is again facing
a major challenge in a rapidly changing international climate.
Peoples and nations all over the world place growing
expectations in the Organization’s response to the new
summons for a universal alliance for peace and justice, for
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
5
democracy, development and international legal order. At
the same time, the ominous phenomena of ethnic strife,
destructive nationalism, widespread poverty and social
injustice are undermining the vital role of the United Nations
in opposing aggression and maintaining international peace,
and are thus posing new challenges.
As the Organization is restructuring itself in order to
meet these challenges more effectively, it is clear that, by
and large, the Charter has stood the test of time. As we
approach the milestone of the fiftieth anniversary of the
Organization, let us agree to spare no effort to make it more
effective, and let us look upon the Charter not merely as a
code of international behaviour that is difficult to live up to
and comply with, but as a reasonable and practical model for
everyday international behaviour and political ethics.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Cyprus for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Glafcos Clerides, President of Cyprus, was
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
ADDRESS BY MR. ZHELYU ZHELEV, PRESIDENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr. Zhelyu Zhelev, President of
the Republic of
Bulgaria, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, His
Excellency Mr. Zhelyu Zhelev, and to invite him to address
the Assembly.
President ZHELEV (spoke in Bulgarian; English text
I would first of all like to
furnished by the delegation):
congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to this
responsible post, and to wish you success.
On behalf of
the Republic of Bulgaria,
let me
congratulate the delegations of the States that have joined the
United Nations as new Members this year - the Czech
Republic,
the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra.
the Bulgarian presidency of
Three years ago, in this same Hall, I had the honour of
addressing the world forum. My message was on behalf of
democratic Bulgaria, a country where changes fully and
genuinely match the ideals and values uniting the nations in
the world Organization. Since then, as indeed over the past
year, under
the General
Assembly, we have witnessed diverse and often contradicting
trends in international life. If there is a dominating feeling,
though, it is one of optimism and of trust, on the part of
both Governments and nations, in the United Nations as a
spokesman for and guarantor of the political will of the
world community for peace and sustainable democratic
development. We have seen a number of encouraging
examples of this.
The democratic changes in Eastern Europe have added
an element of dynamism to building European unity and the
European civil society, a society open to the rest of the
world.
Important forums of the European Community, the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the
Council of Europe provide a frame and a foundation for the
emerging European unity and security. Bulgaria has been an
active participant in the European organizations.
It will be
the first post-Communist country to assume the presidency
of the Committee of Ministers of the oldest European
organization -
is also a
coordinator of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Group,
bringing together the countries of that region.
the Council of Europe.
It
After the Berlin wall,
the walls of Jericho came
tumbling down. There began the long-expected unraveling
of the Gordian knot in the Middle East, the place where
three world cultural and religious traditions coexist. We
welcome also the development of democratic processes in
South Africa that will lead to the establishment of a united
and non-racial society.
Humanity has bid farewell to chemical weapons; and it
has succeeded in convening world conferences on subjects
believed until recently to defy consensus, such as human
rights and protection for the victims of war.
The heightened attention of
The democratic changes in Eastern Europe and the
former Soviet Union continue to be an important condition
for the positive changes in international life at the turn of
this century.
the world
community to the social and political tensions in Moscow is
as understandable as is the broad international support for
the reform-minded and democratic forces in Russia, support
with which Bulgaria fully agrees. The dramatic events in
Moscow which we witnessed over the weekend prove how
difficult and painful the transition from post-Communist
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
society to democracy and a market economy is, and what
dangers and risks it entails. The United Nations cannot
simply stand by and watch with indifference the difficulties
of the countries in transition.
If we are to live up to the
name "United Nations" we have to render our moral,
political and financial support to these nations.
The collapse of totalitarian rule, and the breakup of the
the Warsaw Treaty, created an
Soviet empire and of
unexpected paradox:
less danger to world peace and, at the
same time, less peace in the world and more challenges and
trials for the United Nations.
Regional conflicts have proved to be a key problem for
the new democracies. Think of the consequences of the
world community’s failure to handle the war in the former
Yugoslavia! The stakes are always high but they are even
higher in the Balkans where conflicts threaten to spill over
and embroil other States.
Bulgaria’s civilized and good-neighbourly Balkan policy
entitles it now, as indeed at the very outset of the Yugoslav
crisis, to insist on firm judgement and energetic steps on the
part of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the
Secretary-General to contain and end the barbaric war in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to prevent other smouldering
conflicts in former Yugoslavia from flaring up.
Recent attempts to find concerted ways of coordinating
the peace-keeping efforts of the United Nations and the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) have been
followed with keen interest in Bulgaria. We have already
voiced our support for the constructive engagement of
President Clinton’s Administration, notably the preventive
stationing of a contingent of troops under a United Nations
flag in Macedonia.
Bulgaria is against re-drawing borders and gaining
It has been consistent in its position in
territory by force.
favour of a peaceful solution of the Yugoslav crisis.
indirectly,
By virtue of its geopolitical situation, Bulgaria has a
key role to play in implementing the economic sanctions
against Serbia and Montenegro. We share the longest land
border with Serbia and we are not involved, either directly
or
in the hostilities in former Yugoslavia.
Without Bulgaria the sanctions will be doomed to failure.
Fully aware of our responsibility, we adhere strictly to the
relevant resolutions of the Security Council in the face of
great economic sacrifice. Measured against our potential,
the losses are indeed huge.
The embargo has closed
Bulgaria’s direct route to the markets of Western Europe.
Consequently, its losses for 1992 were estimated - with
expert assistance from the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) - at $943.6 million. The 1993 figure is
expected to be several times higher. The effect of the
sanctions may lead to halting and thwarting economic
reform, as well as jeopardizing the democratic process and
social peace in Bulgaria. In other words, the price Bulgaria
is paying for peace and security in the Balkans and in
Europe may prove fatal to its internal peace and stability.
Direct losses from the sanctions against former Yugoslavia,
Iraq and Libya, are commensurate with one half of
Bulgaria’s external debt to commercial creditor banks, and
they dim the prospects for economic recovery, development
and integration into the world community.
As a State Member of the United Nations Bulgaria
fulfils its international obligations in good faith, convinced
that any civilized country concerned about world security
should uphold a common cause - even at
the cost of
sacrifice. Yet, is it not fair for a country in our position to
seek assistance
and understanding from the world
Organization and its Member States?
the strict
There is an urgent need to devise a working mechanism
of awarding compensation to Member States which sustain
losses as a result of
implementation of the
sanctions imposed by the Security Council. The provisions
of Chapter VII of the Charter are equally important and
should be applied strictly. Article 50 of the Charter could be
backed up by relevant agreements for concrete aid to
Member States affected by sanctions against third countries.
The forms of compensation could include, among others,
measures to ease the economic situation of the affected
country, such as concluding stand-by agreements with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), facilitating the debt-
servicing and settlement procedure, financing major transport
and communication infrastructure projects nationally and
regionally - in our case, new bridges on the River Danube,
an international airport, motorways linking Bulgaria and
Greece, Bulgaria, Macedonia
such as
Thessaloniki-Vidin and Sofia-Skopje-Tirana - speeding up
the ratification of the European Association Agreement
between Bulgaria and the European Community and an
earlier accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade.
and Albania
The Bulgarian delegation at this session of the General
Assembly will put forward proposals on some of the above
issues. We rely on the support and cooperation of the States
Members of the Organization in this regard.
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
7
Considering that no international organization at the
moment is in a position to award direct compensation for
losses sustained as a result of economic sanctions,
the
indirect ways of compensation could be of crucial
importance.
Here is a case in point. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) has undergone a significant evolution
in its attitude towards the conflict. As well as becoming a
major challenge, the Yugoslav crisis has provided an impetus
for the alliance to review its priorities and objectives.
The
problem of
sanctions
and
international
compensation merits serious attention.
It calls for an
in-depth analysis, as it vitally concerns a number of States
Members of the United Nations. The time is ripe to look
into these issues at a special forum for which Bulgaria offers
its hospitality.
operations
peace-keeping
United Nations
have
constituted a most significant and prominent part of the
world Organization’s work over the past year.
I could not
emphasize more the importance of the Secretary-General’s
report entitled "An Agenda for Peace", which developed the
concept of crisis management through preventive diplomacy.
Bulgaria supported this political strategy and backed up its
words with actions by sending Blue Helmets to Cambodia.
Once again, the international community seems to have
been inadequately prepared for mounting such operations.
The question of the safety of United Nations personnel
proved particularly poignant. Bulgaria lost 10 volunteers in
Cambodia, not to mention the cost of its involvement, which
has not yet been fully estimated.
Early warning for potential conflicts calls for effective
international mechanisms to monitor
the human rights
situation, including that of individuals from minority groups
- because conflicts brew wherever individual human rights
are trampled upon, wherever the universal values of modern
civilization are replaced by survival instincts and political
pluralism and the diversity of
ideas, by intolerance,
xenophobia, racism, religious and political bigotry and
violence. The idea of creating a new post within the United
Nations system, that of a high commissioner for human
rights, is an expression of the desire to step up international
cooperation in this field. We are prepared to participate
actively in discussing this matter.
Let us look at the United Nations potential for crisis
management. Many of the proposed ideas hold out promise.
But if they are to materialize, the United Nations must live
up to its coordinating, organizing and mobilizing role in
finding the relevant political and military means.
In the
Yugoslav crisis, for instance, the Euro-Atlantic and European
security organizations could have taken up some of its
functions.
Bulgaria openly declares its readiness to enhance its
cooperation - including as a full member - with NATO and
its member States. Our good bilateral relations and security
cooperation with Turkey and Greece illustrate clearly our
approach and intentions.
It would be beneficial to Balkan
and European security if these relations could be developed
further
into cooperation between allies within NATO.
Bulgaria is willing and able to shoulder responsibility and
act as a reliable partner.
social
Addressing today’s global
and economic
problems calls for new approaches in the work of the United
Nations specialized bodies in these areas. New ways and
means should be sought to facilitate access to technical
assistance and modern technologies. There is a need for
daring and pragmatic initiatives in areas such as trade
liberalization, the future of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT), external debt,
labour migration,
unemployment, environmental safety and the proliferation of
environmentally friendly technologies. The Republic of
Bulgaria is ready to cooperate in any of the above-mentioned
efforts as a member of various United Nations bodies,
including possibly the Economic and Social Council.
The strengthening of the regime of the Treaty on the
non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the preparation
the review Conference in 1995 are of paramount
for
importance.
the non-
proliferation Treaty should become universal and be of
indefinite duration.
Bulgaria shares the view that
Bulgaria’s expectations for the future role and functions
of the United Nations determine its attitude towards the
ongoing reform of the world Organization. On the basis of
its history of nearly 50 years, the Member States can identify
elements of its Charter and structure that need revision and
others that are universal and lasting and whose validity
should not be questioned. Clearly, such decisions can be
reached only after serious debate and by consensus of the
Member States, notably the permanent members of the
Security Council.
It is essential to preserve the Security
Council as an effective decision-making mechanism if its
representation is broadened. The powers and responsibility
of the Secretary-General will certainly change, with an
increasing emphasis on his diplomatic and peace-making
efforts.
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The Bulgarian delegation is taking part in the forty-
eighth session of the General Assembly and making its
contribution as an active member of
the international
community. Our commitment to the problems and the future
of the Organization is prompted by our awareness of being
among the staunchest supporters of its cause and noble
missions.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Bulgaria for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Zhelyu Zhelev, President of the Republic of
Bulgaria, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
ADDRESS BY HIS SERENE HIGHNESS PRINCE
HANS-ADAM II OF LIECHTENSTEIN, HEAD OF
S T A T E O F
P R I N C I P A L I T Y O F
LIECHTENSTEIN
T H E
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the Head of State of
the Principality of
Liechtenstein, His Serene Highness Prince Hans-Adam II of
Liechtenstein.
His Serene Highness Prince Hans-Adam II of
Liechtenstein, Head of State of
the Principality of
Liechtenstein, was escorted into the General Assembly
Hall.
The PRESIDENT: On behalf of the General Assembly
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations the
Head of State of the Principality of Liechtenstein, His Serene
Highness Prince Hans-Adam II of Liechtenstein, and to
invite him to address the Assembly.
Prince HANS-ADAM II of Liechtenstein: Allow me
to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency
of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly and to
express our conviction that your experience and diplomatic
skills will make a valuable contribution to the work of this
august body. My delegation will spare no effort to support
you in the fulfilment of your tasks.
I should also like to
avail myself of this opportunity to thank your predecessor,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the way he conducted the work of the
General Assembly during a difficult period.
Over the last eight months, this Organization has been
able to welcome six new Member States: Slovakia, the
Czech Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Monaco, Eritrea and Andorra, thus enhancing
the universality of the United Nations.
Since the last session of the General Assembly we have
been witness to historic gains in regional disputes. The
signing of the peace agreement between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization is a unique breakthrough
and will, it is hoped, lead to a just and lasting peace for the
region. When the President of
the African National
Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, spoke in this Hall on 24
September, he outlined the historic advances made towards
democracy in South Africa. We are very hopeful that a new
South Africa will play a vital role in the development of the
African continent.
My country was admitted to the United Nations on
18 September 1990 and has tried over the last three years to
maintain as active a presence and participation as possible.
While Liechtenstein was the 160th Member in 1990, the
Organization today has 184 members. This considerable
increase in the Organization’s membership makes it clear
that the ongoing discussion of equitable representation on
and expansion of the Security Council’s membership is
timely and necessary.
It
In our view, the priorities in reforming the Security
Council are cohesion and effectiveness.
is of great
importance, however, that the discussion of reforms also
include the question of the Security Council’s work, since
broad support for its actions is an indispensable condition of
its legitimacy, which can only be guaranteed by enhanced
transparency and cooperation with other Member States.
Article 23 of the Charter establishes that the contribution to
the maintenance of international peace and security is the
first criterion for membership in the Council; it is obvious
that the second criterion - equitable geographical distribution
- has so far not been given due attention.
In view of the
obvious importance of the Security Council’s composition,
we favour taking the necessary time to make adjustments
beneficial to the credibility of the Organization as a whole.
The new effectiveness of the Security Council
is
manifested, among other ways, by the recent considerable
increase of peace-keeping and peacemaking missions. These
operations are closely observed by the public and are often
taken as a yardstick for the activities of the United Nations
as a whole. While we think it important to give more
attention to other fields, such as that of social development,
we are aware of the impact that the failure or success of
peace-keeping activities can have on the credibility of the
Organization.
In our view, the United Nations should not
engage in an ever-increasing number of peace-keeping
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
9
missions all over the world. A more important role should
be given to preventive diplomacy, which can be carried out
by regional organizations or arrangements such as the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
The participating States consider the CSCE a regional
arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United
Nations Charter, and as such it provides an important link
between European and global security. Liechtenstein, as a
participating State, believes
the
cooperation with the CSCE is crucial; my country favours
the idea of granting observer status to that organization and
has supported the request for the inclusion of an additional
item to this effect in the agenda of the forty-eighth session.
that enhancement of
Preventive diplomacy cannot, however, replace peace-
keeping, and the United Nations must remain as active in
that field as is necessary.
It must be pointed out that the
existing infrastructure in New York is not sufficient to cope
with the wide range of tasks, and urgently needs to be
improved.
Deplorable events in the recent past have made it clear
that there is not sufficient protection of civil and military
personnel involved in peace-keeping missions. We therefore
wholeheartedly welcome the inclusion of a new agenda item
proposed by the delegation of New Zealand regarding the
question of responsibility for attacks on United Nations and
associated personnel and measures to ensure that
those
responsible for such attacks are brought to justice.
the Organization’s
With the growing involvement of the United Nations in
complex conflicts,
role has been
transformed into a more active and comprehensive one. As
a result, relief workers expose their lives to great risk in
their efforts to alleviate human suffering. My delegation
believes that it simply cannot be tolerated that relief workers,
who themselves want to save lives, should become targets.
The United Nations should make it very clear that these acts
of violence will not go unpunished. The emblems of the
United Nations, the Red Cross and the Red Crescent must be
respected.
Humanitarian assistance today faces the challenge of
many complex emergency situations. These challenges must
be met on the basis of
the principles of neutrality,
impartiality and humanity; humanitarian aid must not be
politicized. When we are called upon to give proof of our
solidarity, we must provide the necessary financial means.
We are, however, also called upon to address the root causes
of many disasters, such as poverty, population increase and
civil and ethnic strife.
Imbalances feed misery; they not
only are unfair but are dangerous.
Forty-five years after the adoption of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, a great deal remains to be
done in this field, to which we attach particular importance.
The World Conference on Human Rights in June 1993 was
a very important event, and we all know how difficult it was
to adopt the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action.
This text can constitute a milestone in the history of the
United Nations only if it is followed by determined action by
the General Assembly in the spirit of
the Vienna
Declaration. In our view, it is of the utmost importance that
the the Centre for Human Rights be given the resources
necessary to enable it to carry out its tasks even more
efficiently.
In addition, the creation of the post of high
commissioner for human rights is a laudable initiative, and
the General Assembly should provide him or her with a
strong mandate within the already existing structures.
It is a well-known fact that the financial situation of the
United Nations is disastrous.
In his speech of 26 August,
the Secretary-General accordingly outlined initial steps to
cope with this crisis. The measures taken by the Secretary-
General seem to be unavoidable, and we hope they will not
have a negative impact on the work of
the General
Assembly.
In our view, urgent action by the General
Assembly is needed to prevent further deterioration, which
could have serious consequences. Punctual and full payment
of the assessed contributions must be made by all States and
arrears must be paid in full and promptly. Proposals aimed
at ensuring proper utilization of resources and establishing
adequate accountability within the United Nations should be
discussed thoroughly and expeditiously. Finally, an overall
reform of the financial sector seems to be necessary. All
suggestions which might contribute to this aim, especially
those contained in the so-called Volcker-Ogata report, should
be studied with due attention.
Much has been said about the changes that have taken
place since the ending of the cold war. Unfortunately we
cannot say that all these changes have been positive. To the
infinite regret and dismay of
the whole international
community, we have continued to witness the outbreak of a
great number of ethnic and national conflicts, accompanied
by the untold suffering of innocent people. There must be
a better way for the world to manage its affairs. While
tensions within and between communities may be an
inevitable part of the human condition, it is, in our view, of
the utmost importance that ways be found to defuse them
peacefully and without bloodshed.
In this context, I should like to refer briefly again to an
idea which might take us a step in the right direction and
which I introduced when I had the great honour to address
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the General Assembly for the first time at its forty-sixth
session, very soon after Liechtenstein became a Member of
the United Nations. On that occasion, I ventured to suggest
that a basis for some solutions could be found within the
principle of self-determination. The value of this great
principle has been fully demonstrated in the traditional
context of decolonization. But it need not be limited to that
context. Applied also to communities within States, and
allowing for them to have different levels of autonomy
according to the particular circumstances of different
communities, it could perhaps defuse many of the tensions
which are such a potent source of conflict. Such principles,
placed within a suitable framework, would give an effective
and practical dimension to the principle of self-determination
which it has sometimes seemed to lack. Eventually such
provisions could perhaps come to be elaborated in a
convention to be of general application.
Since first putting those thoughts before this Assembly,
we in Liechtenstein have been encouraged by the degree of
interest which has been shown in them. Our ideas are
flexible, although our objective - which is to find practical
and effective ways of avoiding, or at least reducing, tensions
between communities - remains firm. We have refined our
initial thoughts on the subject in the light of comments made
by others, and we developed our ideas further at the last
session of the General Assembly, both during debates in the
Third Committee and when the Head of Government
addressed the Assembly in the course of the general debate.
represented in the Assembly,
On that occasion, the Head of Government announced
that the Government of Liechtenstein would be inviting each
Government
including
Observers, to nominate an independent expert to attend an
informal meeting of experts in Liechtenstein to discuss these
matters further. That meeting took place from 16 to 18
March this year, attended by participants nominated by 46
States and international and non-governmental organizations.
I attended it myself throughout, and can say personally how
valuable we found the contributions participants made to the
development of our thinking. Perhaps I might be allowed to
take this opportunity to thank them all for their participation
in what we see as an important and valuable project.
Over the past two years we have, in these various ways,
carried forward our belief that, in the ideas first put forward
to Assembly in 1991, the international community may find
some way forward in its search for ways of avoiding the
kind of internal conflicts which cause ever-increasing human
suffering and which are increasingly dangerous for the peace
and safety of our world. To make further progress we
decided this year to seek to inscribe an item on the
Assembly’s agenda which would enable our ideas to be fully
discussed by the full membership of the United Nations. We
are grateful that our proposal was accepted and now appears
on the agenda for this session as item 108 (b), entitled
"Right of peoples to self-determination: Effective realization
of the right of self-determination through autonomy". We
look forward to the debate which will follow, and I hope to
be able to participate myself in at least part of it. We hope
that in the light of what may be said in the debate, the
Assembly will agree that there is, in the ideas which we
have put forward, something valuable which merits further
consideration and elaboration.
We do not underestimate the difficulties ahead. We are
aware of the sensitivities of this whole subject, especially in
these times. Great though those difficulties and sensitivities
may be for some States, we are convinced that the needs of
the international community are even more pressing. The
dangers, horrors and suffering to which tensions between
communities within States can give rise, and of which we
sadly have daily reminders, make it essential
the
international community to make every effort to open up
new thinking in this field in order to find practical and
effective means for further promoting the principles and
purposes of the Charter of the United Nations.
for
We consider it a great privilege to have an Organization
such as the United Nations, founded upon a Charter which
encompasses the highest ideals of humankind. I wish to take
this opportunity to reaffirm my country’s commitment to the
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
I wish to thank the Head of State of the
Assembly,
Principality of Liechtenstein for the statement he has just
made.
On behalf of
His Serene Highness Prince Hans-Adam II of
Liechtenstein, Head of State of
the Principality of
Liechtenstein, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. DEMBRI (Algeria) (interpretation from Arabic):
Your unanimous election, Sir, to the presidency of the forty-
eighth session of the General Assembly represents a just
recognition of your great diplomatic experience, your human
qualities and your constant commitment to the promotion of
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
11
dialogue and multilateral cooperation in the service of peace,
security and development.
I should like to congratulate you most warmly on the
well-deserved tribute from the international community both
to you personally and to your country.
I am particularly
pleased that the prestigious responsibility of guiding the
work of the General Assembly has been given this year to
an eminent son of Guyana, a country which, side-by-side
with Algeria, has always been resolutely in the forefront of
the defence of the cause of peace, justice, progress and
understanding among nations.
Your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev,
firmly and
tactfully conducted a busy and productive forty-seventh
session. We wish to express our deep gratitude to him for
a mission
and
dedication.
accomplished with
open-mindedness
I also wish to pay special tribute to the Secretary-
General of our Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
who has spared no effort in making the United Nations rise
to the many and complex challenges of a crucial period in
the development of international relations. His foresight,
courage and initiative have won him the esteem of all. His
persevering activity bears for the United Nations the promise
of the renewal after which our peoples fervently aspire.
Algeria extends a warm welcome to the new Member
States which have joined our Organization, and is gratified
that their accession to the membership of the United Nations
will contribute to the achievement of its objectives in the
areas of peace and development.
In recent years, the history of the world has accelerated
its pace considerably. Rapid and profound changes have put
paid to an international order that had long been frozen in
place by the cold war. However, far from moving steadily
toward the achievement of a well-ordered international
society, those changes have generated the makings of a
disquieting explosion. While the world changes under our
very eyes, we are unable to grasp and take cognizance of the
laws that govern such change. This dynamic, and the major
upheavals it causes, have shaped a new geopolitical
configuration in many parts of the world that has affected
the lives of many of its peoples. Given this type of change,
wherein inter-State relations are jostled by a proliferation of
protagonists, of ambitions and gambles, and of the methods
of international action there is a need for a collective effort
to revitalize both our means of knowing and our methods of
action.
In short, we need to rethink the world order. We
must, as a community of nations, succeed in controlling the
changes which are taking place and the unwieldy trends that
are now emerging.
In this maelstrom of historical change,
this period of transition with all its hesitations and emerging
global dangers, the thing that attracts one’s attention more
than any other is the hope, the promise of a new world order
that must be fashioned side by side with the daily suffering
that goes on in the world and which we cannot ignore.
the world order that
Indeed, in spite of the glowing promises of peace and
international cooperation,
is taking
shape now not only contains too many old hotbeds of
tension, but also gives rise to new mushrooming conflicts.
Tensions between ethnic and religious groups are increasing
and are being exacerbated while whole regions, and even
entire continents, are being marginalized in a most atrocious
manner. The right of peoples to self-determination is being
violated and obstructed here and there. Hunger and poverty
are expanding.
Imbalances in the world economy are
deepening and worsening. All of these situations pose
challenges to the international community that call for urgent
and concerted action.
It is therefore up to us - and this is the challenge faced
by all nations
that are bound by an ever-growing
interdependence - to see to it that the ideals of justice and
peace prevail, that new possibilities for the settlement of
certain regional conflicts and for general and complete
disarmament lead to comprehensive action eliminating the
root causes of conflicts while, at the same time, promoting
economic and social development, a prerequisite for
international peace and security.
This is why it is appropriate to underscore here the fact
that the Agenda for Peace (A/47/277), whose importance is
recognized everywhere, will achieve its objectives only if it
is accompanied by an agenda for development; for peace and
development are closely interrelated, and conflicts too often
take root in the soil of injustice and poverty.
It is obvious
that the future of the system of collective security which we
wish to build will depend to a great extent on our ability to
forge a consensus on the different aspects contained in the
Agenda for Peace. This means that it is necessary for us to
continue, collectively and without bias, to consider those
aspects of
the Secretary-General’s report about which
differences persist or which require further elaboration and
consideration.
The encouraging progress achieved in strengthening the
capability of the United Nations in the areas of active
preventive diplomacy, as well as in peace-keeping and
peacemaking operations, should be welcomed, but a great
deal remains to be done in this field if we are to make better
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
use of all the experience gained in those areas by the United
Nations. We should see to it that our action remains strictly
faithful to the goals and principles of the Charter of the
United Nations. Algeria, which is honoured to participate
actively and concretely in peace-keeping operations, will
continue to do its share in this collective endeavour in the
service of peace.
The restructuring, revitalization and rationalization of
the structures of the organs of the United Nations and their
working methods have made
considerable progress.
However, this process, which is not an end in itself, will
produce its full effects only if the Member States, and
particularly the developed countries, reaffirm and strengthen
their commitment to the United Nations and renew their
political and financial support for its activities, particularly
in the economic and social spheres.
it
In our view,
It is this exacting and responsible approach that my
country consistently promotes in all the areas of cooperation
in which it takes part. In so doing, Algeria conducts its own
action within the context of the efforts by the Non-Aligned
Movement toward greater democratization of the United
Nations and better balance between the spheres of
competence of its organs.
is time we
reflected collectively on how to reform the Security Council,
with a view to broadening its composition, improving its
working methods and making it more accountable for its
action to the entire international community in whose name
it adopts its resolutions. A more representative, more
transparent Security Council that would be more cognizant
of the views and concerns of all; a General Assembly that
would fully play its role in activating, guiding and
supervising; and a United Nations system that would be
more coherent and better coordinated in carrying out its
development tasks:
these are the three pivotal approaches
that may give to the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization
significant political scope and operational content and
generate the makings of a new beginning. The credibility of
the United Nations and the effectiveness of its action depend
on this, as do international peace, security and cooperation.
All the initiatives by my country at the national and
regional levels are inspired by the ideals of peace, justice
and cooperation. The national-renewal plan upon which
Algeria has embarked in the interests of political stability,
the consolidation of the democratic process, the revitalization
of economic growth and the upholding of the rule of law is
a plan that translates into action our resolve to guarantee, for
all Algerians, the rights to security and well-being in a just,
modern and democratic society.
Given this determination, our efforts in combating
terrorism and our efforts aimed at providing the conditions
for real growth stem from the same overriding priority, that
of meeting the expectations of our people be fulfilled by
restoring the authority of
the State and creating the
conditions for an orderly transition that would make possible
stable and coherent progress towards a market economy
through viable and orderly reforms.
Such a vast enterprise must find its expression and
derive its support from an active foreign policy based on the
principles and ideals of non-alignment and geared towards
the promotion of peace, stability and cooperation at the
regional and international levels.
In this spirit, Algeria works steadily and resolutely for
success in the process of building a united Maghreb. The
important achievements that have been made so far, which
will help us to benefit from the complementary nature of the
countries of the union of the Arab Maghreb, confirm that the
dynamics of this unifying process have enabled us to
mobilize our energies, despite certain persistent problems
that affect regional stability.
Our country’s central position in the region, its resolve
to reinforce and promote the building of the Maghreb and its
commitment to international legality have prompted it to
encourage the kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front
to turn to direct, sincere, constructive dialogue that can
facilitate the implementation of the peace plan prepared
jointly by the United Nations and the Organization of
African Unity, with the full agreement of the two parties
concerned.
It is important, now more than ever before, that the
dialogue which was initiated at El-Ayoun between Morocco
and the Polisario Front should resume and continue at an
authoritative level. Algeria, for its part, hopes that the two
parties will choose the path of reason and that will do all in
their power to resolve outstanding questions in a serious
manner and without delay, thus promoting the holding of a
free and orderly referendum on self-determination for the
people of Western Sahara. Algeria is convinced that a just
a lasting solution to the question of Western Sahara can
promote stability and peace in the region. We therefore
hope that the international community, as well as the United
Nations and its Secretary-General, will redouble efforts to
ensure, in the best conditions of credibility and impartiality,
implementation of the United Nations settlement plan, with
the complete cooperation of the two parties.
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
13
The same applies to the Mediterranean region. In fact,
Algeria has always worked to make that region, with the
participation of all
the States concerned, one of peace,
stability and mutually advantageous cooperation. It is to this
end that we continue to work for the consolidation and
deepening of political agreement in our region and for the
establishment of new types of cooperation. Algeria is
therefore making constant efforts to have the forum of "5 +
5" activated, as
is a promising framework for
cooperation between North and South in the Mediterranean.
this
It is in the field of disarmament that the end of the cold
war has produced tangible results most rapidly. However,
considerable work remains to be done, especially by the
nuclear Powers. The final cessation of nuclear testing in all
environments and the renunciation of the development of
new weapon systems are objectives the attainment of which
is now within the reach of the international community -
provided, of course, that the nuclear Powers go beyond
current agreements and summon up the necessary political
will for this purpose.
In this context, Algeria notes with interest and with
hope the proposals made from this rostrum on 27 September
by the President of the United States of America. The
complete elimination of all weapons of mass destruction is,
in fact, part of the logic of history. The conclusion of the
Convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons has
shown that
this objective is no longer Utopian. Any
approach to the question of disarmament and international
security and, in the final analysis, to the question of peace
should be universal in scope. This is a conviction that is
being reiterated time after time by Algeria and by the
Non-Aligned Movement. Disarmament, if it is to be lasting,
must take account of all aspects of the situation, and not of
the military dimension alone.
It is now clear that, in an
increasingly interdependent world, peace and security cannot
be dissociated from their natural corollaries - socio-economic
development and the promotion of all human rights.
The protection and promotion of human rights - all
human rights - is a high priority for Algeria. Therefore, we
are pleased at the positive results of the World Conference
on Human Rights, held in Vienna, which expressed support
for an integrated and global approach to human rights,
whose civil, political, economic and social aspects reinforce
and complement each other.
Algeria, which subscribes completely to this view and
endorses this approach, is now at a juncture that makes it an
obligation of the State to give priority to human rights, to
protection of the fundamental right to life and to personal
security. In this context, the restoration of public order and
the struggle against terrorism are manifestations of Algeria’s
determination to give a firm guarantee of the development
of human rights and the building of a lasting democracy
based on the rule of law, the changeover of political power
between parties and republican principles.
to
oppose,
firmly
This declared struggle against terrorism has an internal
aspect, but it has international dimensions as well. Here we
should like to make it abundantly clear that Algeria will
continue
utmost
determination, every outside attempt at destabilization and
that it will tolerate no interference in its internal affairs.
It
is Algeria’s belief that the international community must
assert itself and mobilize its energy to defeat the modern
barbarity of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.
and with
the
It is therefore important for the deliberations at this
session of the General Assembly vigorously to lead to the
formulation of an international convention on the prevention
and repression of terrorism.
While a number of regional conflicts are on the way to
pacification and lasting settlement, others, however, there is
no peaceful, just solution in sight.
In the Middle East, which has been buffeted for
decades by waves of suffering and confrontation, new
prospects are emerging. Algeria welcomed the recent
agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization
(PLO) and Israel and expressed the hope that it would be the
first step towards an overall settlement of the Middle East
conflict in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242
(1967) and 338 (1973). Now as in the past, Algeria which
stands firmly behind the independence of decision-making by
the Palestinian leaders calls upon the Palestinians to close
ranks and reaffirms its support for the PLO.
At this crucial stage for the future of the region, Algeria
believes that the international community continues to be
responsible for building peace. For that peace to be genuine
and lasting, it must be comprehensive and must meet the
national aspirations of the Palestinian people and restore all
the territories occupied by Israel, including Al-Quds Al-
Sharif.
As an Arab country, Algeria, naturally, is intimately
involved in the future of the Arab world. Overcoming the
aftermath of the Gulf war ought to open the way to the
inter-Arab reconciliation for which our peoples fervently
hope.
the
obligations stemming from Security Council resolutions and
Since Iraq has undertaken to meet fully all
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
since international law has established the geographical basis
for peaceful neigbourliness between Iraq and Kuwait, we
hope that the outstanding humanitarian questions will soon
be resolved so that the collective conscience of the Arab
peoples may be able finally to heal itself of the scars of the
Gulf war.
My country reaffirms its support for the Government of
the United Arab Emirates in its legitimate efforts to regain
sovereignty over the three islands under illegal foreign
occupation.
Algeria welcomes with hope the positive developments
in South Africa, despite the continuing violence and other
factors that endanger peace. The agreement to set up the
Transitional Executive Council holds promise for the speedy
achievement of a united, democratic, non-racial South
Africa. Chairman Nelson Mandela’s call from this rostrum
for the lifting of economic sanctions against South Africa is
further testimony to his lofty sense of responsibility and an
illustration of the progress that has been achieved in the
peaceful dismantling of apartheid.
This development
deserves the full attention of the international community,
which should spare no effort in contributing to putting an
end to the inter-ethnic violence and to provide the means by
which the democratic forces can participate effectively in the
long-awaited elections.
Algeria also follows attentively developments in several
fraternal African countries. We encourage the peace efforts
of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity
(OAU) and the relevant subregional organizations. We note
with satisfaction the progress achieved in Mozambique,
Rwanda and Liberia, and express the hope that
those
countries will overcome their problems with the help of the
international community and devote all
their energy to
reconstruction and development. We hope that peace and
harmony will be restored in Angola in accordance with the
agreements reached between the two parties and with the
resolutions of the Security Council, which have clearly
determined where the responsibilities lie.
We are gravely concerned about the ongoing violence
in Somalia, particularly in Mogadishu.
It reminds us that
humanitarian assistance and promoting political solutions
must go hand in hand. The tragedy of Somalia is the most
telling symbol
to date of Africa’s marginalization in
international relations, and it attests to the tragic effects of
the international community’s
inadequate response to
Africa’s clear needs with respect to economic and social
development.
by
the
community,
international
The tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a challenge
to the world’s conscience. In spite of the Security Council’s
the acquisition of territory by force,
many resolutions,
"ethnic cleansing" and trampling of all
the norms of
international law continue to prevail there. In the absence of
firm action
the
dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a State Member
of the United Nations, continues unabated, and puts at risk
the peace and stability of that country and of the region as
a whole. Algeria expresses its solidarity with the Bosnian
people, and most particularly with its Muslims, who have
been the victim of untold hardships. We appeal to the
international community to reject the fait accompli imposed
by aggression and help protect the independence, sovereignty
and territorial
integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
The international situation is not disturbing at
the
political and security levels alone but is also causing concern
because of
the
deteriorating economic situation of the developing countries,
and the grave instability brought about by profound changes
in international economic relations.
the persistence of world recession,
At a time when our interdependent world is in the
midst of a complex and perilous historic transition, the
communication gap between North and South must come to
an end. The universal imperative of peace, security and
development makes us consider the developing situation in
the countries of the South. Most of them are facing the
challenges of globalization with economies made uniquely
vulnerable by the crushing weight of foreign indebtedness,
their precarious internal balance and a highly unfavourable
international economic environment.
The efforts of developing countries
to promote
economic growth and make the structural changes necessary
for development are made far more difficult and risky by the
erosion of multilateral cooperation, the conflicting interests
of
the dominant economic players and the constraints
imposed by economic decisions that are too often selfish and
exclusionary.
It
is therefore essential
to respond in a concerted
fashion to the need for an orderly restructuring of
international economic relations by establishing coordinated
mechanisms to regulate the functioning of
the world
economy. In this context, it is important that the questions
of debt, the scarcity of capital and technology inflows, to the
countries of the South, the continued decline in commodity
prices,
the deterioration of the terms of trade and the
difficulty of access to markets should become the focus of
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
15
the international community’s attention in order for us to
find lasting solutions to such problems.
Such a collective concerted type of action that would be
consonant with the requirements of adjustment by the
developing countries themselves, is a must if we are to
relaunch the international economy on a fair and well-
balanced basis and make it possible for the developing
countries to reap the expected benefits from the economic
reforms they have undertaken. This would make meaningful
the sacrifices being made by the developing countries in
undertaking the necessary restructuring changes aimed at
relaunching their economies and integrating them into the
world economy.
It would also make it possible for the
international community to learn from the experiences
acquired in debt management and structural adjustment
programmes. Lastly, it would promote the creation of a true
market environment in the developing countries.
inconceivable without
The Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro demonstrated that
environmental protection is
the
promotion of sustainable development and sustained growth
in the developing countries. We must
therefore work
determinedly towards achieving this objective and place
sustainable development on the agenda of the new world
order.
The holding of a world summit on social development
scheduled for 1995 to deal with problems of human security
affords us an opportunity to engage in an international
dialogue on the implications and results of transition in the
world.
The United Nations and the Bretton Woods
institutions must grasp these new problems and contribute to
developing a new framework for reflection and guidance to
direct better the evolution of the international system. This
endeavour may seem difficult, but it is essential for a better
understanding of this new order, which we wish to be
balanced, fair and consensual. It would also tend to support
the Secretary-General’s efforts to draw up an agenda for
development.
the reform,
At a time when our Organization faces various
challenges,
restructuring and revitalization
process now under way in the United Nations acquires
special importance. Restructuring the Secretariat and the
economic and social sectors, revitalizing the Economic and
Social Council, relaunching the operational development
activities of the United Nations system and assuring the
stable and predictable growth of its resources are all tasks
that should be combined to give multilateral action the
utmost credibility and effectiveness.
it
This undertaking is part of the vast effort to equip the
United Nations for and adapt
to present and future
challenges, and it requires participation by all of us. This
endeavour is the vessel for feeding the faith of the peoples
of the United Nations in an indivisible humankind.
It is
bound to succeed so long as our more democratic and more
effective Organization is the active centre and catalyst for
the promotion of fair and equitably shared development and
the foundation of a peace built by mankind as a whole.
Mr. SULEIMENOV (Kazakhstan) (interpretation from
Russian): Allow me first of all, Sir, to associate myself with
the congratulations already extended to you on your election
to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session and to wish you every success in your
endeavours.
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, I should like to convey deep sympathy to the
Government and the people of the friendly country of India
for the heavy death toll and considerable material
loss
caused by the devastating earthquake on 30 September.
The international realities that form the background of
the current session are a direct reflection of the development
of extremely contradictory tendencies within the world
community. On the one hand, during the year gone by since
the beginning of the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly we have witnessed a dynamic development of
international relations along with increased United Nations
activity in the resolution of global economic, social and
environmental issues and in the promotion of peace and
security. The achievement of agreement on the Middle East
problem should undoubtedly be counted as a breakthrough
in multilateral diplomacy, but, on the other hand, we must
state with regret that no agreement has been reached so far
on the cessation of hostilities in the former Yugoslavia, that
the tension in Somalia has increased and that hotbeds of
conflicts still smoulder in a number of republics of the
former Soviet Union.
We have made a careful study of the Secretary-
General’s report (A/48/1) on the work of the Organization
and share its principal conclusion that in order to produce
enduring results there must at all costs be a new level of
political will and realism.
The President of the United States, Mr. Clinton, pointed
out in his statement on 27 September that the United Nations
simply cannot be engaged in each and every one of the
conflicts in the world. This goes without saying. But it is
equally self-evident that the United Nations is today, and
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
will remain in the foreseeable future, a body to which
humanity - the world’s nations and individuals - will link
their aspirations for peace, development and human rights.
In these circumstances, in our opinion, a package of
concrete measures aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of
the United Nations is called for. We believe that, along with
a further definition of the functions of the United Nations
main organs, the elimination of duplication in their activities
and the adequate financing of United Nations peace-keeping
is high time to consider the question of
operations,
expanding the permanent membership of
the Security
Council. We are confident that this measure will enable the
United Nations to respond more rapidly and objectively to
the new, dangerous challenges of the times and eruptions of
violence, regardless of where this might happen.
it
The harsh realities of the post-confrontation era have
highlighted the urgency of redirecting the efforts of the
world community towards eliminating the potential for
disputes within a State or between States to escalate into
military conflicts. Should we fail to resolve disputes at an
early stage, we will simply reap fruits similar to those reaped
in the former Yugoslavia, Nagorny-Karabakh and Tajikistan.
This reaffirms once again the appropriateness of the idea of
preventive
by Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali in his report "An Agenda for Peace". Only
by taking a series of preventive measures based on global
and regional cooperation between nations can peace be
ensured and maintained.
formulated
diplomacy
This is at the heart of the idea of creating a system of
collective security in Asia within the framework of the
Conference on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures
in Asia (CICMA). As is known,
this initiative was
formulated comprehensively by Mr. Nazarbaev, President of
the Republic of Kazakhstan, precisely one year ago, at the
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. To promote
the realization of the initiative, Kazakhstan hosted two
rounds of expert-level meetings within the framework of
preparations for CICMA, which took place this year in
Almaty and yielded promising results. At present, 25 Asian
States are involved in the CICMA process.
I take this
opportunity to invite other States interested in strengthening
confidence-building measures in Asia to join our efforts.
I
believe that today we should actively broaden our efforts to
define the problems related to this initiative. I have in mind
particularly the preparations for the conference of Foreign
Ministers of Asian States which, in the view of experts,
could be convened in 1994.
been
endorsed
by
has
in Asia
We note with satisfaction that the idea of regional
cooperation
the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and has found
a broad response within the United Nations, the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
the
Organization of the Islamic Conference and the League of
Arab States. This positive reaction to our initiative fills us
with confidence in its viability and its significance for the
cause of peace in Asia.
the members of
Indeed, the States of the Asian region have an equally
strong interest in the prevention and peaceful settlement of
conflicts as well as in the prevention of the emergence of
new hotbeds of regional and global tension. As an example
I would mention the formation of the Defence Coalition
Forces of
the Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS), which acted as a restraining factor
in the Tajik conflict.
Joint military units of Russia,
Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan managed to reduce
considerably the scale of military confrontation, saved the
lives of thousands of civilians and provided relief for
hundreds of thousands of refugees.
In this context, the
Republic
other
Commonwealth States, is asking for support for our joint
appeal to recognize the Defence Coalition Forces of the CIS
as the United Nations peacemaking force in that region.
of Kazakhstan,
along with
the
is
the coordination of
Another important aspect of close cooperation between
Asian States
their efforts on
environmental issues. The severe environmental problems
of Kazakhstan are well known. The first among them is the
problem of the Aral Sea. The critical situation in the Aral
region has frequently been discussed at various international
conferences and meetings of Heads of States. As a result,
we now have a sizeable package of documents defining
short-term and strategic solutions to the problem. We point
in particular to the signing of the Agreement on Joint
Activities in Preserving the Aral Sea and the Environmental
Rehabilitation of
the
International Fund for Preserving the Aral Sea. However,
we are convinced that this environmental tragedy has effects
far beyond the confines of the region. Today, only the
collective efforts of the world community can bring about a
solution to this problem. We therefore support the proposal
put forward by the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan,
Mr. Karimov, to set up a special United Nations forum,
perhaps a United Nations commission on the Aral Sea.
the Region and the Statute of
Another priority in the foreign policy of our Republic
is the strengthening of intergovernmental relations within the
CIS. We are confident that at present no member State of
the Commonwealth is able effectively to pursue its internal
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
17
and foreign policy in isolation from the policies of the other
members of the CIS.
In this context, the President of the
Republic of Kazakhstan, Mr. Nazarbaev, has repeatedly
proposed concrete measures to consolidate the common
economic space and ensure social and political stability on
a collective basis.
At the recent meeting of the Heads of State of the CIS
in Moscow, an economic union of the Commonwealth was
set up for the purpose of coordinating the policies of
member States in various fields. This serves the interests of
all members of the CIS.
Kazakhstan will
remain active in promoting the
integration of the members of the CIS. We strongly believe
that all emerging political problems and conflict situations
should be resolved in constructive and civilized ways. This
idea is the essence of two recent statements by President
Nazarbaev on the current critical situation in the Russian
Federation.
Our State has a diversified foreign policy, and the
expansion of cooperation in all fields with all countries is of
utmost strategic importance to us. After signing the Lisbon
Protocol of 23 May 1992, the Republic of Kazakhstan, along
with other States successors to the USSR, was recognized as
a party to the START I Treaty and undertook to accede to
the non-proliferation Treaty as a non-nuclear State. At
present, negotiations are under way with a number of States
on cooperation in assisting Kazakhstan to meet
its
commitments to eliminate strategic offensive weapons.
In this context, I share the opinion of my Ukrainian
colleague, Mr. Zlenko, about the extreme complexity of this
In our opinion, Kazakhstan would need
problem.
considerable funds for this purpose:
approximately $2
billion - not an easy sum to find in our national budget.
These funds are needed not only to cover the dismantling of
nuclear weapons, but also to eliminate the consequences of
nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk Testing Ground and to
solve the Aral sea crisis as well.
One of the active areas of Kazakhstan’s foreign policy
is cooperation with the CSCE and the North Atlantic
Cooperation Council. The possibilities of Kazakhstan’s
more regular and active participation in CSCE activities
were discussed in particular with the CSCE Chairman,
Margaretha af Ugglas, Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Sweden, during a visit of the CSCE delegation to Almaty
last June.
life, a fact
Broadly speaking, our foreign policy can now be
described as dynamic and active. Kazakhstan’s membership
of the United Nations has allowed it to become actively
involved in international
reflected in our
membership now of 20 international organizations, including
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO),
and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the World
Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), and others.
The Republic’s
membership in the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO),
the Economic Commission for
Europe (ECE) and other international organizations is under
consideration.
the Economic
Kazakhstan’s internal reforms are being carried out in
accordance with the international treaties to which it has
acceded.
In spite of major economic problems, which are
common in varying degrees to the States of the former
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, a strong legal basis for
economic reforms has been laid down in our Republic.
The laws passed by the Kazakhstan Parliament are
designed to develop medium- and small-scale business,
attract and protect foreign investments and liberalize foreign
trade. Providing a legal basis for foreign economic activity
envisages a gradual decrease of export and import duties and
the removal of free trade barriers which had to be imposed
during the transition period because of the particular features
of that time. Of course, such transformations will take more
than one or two years, but Kazakhstan intends to carry them
out as soon as possible.
at
the
of
tests
nuclear
Referring to the problem of the elimination of the
consequences
now-closed
Semipalatinsk Testing Ground, I should like to draw the
Assembly’s attention to the enormous damage to the health
of the people of a vast region wrought by 466 nuclear tests
in all environments.
In varying degrees, almost half a
million Kazakh citizens have suffered the deadly effects of
nuclear tests.
It is quite understandable, therefore, that
Kazakhstan wholeheartedly supports a comprehensive and
complete ban on nuclear tests.
Kazakhstan has now begun to attract
international
business. Following deals with Chevron and other major
foreign companies, which have demonstrated to the world
business community that Kazakhstan is anxious to attract
foreign investment on a mutually beneficial basis and ensure
a favourable environment
foreign
investment into the Republic’s economy has been growing
steadily, and this is raising our hopes for the ultimate
success of our reforms.
the flow of
for
it,
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
participated in the promotion of international relations,
contributed to the strengthening of processes of integration,
and has offered its own ideas on how to improve the United
Nations.
readiness
to make
We
reaffirm our
an active
contribution to the work of the Organization and to support
all endeavours aimed at enhancing international cooperation
and achieving peace and international accord.
At the same time I should like particularly to point out
that the United Nations today is an international forum of
184 Member States, including those which, like Kazakhstan,
only recently gained their independence. Considerable
expansion of the membership over the past few years has, in
our view, broadened the range and diversity of opinion
within the Organization as well as pluralism in approaches
to the analysis of international political events. To achieve
consensus today we need a collective search for new
principles of coexistence of States in the United Nations, as
well as the improvement
The Constitution of
We understand clearly that now, at a time when our
Republic is reaching out to the world community and is
declaring its willingness to join it as an equal and respected
member, it is of particular importance for us to affirm our
compliance with internationally recognized standards of
the Republic of
human rights.
Kazakhstan adopted in January 1993 recognizes,
in
accordance with international standards,
the primacy of
rights and freedoms of the individual and places the primacy
of the interests of the individual above the interests of the
State and society, proclaims the ideas of civil peace and
ethnic accord, and the equality of all nations and ethnic
groups living in the Republic.
I wish to draw attention to
the fact that Kazakhstan is the only one of the newly formed
States of the former USSR where national radio and TV
programmes are broadcast
languages,
newspapers and magazines are published in seven languages
and instruction in schools is given in 18 languages.
in six different
Kazakhstan’s commitment to equal rights for all ethnic
groups in economic and social development was clearly
stated at the World Conference on Human Rights held in
Vienna last June. The documents adopted at that Conference
will undoubtedly serve as an important guarantee of the
observance of human rights both at the international and at
the national levels.
However, the practical realization of human rights and
freedoms is a long and gradual process which depends on
many factors such as the level of economic and political
development of the society, the ideological priorities, the
national mentality, and so on. It is therefore unjustifiable for
some people to assume the responsibility for setting human
rights standards and to use their own interpretation of the
concept as an instrument of pressure on certain countries in
questions related to bilateral or multilateral relations.
In this context, Kazakhstan, while supporting efforts to
affirm the universal nature of human rights, believes that it
is necessary to take into account
the specific national
conditions of each member of the world community. The
problem of human rights is not only pressing but also
delicate, and hence it requires an extremely careful and
balanced approach. It is this understanding which drives the
internal ethnic policy of our country, a State the very
stability of which depends upon the peaceful and mutually
respectful coexistence of ethnic groups.
The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is the
second one in which Kazakhstan has participated as a full
Member of
the United Nations. Despite such recent
membership in the Organization, Kazakhstan has actively
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
19
and adaptation of the Organization to the rapidly changing
realities of modern life.
It
is for this reason that we call upon all States
Members of the United Nations to consider our proposal to
convene a special session of the General Assembly devoted
to the problems of strengthening international peace and
security, expanding the scope and potential of preventive
diplomacy, promoting human rights, and enhancing the role
of the United Nations in an interdependent and integrated
world.
We believe that on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of
the United Nations it would be extremely useful to discuss
new goals and the challenges facing the Organization.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
