United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 16
ELECTIONS TO FILL VACANCIES IN SUBSIDIARY
ORGANS AND OTHER ELECTIONS
(d) ELECTION OF THE UNITED NATIONS HIGH
COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES: NOTE BY
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/48/568)
the
The PRESIDENT:
By its resolution 45/319 of
21 December 1990, the General Assembly, on the proposal
of
elected
Mrs. Sadako Ogata as United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees for a three-year term of office beginning on
1 January 1991.
Secretary-General
(A/45/890),
By its resolution 47/104 of 16 December 1992, the
General Assembly decided to continue the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for a
further period of five years from 1 January 1994.
In conformity with established procedure, the Secretary-
General proposes to the General Assembly that the term of
office of Mrs. Sadako Ogata as United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees be extended for a period of five
years, beginning on 1 January 1994 and ending on
31 December 1998.
49th
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 4 November 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
May I consider that the General Assembly approves that
proposal, contained in document A/48/568?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: I should like on behalf of the entire
Assembly sincerely to congratulate Mrs. Sadako Ogata of
Japan on the extension of her appointment as United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees for a period of five years,
beginning
on
31 December 1998.
1 January 1994
ending
and
on
We also wish to compliment the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on the excellent
work it
is doing in the area of servicing the needs of
refugees.
of
I
Japan,
people
Mr. HATANO (Japan): On behalf of the Government
the
sincere
and
congratulations
to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, and to Mrs. Sadako Ogata on the occasion of
Mrs. Ogata’s nomination to a new five-year term as United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
express my
Since Mrs. Ogata assumed office three years ago the
international situation has undergone dramatic change. The
eruption of conflicts and civil strife in many parts of the
world has resulted in unspeakable human suffering. The
problem of refugees has become one of the greatest threats
to world peace and stability, and is thus one of the most
daunting challenges facing the United Nations. Throughout
this difficult time Mrs. Ogata has provided the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
with outstanding leadership, and my Government commends
her for the excellent work she has done. We extend our best
wishes for her future work.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87068 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.49
24 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The Government of Japan also pays high tribute to the
UNHCR for its efforts to address the refugee problem. I am
pleased to reaffirm our
its
humanitarian activities.
continued support
for
Mr. ELARABY (Egypt): On behalf of the Government
of Egypt, I would like to extend our heartfelt congratulations
to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
Mrs. Sadako Ogata. Her unanimously approved nomination
to a further term of five years is a tribute to the efforts she
has been exerting over the past three years. My delegation
would like to pay a high tribute to her dedication and total
commitment and to the work of the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
Of late, conflicts have erupted in various parts of the
world. The numbers of refugees have no doubt doubled in
the past few years.
I think that the whole international
community is fortunate to have Mrs. Ogata undertaking her
very important tasks.
I would like to reiterate once more the heartfelt
congratulations of the Government of Egypt to Mrs. Ogata
on her unanimously approved nomination.
The PRESIDENT: That concludes our consideration
of agenda item 16 (d).
PROGRAMME OF WORK
The PRESIDENT:
I have an announcement to make
in connection with agenda item 15 (c), "Election of five
members of the International Court of Justice", which the
Assembly is
scheduled to consider on Wednesday,
10 November.
I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the
relevant documents.
First, document A/48/432, dated
27 September 1993, sets out the composition of the Court
and the procedure for the election in the General Assembly
and in the Security Council. Secondly, document A/48/440,
dated 14 October 1993, contains the curricula vitae of the
candidates.
dated
27 September 1993, contains the list of candidates submitted
within the required time for submission. Finally, documents
A/48/555 and A/48/555/Add.1, dated 27 October 1993 and
3 November 1993
additional
information received after 31 August 1993, the required date
for submission.
document A//48/433,
respectively,
Thirdly,
contain
Paragraph 1 of document A/48/555 contains additional
nominations by national groups. Paragraph 2 of the same
document indicates that the Tunisian National Committee has
of Mr. Mohamed Lejmi.
withdrawn
nomination
Document A/48/555/Add.1
further
that
indicates
its
Mr. Bola Ajibola has withdrawn his candidature. Any
additional information that may be received will be issued in
a further addendum to the document.
it would seem desirable that
In order to facilitate the preparation and conduct of the
election procedure,
the
Assembly have before it, as it has had in the past, a
consolidated and updated list of candidates. Accordingly, if
there is no objection, I shall request the Secretariat to issue
a consolidated and updated list of candidates so as to reflect
all information received since the issuance of the original
list,
all
representatives.
facilitating
election
thus
the
process
for
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 24
UNITED NATIONS NEW AGENDA FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AFRICA IN THE 1990s
(a) REPORTS OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
(A/48/334, A/48/336 and Corr.1)
(b) NOTE BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
TRANSMITTING A REPORT BY THE FOOD
AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (A/48/335 and Add.1)
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to propose that the
list of speakers in the debate on this item be closed today at
11 a.m.
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: I therefore request representatives
wishing to participate in the debate to inscribe their names
as soon as possible.
Mr. ELARABY (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic):
I am honoured to speak here today, on behalf of the
President of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), on
this important new agenda item, which entails a preliminary
evaluation of the implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
Economic
The exacerbation of the economic and social problems
of Africa was the reason behind adoption by the General
Assembly of the United Nations Programme of Action for
African
and Development
(UNPAARED), which was meant to be fully implemented
over the period from 1986 to 1990.
In September 1991 a
final review of the progress achieved in that direction
showed that the implementation of the Programme had not
risen to the level of
the international community’s
Recovery
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
3
expectations, in general, or to that of Africa’s aspirations, in
particular.
to
led
the General Assembly
The faltering international effort in facing up to the
persistence and aggravation of the problems of African
development
adopt
resolution 46/151, by consensus, on 18 December 1991. The
resolution, which included the New Agenda for
the
Development of Africa in the 1990s, was adopted in
reaffirmation of the international community’s and the
African countries’ commitment to promote Africa’s social
and economic development in the course of this decade,
within the framework of the concepts and principles of
shared responsibility and international partnership. The
adoption of that resolution also highlighted the high priority
accorded by the United Nations to the question of economic
recovery in Africa and to African development in general.
My delegation wishes to commend the three reports
submitted by the Secretary-General under item 24 and to
make special mention of his efforts aimed at
the full
implementation of the New Agenda. We hope that the
implementation of that Agenda will be stepped up so that, by
the end of the century, UN NADAF will have achieved all
that UNPAARED failed to achieve in the 1980s.
We welcome the establishment of
the Panel of
High-level personalities on African development, and call for
regular meetings by that consultative body and for the
transmittal of its conclusions and recommendations to the
Member States.
of
a
the
Egypt
(CPC),
establishment,
also welcomes
and Coordination
in
implementation of the recommendation by the Committee for
Programme
special
coordination unit
that focuses on Africa and the least
developed countries. We call for providing the unit with all
the capabilities that would enable it to perform its role in
following up the implementation of the New Agenda. We
also welcome the establishment of a working group for
inter-agency coordination under the chairmanship of the
Executive Secretary of
the Economic Commission for
Africa.
The United Nations system has a long way to go yet
before the new priorities embodied in the New Agenda
become concrete realities.
In the context of policies and
strategies pursued by a variety of agencies and funds
throughout the United Nations system, operational activities
within the United Nations, as well as those pursued by the
specialized agencies and the Bretton Woods institutions,
must all be geared towards the establishment of concrete
programmes and projects, with the aim of implementing the
New Agenda and providing the required financial resources
for its proper functioning. In this connection, we stress the
importance of the roles performed by the Administrative
Committee on Coordination (ACC) and the Committee for
Programme and Coordination (CPC), in strengthening the
overall role of the United Nations in the implementation of
the New Agenda.
In addition to that major role of the United Nations
system, I should like to call to mind the role played by the
African States in particular and the international community
in general, in the context of the New Agenda commitments
which call upon the African countries to continue to
intensify their own development efforts.
The African
countries have spared no effort in shouldering their own
responsibility for economic and social development
in
Africa. Many African States are engaged in implementing
major
adjustment
programmes aimed at democratization and effecting the
transition to market economies. Those same States have
upheld human rights while strengthening the private sector,
paring down public-sector expenditures seeking to ensure
human development, and working for the protection of the
environment.
economic
structural
political
and
Over 30 African countries have committed themselves
to carrying out structural-adjustment and economic-transition
programmes.
This endeavour, however, has generated
adverse social effects that hit their peoples very hard and
exceeded their ability to contain or mitigate the resultant
difficulties on their own. The efforts of the international
community thus far have not risen to the level of the
commitments outlined in the New Agenda or the aspirations
of African countries, notably with regard to the target figure
of 4 per cent set out in the New Agenda for aid that should
be channelled to Africa.
the inability to diversify those products,
Africa is the only continent that suffers from declining
flows of financial resources in the 1990s. In addition, there
is the continued worsening of its external debt burden side
by side with plummeting commodity prices, the inability of
its products to penetrate the markets of the industrial
countries,
the
inadequacy of aid provided by the international community
in the fight against the epidemic spread of various diseases
such as malaria and AIDS as well as the spread of drought,
desertification, soil deterioration and the devastation caused
by the plague of locusts. All these negative factors combine
in seriously hampering the development efforts of African
States.
While the international economy moves steadily towards
integration and the emergence of international trading blocs,
Africa is finding it very difficult to gain access to any of the
new groupings that are taking shape in the international
economy. The major challenge now facing Africa is the
need to achieve rates of economic growth that would qualify
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to catch up with the rapid pace of the international
it
economy so that
it may become an active part of that
economy in the 1990s and thereafter. This will depend in
large part on the increase of financial resource flows to
Africa, as called for by the New Agenda. Unfortunately,
what we have now is the reverse. Those flows have
declined from $18 million in 1990 to about $14 million in
1992.
There is also a decline in Official Development
Assistance (ODA) to Africa, notably in terms of what the
major donors are providing.
They are providing only
0.33 per cent of their gross national product instead of the
0.7 per cent target level. This goes hand in hand with the
feeble response of foreign capital to the enabling policies
which many African countries have pursued with the aim of
creating a better climate for foreign investment. This is
compounded by the feeble brokerage role played by African
banks and insurance companies in mobilizing savings and
investment capital. That role is insignificant
indeed in
comparison with the role played in Asia, for instance, by
Asian banks and insurance companies.
Africa’s worsening debt problem cannot be addressed
in isolation from the need to increase the flows of financial
resources to the continent. Africa’s growing external debt
burden is one of the major obstacles blocking the required
increase in direct foreign investment. Consequently, the
international community should accord a high priority to
addressing that problem in a manner that would make it
possible to rechannel
the financial resources which are
absorbed by debt servicing to financing economic and social
development in Africa. The debt problem must be dealt
with creatively and boldly. In so doing, we have to come to
grips with all the bilateral, multilateral and commercial debt
problems faced by the continent.
the suggestion in the relevant
The delegation of Egypt wishes to highlight
the
negative effects of deteriorating terms of trade and falling
commodity prices on the African countries. The resultant
decline in Africa’s export earnings has had a deleterious
effect on Africa’s development efforts. Consequently, we
support
report by the
Secretary-General
to set up a diversification facility for
African commodities for an initial period of three to four
years, with resources of $US 50-75 million, although the
figures suggested seem modest enough, especially that the
Amsterdam Fund has not managed to do for Africa as much
as was hoped for. However, that Fund may still play a
major role in providing financing for this new facility which
will not constitute a new bureaucratic structure as we
suggest that it should be set up within the framework of the
African Development Bank.
We also support the call for African States to set up
councils for the diversification of their products at
the
national level. Representatives of the Governments and the
private sectors of those countries should participate in the
proposed councils with a view to proposing diversification
plans that may be incorporated in the overall diversification
programmes.
Having spoken of the problems of trade, commodity
prices and diversification, I should like to speak on one of
the important issues on the New Agenda, namely that of
regional and subregional cooperation and integration in
Africa.
Africa has shaped its vision and aspirations in this
respect in the Abuja Agreement on the setting up of the
African economic community.
The realization of that
ambition requires a great deal of efforts on the part of the
African countries and a great deal of support from the
international community especially in the area consolidating
the economic and social infrastructures and strengthening the
capabilities of the African countries.
Egypt has followed with a great deal of appreciation
Japan’s initiative to convene an international conference on
African development. That initiative was launched in this
very Hall in November two years ago, in 1991. On 5 and
6 October 1993, the Conference was held in Tokyo and we
consider that the declaration adopted contains a very strong
political commitment on the part of Africa, to continue to
work for reform and development and on the part of the
international community to continue to support Africa’s
efforts in that direction. We call for follow up on the
conclusions of the Tokyo Declaration, the implementation of
its recommendations and for further initiatives along the
same lines with the participation of as many interested
parties as possible.
We are at the threshold of the 21st century. We have
but a few years left in which the international community
must come to Africa’s assistance so that it may fall in step
with the other continents in their march toward the new
21st century. All African States, and indeed all the members
of the international community are urged not to miss that
opportunity.
Egypt, as the Chairman of the current session of the
Organization of African Unity, calls upon the members of
the international community and upon international financial
institutions, to set up their support for the development of
Africa for the few remaining years of the 1990s and urges
them all to meet their commitments made in the context of
the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s, both in spirit and letter.
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
5
I wish to conclude my statement by underscoring the
fruitful ongoing cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization of African Unity. That cooperation gives
concrete form to the partnership we are calling for between
regional and subregional organizations in implementing the
New Agenda. The African group is now engaged in drafting
a resolution on this important item that will be put before
the General Assembly at a later date, at which time we hope
it will be adopted by consensus.
Mr. JARAMILLO (Colombia)
(interpretation from
It is an honour for me to participate in this
Spanish):
meeting of the General Assembly, on behalf of the 130
countries members of the Group of 77 and the People’s
Republic of China, to discuss an issue of great importance
to the third world, namely, the United Nations New Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
in December 1990.
The deepening economic and social crisis in Africa led
the New Agenda by
the General Assembly to adopt
consensus
The United Nations
recognized the need to give the subject of Africa a
pre-eminent place among its priorities for the decade.
It
recognized the urgent need to create new mechanisms and
give new directions to secure the international support
needed to deal with the dramatic situation facing that
continent. At the time it was expected that the New Agenda
for Africa would serve as a political catalyst to encourage
greater support among the international community.
This session of the General Assembly affords us a
valuable occasion to draw the world’s attention once again
to the critical economic and social situation which the vast
majority of African countries continue to face.
The
circumstances that prompted the adoption of the New
Agenda continue to exist.
If the persistent trends in that
region are not reversed, any prospect for the rehabilitation
and development of its peoples will be out of the question.
On the contrary, the world will continue to witness privation,
hunger and war, with all their painful consequences.
the
the rapid population growth,
The economic and social conditions of the majority of
African countries have worsened in recent years. Their
heavy debt burden, their excessive dependence on a few
the serious
commodities,
deterioration of nutrition indices,
environmental
deterioration caused by recurring problems of drought and
desertification, the political instability and explosive internal
confrontations are only a sampling of the prevailing chronic
situation and the serious repercussions created by the
increasing marginalization of those countries in the world
economy. That sombre picture is even more alarming in
sub-Saharan Africa. There, poverty and human suffering
have reached dimensions unknown in any other part of the
world.
It has been established that the number of malnourished
people in Africa could reach 250 million by the year 2000,
that is, a figure equivalent to 30 per cent of the population
projected for that region by that year. Even if the 6 per cent
average annual economic-growth target set by the Agenda
for Africa were achieved, 25 years would still be needed to
reach an acceptable level of unemployment.
Against this dramatic and complex situation the African
countries are taking their own action to implement
the
commitments embodied in the New Agenda. Policies of
economic reforms, the promotion of subregional and regional
cooperation, the quest for democratic processes, agricultural
development and the establishment of suitable environmental
and demographic policies are but a few examples of the
challenges with which those countries are grappling. The
international
a
responsibility.
community,
however,
has
no
less
The heavy and unbearable external debt burden of
African countries has led to a paradoxical situation in which
those same countries have become net exporters of capital to
developed countries and multilateral financial institutions.
In other words, the world’s poorest countries are transferring
their scarce resources to finance the development of the
richest countries. The total value of production of the
African economies would barely be enough to cover the
amount of their indebtedness. In the sub-Saharan countries
not even three years’ worth of exports would cover the
amount of their debt. That situation has been aggravated by
the tangible drop in commodity prices and insufficient
investment flows that have further affected the capacity of
those countries to meet their financial obligations and to go
forward with their development programmes. Vast sectors
of the African population continue to be deprived of a large
volume of resources that could otherwise be channelled to
meeting their urgent social needs. The definitive solution to
Africa’s debt problem should be an urgent priority in the
agenda of the international community for that region.
The transformation and diversification of the African
economies constitute an indispensable condition for their
effective integration into the world economy, for reducing
their vulnerability and for launching a self-sustained process
of growth. In turn, the diversified economic development of
Africa constitutes a fundamental prerequisite for achieving
a durable solution to its social problems and internal
conflicts and for achieving a real and stable peace in that
region. The Secretary-General has submitted to this session
a study on the need for and feasibility of the establishment
of
a diversification fund for African commodities.
Unfortunately, the late submission of the document may
affect
the
recommendations contained in the study will be given
its discussion. We hope, however,
that
6
extensive
Assembly.
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
and serious
consideration by the General
The
Another area in which the African continent must be
supported by the international community is regional and
subregional integration. The African countries must join
efforts to improve their own competitiveness in an age like
our own, with its enlarged markets and increasing
globalization. The majority of the African economies are
small in size. Their infrastructure and production facilities
should be shared in order to achieve greater competitiveness.
Regional cooperation efforts and the strengthening of
institutional capacity in this area must involve the United
Nations system, the Economic Commission for Africa and
the development banks.
Full
implementation of
the New Agenda for
the
Development of Africa and adoption of the necessary
measures by the international community - in particular, by
the United Nations and the
the developed countries,
multilateral financial and development
institutions - are
indispensable if the agreed strategies are to be given a
decisive impetus. There should be constant follow-up to,
and assessment of, the various instruments that have been
agreed upon. An early review is necessary to ensure that all
the
functioning
adequately and that the requested financial resources have
indeed been allocated as scheduled and in the amounts
required.
envisaged institutional machinery is
Africa is a continent of enormous potential.
Its
diversity, wealth and human resources offer a glimmer of
hope. We must reaffirm our confidence in the peoples of
Africa and help them to build their own future. The
international community must share this responsibility
through tangible commitments and specific measures. The
immense political significance of this undertaking should be
expressed in the form of a clear resolve on the part of the
General Assembly and its reaffirmation that in the years to
come such problems be the central focus of attention of the
main multilateral forums. The full solidarity of the United
Nations is a fundamental need if the peoples of Africa will
see hope reborn.
Mr. LAMAMRA (Algeria) (interpretation from French):
I should like first to thank the Secretary-General for his
excellent report on the implementation of the United Nations
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
The useful and relevant information that it contains makes
a valuable contribution by setting the stage for our current
deliberations, as do the statements that have just been made
by the representative of
the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) and by the Chairman
of the Group of 77, whose views the Algerian delegation
completely supports.
the current Chairman of
of
the
recovery
inclusion
economic
the United Nations New Agenda for
and
development of Africa as one of the five major priorities set
out in the medium-term plan of the United Nations and the
adoption of
the
Development of Africa in the 1990s mark a new beginning.
Following a decade of dishonoured promises and clear-cut
failures, and taking account of the lessons learned from the
disappointing results of the United Nations Programme of
Action for African Economic Recovery and Development
1986-1990 (UNPAAERD), the New Agenda reflects the
international community’s commitment to the building of a
partnership of a new type to promote economic growth and
lay the foundations for the continent’s lasting development.
Based on an objective evaluation of
the factors
underlying the failure of UNPAAERD, the New Agenda is
meant to be an unprecedented starting point in international
cooperation for development by defining - this time very
clearly -
responsibilities and
commitments of the African countries themselves and the
international community, within the framework of
the
common endeavour to revitalize the African economies.
the shared, but differing,
Anxious to be involved in the process of transition
under way in the world, and aware that all development
strategies must, above all, be based on self-reliance, and that
the support of
the international community, however
important, cannot be regarded as indispensable, the African
countries have undertaken to embark on a bold programme
of political and economic reforms, often at extremely high
social cost.
At
the political
level, efforts have been made to
promote an orderly and steady transition to more democratic
forms of government, a greater degree of mass participation
and upgrading of human resources. At the continental level,
the recent establishment of machinery for the prevention and
management of conflicts arises from the will of the peoples
of Africa to eradicate sources of tension and conflict, which
are particularly detrimental
to the continent’s economic
recovery.
On the economic front, profound transformations have
been made for the purpose of promoting growth and lasting
development. Ambitious but painful structural adjustment
programmes have been initiated, primarily through the
establishment of frameworks for macroeconomic regulation,
with a view to encouraging the revival of growth and the
promotion of
Various
measures designed to restore economic equilibrium and
financial stability have already produced results in the shape
of a reduction in the budget deficit, which dropped from
12 per cent of gross national product in 1987 to 5 per cent
in 1991. This trend continued in 1992, in spite of the
investment and employment.
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
7
diversion of a considerable portion of internal resources to
the servicing of external debt.
At the same time, Africa has been striving to promote
regional cooperation and economic integration. The Treaty
that created the African Economic Community, which was
signed in Abuja in June 1991, represents a most solemn
expression, at the highest level, of the will of the African
countries to take control of their own destinies by exploiting
the continent’s capacities and talents. The Treaty is well on
the way to being ratified by sufficient countries to come into
force.
the
achievements of
It should be pointed out that this continental endeavour
is just a continuation of the work begun at the subregional
level, where integration machinery has existed in some cases
for several decades and in others for just a few years. It is
true that
these instruments of
subregional cooperation remain modest, but the dynamic to
strengthen their capacity to act has now been unleashed
through a review of their statutes with a view to more
effective functioning and a better adaptation to the new
objectives given them as pillars of the undertaking to bring
about continental integration.
Thus many gains have been registered in the Maghreb
region since the foundation of the Arab Maghreb Union. A
number of sectoral cooperation protocols have been signed,
and institutional machinery has been set up and has now
come into operation. This has all helped to give the Arab
Maghreb Union the status of a partner recognized and valued
by the other African regional
institutions and by the
international organizations.
The Southern African Development Coordination
Conference, the preferential trade zone of central and eastern
African countries and the Economic Community of West
African States are other means of support for Africa in its
determination to exploit subregional complementarities as
part of the process of building the African Economic
Community.
Because they are being made in a particularly
unfavourable international economic environment, and
because consistent external assistance is lacking, the efforts
of the African countries, however praiseworthy, have not in
themselves proved sufficient to reduce, or at least mitigate,
the multidimensional crisis affecting the continent. In spite
of the enormous sacrifices that have been made, the African
economy in the first
two years of this decade grew at
scarcely more than 2 per cent, and per capita income
decreased in 1992, as it did every year since the beginning
of the 1980s.
The total African debt went up to $288 billion in 1992,
which represents an increase of 2.5 per cent on average
between 1990 and 1992,
the
sub-Saharan region alone. Africa, which has the highest
ratios of debt to levels both of gross national product and of
exports, continues to devote more than 30 per cent of its
export earnings to servicing external debt.
and 7.7 per cent
for
The Secretary-General had estimated that a minimum of
$30 million in public assistance for development would be
necessary in 1992 if the African countries were to achieve
and maintain in the 1990s the relative growth of 6 per cent
set down as the target by the New Agenda. However, the
combined total of net financial resources flowing towards the
continent remained below the $20 billion level, and the net
transfer of resources, which had in recent years become
positive in other developing regions of the world, had a
negative record of $1.6 billion in 1992 with regard to Africa.
and
The
stagnation,
imbalances
uncertainty
characteristic of international trade bring into greater relief
the growing marginalization of Africa, which is due not only
to the continuing decline in primary commodity prices but
also to the restrictions imposed on access to the markets of
the countries of the North.
Commodity prices, which represent about 90 per cent
of African exports, have indeed experienced an appreciable
drop of 4 per cent in 1992 in comparison to 1991, and
exports have stagnated. This all has led to a reduction in
Africa’s share in international trade.
While the African countries have, to a large extent,
shouldered an important share of their responsibilities and
remain
their
development efforts, the international community must for its
part redouble its efforts to make up for lost time and see to
the rapid materialization of its commitments.
determined
intensify
continue
to
and
Without
resources adequate to the tasks at hand,
the substantial contribution of additional
financial
the
economic reforms and adjustment programmes under way
will necessarily be longer and more difficult, and ultimately
liable to exacerbate even further economic imbalances and
dangerously fuel social and political tensions in a number of
African countries.
It is the duty of the international community, therefore,
to promote innovative and bold action within the framework
of a lasting and global solution such as effectively to resolve
the African continent’s external debt crisis. The measures
contemplated in the New Agenda, which advocate
cancellations and/or substantial reductions in both public and
trade debt as well as the interest on it, should be taken
immediately.
to hold an
In this context,
the proposal
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
international conference on African external debt, although
longstanding, is just as relevant as ever, as it would be likely
to promote a better overall understanding of the phenomenon
of African external debt and to promote appropriate
solutions.
the
evolution of
To help African countries, whose external earnings
continue to depend on a small number of basic commodities,
and to revitalize their export sectors, resolute action should
be taken to bring about a greater diversification of their
economies as well as to establish concerted machinery
promoting more remunerative prices and an orderly
regulation of
The
recommendations of the Secretary-General with regard to the
establishment of
a diversification fund for African
commodities, as advocated by the New Agenda, should in
this regard be followed up rapidly. It is important, therefore,
for the General Assembly to take the decision at this session
to create this modest and pragmatic machinery, which is
designed to act as a catalyst in mobilizing resources from all
possible sources. The Assembly would thus be registering
its determination to see to it that the New Agenda embarks
on the road to implementation.
these prices.
The developed countries should feel it their duty to
improve the access of African exports to their markets by
agreeing to eliminate a number of tariff and other barriers to
more equitable trade relations. This goal necessarily requires
a rapid conclusion to the Uruguay Round negotiations, and
we hope that these will pave the way for the establishment
of an open and non-discriminatory international trade system
and promote the effective integration of African countries
into the world economy.
The international community should also adopt rapidly
the necessary measures
foreign
investment in African countries and also to support the
efforts of
the African countries to create sufficiently
encouraging legislation.
to encourage direct
The New Agenda for the Development of Africa is a
contract of solidarity between the international community
and Africa. This New Agenda calls for sacrifices on the
part of all. The United Nations and all the agencies in the
system cannot remain outside the concerted effort to bring
about true economic recovery in Africa. The establishment
by the Secretary-General of a Panel of High-level
Personalities on African development demonstrates the
commitment of our Organization to the cause of
the
development of the continent and also its determination to
harmonize all the energies of the specialized agencies within
a coherent endeavour to implement the New Agenda.
The Economic Commission for Africa has in this regard
an important role to play both in educating the international
community as to the priority to be given to the needs of
Africa and in the coordination of the activities of the
institutions that are involved in the work of
relevant
development
the African continent. Greater
also expected between the Economic
interaction is
Commission for Africa and the Organization of African
Unity, particularly in terms of assistance for the methodical
implementation of the Abuja Treaty.
throughout
it
With this in mind,
is important for the General
Assembly to invest more of its authority in this vast project
and for the programme budget it will examine shortly to
distinguish, in terms of priority and resources, the many and
varied activities called for by the need to make the efforts to
implement the New Agenda for the Development of Africa
more dynamic.
Mr. MONGBE (Benin) (interpretation from French):
The implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s is for us Africans
one of the chief items on the agenda of this, the forty-eighth,
session of the General Assembly, which you, Sir, have been
presiding over with great competence and skill since work
began on 21 September.
support
the
by
delivered
statements
Before I share with you some thoughts my delegation
has to offer in the context of this debate, I should like to say
that we
the
representative of the current Chairman of the Organization
of African Unity, Ambassador Elaraby, of Egypt, and by the
President of the Group of African States for the month of
November, Ambassador Lamamra of Algeria. Finally, I
would, like on behalf of my country, to convey our profound
gratitude to Ambassador Jaramillo, of Colombia, who has
just expressed from this rostrum the sincere and unqualified
support of the Group of 77, this group of 130 countries, for
the
for better
implementation of the New Agenda.
request of African States
legitimate
Last year, in the course of the forty-seventh session of
the General Assembly, the African delegations voiced their
disquiet and their concern at the lethargy that characterized
the launching of the implementation of the New Agenda
since
resolution 46/151 of
18 December 1991.
establishment under
its
Just a few days after the suspension of the forty-seventh
session, the Secretary-General presided over the first meeting
of
the Group of High-Level Personalities on the
Development of Africa, which he convened and which was
held in Geneva on 28 December 1992. That first meeting
was followed by a second, with Rome as its venue, on 17
and 18 April 1993.
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
9
At these gatherings the focus was on the following
issues: Africa’s external debt; diversification of the African
economies; regional and subregional economic integration in
Africa; improvement in the coordination of activities of
non-governmental organizations at the level of governments,
and activities within the United Nations system for the
development of Africa.
My delegation welcomes the fact that the Secretary-
General did indeed heed the appeal made by the African
delegations at
the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly in the course of the general debate by convening
and directing in person the two Meetings of the Group of
High-Level Personalities for the Development of Africa.
My delegation also appreciates the importance of the
other four key issues addressed at
these two meetings.
However, we feel that the picture would have been more
complete still had the matters of food security, human
resources
training and the strengthening of national
capacities also been examined there.
We note with great concern that outside the holding of
these two meetings and the publication of the New Agenda
as a document, no other step was taken until this, the forty-
eighth, session of the General Assembly.
The three documents submitted to us for analysis at this
session - the report of the Secretary-General (A/48/334) on
the preliminary consideration of the implementation of the
New Agenda, the study on the need for and feasibility of the
establishment of
a diversification fund for Africa’s
commodities (A/48/335 and Add.1), and the special study on
financial flows to Africa (A/48/336 and Corr.1) - were
published so late that it was impossible to solicit the views
and the observations of our capitals, which would have
enhanced the contributions our African delegations are able
to make to the implementation of the New Agenda.
My delegation would like at this point to offer some
comments and suggestions.
We wish to lend our support to the concept of setting
up a diversification fund for Africa’s commodities within the
African Development Bank in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, for an
initial period of three to four years, and endowing it with an
initial allotment of resources amounting to $50 million to
$75 million, for the purpose of helping African countries
work out diversification programmes and projects for their
commodities.
Benin would also like to support
the proposal
concerning the creation within each African country of a
national diversification council, whose functions could
include the elaboration and evaluation of diversification
projects, taking into account the structural and institutional
situation as well as available infrastructure and human
resources.
However, we must emphasize that the effectiveness and
the success of such a commodity diversification fund will
hinge on the progress made in solving existing problems in
certain crucial areas, such as Africa’s external debt,
increasing official development assistance, providing fresh
additional resources, increasing direct foreign investment,
promoting
and
businesses, and the transfer and adaptation of technology for
the
the
establishment or the strengthening of existing research and
development structures guaranteeing in the long term the
successful diversification of African economies.
and medium-scale
commodities,
processing
industries
supported
by
small-
of
Success in diversification also depends on the measures
to be envisaged in political, geographical and structural
terms to change the current patterns of trade in Africa which
are impeding South-South trade cooperation in general and
intra-African trade cooperation in particular.
The special study on the flow of finances to Africa
shows the inadequacy of direct foreign investment in Africa
in general, and
in sub-Saharan Africa in particular, the
weakness in the mobilization of national resources, both
public and private, the low level of savings and the drop in
official development aid.
18 December 1991
The political and economic reforms undertaken by
African States are not enough to bring about a lasting
solution. By adopting General Assembly resolution 46/151
on
community
committed itself to supporting the efforts made by Africa to
speed growth and to achieve lasting, sustainable development
focused on people. This support should now translate into
specific, visible
and
achievements like those carried out in other hard-hit regions
of our planet.
and tangible actions, measures
international
the
Financial resources in adequate amounts were to be
provided to Africa so that its gross national product might
reach an annual growth rate of 6 per cent, for which a net
amount of $30 billion in official development assistance
would have been required in 1992, along with a rise in the
growth rate to an average of 4 per cent per annum,
according to the New Agenda (General Assembly resolution
46/151, annex, part II, para. 29). Unfortunately, such
resources still have not materialized even today, as 1993 is
drawing to a close. This situation is oddly reminiscent of
what happened to the United Nations Programme of Action
for African Economic Recovery and Development, whose
crushing failure - caused by the lack of financial resources
and also by its faulty conception - prompted us to negotiate
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s.
Within the United Nations system,
the Secretary-
General’s report (A/48/334) on the preliminary examination
of the implementation of the New Agenda shows that no
large-scale measures have been launched for some two years
now.
Indeed, the Bureau of the United Nations Special
Coordinator for Africa and the least developed countries is
continually suffering from a lack of financial and human
resources needed to fulfil its task of following up on and
effectively implementing the New Agenda, even though the
General Assembly clearly declared that the development of
Africa was one of the five United Nations priorities for the
1990s.
the markedly late launching of
Faced with the alarming situation caused by the United
Nations system in the implementation of the New Agenda,
as a result of
its
implementation, my delegation wishes urgently to call on the
Secretary-General to invite all the bodies, agencies, and
levels of authority throughout the United Nations system to
incorporate the priorities of the New Agenda into their
respective mandates as soon as possible, and to allocate the
resources
in
accordance with the concept of additionality, which is the
underpinning of this Agenda, and keeping in mind the five
United Nations priorities for the 1990s.
required to implement
these priorities
The incorporation of these priorities and the allocation
of adequate resources by the United Nations system will
make possible some progress, which can be built upon and
improved both by the recommendations emerging from the
high-level Economic and Social Council debate in 1995 to
be devoted to implementation of the New Agenda and by the
decisions and resolutions to be adopted in 1996, when the
General Assembly will proceed to a mid-term review of the
implementation of the New Agenda.
Beyond that, in the context of the implementation and
follow-up work to be carried out by the United Nations
system and by Africa, the Bureau of the Special Coordinator
for Africa and the Least Developed Countries should in 1994
organize seminars and workshops on the priorities spelled
out in the New Agenda, at the level of each of the five
subregions within Africa. Implementing these priorities for
the economic recovery and development of Africa will thus
pass from a pious hope to the level of reality. These
seminars and workshops should be organized in close
concert with the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA),
the Economic
and the subregional economic communities:
Community of West African States
the
Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS),
the Central African Customs
and Economic Union
(ECOWAS),
(CACEU), the Southern Africa Development Community
(SADC),
the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and
Southern African States (PTA) and the Arab Maghreb Union
(AMU).
We hardly wish to harbour illusions. The New Agenda
will not attain the expected success if adequate resources are
not mobilized,
if the international community does not
honour its commitment and if the United Nations system
does not play its role correctly. At the same time, Africa
must pursue its own political and economic reforms and
ensure the effective functioning of the follow-up, monitoring
and evaluation mechanisms of the New Agenda.
The end of the cold war and the prospect of building a
more effective and efficient United Nations in the realm of
economic and social development gives us reason to hope
that the New Agenda can achieve success. Africa has the
right and the duty to enter the twenty-first century on an
equal footing with the rest of the world and not lagging
behind, as might be predicted on the basis of the current
situation, which we all deplore and which together we must
resolutely correct.
Mr. SEYDOU (Niger) (interpretation from French):
The consideration of agenda item 24, "United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s", gives
my delegation a new opportunity to contribute to the work
of the forty-eighth session.
on
behalf
subject made
My delegation wholeheartedly endorses the statement on
this
by
Ambassador Elaraby, representing the current Chairman of
the Organization of African Unity.
It would also like to
congratulate and thank the Ambassador of Colombia, who
offered the support and contribution of the Group of 77 to
the efforts of the international community.
of Africa
the
of
and
over
anxiety
evolution
However, I join previous speakers in expressing my
the
concern
implementation of this new programme for Africa.
It will
be recalled that at the end of the application of the United
Nations Programme of Action for African Economic
Recovery and Development 1986-1990,
the General
Assembly at its forty-sixth session adopted resolution 46/151
on the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s.
In paragraph 43 of part II of the annex, the resolution
calls for a preliminary consideration of the implementation
of the New Agenda during the forty-eighth session of the
General Assembly. Two years after the adoption of this text
and the new commitment made by the international
community, we
cannot
how slow
implementation has been.
help
note
but
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
11
It is true that spectacular results could not have been
achieved so quickly. Nevertheless, a few decisive initiatives
would at least have assured us of the new interest of the
world in the socio-economic difficulties which continue to
afflict the African countries.
Unfortunately, the situation in Africa has not changed
over the last two years. It is hardly necessary to remind the
Assembly that the New Agenda was adopted because of the
external debt crisis, the steady decline in commodity prices,
the consequences of structural adjustment reforms,
the
deterioration of the environment, the reduction by more than
80 per cent of capital
to Africa, and natural
catastrophes.
flows
In accordance with paragraph 3 of resolution 46/151,
the African countries have adopted bold measures to
improve the management of their economies. They have
embarked upon a process of democratization, which is still
under way in certain countries and which has been
completed in others. The human dimension of development
is being taken into account more than ever in all decisions
taken by African leaders. Questions of environment,
population, self-sufficiency in food, development of human
resources and improvement of the living conditions of the
most vulnerable sectors of society are at the very heart of
the priorities adopted by African Governments.
It
for
the
still
remains, however,
international
community to support Africa’s efforts to accelerate growth
and ensure development which is focused on the human
being, in a lasting and sustained fashion. The African
countries would have been much encouraged by the
assistance
the
the
three priority areas defined by the
implementation of
following the high-level meeting in
Secretary-General
Geneva
and
subregional integration and diversification of the economies
of African countries.
last December:
external debt,
international
community
regional
of
in
to refocus the attention of
Of course, there have been some positive actions which
we cannot overlook. Thus we welcome the international
conferences and high-level meetings organized by the United
Nations in an attempt
the
international community on Africa. We welcome the
Conference on the development of Africa organized by the
Japanese Government on 5 and 6 October
This
Conference was
Japan and the
international community to undertake to improve the rate of
official development assistance. The forum to be organized
in
together
representatives of African countries and foreign investors,
again upon the initiative of the Japanese Government, is a
further aspect of this welcome progress. We also welcome
the feasibility study report on a diversification fund for
an opportunity for
1994, which will
Indonesia
bring
last.
in
Africa’s commodities which has just been presented to the
General Assembly.
Niger also welcomes all
the actions the Secretary-
the Special
General has taken through the Bureau of
Coordinator for Africa and the Least Developed Countries to
keep Africa at
the centre of United Nations concerns
throughout the Decade.
But we consider that much remains to be done: we are
far from achieving the goals of the New Agenda for Africa.
We firmly believe that without an integrated approach to
resolve Africa’s multisectoral problems,
the region will
continue to encounter serious obstacles to the achievement
of its objectives.
The measures set out
in the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s are
more relevant
than ever before. Niger appeals to the
international community to begin implementing its own
decisions. Niger calls on the developed countries to devote
a portion of the resources freed by the reduction of military
expenditures to the growth and socio-economic development
of
financial
institutions too can contribute to these efforts by increasing
their
the African countries on
favourable terms.
the African countries.
The international
financial
support
for
We would like to see greater
involvement by
non-governmental organizations, and the organization of
seminars in Africa and elsewhere with a view to increasing
public awareness.
In that connection we appeal to the
Secretary-General to enable the Bureau of the Coordinator
to take action to educate the peoples of Africa and of the
developed world on the need to implement the New Agenda
for Africa.
Let me conclude, Mr. President, by congratulating you
on the remarkable skill, ability and intelligence with which
you are guiding the work of the General Assembly.
Mr. CHEN Jian (China) (interpretation from Chinese):
Both the report of the Secretary-General and the speeches
delivered by the representatives of many African countries
today, and in particular the statement made on behalf of the
Group of 77 and China by the representative of Colombia,
current Chairman of that Group, have shown clearly that in
the past two years the countries and peoples of Africa have
made tremendous efforts in implementing General Assembly
resolution 46/151. They have carried out adjustments and
reforms in line with their national conditions, and have
shown a vigorous spirit of seizing the opportunity for
development.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Regrettably, as is pointed out by the Secretary-General
in his report, most African countries remain in a perilous
situation marked by rising indebtedness, rapid population
growth, stagnant exports, a long-term fall in per capita
income and a sharp deterioration in the nutritional situation.
The implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s is still faced with
numerous challenges. One of these is diversification of
export commodities, aimed at strengthening food security,
improving the sustainability of production, increasing export
earnings and promoting development.
The report has also helped us see that in the course of
implementing the New Agenda there has been a sharper
contrast between the unremitting efforts of the African
countries and the lack of powerful support
from the
international community. This is indicated particularly by
the fact that the request for stabilizing the prices of export
products in African countries has yet to be met; the trade
protectionism practised by the developed countries is still on
the rise; financial flows to Africa have decreased; and the
reduction and exemption of the debts of African countries
are far below the expected level.
the
and
to fulfil
failure
and
The developed countries’
commitments
their
increasingly
obligations
deteriorating world economic environment have undermined
the endeavours of the African countries and offset
the
benefits produced by the New Agenda. That situation must
be changed. Development
in Africa must be achieved
through the concerted efforts and sincere cooperation of the
African people and the international community.
It needs
both a strong driving force within the African countries and
a powerful impetus from outside. Economic restoration and
growth in Africa not only has a direct bearing on long-term
stability in African countries, but also affects the stable and
healthy development of the entire world economy.
that
first,
In order further to implement the New Agenda, we
believe,
the international community, and
especially the developed countries, should attach more
importance to the New Agenda, and that their commitments
to the implementation of
the New Agenda should be
transformed from words into practice.
In particular, they
should mobilize adequate external resources and fulfil their
obligations in such fields as commodity, trade and debt.
the
that
believe
Secondly, we
constructive
recommendations in the Secretary-General’s report in favour
of the African countries’ efforts to implement the New
Agenda,
including the recommendation to set up a
diversification facility for African commodities within the
African Development Bank, should receive active support
and an active response.
is true that
Thirdly, we believe that, while it
the
implementation of the New Agenda is not going to be plain
sailing and cost-free, backward economies and weak
foundation have made the African countries fairly vulnerable
with respect to withstanding the risks and pressures resulting
from rapid change. As we support the African countries in
achieving the objectives of the New Agenda, we must fully
understand their different national conditions, respect their
choices of development strategies and policies, avoid or
reduce as much as possible the turbulence and negative
effects that might be produced by certain measures, reduce
the
the best
comprehensive economic and social returns.
and achieve
costs of
reforms
social
Fourthly, we believe that the United Nations system
should play a positive role in implementing the New
Agenda;
the relevant United Nations organizations and
specialized agencies
should formulate and implement
projects related to the New Agenda, inject adequate financial
resources, provide strong support to regional and subregional
economic and technical cooperation in Africa, supervise
more closely the implementation of the New Agenda and
improve the quality of evaluation.
The Government and the people of China attach great
importance to economic development and social progress in
African countries. Strengthening unity and cooperation with
third-world countries, including African countries, is the
cornerstone of China’s foreign policy. We will, as always,
continue to strengthen exchanges and various forms of
cooperation with African countries in the economic, trade
and technical fields, and contribute, to the best of our ability,
to the achievement of the objectives of the New Agenda.
for
issue.
Mr. MARUYAMA (Japan): First of all, my delegation
would like to express its appreciation to the Secretary-
the reports he has prepared on this very
General
important
Among the extensive and valuable
information they present is background on the adoption of
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s, descriptions of the past and current
political, economic, and social situation of African countries,
and an assessment of the progress of efforts to implement
the New Agenda at the national, regional, and international
levels, as well as at the United Nations.
My delegation has nothing to add to this information,
and I should therefore like to limit my remarks to the subject
of
the Tokyo International Conference on African
Development. The Conference was hosted by the Japanese
Government, with the United Nations and the Global
Coalition for Africa as co-organizers.
It concluded
successfully with the adoption of the Tokyo Declaration on
African Development, entitled "Towards the 21st Century".
Copies of the Declaration, which have already been provided
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
13
to the Second Committee, may be obtained from the
Japanese Mission.
The Conference was attended by some 400 participants
from 48 African countries, 13 major donor countries and 10
international organizations.
In addition, more than 30
countries and international organizations were present as
observers. Some African countries were represented by
Heads of State, and many countries were represented at the
ministerial level. On behalf of my Government, I should
like to take this opportunity to reiterate my deepest gratitude
to all of them for their contributions to the success of the
Conference.
acknowledged that some of the Asian experience is relevant
to African development, such as the value of appropriate
long-term development strategies, a functional government
administration and the strong commitment of both a
country’s leadership and its people to the achievement of
economic
for South-South
cooperation between Asia and Africa are growing, and I
should like to note that many countries participating in the
Conference showed an interest in exploring this area.
prosperity. Opportunities
Mr. Martini Herrera (Guatemala), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
The Declaration, which contains sections on political
and economic reforms, economic development
through
activities of the private sector, regional cooperation and
integration, emergency relief and development, Asian
experience
international
cooperation and follow-up, fully reflects the discussions that
took place in the course of the two-day gathering. Because
of time constraints, I shall not attempt to summarize them
here. However, there are three points I should like to make.
and African
development,
implementing
First, the discussions at the Conference were undertaken
in a very constructive manner and in a spirit of partnership.
At the opening session, His Excellency Sir Ketumile Masire,
President of the Republic of Botswana and Co-Chairman of
the Global Coalition for Africa, noted that African countries
were fully conscious of their responsibility for formulating
and
reform
programmes that would put them on the path of sustained
and equitable growth, and he called on development partners
to support these reform efforts on the basis of a new and
strengthened partnership. Similar views were expressed by
a number of participants from African countries and their
partners. This spirit of partnership is emphasized throughout
the Tokyo Declaration, including in the last sentence of the
preamble, which states,
economic
political
and
"We, therefore, solemnly adopt the present Declaration,
in the firm belief that it will serve to strengthen an
emerging new partnership for sustainable development
of Africa based on self-reliance of African countries
and the support of Africa’s development partners."
Secondly,
I should like to comment on the new
dimension the Conference gave the subject of African
development by discussing it in conjunction with Asian
experience. Under
this agenda item, case studies of
Indonesia and Thailand were presented by two prominent
guest speakers from those countries, and opinions and
analyses were offered by other participants. Although it was
noted at the Conference that no model of development can
simply be transferred from one region to another, it was
I
Lastly,
should like to refer
to the Japanese
Government’s statements delivered at the Conference by
Prime Minister Hosokawa and Deputy Prime Minister and
Foreign Minister Hata, which may be summarized as
follows:
First, Japan will endeavour to contribute to enhancing
political processes
in Africa, extending assistance to
democratization efforts, both bilaterally and through
participation in the international efforts undertaken by the
United Nations and other organizations.
Secondly,
Japan will continue actively to assist
economic reform in Africa.
It will, for example, extend
non-project-type grant assistance totaling $650 million to
$700 million over the three Japanese fiscal years from 1993
to 1995, mainly to those African countries that are pursuing
such reform programmes. We
also strongly urge
continuation of the Special Programme of Assistance for
Africa (SPA) and a new facility to succeed the present
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF).
Thirdly, Japan will actively assist in human-resources
development. We are starting an African Youth Invitation
Programme so that young individuals may come from Africa
to Japan, and we are attempting to hold an Asia-Africa
seminar next year,
in cooperation with other interested
countries and organizations.
to
its
pay
further
expand
attention
Fourthly,
Japan will
substantially
to
environmental problems in Africa, in line with its earlier
commitment
global
environment-related official development assistance to
between $7 billion and $7.7 billion over the next five years.
It has also formulated a project to develop underground
water resources and water supplies in various parts of
sub-Saharan Africa
aid of
$250 million to $300 million for this purpose over the next
three years.
and will provide grant
Finally, Japan’s official development assistance will
emphasize effectiveness and efficiency and take into account
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
stage of
economic development,
in
each country’s
accordance with the principles set forth last year in Japan’s
official-development-assistance charter. To this end, we
intend to strengthen policy dialogue with African countries
and send more frequent economic cooperation missions to
the region.
it
In order to help African countries achieve sustainable
development,
is necessary to take a comprehensive
approach that addresses issues including trade, investment,
debt, environment, and population. The United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s sets
forth the principles that must guide us in formulating such
an approach.
the Tokyo International
Conference on African Development made a major
contribution to the successful implementation of the New
Agenda, and the Japanese Government will cooperate fully
with other countries and organizations, especially the United
Nations and the Global Coalition for Africa, in undertaking
follow-up activities.
I believe that
My delegation would like to conclude its statement by
expressing Japan’s firm commitment
to continuing and
strengthening its partnership with African countries as they
strive to achieve sustainable development and, by so doing,
enter a new era of prosperity and security.
Mr. NOTERDAEME (Belgium) (interpretation from
I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the
French):
European Community and its member States.
I wish first of all to thank the Secretary-General for the
various reports which he has submitted to the General
Assembly and which form the basis for our debate today.
We see in this confirmation of the Secretary-General’s
personal interest in Africa’s economic problems.
We would also like to thank the Special Coordinator for
Africa, Mr. Ould Abdallah, for his contribution to our work.
Year after year we are presented with the picture of an
Africa in crisis. Over the past 10 years we have seen
spectacular growth in a whole group of developing countries
in other parts of the world. For Africa, on the other hand,
the talk is of a lost decade. We must not give way to
fatalism, however, but must look for the true causes of the
problems. The recent Tokyo Conference enabled us to make
progress in that quest.
But we should not generalize too much. There have, it
is true, been some positive events on the continent. Since
the end of the 1980s we have seen in Africa a tremendous
movement of social, political and economic reform which
can lay the foundations for societies that are more open and
more capable of managing their own destinies. We must
pay a tribute to the African peoples and politicians that have
courageously embarked upon the path of democracy.
international
However, despite a better international political context
substantial
the African
and
economies have not got off the mark. We must try to find
the reasons for that failure. When we bring the question
down to its more concrete dimensions, we can see a number
of direct causes.
assistance,
First, in Africa the very concept of development has
been for too long a notion imposed from above, unconnected
with the actual potential of these societies. Their lack of
commitment explains the abandonment of the agricultural
sector, the low level of savings, the flight of capital and the
brain drain.
Secondly, the demographic factor has always prevented
any improvement in living standards. At whatever cost, this
spiral
in which all economic growth is nullified by
population growth must be halted.
Thirdly, Africa is perhaps the continent where the
human potential
for development has been the most
underestimated. There has been a tragic waste of life and of
a spirit of initiative. Donor countries and African countries
have often taken the wrong road together by promoting
development based on major infrastructures rather than
taking as their point of departure the fundamental elements -
education, health,
role of women and the
encouragement of the societies’ human potential.
the vital
international
At the same time, we must concede that the world
economic situation has not been favourable to the recovery
of African economies. This remark applies to the level of
commodity prices,
rates and the
movement of private investment. We have no decisive
control over all these factors, but we are still aware of the
need to create a better international economic climate to
accompany the efforts of the African countries, particularly
in respect of the liberalization of trade and access to
markets.
interest
It is with this in mind that we should evaluate the
chances of success for the New Agenda for the Development
of Africa.
In many respects the Agenda is an ambitious
document. This applies in particular to the figures for
economic growth and transfers of resources. The experience
of previous programmes, in particular the United Nations
Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and
Development 1986-1990, has taught us that operational
follow-up is as important as the selection of targets.
International assistance, if it is to contribute effectively
to growth, must be accompanied by an effort to improve
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
15
public financing. Only in that way will the international
financial community and private investors find their way
back to Africa. However, the international community has
not abandoned Africa to its fate.
Indeed, both in absolute
and in per capita terms, more international aid went to
Africa during the 1980s than to other continents.
As to the European Community and its member States,
I wish to reaffirm here our traditional links of solidarity with
Africa. We cannot agree that indifference towards Africa
prevails.
Indeed, Africa remains the largest beneficiary of
the aid which the Community and its member States extend
through the Lomé Conventions.
A fund of about
100 million ECUs was set up by the Community last May.
In addition to this Community aid there has been substantial
bilateral assistance from individual member States of the
Community. Thanks to these actions at various levels, the
Community and its member States are the primary donors to
and the primary trading partners of the African continent.
Among the specific problems facing African countries
debt and
we would like to highlight two in particular:
diversification.
As to external debt, we recognize the urgency of taking
appropriate steps within the framework of the international
strategy, while placing debt-servicing within the broader
the
context of capital
Community have continued,
to take
measures to help the poorest countries which are so deeply
in debt, and we urge the other creditors to do so.
The member States of
in the Paris Club,
flows.
The Community and its member States are also
cognizant of the problem of the indebtedness of certain
African countries with income at the intermediate echelon of
the lower level. They hope that these can be given, on a
case-by-case basis, more favourable treatment, particularly
by the Paris Club. However, we stress that
the debt
problems cannot be solved solely by international action.
The countries themselves bear the responsibility for adopting
sound policies within the framework of structural adjustment.
the lack of diversity.
Economic diversification is a priority,
since the
is often a direct
vulnerability of African economies
consequence of
This applies
particularly to countries which are heavily dependent upon
commodity exports. These exports must find outlets but, at
the same time, an economic environment more favourable to
diversification must be created. While we recognize this
problem, we must see it in the broader framework of the
promotion of alternative investments and the stabilization of
export earnings. Above all, we must avoid the unrealistic
approaches of the past. The possibilities that exist in the
multilateral system to promote diversification should be
exploited to the utmost, avoiding the creation of new
structures which would result in duplication.
The possibilities of
We are speaking here of Africa as a whole, but we
should not overlook the fact that this vast continent does not
lend itself to stereotypes. Our efforts must be sufficiently
flexible for regional and even subregional differences to be
taken into account.
regional and
subregional cooperation in Africa are not being sufficiently
exploited.
In the implementation of the New Agenda a
revitalized economic commission for Africa could play a
primary role. We urge the establishment of an African
economic community in accordance with the Abuja Treaty,
and we will most willingly share with our African partners
the experience accumulated in the course of the process of
economic integration within the European Community.
Indeed,
Subregional cooperation is irreplaceable in a number of
economic sectors.
the concept of sustainable
development has directed attention to problems which, by
their very nature, transcend borders and require common
approaches. Drought and desertification, the focus of the
Rio follow-up debate, are merely the most striking examples.
We reaffirm the importance to be given Africa in drawing
up an international convention on the subject.
African development cannot be isolated from the ups
and downs of the world economy. However, if we can
succeed in creating healthy and efficient national economies
in the African countries they will find a way of integrating
themselves into the global economy.
to
the
of
subscribe
The European Community and its member States
wholeheartedly
shared
responsibility and partnership, as defined by the eighth
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. We
are convinced that the cycle of poverty can be broken and
that, thanks to national and international efforts, Africa will
come to take its proper place in our world.
notion
for
Mr. KARUKUBIRO KAMUNANWIRE (Uganda):
I
should like at the outset to express my delegation’s sincere
appreciation to the Secretary-General
the excellent
reports he has presented on this agenda item, including that
on the need for and feasibility of the establishment of a
diversification fund for Africa’s commodities and that on
financial and resource flows to Africa, specifically requested
in the context of the implementation of the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s. These two areas
are deemed critical and necessary for
the successful
implementation of the New Agenda. We are grateful for the
concrete proposals contained in the two reports.
The African countries cannot for ever continue to rely
on one or two export commodities for their export earnings.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
There is a need for them to strive to diversify their primary
commodities and to add value through increased processing.
Only in that way can they expect to achieve stability and an
increase in their export earnings.
In the absence of such capacity to save, external support
is imperative. Our demand, therefore, should be to obtain
fair remuneration for our commodities and unimpeded access
to outside markets for our products.
is to assist
it has been made very clear,
We support the suggestion in document A/48/335 that
a diversification fund be established within the framework of
the African Development Bank. The main purpose of that
fund,
in the
preparation of commodity diversification projects. To do
that,
the report recommends the formation in Africa of
national diversification councils, which would draw up such
diversification projects in close cooperation with the fund.
This arrangement should make it possible to address
anomalies that might arise in project preparations. This is an
initiative that should be viewed as giving new impetus to the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s.
We should also support the suggestion that the fund be
established on the basis of voluntary contributions and that
it make grant allocations for pre-investment activities. To
ensure financing for such a fund the international community
and multilateral financing institutions must make generous
contributions to meet the targets set for its establishment.
The question of adequate financial and resource flows
is particularly crucial at
this stage of the political and
economic transformation in which many of the countries of
Africa are now seriously engaged.
Our developed partners quite often suggest domestic
savings as a source of needed financial resources. It should,
however, be noted that only improved terms of trade could
enhance Africa’s capacity for domestic savings. As has been
indicated, a quick look at
the ridiculous prices African
commodities have been fetching in the international markets
over the years shows us why this has not been possible.
Coffee prices, for example, have fallen from a high of over
$3 in 1978 to as low as 40 cents, or even less, in 1992.
Thus countries like Uganda, which in 1978 earned more than
$400 million in coffee exports alone, are now earning less
than $100 million for export volumes that have more than
doubled. The same story can be told of cocoa, tea, timber
and a number of Africa’s other agricultural and mineral
products.
The point must therefore be made that for most African
countries the ability to achieve savings is dependent upon the
performance of their export sector. The drop in prices of
major primary commodities results in loss of revenue,
leading to a serious decline in income as the taxable base is
eroded.
There is a need now, more than ever before, to put
greater emphasis on commercial loans to countries of the
region than on the continued resort to existing forms of
external financing. This is because most of the resources
being made available through official development assistance
have tended to be inadequate; they do not cater for long-
term transformation. Africa needs resources that are large
enough and can be used to address the inadequate physical,
institutional and social infrastructures and the problems of a
weak productive base. Long-term lending should be possible
for those countries that are embarking on fundamental
economic restructuring and that can demonstrate returns on
investment. That is possible if the projects financed are
viable.
The change in the form, mode and volume of external
financing is important, because there is little to show for all
the official development assistance that has been allocated to
the continent over the years. The reasons for this are not far
to seek. The bulk of the bilateral and multilateral aid flow
to Africa so far has gone to finance technical assistance and
import support, and very little, if any, has gone to productive
capital. That is why there is now a need to focus on
physical, institutional and social infrastructures.
In many cases the failure of development projects is
to be associated with the domestic
erroneously thought
policies of the recipient Governments. What
is often
overlooked, however, is that many of the development plans
and their failed projects, which are often blamed on the
policies of the recipient developing countries, were in fact
designed, put in place and executed on the advice and with
the close involvement of the donor countries and multilateral
financing institutions.
A closer study of the background of these plans and
projects would reveal that, for most of them, the consultants,
contractors or those charged with implementing them were
selected and approved by the donors and financing
institutions themselves. Because of low capacity in project
design and execution in many African countries, our
countries had little alternative but to rely on them for advice.
Regrettably, many of these projects turned out to be too
ill-designed or poorly executed to achieve the desired results.
This was due to the fact that outside advisers and support
personnel
failed to appreciate the local conditions in
recipient countries and the effect of those conditions on
projects. And yet their accountability in this regard has
never been brought to the fore - so far.
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
17
The atmosphere prevailing in international relations
appears to be more propitious now than ever before. Many
African countries have taken the necessary hard decisions
and have put
in place policies and programmes for
adjustment, sustainable development and transformation.
Governance and accountability, for example, have become
accepted practice without undue external pressure. The time,
therefore, has now come to show what money is being spent,
where, for what purpose and to whose benefit, and to show
the effectiveness of these expenditures in terms of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s.
Any strategy for financial flows to Africa that does not
address the debt problem will be self-defeating. The present
mechanism and format for handling the problem need to be
substantially reviewed in order to provide both short- and
long-term relief to the beneficiaries. We must continue to
press for cancellation for severely indebted low-income
countries. The essential elements of any initiative should
include cancellation or a substantial reduction in the debt
stock.
By their actions,
Debt owed to multilateral creditors should not for ever
remain sacrosanct and thus exempt from the kind of flexible
treatment being offered through various menus of options,
such as cancellation, reduction, rescheduling, conversion, and
so forth.
financial
institutions, rather than subtracting from the debt burden of
incapacitated indebted low-income countries, are adding to
it. Scarce concessional resources are now being used to
service these debts instead of applying them to development
purposes. The net effect of this is simply to convert a
payment crisis into a chronic problem the end of which does
not seem to be in sight.
the multilateral
to materialize.
The multilateral financial
institutions are urged to
consider canceling, reducing or rescheduling the debts owed
them by the severely indebted countries of Africa, in order
to provide much-needed relief at this time of their socio-
economic transformation. Furthermore, the commitment by
the international community in the context of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s to give full and tangible support to the African effort
has yet
During the United Nations
Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and
Development 1986-1990,
the international community
committed itself to assisting Africa to engineer the process
of
The
international community was expected to transfer $9 billion
annually for
and above official
development assistance.
It is a sad commentary that very
little ever happened during that period. Thirty billion dollars
in net official development assistance was set for 1992 for
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
recovery during the period 1986 to 1990.
that purpose, over
Africa in the 1990s, and it was agreed that subsequent
official development assistance would grow in real terms at
the rate of 4 per cent annually. We have yet to see the
commitment of the international community materialize in
this regard.
The point must be made that Africa needs special
temporary measures. African countries are not in a position
to compete effectively in the financial markets of a world
that has become more competitive. The weakness of the
industrial base and social and political problems have made
Africa less competitive. The support of the international
community is therefore critical in this regard.
Let me conclude by taking this opportunity to thank,
most sincerely, the Government of Japan for the recent
important and significant initiative which it undertook in
convening the successful Tokyo International Conference on
African Development. The Global Coalition for Africa and
the office of the United Nations Coordinator for Africa and
the least-developed countries are also to be commended for
their support and their efforts in organizing that Conference.
The Conference succeeded in focusing international attention
reiterated their
on Africa.
commitment
integration, and
expressed the hope that the international community would,
in turn, focus its attention on support for African endeavors.
As with most conferences of this nature, the most important
element remains that of follow-up action to make good on
the commitments that were entered into.
It is our earnest
hope that all concerned will come to live by these
commitments.
The African participants
to self-help and regional
(interpretation
Mr. SAMASSEKOU (Mali)
from
French): My delegation wishes to thank the Secretary-
General for his pertinent reports on the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and for
the various actions he has undertaken towards confronting
the problems of the continent and making the international
community more aware of the need to help solve them.
Before commenting on the item before the Assembly,
my delegation wants to state that it fully endorses the views
expressed by the representatives of Egypt and Algeria, who
spoke on behalf of the current President of the Organization
of African Unity (OAU) and the current Chairman of the
African Group at the United Nations. We also thank the
representative of Colombia, current Chairman of the Group
of 77, for the Group’s support in the search for a solution to
Africa’s concerns.
The General Assembly’s adoption in 1991 of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s raised great hopes both among the Governments and
the peoples of Africa.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Based on the principle of shared responsibility and real
partnership between Africa and the international community,
the New Agenda differs from the United Nations Programme
of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development
1986-1990 in that it hinges on precisely defined objectives
to be attained during the 1990s. These include, among
others, an average annual growth rate of gross domestic
product in Africa of at least 6 per cent, and a minimum of
$30 billion in net official development assistance in 1992, a
sum that is to grow at an average rate of 4 per cent per
annum.
the respective responsibilities of Africa,
In addition to these goals, the New Agenda clearly
defines
the
international community and the United Nations system. In
that respect, it asks the African countries to implement the
economic reforms necessary for sustainable growth and
development; it asks the international community to seek a
solution to the debt problem, supply additional resources and
support efforts
towards diversification and economic
integration; and it asks the United Nations system to play a
major role in carrying out specific programmes compatible
with the goals of the New Agenda for the Development of
Africa.
Despite the specific nature of the New Agenda’s goals,
the level of achievement remains below the minimum
expected by Africa. Prospects for an economic rebound in
Africa seem less and less promising, due to the excessive
burden of external debt, the fall in commodity prices and the
decline of financial flows. During the New Agenda’s
implementation period, African growth rates have so far
ranged from 1 per cent to 3.8 per cent, depending on the
subregion. The various rates remain well below the goal of
6 per cent set by the New Agenda for the Development of
Africa. As to resource flows, generally speaking the amount
of financial assistance given to Africa has declined. The
available funds are below the annual volume foreseen within
the New Agenda.
In connection with commodities, the
Secretary-General notes in document A/48/334 that exports
from sub-Saharan Africa have fallen by 15 per cent in the
1990s and that the value of these exports is barely higher
than it was in 1990.
Within the framework of the burning question of
commodities, my delegation believes that special attention
should be given to the conclusions and recommendations in
the report of the Secretary-General (A/48/335) entitled "Need
for and feasibility of the establishment of a diversification
fund for Africa’s commodities". My delegation welcomes
the recommendation to establish a diversification fund for
Africa’s commodities and national diversification councils.
While urging African countries to establish these councils as
quickly as possible, we urgently appeal to the international
community that it implement the recommendation that the
necessary resources be made available for this fund.
desirable
operational
December 1993.
become
the
for
fund
to
It is
by
Within the framework of international solidarity and the
ties of cooperation that link Africa to the rest of the world,
particular attention should be given to this continent because
of the specificity and gravity of its problems. Indeed, Africa
in its development efforts remains the most handicapped of
any region. It still has the lowest standard of living in the
world, and extreme poverty continues to grow there. Africa
devotes a third of its export earnings to servicing a debt that
is the heaviest per capita in the world and the total volume
of which amounted to $225 billion in 1992. Currently, its
share in international trade is tiny, amounting to less than
2 per cent of world merchandise exchange.
The many programmes and plans for Africa drawn up
on the national, subregional, regional and international levels
should be tangibly put into practice. The New Agenda for
the Development of Africa makes it possible to gauge
progress made towards African development in each of the
areas I have addressed.
That is why my delegation appeals to all the members
of the international community effectively to implement the
commitments they have undertaken in order to realize the
New Agenda for the Development of Africa.
I take this
opportunity to extend my delegation’s congratulations and
thanks to the Japanese Government, which has recently
hosted an International Conference on African Development.
The effective implementation of the Declaration made at that
Conference deserves the special attention of all participants.
More than ever,
the African countries need the
cooperation of the rest of the international community. It is
vital that we initiate a process of true partnership. We
believe that Africa, like other regions of the world, is ready
to receive investments.
It would be useful to establish
relations of mutual trust with investors.
In that regard, we
are aware that a share of responsibility falls on the recipient
countries.
In most of our countries, the conditions for
guaranteeing investments have been met. Considerable
efforts have been exerted towards that end. But we also ask
the source countries for these potential investments to take
measures to encourage investment and to guarantee them
with commitments to the recipient countries if need be.
With the implementation in several countries of bold
programmes of economic reform and structural adjustment,
along with the establishment of democracy, Africa has
reached a decisive stage in its history. The international
community will have to help pursue the process under way.
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
19
Mr. BILOA TANG (Cameroon) (interpretation from
French): Beyond what the representatives of Algeria, Egypt
and Colombia have already said on behalf of
the
Organization of African Unity and the Group of 77, I should
like at the outset to express our appreciation and gratitude to
the steps he has taken to
the Secretary-General
implement
the
Development of Africa in the 1990s. These steps include in
particular
the establishment of a Panel of High-level
Personalities on the development of Africa and the naming
of a Special Coordinator for Africa and the Least Developed
Countries.
the United Nations New Agenda for
for
I should also like to express our satisfaction with the
Secretary-General’s reports on the implementation of the
New Agenda, the study on the feasibility of establishing a
diversification fund for African commodities, and resource
flows for African development.
In the 1960s, following accession to independence by
African countries, voices were raised against the French
agronomist René Dumont, who had dared to write in a
henceforth notorious work that Black Africa had started off
on the wrong foot.
Three decades later, Africa still gives the impression not
only of having started out on the wrong track but of not
having started at all, as a result of the succession and
concatenation of unfortunate events that have made it
impossible for it to achieve economic lift-off. This is what
Mr. Ferdinand Leopold Oyono, Minister
Foreign
Relations and Head of the Cameroonian delegation, had in
mind in his statement on 8 October last to the Assembly
when he described the situation as follows:
of
"A victim of flagrant
injustices that constitute
grave violations of human dignity, Africa, more than
any other developing region, has the characteristics of
a continent adrift.
It is toiling under an intolerable
burden of debt in a situation exacerbated by an overall
trend towards disinvestment, a decline in official
development assistance and a steady deterioration in the
terms of trade as a result of the continuing fall in
commodity prices." (Official Records of the General
Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Plenary Meetings,
22nd meeting, p. 9)
As if that were not enough, environmental degradation,
natural disasters, endemic diseases, famine, illiteracy and
galloping population growth have made Africa a continent
where life is not pleasant. Faced with this situation, which
is neither more nor less than disastrous, in June 1986 the
international community decided to seek ways and means of
saving Africa, through the United Nations Programme of
Action for African Economic Recovery and Development
1986-1990.
Courageous and even bold measures were recommended
and adopted, but, as ever where Africa is concerned, there
was agreement on the diagnosis and the therapy but there
was no follow-up action. So, as far as Africa’s critical
economic situation is concerned, one can understand why
one hears talk of a lost decade.
in
an
Africa and the international community, faced with this
failure - and
of
solidarity - once again adopted what was described as a
world partnership for African development.
Firm and
specific commitments were made by both sides.
unprecedented
upsurge
Africa undertook far-reaching and difficult reforms
designed to speed up the process of democratization,
promote human rights and ensure economic, social and
cultural development in an atmosphere of transparency and
with the active participation of all positive forces - and,
while so doing, stressing the creation of attractive conditions
for investment, developing the potential of our human
resources, applying structural adjustment programmes and
pursuing and consolidating economic integration through
subregional, regional and international cooperation.
For its part, the international community undertook to
support
these efforts, specifically by seeking a lasting
solution to the debt problem, providing substantial additional
financial resources and supporting economic diversification,
to name but a few. However, while Africa has been
resolutely striving to honour its commitments under the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s, at
the
international community’s enthusiasm, on the other hand,
appears to have waned. This is why we are afraid that we
will see the New Agenda suffer the same sad fate that befell
the Programme of Action.
the cost of enormous sacrifices,
My delegation therefore joins all those others that have
already stressed the urgent need for there to be an effective
and rapid implementation of
the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
the Bureau of
With this in mind, my delegation also attaches great
the Special
importance to the role of
Coordinator, and would wish for suitable steps to be taken
In the same vein, we
to strengthen its ability to intervene.
welcome
to establish a
diversification fund for Africa’s products under the auspices
and with the support of the African Development Bank.
the proposal
and support
Cameroon, which already possesses diversification
structures, notes with keen interest the proposal to establish
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
national diversification committees, as spelt out in the report
of the Secretary-General.
been in the press releases covering the Secretary-General’s
statements about them.
On the institutional level, the New Agenda falls within
the province of the Bureau of the Special Coordinator for
Africa and the Least Developed Countries; the resources and
the capability of
in our view, be
strengthened.
the Bureau should,
However, we do have some grounds for satisfaction and
encouragement following the issuance of report A/48/335 on
the need for and feasibility of the establishment of a
diversification fund for Africa’s commodities. In the report,
the Secretary-General puts forward valuable arguments in
favour of diversification, together with specific and balanced
proposals.
A diversification fund for Africa’s commodities is an
urgent, imperative necessity, because one of Africa’s major
economic difficulties is the fact that it is dependent on a few
export products that are constantly declining in price. My
delegation therefore supports
the establishment of a
diversification fund. We hope that all the parties concerned
and interested in African development will also support it.
Alongside the establishment of
the fund, other
accompanying measures will have to follow.
Thus,
diversification should cover products that will find a market
in Africa and internationally; African products ought to have
better access to the world market - and here we believe that
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade negotiations
must be concluded with the interests of all the categories of
developing countries taken into account equally - and there
must also be a price stabilization system for our export
products.
If these points are not taken into account in the
diversification process, the efforts made towards that end are
likely to be insignificant and unfruitful.
Whether the issue is one of establishing these new
structures or of economic recovery, Africa needs new,
additional financial resources: Africa is cruelly short of
them. Of course Africa needs a diversification fund; but it
also, and most of all, needs funds to finance its development
in general.
In this connection, suffice it to mention my
delegation’s assessment of the Tokyo Conference.
We note that substantial spontaneous and generous
efforts have been undertaken to the benefit of the so-called
"countries in transition", and, even more recently, to the
benefit of recovery and reconstruction in the Middle East.
Could not Africa too, for its development, be a beneficiary
of the same spontaneity and generosity, which, in the final
analysis, are the tangible expression of real political will?
It is this political will we call for.
Mr. OUEDRAOGO (Burkina Faso) (interpretation from
French): Most of the speakers before me this morning
have put forward essentially the same points of view held by
the delegation of Burkina Faso.
I shall therefore confine
myself to making just a few comments.
In speaking today on the item on the agenda, we are
bitterly reminded of the failure of the United Nations
Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and
Development. As the representative of Burkina Faso said
during the general debate at the forty-seventh session,
"The rewards of the tireless efforts of the African
countries have not been commensurate with the
sacrifices we have made. The promises of the North
remain promises, just as the United Nations Programme
of Action for African Economic Recovery and
Development has not been truly implemented, except by
Africans themselves. A new page has been turned with
the new programme for the 1990s, but
that page
remains blank." (A/47/PV.21, p. 88)
Even today, two years after the adoption of the New Agenda
for the Development of Africa, we cannot fail to note that
little progress has been made in implementing it.
While we can welcome the establishment of the Panel
of High- level Personalities on African Development and the
fact that it has held two meetings under the chairmanship of
the Secretary-General of our Organization, we can also
wonder what the content and the results of those meetings
have been. Indeed, it seems that the only information about
the meetings that we have had made available so far has
49th meeting - Thursday, 4 November 1993
21
The success of the New Agenda for the Development
these are
of Africa depends also on other key areas;
industrialization,
transport and communications and the
settlement of the foreign debt question. The resolutions on
the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa and
the Second Transport and Communications Decade in Africa
must therefore be put rapidly into effect. It is also a matter
of urgency for us to see results from the promise that an
international conference on foreign debt can be held, as
provided for in paragraph 28 of the New Agenda for African
Development in the 1990s.
In conclusion, and so that what I have just said should
be something more than a simple wish list, we should like
here to express our conviction that the success of the New
Agenda for Africa cannot be ensured unless it is followed up
with specific actions. The provisions of the agreement are
precise and clear, and all that is needed is for each of the
parties to put them into full effect. Africa, for its part, is
already working on them.
The United Nations Conference on Trade
and
Development at its eighth session and the United Nations
Conference on Environment
and Development have
proclaimed a new era of cooperation and partnership. The
success or failure of the United Nations New Agenda for
African Development in the 1990s will show whether we are
capable of honouring our solemn commitments. Also, we
believe that, in this regard, our word is our bond. Our work
lies before us, and it is our actions that will speak.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
