United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
ADDRESS BY HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCE
EL-HASSAN BIN TALAL, CROWN PRINCE OF
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will first hear a
statement by the Crown Prince of the Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan.
His Royal Highness Prince El-Hassan Bin Talal,
Crown Prince of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was
escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT:
I have pleasure in welcoming the
Crown Prince of Jordan, His Royal Highness Prince
El-Hassan Bin Talal, and inviting him to address the General
Assembly.
Prince EL-HASSAN BIN TALAL: I should like at the
outset
to extend to you, Mr. President, my sincere
congratulations on your well-deserved election. I should like
to wish you and the other members of
the General
Committee success in the discharge of your important duties.
I had a chance to congratulate the President of the Assembly
at its last session when I saw him in Amman, and I should
17th
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 5 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
now like to reiterate my gratitude for his competent
presidency.
The cold war may be over, but
its death-knell
reverberates around the globe. The comforting ideological
certainties of super-Power confrontation are long gone.
What have we to replace them? The new world order, with
its promise of peace through collective security, has come
upon a baptism of fire. And still it would appear that no
common frame of reference, no new consensus, no global
ethic, has emerged.
As we enter the new millennium, we see the human
spirit under siege as never before. Across the world, the
voices of millions cry out in desperation for relief, for
guidance.
If we, the peoples of the United Nations, are to
be true to our humanity, we must reappraise this situation
that is of our own making. We must learn its lessons, no
matter how hard, and we must apply them.
It is our task
today, and in the days to come, to fashion principles and
practices for a truly new world order. In all fields of human
endeavour, we need a new ethic for a new era.
The balance of world power politics has given way.
Ethnic nationalism has re-emerged, a phenomenon in which
the unifying bond of common citizenship is replaced by
racial or religious exclusivity. As a consequence, we face a
series of apparently endless wars of attrition, fought
to
secure the domination of one ethnic nationalism over
another. This trend must be reversed if our world is to be
made safe from the spreading contagion of conflict.
Many over the years have thought it impossible, but the
Middle East is bucking this alarming trend. The signing on
the Palestinian-Israeli declaration of
13 September of
principles
the
step towards
significant
represents
a
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86752 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.17
5 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
achievement of a negotiated settlement
region.
in our troubled
seek modalities for their resolution with the relevant parties
through our agenda.
On the Jordanian-Israeli
track, a common agenda,
which has been carefully worked out over the last year and
a half, has now been adopted. We trust that this will signify
the commencement of serious and substantive negotiations
on the various elements of that agenda, with the aim of
achieving just and mutually satisfactory solutions.
These developments are a triumph not only for the
politics of consensus, but also for the international morality
which the United Nations advocates and the legality it
upholds. Over the years the Assembly has passed resolution
after resolution calling for a just, comprehensive and lasting
settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the Palestine
question that lies at its core. Finally, the main actors are
playing the leading part in shaping their own destinies.
My country has always sought to bring this prolonged
and bitter conflict to an end, and in our search for solutions
we have constantly aimed to reconcile peace and justice.
Jordan has advocated a negotiated settlement based on
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973)
longer than any other party. Under the new arrangements,
all
the
implementation of those resolutions, affirming a cardinal
principle of international law:
the inadmissibility of the
acquisition of territory by force.
committed
conflict
are
parties
to
the
to
Peace cannot be piecemeal.
There is an equally important principle to bear in mind,
however.
It must be
comprehensive if it is to be viable. As foreseen in the
Madrid framework for the peace talks, some issues cannot
be addressed by any two parties to the exclusion of others.
The questions of regional security, water and above all the
refugees cannot be resolved without direct reference to the
neighbouring States. The status of Jerusalem has to be
determined in a similar way. The legitimate rights which the
three great monotheistic faiths share in the Holy City must
be guaranteed and claims of political and administrative
sovereignty accommodated to the satisfaction of all.
Jordan’s
In view of
long association with the
Palestinian question, the Palestine Liberation Organization
(PLO)-Israeli agreement will have major implications for our
legitimate interests. At a time when new entities are being
formed, an orderly transfer of power and authority is vital.
Only this can safeguard the rights of existing States and
those of individuals. There are questions to address about
State property, archives, debts, treaties, nationality, salaries,
pensions - the list is long, but not exhaustive. Jordan will
The refugee question is of paramount importance.
It
should not, and must not, be forgotten that the individuals
affected have under international law a right of return and
compensation, and their host countries are likewise entitled
to compensation. Jordan has shouldered an enormous human
load as a result of the conflict. Three waves of involuntary
migrants - the refugees of 1948, the evacuees of 1967 and
the returnees of 1991 - have sought shelter and succor in
Jordan. Our treatment of these and other displaced persons
has been exemplary. We have provided them with education
and health services, with jobs and welfare. Citizens of
Jordan, whether of Palestinian or Jordanian origin, enjoy
civil and human rights equally and participate as equals in
our democratization process.
Jordan seeks an equitable,
sustainable international approach to the treatment of our
demographic burden, for it would be unconscionable to
penalize host countries for their humanitarian policies.
Another crucial issue is water. Our agenda strikes a
delicate balance between the need for optimal utilization of
scarce resources, on the one hand, and the equally
imperative need to define the rights and duties of riparian
States, on the other. We also look forward to definitive
delineation of our borders with Israel,
thereby giving
concrete expression to the right of every nation to live in
secure and internationally recognized boundaries.
When the euphoria has subsided, these serious and
complex questions will remain. The PLO-Israel accord,
historic as it is, represents a first step towards Palestinian
final status, which in turn will allow the Palestinians to take
part in comprehensive regional security and cooperation
arrangements. For the Middle East cannot be reduced to a
single issue. It more closely resembles a tapestry woven of
numerous intertwining threads.
One of these wider regional issues - the suffering of the
Iraqi people - demands urgently to be addressed. A
succession of independent reports has brought to light the
special
impact of continued sanctions upon the most
vulnerable segments of Iraqi society - in particular, the
children. The sanctions regime that daily takes its toll on
the people of
Iraq also has adverse consequences for
neighbouring States, including Jordan and Turkey.
Issues
such as this must be resolved if the Middle East is to seize
its chance for lasting peace. A cooperative security system
will help to protect the security of the States and peoples of
the region. We can only avert the kind of destabilizing
conflict that followed the end of the cold war in Eurasia by
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
3
making arrangements
underpinned by the full
community.
to ensure our common future,
the international
support of
Despite these outstanding questions, I have no doubt
that the extraordinary achievements of the autumn of 1993
will be seen in years to come as the start of a fresh course
in the settlement of regional conflicts. The politics of
dialogue and reconciliation have been our regional and
domestic priorities, for they are essential to the democratic
process. We seek to extend the principles of consensus and
collective security to the Middle East
to create a new
regional order, an order which recognizes the right of each
individual to lead a life free from fear, want and despair, an
order which will provide justice to all peoples and security
to all States, an order in which the United Nations and its
agencies can play a positive role not only in humanitarian
intervention or the protection of human rights, but in active
peace-keeping and peacemaking.
injecting a
Jordan applauds Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali for
his valiant efforts to overhaul the United Nations structure
and personnel,
fresh sense of purpose
commensurate with the new challenges. It is in the interests
of all Members of this body to see international
law
respected and upheld. We must all assist the Secretary-
General
in determining the criteria for United Nations
intervention, whether in Lebanon, Iraq, Somalia, Bosnia,
Angola, Cambodia or anywhere else. The terms of reference
embodied in Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter must
be clearly defined, with checks and balances approved to
avoid the erosion of
the independence and territorial
sovereignty of Member States. There is also an urgent need
for well-trained international peace-keeping forces, which
could be established under a reconstituted Military Staff
Committee. The modus operandi for all United Nations
action,
irrespective of the issue at hand, must be the
supremacy of the rule of law and the uniformity of its
application. Double standards should not and must not be
permitted, lest abuse of the law become the accepted norm.
A wider issue concerning this Organization is that of
Security Council reform. Jordan adds its voice to the host
of countries that have called for a reassessment of the
structure of the Security Council. Clearly, conditions in the
world have changed dramatically since the formation of the
Council, and we believe that these should be reflected in its
composition. Jordan also lends its support to the Secretary-
General’s proposals for post-conflict peace-building outlined
in his "An Agenda for Peace".
For in every part of the world peace will remain
illusory unless it touches the daily lives of ordinary people.
Peace will not take root except in an environment conducive
to regional cooperation and mutual security and committed
to the welfare of individual human beings. The development
of economic infrastructure and provisions for investment in
public services are as crucial as the questions of territorial
sovereignty, national identity and security.
It is for this
reason that
the recently convened
conference to support Middle East peace as both timely and
pragmatic. The peace dividend in my region, as elsewhere,
must put an end to the politics of deprivation, fear and
despair, the breeding ground for political extremism and
rejection.
Jordan welcomes
That
The disparities and distortions created by half a century
of conflict
in the Middle East have given rise to such
phenomena.
there is
considerable alarm in the Muslim world at suggestions that
Islam may replace communism as a global threat. These
suggestions are informed by a skewed perception of Islam as
a monolithic creed of violence, intolerance and oppression.
is undeniable. However,
Islam is not the new enemy. Extremism does exist
within the Muslim world, much as it exists in the Christian
world, the Jewish world, the Hindu world and the secular
world. But to employ reductive stereotypes which demonize
one fifth of the world’s population must ultimately be self-
defeating.
in the breed of senseless
violence that has brought untold suffering and loss of life to
Bosnia. Rather than seeking an enemy at the gates, let us
each in our own communities look inwards and address the
disparities and the despair that are the true causes of
extremism and conflict. Let us join together to do battle
with the real enemy.
It can only result
That enemy is a new world of "each for himself". That
the resources at our
is what we must combat, with all
disposal. For the politics and economics of exclusivity are
the bane of both pragmatism and idealism.
Is the triple pillar of democracy, human rights and the
free market the ceiling of our ambition? Democracy and
free market economics are exceptionally successful systems
with noble objectives. But they are not ends in themselves.
The end for which we all strive is greater peace and greater
justice for individual human beings across the world. How
is this to be achieved?
One of our strongest defences against a new world of
"each for himself" would be a new global business ethic,
applying not only among the developed nations, but also
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
between those nations and the developing countries. Such
an ethic might prescribe a relationship of partnership which
would in turn encourage greater self-reliance. Such an ethic
would be wholly reconcilable with human rights, with
pluralism, with care for the environment and with basic
religious values.
I would like to suggest that the key to a
new ethic in all of these areas is our mutual interdependence.
Whatever the context, injustice is perceived and conflict
results when the gap between "self" and "other" seems larger
than the common ground. This fundamental split between
"me" and "you", between "us" and "them", is at the root of
all oppositions, all polarities, all conflicts. Recognition of
our mutual interdependence requires us to acknowledge the
uniqueness of each individual and each culture - even into
the broader environment - and to learn to live with the
differences as with the commonalities.
It requires that we
strive for unity, but never seek to eradicate or compromise
diversity. It requires a new thinking based on tolerance and
compassion - a humane approach and respect for the voices
of others. It requires, in short, that we be true to the ideals
that fired the founders of this Organization when they wrote
the words: "We the peoples of the United Nations".
Herein lies the nexus between peacemaking, human
rights, pluralism, cultural heritage and business ethics. Here
lies the key to a new world of "all for each other", not "each
for himself".
The Middle East is showing the way. Its conflict, once
held to be the most intractable on Earth, is now on the path
to reconciliation and healing.
As we enter a new
millennium, a new era, let the world take heart from our
example. Let us emerge together from the past and together
let us build our brave new world.
The PRESIDENT:
On behalf of
the General
the
Assembly,
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he has just
made.
I wish to thank the Crown Prince of
His Royal Highness Prince El-Hassan Bin Talal,
Crown Prince of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was
escorted from the rostrum.
Mr. AROSEMENA (Panama) (interpretation from
Spanish): Please accept my warmest congratulations, Sir,
upon your election to preside over the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session. I am certain that your election will
contribute to its success.
This session of the General Assembly takes place two
years before we are to celebrate the Organization’s fiftieth
anniversary. We long had to navigate through the stormy
waters of the cold war and ideological confrontation. It was
not an easy task. However, today’s world is different from
that of the signatories of the United Nations Charter. East-
West détente has given us renewed hopes, though we have
still not won the war
against poverty and social
marginalization. Our main goal should be to make those
hopes a reality, if we wish to build a society where not only
a just peace but peaceful justice prevail.
Obviously, the reorganization of the Security Council
is not an easy task, and it becomes even more difficult if we
take into account the fact that, since the very moment the
San Francisco Charter was signed, the Council has been
made up of permanent and non-permanent members, and that
the right of veto extended to the permanent members has
given rise, among other things, to their being accused, with
some justification, of attacking the principle of the legal
equality of States.
The Republic of Panama is of the opinion that if the
Security Council is to be reorganized, the reorganization
must be carried out in such a way that the representation on
the Council of all United Nations Members is equitable.
Therefore, any reorganization must promote fair participation
for the developing States, as the situations that used to be
given as explanations for the way the Council was composed
and for the right of veto have disappeared now that there is
East-West détente.
Drug addiction has become the main scourge of
humanity. The Republic of Panama, like all States, therefore
has the duty to repress drug trafficking and the resulting
money-laundering activities on its territory, and to help
repress these illegal activities in all States. Panama, aware
of these responsibilities and of the fact that the effective
repression of drug-related crimes makes
international
cooperation necessary, on 11 April 1991 Panama and the
United States of America signed a Treaty on Mutual
Assistance in Criminal Affairs, which was ratified by the
Panamanian Legislative Assembly on 11 July 1991. The
Treaty is currently awaiting the consent of the United States
Senate before the effects we expect from it can begin to be
felt.
On 1 March 1993, Panama and the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland signed the Agreement on
Mutual Legal Cooperation on Drug Trafficking, which must
first be approved by the Panamanian Legislative Assembly
In addition, and at Panama’s
before it too can be ratified.
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
5
request, the Central American countries have agreed to sign
a similar treaty, which will be opened to accession by all the
Latin American countries. Also, the Panamanian Executive
Branch has submitted the United Nations Convention against
Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
to
its
consideration; we are convinced that, once it is ratified, we
shall have at our disposal a valuable instrument in our
struggle against drug-related crime.
Panamanian Legislative Assembly
the
for
Human rights and fundamental freedoms do not come
as a generous concession from a State or its authorities.
They are inherent
to the human person, regardless of
political, social, racial, religious or any other factor. Those
rights and freedoms are therefore inseparable, and must be
recognized and respected. The fact that those rights and
freedoms are inherent to the human person affords them a
universality and indivisibility that must be strengthened.
Violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms
do not only attack the person whose rights and fundamental
freedoms have been trampled on;
they also attack
institutional stability, the constitutional order and the rule of
law. This is so because the person whose rights and
freedoms have been disregarded is
inclined towards
insurrection or at least towards personal revenge, the private
vengeance of the eye-for-an-eye principle.
The thing is that sovereignty - and the same can be said
of self-determination - can be harmed otherwise than by the
acts of outside States. They can also be violated by a
State’s own nationals, when they place themselves above the
popular will, as has often occurred; dictatorships have
disregarded just this principle of self-determination and have
so violated human rights. This is so because the only source
of public power is the people.
When a dictatorship disregards the principle of self-
determination or the peoples’ sovereignty - which occurs
every time a people is denied its inalienable right to adopt
the form of government that best suits its interests - it
violates sovereignty, and the principle of self-determination,
inasmuch as the State’s power to act does not have its
source in the people:
it has its source in those who hold
public power with no more legitimacy - if it can be called
"legitimacy" - than the force of arms.
In addition, when a
dictatorship disregards human rights,
the
inhabitants of the State, the people, from whom sovereignty
and self-determination flow, of rights that every State must
accord its citizens simply because they are human persons.
I have allowed myself to briefly address the principle of
self-determination because I am convinced that a clear
understanding of
this principle will contribute towards
strengthening its legal force, to the benefit of democracy and
the rule of law.
it deprives
Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, or
violations of them, must therefore be examined not only as
a problem that affects individual interests but rather in a
much wider context, as a problem that affects society in
general. This is why most of the insurrections, rebellions
and fratricidal conflicts have their origins in violations of
human rights and fundamental freedoms to the detriment of
large swathes of the population. Such violations often stem
from a lack of democracy, from the absence of the rule of
law, from extreme poverty and from social marginalization.
The situation Haiti is going through is worrying. The
Governors Island Agreement provides that, by the 30th of
this month,
the constitutional President, Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, must once again occupy the presidential throne.
However, the de facto Government would appear to be more
intent on provoking violence than promoting the re-
establishment of the constitutional order.
Since 3 July,
11 people have been given their quietus, including the pro-
democracy activist Antoine Izmeri, whose struggle merits
recognition throughout the Americas.
While on the subject of lack of democracy, I wish to
state that, under the United Nations Charter, a purpose of
this Organization is
"To develop friendly relations among nations based
rights and
the principle of equal
on respect
self-determination of peoples ...".
for
In conformity with the principle of self-determination, all
countries can adopt the form of government that best suits
them. However, by allowing dictatorial regimes to exist, the
international community takes away all the principle’s force.
The Republic of Panama believes that the agreement
between the constitutional Government and the chief of the
Haitian Army must be fulfilled, and hopes that
the
Organization, striving to live up to the principles that inspire
it, will ensure that it is.
Recognition of the State of Israel within secure and
recognized borders and the establishment of a Palestinian
State are acts of justice restored which international peace
and security make essential. Therefore, the Republic of
Panama cannot be indifferent to the Declaration of Principles
signed by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
(PLO) on 13 September, or to the agreement on provisional
autonomy for the Gaza Strip and Jericho.
can
cause.
and
intolerance
Since the formation of the State of Israel, Israelis and
the damage that
Palestinians have been victims of all
The
incomprehension
confrontational
relationship between these two peoples
blinded by hatred is summarized in the 45 years of tears,
pain and death. However, the wars and exoduses of 1948,
1956, 1967 and 1973, with their consequences of grief and
suffering, should now serve as evidence of the benefits of
peace. Therefore, a peace agreement between Israelis and
Palestinians should become a goal for the United Nations.
The atmosphere of détente to which I have already
referred should foster the universality of representation in
this multilateral Organization. Consequently I am gratified
to see that many States that have never traditionally had an
active international
life, such as Andorra, Liechtenstein,
Monaco and San Marino - to mention only a few States
enclaved in the European continent - have felt the need to
join and support us in the important tasks we are resolved to
It is in that spirit of universality that Panama
accomplish.
has supported and continues to support
the initiative
designed to study now and in the future, with innovative
ideas and goodwill, the situation of the largest human group
that has no voice in this body:
the 21 million inhabitants of
the island of Taiwan.
The Central American countries are striving to build a
peaceful, free, democratic and developing region. For that
reason, the efforts to bolster peace that have been initiated
require actions capable of solving our economic, social,
cultural and humanitarian problems in order to strengthen
our peoples’ faith in democracy.
The
endeavours
to achieve democracy, national
reconciliation and development in the region are obvious.
But in order to continue making these efforts we require the
cooperation of all States that believe in democracy, justice
and freedom.
Therefore, associating myself with the
initiative presented by the Ibero-American Heads of State
and Government in Salvador, Brazil, I call on States and
international organizations to cooperate effectively with the
Central American Integration System (SICA) so that it can
promote and strengthen sustained subregional cooperation
and attain its fundamental goal.
in
created an Ibero-American community which today,
meetings of Heads of State and Government, and together
with Brazil and Portugal, is determined to focus its strength
on the future, guided by the desire to take full advantage of
the similarities which bring us together to consolidate
opportunities for cooperation and solidarity.
This
should be gratifying to the whole of
the
Ibero-American community, since our faith in the future is
becoming increasingly obvious at each Summit. The first
Summit, in Guadalajara, created the forum of Heads of State
and Government; at
in
Madrid and Salvador, respectively, we saw the initial results
of these commendable initiatives. It is also appropriate here
to note that the Final Document of the third Summit states:
the second and third Summits,
its
"Without prejudice to the spheres of competence of
specialized international forums, the United Nations
General Assembly should focus
international
development cooperation policy on securing greater
access for developing countries to world markets,
adequate forms of finance and modern technology.
This will make it possible to overcome the obstacles to
development and, while benefiting the developing
countries, will also open up economic opportunities for
the
thereby easing the
migratory pressures
exerted on them by those
legitimately seeking ways to improve their standard of
living." (A/48/291, para. 14)
industrialized countries,
listen attentively to the demands of
I would feel most fortunate if the General Assembly
were to
the
Ibero-American community, which feels that most of the
products of its member States have been repeatedly denied
increased access to markets which have been traditionally
accessible, as in the case of bananas in the European
Community, as well as access to financing and modern
technology. For our part, the Ibero-American States should
be resolved to put our financial situations in order and not
depend on the marketing of a few products, and we should
improve the quality of our educational systems, in order to
attain greater economic stability.
The Ibero-American
countries should also resolve to turn the cooperation and
solidarity mentioned in the Final Document into sincere and
honest cooperation and solidarity, and not mere rhetoric, as
is so often the case. Only in that way will we be able to
profit to the full from the affinities that we share.
The ability of we who inhabit the vast territories south
of the Rio Bravo to communicate with each other and with
Spain in the same language - a Nicaraguan poet once called
them the countries that love Christ and speak Spanish - has
Panama will be the host country of the Summit of the
Ibero-American Heads of State and Government in the year
2000. This event will unquestionably have great significance
for my country. It will take place precisely at a time when
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
7
and freeing their
the Panamanian people have attained their most important
legal and political objective: recovering their rights over the
Panama Canal
territory from the
jurisdictional limitations imposed by the ill-fated Hay-Bunau
Varilla Treaty. That is so because the present Panama Canal
Treaty will expire on 31 December 1999. Consequently, the
Republic of Panama will then manage, operate and maintain
the Panama Canal. All the real estate, fixture improvements
and equipment that the United States of America will be
using until the end of the validity of the Treaty will revert
to Panama. One of the Panamanian people’s greatest wishes
will thus come true on 31 December 1999.
However, as important as achieving this legal and
political objective may be, it is the good or bad use we make
of the Canal and the areas that revert to us that will mark
our future in a positive or negative way. Thus, it is our duty
as a nation to manage the Canal wisely and to use in the
best possible way the areas that revert to us.
For
that
reason Law No. 5 of 1993 created the
Authority of the Panamanian Interoceanic Region, with the
objective of improving the use of the assets that are
reverting and will revert to Panama between now and the
year 2000. Similarly, on 6 September 1993 a draft bill for
constitutional reform was submitted to the Panamanian
Legislative Assembly; it is designed to add a new article to
Panama’s political Constitution which will create the Panama
Canal Authority, whose main function will be to manage and
operate the Canal. That will ensure that the Authority will
not be affected by any political shifts. Thus, the Republic
of Panama is preparing to manage, operate and maintain the
Panama Canal from 31 December 1999. This task will be
all the easier because the current Canal Administrator, and
87.7 per cent of the Panama Canal Commission employees
are Panamanians, not counting those with dual nationality.
On the basis of the Panama Canal Treaty, Panama and
the United States agreed in 1982 to create the Preparatory
Commission to prepare the points of reference for the
feasibility studies of a sea-level canal in Panama and other
alternatives to the Panama Canal. They also agreed to invite
Japan to be a full member of this Commission, an invitation
Japan accepted. These three States created the Commission
for the Study of Alternatives to the Panama Canal.
On 20 September last, this Commission presented its
final report, a Joint Statement of Commission Members,
which indicates that the "current Panama Canal with the
widening of the Gaillard Cut seems to be able to meet the
needs of international maritime trade until the end of the
second decade of the twenty-first century. However," the
statement continues, "before the year 2000 measures should
be taken to prepare the canal for the time when the current
Panama Canal will not be able to take care of the projected
traffic." Such measures include "future studies to firmly
establish the dates when improvements will become
necessary in order
required
environmental studies involved in the final engineering
design and the initiation of the construction".
to start planning the
According to the aforementioned report, the results of
the study indicate that the alternative of high-level locks,
with one lane of maritime traffic at
the Gaillard Cut,
operating jointly with the current canal and capable of
handling
is
of
marginally feasible.
200,000 dead-weight
tonnage,
ships
In order to handle the projected traffic with the same
efficiency during the twenty-first century as it has been
handled since the opening of the Canal on 15 August 1914,
if not with even greater efficiency,
the aforementioned
system of high-level locks will have to be built in time to
begin operating by the year 2020. As it does not have the
necessary resources to complete such a project, Panama
believes that
the
international community - primarily those who use the Canal
- is essential. We hope to receive that cooperation, for the
sake of the well-being of the Panama Canal users who so
urgently require it.
the cooperation of
the members of
At the beginning of my statement I referred to the fact
that we are two years from the golden anniversary of this
Organization. We should prepare to celebrate that great
event by affirming, as its founders in San Francisco wished,
"faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth
of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women
and of nations large and small" and by promoting "social
progress" and "better standards of life in larger freedom".
Mr.
Fajardo MALDONADO (Guatemala)
(interpretation from Spanish): Allow me, Ambassador
Samuel Insanally, to congratulate you sincerely, on behalf of
my delegation, on your election as President of the General
Assembly of the United Nations at its forty-eighth session.
At the same time, I would express to you our satisfaction
that this post has gone to such a distinguished representative
of the Latin American and Caribbean region. You may
count on our cooperation in the important work that lies
ahead of you.
I would also like to express our gratitude to
Ambassador Stoyan Ganev for the efficiency with which he
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
served as President of the General Assembly at its forty-
seventh session.
I would give a special greeting to Andorra, the Czech
Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, Slovakia, and The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and bid them a cordial
welcome to our Organization. Guatemala wishes to extend
to them its friendship, respect, solidarity and understanding.
The increase in its membership is further proof of the faith
the international community places in the United Nations as
a multilateral forum par excellence for seeking together the
solution to the problems that beset the world today.
I would also like
to extend my greetings
to
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United
Nations, whose dynamic leadership has allowed us to
progress towards the common objective of strengthening our
Organization and adapting it to the new world situation. We
hope that his efforts to ensure fulfilment of the Charter and
of its purposes and principles will be successful. We need
a strengthened Organization to maintain international peace
and security and to promote social progress and better
standards of life for human beings within the widest concept
of freedom.
We believe that the continuous dialogue between the
Secretariat and the Member States should be based on
mutual respect, confidence and understanding, and should
take into account cultural, political, economic and social
realities. The Secretary-General’s role as a facilitator of
peace processes, as an adviser on human rights and as a
mediator in international conflicts may be strengthened by
the contribution of distinguished statesmen and experts who
share with him their experience and prestige.
The events which have taken place in my country since
25 May of this year have marked a fundamental change in
the political and institutional life of Guatemala.
and subsequent
The breaking-off
restoration of
constitutional order created a situation in which the people
of Guatemala, as the country’s only sovereigns, exercised
legitimate resistance in order to protect and defend their
rights and guarantees enshrined in the political Constitution
of the Republic.
As one of the principal consequences of these events,
with a view to consolidating the restoration of constitutional
order so as to reinstall the Congress of the Republic, the
political parties formally pledged in writing to purge the
membership of that body.
Since this commitment has not yet been fulfilled,
President Ramiro de León Carpio, as Head of State and the
representative of national unity and the interests of the
people of Guatemala, in accordance with the Constitution,
requested the supreme electoral tribunal to hold a vote so
that the citizens could express their will with regard to the
political decision of calling for the resignation of the sitting
members of the Congress and the judges of the Supreme
Court. This vote, in conformity with the resolution of the
tribunal, will be held on 28 November this year.
the Republic fall
This process has no precedent in our political history.
We wish to stress that all
the actions taken by the
Government of
strictly within the
framework of the Constitution, and, though the people of
Guatemala may have opted for a slower path,
through
legality, to consolidate their democratic institutions, we are
sure that this will be the best solution for the reconciliation
of the Guatemalan family and the political stability of the
State. Guatemala is charting its own course, and its political
process cannot be compared with other realities.
Yesterday, President Ramirio de León Carpio presented
the National Peace Plan and the Official Declaration on
Human Rights to the Guatemalan people, as he does today,
through me, to the international community. President León
de Carpio’s Plan seeks a firm peace, based on far-reaching
reconciliation through dialogue, so that we Guatemalans can
find unity in the diversity of our cultural, ethnic, religious,
social, political, economic and ecological values.
It seeks lasting peace, achieved by putting an end to
armed internal confrontation and seeing to it that the roots
of hatred, resentment and distrust that have divided us are
extirpated through negotiation and never again by violence.
It seeks a peace with the power to transform, achieved
by consensus and national compromise, which will lead to
the strengthening of the capacity of the Government and the
society as a whole to respond promptly and effectively to
social requirements, with particular attention to the sectors
of the population most affected by the armed internal
confrontation.
it
essential
is reconciliation.
The first component
to establish and promote
The Plan
the
considers
functioning in Guatemala of the permanent forum for peace.
This forum will help to facilitate dialogue and ensure the
participation of all Guatemalans in the solution of national
problems. This reconciliation process will be promoted at
the
and
communal levels. Thus, consensus and agreements will
departmental, municipal
national,
regional,
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
9
express needs that are truly felt by the people and will at the
same time provide guidelines for joint action by the people
and the Government
In this
decentralization strategy, we shall make use of all
mechanisms for making the community’s voice heard,
including urban and rural development councils.
to solve these problems.
In those councils national problems will be discussed in
order to arrive at conclusions that will lead to the perfecting
of our democracy, the strengthening of a State based on the
rule of law, the full exercise of individual freedoms, respect
for human rights, integrated, self-reliant and self-sustaining
development with equality and justice and the solution to
problems deriving from our cultural diversity.
We must
link this permanent
forum to previous
achievements of
the peace process. To this end, account
should be taken, inter alia, of the contributions made to the
great national dialogue and to the meetings that various
sectors of
the Guatemalan population had with the
Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG).
When that group integrates itself legally it will be able,
through the national reconciliation commission, to present its
ideas and proposals for subjects to be dealt with in the
forum.
The matter of social requirements calls for honest,
efficient and immediate actions by the Government
to
strengthen the protection and defence of human rights,
actions that will reduce poverty indicators and promote
development in the areas worst affected by violence and that
will succeed in perfecting our democratic system. At the
same time,
the Government will promote and support
responsible action in these fields by all sectors of society.
We hope the valuable support of the international
community will be added to this effort of the people and the
Government, which will contribute to a prompt and effective
response to the needs and requirements of the population.
We cannot postpone the end of the armed confrontation,
which requires the restoration of the negotiation process to
bring about a definitive cease-fire; the return of the URNG
to legality by means of amnesty;
the defining of the
conditions necessary for its integration into the country’s
political life; and, in consequence, its direct participation in
the permanent peace forum.
achieve this, there must be an end to acts of terrorism, acts
of destruction against the infrastructure and actions that harm
the environment.
The process also requires, first, that there be a revision
of the Oslo and Mexico City accords and, secondly, that a
timetable for negotiations be set.
On the question of human rights, the Government has
declared that it will act firmly against violations of these
rights, with no distinction as to social or economic status.
The necessary measures will be taken to protect and support
persons and entities that are working in accordance with the
law to promote and safeguard human rights. We therefore
call upon the United Nations, the Organization of American
States (OAS) and the States members of these organizations
to increase their presence and technical contributions to
actions that
the State of Guatemala and its institutions
undertake to strengthen, enable and perfect the machinery for
protecting and defending human rights.
On behalf of my Government, I request the Secretary-
General of the United Nations to seek a meeting with the
URNG to undertake a review of the Oslo and Mexico City
accords and to set a timetable for negotiations.
The
Government of Guatemala is proposing this Peace Plan,
aware as it is of the imperative necessity for putting an end
once and for all to armed confrontation, which has cost my
country so many human lives over the course of more than
30 years.
Only a sturdy, lasting peace with power to
transform can serve as a basis to strengthen democratic
institutions, guarantee respect for human rights and promote
political, economic and social development.
For all of the above reasons we most warmly welcome
the peace process that has been attained in the sister
Republic of El Salvador and the one recently initiated
between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization.
Guatemala reaffirms its faith and conviction regarding
the guiding principles set out in the Charter of the United
Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
outstanding among which are the principle of the peaceful
solution of disputes,
the
sovereign equality of States and, fundamentally, the respect
for human rights
and the principle of democratic
Government.
to self-determination,
the right
We shall also define the international verification
machinery which will make possible the concentration,
disarmament and demobilization of URNG personnel. To
In keeping with the principle of universality prevailing
in the current international context, our country considers
that cases like that of the Republic of China in Taiwan
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
should be thoroughly studied and considered in the light of
the United Nations Charter. Guatemala renews its faith and
hope in multilateralism, and
particularly in the United
Nations.
It wishes to stress its tradition of peace, dialogue
and negotiation and the non-use of force in international
relations.
The security of nations is no longer an exclusively
geopolitical matter falling within the framework of bipolar
confrontation. It is a global problem within which we must
tackle the problems that afflict today’s world. The concept
of security should include new elements that are fundamental
for the peoples of the world: democracy, development, the
preservation of the environment, combating drug trafficking,
food security, population trends and so on.
The Secretariat should be in the service of Member
States and in that role should facilitate instruments that will
make it possible to maintain international peace and security
and promote economic cooperation and social development,
which will guarantee the full exercise of human rights and
fundamental freedoms throughout the world.
Guatemala believes
that, within the process of
restructuring and reorganizing the United Nations that is
currently under way, the efficiency of the system and the full
and democratic participation of all its Members should be
secured. Democratization, as a fundamental element in the
development of peoples, must coexist with development of
the international community and its multilateral system.
We support the initiative to expand the membership of
the Security Council from a regional perspective.
Operations designed to contain or solve conflicts should
be matters for priority action by the United Nations as part
of the Organization’s efforts to forge a new world order.
Among the problems of development are to be found
many of the causes of regional, national and international
tension. Development must be the central focus of the
efforts of the Organization. We therefore support
the
holding of a World Summit for Social Development, and we
hope that the Secretary-General will submit the proposed
agenda for development, embracing economic affairs that
have traditionally been assigned to the Organization, as well
as social, political, environmental and cultural matters, which
we are beginning to realize are fundamental elements in the
welfare of peoples.
The well-being of mankind depends in large measure
on the rational use of available natural resources. With
regard to ecology, we need a global perspective, as the
If the benefits
environment is the heritage of all mankind.
are enjoyed by all,
The
developed world must work more closely and more
effectively in financing the various programmes to preserve
the environment of the developing countries and must
honour the commitments given in Rio de Janeiro.
the effort should be shared.
National and international security are threatened
primarily by differences between the levels of development
of countries. Effective action must be taken against poverty,
hunger, disease and illiteracy. These scourges are worsening
where there are concentrations of refugees or displaced
persons. Cooperation must not be delayed. For this reason,
Guatemala hopes that the initiative of reactivating the North-
South dialogue
economic
cooperation for development and to revitalize global
economic growth, as formulated by the Non-Aligned
Movement and the Group of 77, will be agreed to and will
lead to the creation of a better world.
to strengthen international
The developing countries must refine the machinery for
political and economic coordination to enable us to get this
dialogue going seriously and constructively.
It is therefore
essential
cooperation be
strengthened to revitalize global economic growth and to
ensure that the technological revolution that is under way
will be one more factor in the promotion of a just and
equitable world order.
international
that
economic
We must not overlook the fact that the problems of
national development are to be found also in the Central
American region. International cooperation is necessary for
the consolidation of peace and to encourage the development
of the region. Meetings of Presidents of Central American
States continue to be held regularly. Due note has been
taken of regional political advances, and proposals for
further improvement in this field have been put forward. A
summit meeting of Central American Presidents will be held
in Guatemala at the end of this month for the purpose of
adopting the Protocol
to the General Treaty on Central
American Economic Integration, whose aim is to encourage
social development
to
consolidating peace in Central America.
- a priority when it comes
The Central American effort at integration has been
The Central American Integration System,
intensified.
which coordinates efforts at regional
integration and is
therefore a fundamental instrument in the process of regional
development, now has a Secretary-General.
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
11
It has been proposed that a coordinated Central
American fund to fight poverty be set up. This proposal will
be studied at
the next Summit of Central American
Presidents.
and inequality. We draw this lesson for mankind from the
5,000-year history of the Korean nation, and it applies to the
present tumultuous era, with the twenty-first century just
round the corner.
The developments and events of recent years in the
international arena serve to demonstrate clearly once again
the correctness of the independent lines and policies of our
Republic. We regard independence as our life and soul. It
is the cornerstone of the internal and external policies and
approaches of our Republic.
is our people’s strong
commitment to independence and their principled position
that have enabled our country to advance along the road of
Socialism. They have chosen this road themselves, under
the banner of the Juche idea, without any confusion or twists
and turns, without any upheaval or instability.
It
Our Republic has steadily consolidated and developed
its foreign relations and has contributed to the common
cause of mankind. We derive great satisfaction and pride
from the fact that we have stood fast on the independent
position that we took up. Our stand is one of principle and
consistency: we are not at anyone’s beck and call, nor do
we dance to anyone else’s tune.
In addition, we have
always maintained an independent position in our efforts to
achieve peace and peaceful reunification of the country.
Guatemala supports economic openness so that
its
economy may be integrated effectively into the sphere of
world trade. Along with the other Central American
countries, we have made progress in establishing an
integrated economic space, and we are negotiating with
countries and groups of countries with a view to concluding
agreements on the liberalization of trade.
The Government that I represent has embarked upon a
process of restructuring and consolidating its democratic
institutions. Keeping faith with the Constitution of the
Republic, it has today, with the greatest good will and good
faith, presented its plan for peace. This is designed to save
many lives and to bring to our country the longed-for peace,
which cannot be achieved without the wholehearted support
of the international community.
Mr. SONG Won Ho (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea) (spoke in Korean; English text furnished by the
delegation): On behalf of the delegation of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, I should like, first of all, to
congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of
the General Assembly for the current session. It is our hope
that your efforts will crown the session with success.
to build a new,
The common task facing the international community
today is
independent, peaceful and
prosperous world. Our planet’s people have an identical
aspiration: to build a new and independent world, free from
all forms of domination and subjugation, aggression and war.
All countries and nations should have unrestricted freedom
to choose and develop their own political, economic and
social systems on the basis of
their sovereign rights,
including the right to self-determination.
Independence is the life and soul of each country and
nation, and the common right of mankind. A steadfast
commitment
to independence enables each country to
safeguard its national dignity and rights, to maintain and
consolidate international relationships on a sound basis, to
bring about genuine democratization of international society
and, furthermore, to help to accelerate the creation of an
independent world. The absence of independence will lead
to failure to safeguard national sovereignty and dignity or to
secure a country’s prosperity and well-being.
It is an ineluctable fact that where independence is
violated, there will be domination, subordination, subjugation
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
National
reunification is a cause to realize the
independence of our nation, while the principle of national
independence is the inalienable fundamental principle of
reunification. Great national unity is part and parcel of the
process of the independent and peaceful reunification of the
country. Great national unity is a fundamental prerequisite
to, and an essential factor in, the country’s independent and
peaceful reunification.
Therefore the Government of the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea has consistently subordinated everything
to the goal of national reunification through great national
unity incorporating the principle of national independence.
The whole history of the efforts for national reunification
and in particular the prevailing situation teach us that the
Korean people should move towards greater national unity
of the whole nation based on the principle of independence
in order to attain the country’s reunification.
Of course, there still exist differences in ideologies,
ideals and political systems within the nation, but these
differences could be overcome without much difficulty, since
our nation has its own intrinsic common identity that has
been shaped and consolidated through the time-honoured
history of 5,000 years. Our nation remains closely knit
together by kinship as a homogeneous people, a unique
entity in the world, and the whole nation, whether in the
north, in the south, or abroad, is united by the common
desire for national reunification.
Members of the Korean nation should not be viewed
differently based on whether they live in the north, south or
abroad, nor should distance be put between Korean nationals
just in order to curry favour with foreign forces. We can no
longer engage in antagonism and confrontation at
the
sacrifice of our great cause.
that
the Agreement
The inter-Korean dialogue has made such epoch-making
progress
on Reconciliation,
Non-Aggression, and Cooperation and Exchanges and the
Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean
Peninsula were adopted and effectuated in our country. This
is intended to serve our nation’s effort to end the antagonism
and confrontation and promote reconciliation and unity and
break down the wall of division to pave the way for
reunification.
Our nation is unanimous in its desire and aspiration to
achieve unity, transcending all differences, and to make a
tangible contribution to the country’s reunification and the
prosperity of the reunified country.
authored
and
The respected leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, President
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, has
of
"Ten-Point
personally
Programme of Great Unity of
the Whole Nation for
Reunification of the Country" reflecting the desire and will
of our nation to terminate the history of division and
confrontation and reunify the country.
published
the
This historic programme provides clarification on how
to establish a confederal State through the application of the
three principles of independence, peace and great national
unity, without any bias against either the north or south, on
the basis of coexistence and the equal representation of the
two regional governments. The confederal State would be
independent, peaceful, non-aligned and neutral, maintaining
a balanced posture towards the major Powers.
It also
envisions the protection of private or corporate capital and
assets, and joint stock interests with foreign capital before
and after reunification. The Ten-Point Programme of Great
Unity of the Whole Nation for Reunification of the Country,
which aims to bring about the country’s reunification on the
principle of the spirit of national independence, is a charter
of national unity and reunification which reflects most
comprehensively the will and the aspirations of the Korean
nation and takes
into full consideration the current
international situation. It calls not only on the supporters of
reunification but also on those who have feared or remained
onlookers to reunification to take a stand for the cause of
national unity and reunification. The programme also opens
up positive prospects for achieving the historical cause of the
country’s reunification within the 1990s. Although obstacles
and difficulties still stand in the way of reunification, the
entire Korean people will definitely achieve national
reunification in great unity, by displaying patriotism and the
spirit of national independence.
At present, the relaxation of tension and establishment
of peace on the Korean peninsula presents itself as an urgent
issue, the solution of which allows for no further delay.
With a view to easing tension and achieving a durable
the Korean Armistice
peace on the Korean peninsula,
Agreement should, inter alia, be replaced with a peace
agreement. In reality, the Korean Armistice Agreement has
already become outdated and the armistice mechanism
remains in fact paralysed. The continuance in place of the
out-of-date armistice arrangements is primarily responsible
for a series of complicated and sensitive issues, including the
nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula - issues still remaining
to be resolved.
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
13
The fact that the state of cease-fire and the armistice
arrangements of the 1950s remain unchanged even after 40
years is in itself abnormal.
It is thanks to the peace-loving
policy and the will of the Government of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea that peace and security have
been maintained so far on the Korean peninsula. Only the
replacement of the Korean Armistice Agreement with a
peace agreement will
lead to a full and satisfactory
resolution of all the issues, including the nuclear issue, will
remove hostility in inter-Korean relations and will work in
favour of peace in Korea and its peaceful reunification.
Such being the case, if the United Nations continues
losing sight of the fundamental issues related to peace on the
Korean peninsula and instead preoccupies itself with non-
essential issues, it will only throw obstacles in the way of a
solution of the Korean question. The United Nations should
direct its primary attention to the replacement of the Korean
Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement, and play its
due role in terminating the armistice system and establishing
a new peace arrangement.
New York last June the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and the United States of America issued a joint
statement containing their policy commitments related to a
fundamental resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean
peninsula.
The joint statement clarifies, in unambiguous terms,
principles of assurances against the threat and use of force
including nuclear weapons; peace and security in a
nuclear-free Korean
impartial
application of full-scope safeguards, mutual respect for each
other’s sovereignty, and non-interference in each other’s
internal affairs; and support for the peaceful reunification of
Korea.
peninsula,
including
At the second round of talks in Geneva, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea delegation put
forward a
proposal on replacing its existing graphite-moderated
reactors and associated nuclear facilities with light-water
moderated reactors, thus demonstrating with more clarity the
transparency and integrity of its non-nuclear policy.
We believe this is the right time for the United Nations
to make an innovative decision to dissolve the United
Nations Forces Command in south Korea and to replace the
Korean Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement in
accordance with resolution 3390 (XXX) B adopted by the
thirtieth session of the United Nations General Assembly.
In this connection we maintain that negotiations among the
parties concerned should begin at the earliest possible time
to work out a new peace arrangement that will replace the
present armistice system.
The denuclearization of the Korean peninsula is another
essential factor in building a durable peace and security
there.
If all
the commitments the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea and the United States of America have
agreed upon are translated into practice -
including
assurances against the threat and use of force, including
nuclear weapons, and the peaceful use of nuclear energy
through light-water moderated reactors, plus the negative
security assurances - then the prospects will open up for a
fundamental and final resolution of the nuclear issue on the
Korean peninsula and the basis for the improvement of
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea - United States of
America relations will be laid down.
Furthermore,
epoch-making progress will be made in reducing tensions on
the Korean peninsula and in ensuring peace and security in
Asia and the rest of the world.
The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea remains committed to its consistent position of
turning the Korean peninsula into a nuclear-free, peace zone.
As we have made clear more than once, we have no nuclear
weapons; we have neither the intention nor the need to
develop these weapons, nor the financial resources to support
their production. We would not object to inspection of our
nuclear
facilities, but only when impartiality is fully
guaranteed.
As shown by the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea-United States of America talks, the nuclear issue on
the Korean peninsula is a political issue to be resolved
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the
United States of America.
It is to be recalled that here in
Initial and meaningful progress in the efforts to resolve
the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is the outcome of
the negotiations by the responsible parties. This vividly
proves that the only way to resolve the nuclear issue on the
Korean peninsula lies in dialogue and negotiations.
However, we regret to note that a certain amount of
pressure has been renewed by those forces that still remain
obsessed with an outdated way of thinking at the time when
the talks between the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and the United States of America aimed at resolving
the nuclear issue are under way and consultations between
our country and the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) have been conducted.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the thirty-seventh session of
The so-called resolution on our "nuclear issue" was
adopted at
the General
Conference of the IAEA, which was held some time ago.
This act cannot but be viewed as the product of political
conspiracy to impede, by all means, the solution of nuclear
issues through negotiations and to stifle our Republic.
The peace-loving position of the Government of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to turn the Korean
peninsula into a nuclear-free peace zone remains unchanged,
and we shall continue our sincere efforts in the future, too,
to remove the nuclear threat fundamentally and resolve the
nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula.
We regard the adoption of the "resolution" itself at the
General Conference of the IAEA as a wanton violation of
our Republic’s sovereignty and part of sinister political
offensive aimed at forcing international pressure upon us.
The whole process of the General Conference of the
IAEA held recently has eloquently shown that the measures
taken in the past by the secretariat and Board of Governors
were unjustifiable, and,
accordingly, the agency has lost
face and integrity in the process of solving the "nuclear
issue".
its political character or
The "nuclear issue" of the Korean peninsula can be
resolved only through talks between the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea and the United States of America, either
in the light of
its origin.
Accordingly, two rounds of such talks have been held so far,
which is well known to the world. This notwithstanding, it
is absurd that the Japanese Prime Minister and the South
Korean Foreign Minister picked a quarrel with us in this
august Assembly a few days ago, clamouring about
"implementing the safeguards agreement" and "international
concern about development of nuclear weapons".
Japan
should not mention the fictitious "development of nuclear
weapons", but should give up its attempt
to become a
military Power and to realize its aim of nuclear armament,
which it is accelerating under this pretext.
The south Korean authorities
should discontinue
nuclear-war exercises with foreign forces against fellow
countrymen and should not pursue so-called international
mutual assistance systems either.
Our country, as a member of international society, will
implement its commitment to the just and early solution of
the nuclear issue.
I hope that all
the States Members of the United
Nations will lend encouragement to the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea’s position in favour of a negotiated
resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula and
fully cooperate in taking practical measures
to help
implement the points agreed upon at the talks between the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United
States of America.
Today the world situation and international relations
call for an early liquidation of the legacies of the cold-war
era that have been negated by history and the prevention of
all sorts of attempts to reverse the forward movement of
history.
Universal disarmament and the abolition world wide of
nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction are
most urgent in eliminating the residue of the cold-war era
and attaining peace and security in the world. Everything
that threatens the survival of mankind and the devastation of
society’s treasures should be abolished.
The recent moratorium on nuclear testing introduced by
certain nuclear-weapon States can be called a step forward,
in the light of the fact that nuclear testing itself is the most
dangerous nuclear arms race among the nuclear Powers and
a major source of nuclear proliferation. It is our view that,
along with the permanent ban on nuclear testing, epoch--
making steps should be taken to destroy a colossal number
of the nuclear weapons accumulated on the globe and all
sorts of nuclear weapons deployed in other countries.
In
particular, nuclear weapons deployed on the Korean
peninsula and its surrounding regions should be dismantled.
Without this solution, any talk about international nuclear
non-proliferation and world-wide nuclear disarmament is
senseless.
the cold war has collapsed,
The existence of military blocs and the presence of
foreign military bases and troops in other countries are the
products of cold-war policy and are permanent factors
threatening world peace and security. Now that the old
structure of
there is no
justification whatsoever for the existence of the military
blocs and their means for waging wars of aggression. The
military blocs established under the pretext of the so-called
balance of
forces during the cold-war era should be
dissolved. Furthermore, the presence of foreign military
bases and troops in other countries is a violation of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of those nations. This
runs counter to the trend towards independence of the
present era. We demand the closing of all foreign military
bases in various parts of the world and the unconditional
withdrawal of foreign troops therefrom.
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
15
The peaceful settlement of disputes between countries
and nations is one of the important issues in safeguarding
world peace and security at present. In different parts of the
world we are now witnessing the trampling underfoot of
national sovereignty and the escalation of regional, religious
and ethnic disputes into full-fledged wars. This has been
disturbing peace and security in some regions, and some
countries are suffering from severe disasters. Disputes
between countries should be resolved through negotiations
between the parties concerned in order to meet their mutual
interests and serve the cause of world peace.
it
remains the same,
As long as the structure of the existing inequitable
international economic order
is
impossible to eliminate the ever-widening gap between rich
and poor, between the developed and the developing
countries and save the developing nations from poverty,
disease and disasters. The developed countries must accept
responsibility for
this and refrain from any actions
detrimental to the economic development of the developing
countries. This was specifically highlighted in the resolution
and recommendations adopted by the Tenth Conference of
Heads of State or Government of
the Non-Aligned
Countries. Constructive measures should be taken to resume
dialogue between the developed and developing countries,
reform the inequitable international economic order and
establish a new, equitable international economic order.
Along with this, the developing countries should adopt
practical measures to realize South-South cooperation,
starting from such priority fields as food, agriculture, public
health and so on, in an effort to overcome their economic
poverty and establish a South-South economic order.
The historic tasks and responsibilities the United
Nations has assumed before mankind are growing heavier
with each passing day, and the world watches the role of the
United Nations and its activities. The United Nations should
be democratized to meet the requirements of the present
situation and the aspirations of its Member States, according
to the principles of independence, equality and impartiality.
The important point here is that all Member States
should be left to fully exercise their sovereignty, regardless
of differences in size of population or territory, whether
strong or weak, rich or poor. All countries and nations are
equal members in international society and are entitled to
equal rights.
Mr. El-Araby (Egypt), Vice-President, took the chair.
In the world there are big and small countries, but there
cannot be senior or junior countries; there are developed and
less developed nations, but
there cannot be dominating
nations and nations destined to be dominated by others.
We stand against any privileges being given to any
particular nation in international relations. We call for
universal adherence to the principles of mutual respect and
non-interference in the internal affairs of others, for equality
and mutual benefits, and for friendship and cooperation
among all the countries to be based on these principles.
In the international arena today, some forces are
resorting to anachronistic actions; in violation of impartiality
and international justice, these forces connive at actions on
the part of certain countries that violate international norms
on a number of issues, including the nuclear issue, the
human rights situation and terrorism, while pretending to be
ignorant of them. At the same time, they accuse those
countries that disobey them of a "nuclear threat", of "human
rights violations" and of
"State-sponsored terrorism",
imposing unacceptable pressure on them.
Unjustifiable and unreasonable actions by a few
countries that resort to strong-arm tactics and high-handed
behaviour while interfering in the internal affairs of others
and applying a double standard to the practice of
international relations must no longer be tolerated.
The United Nations should undergo restructuring and
improvement. Such important measures are needed to meet
more effectively the changed reality and new challenges.
Primary attention should be paid to reviewing and
readjusting the composition of the permanent membership of
the United Nations Security Council. As the non-aligned
and other developing countries form a majority of the United
Nations membership, they should exercise their voice on an
equivalent basis and should not be denied the opportunity to
take part in the process of resolving major international
issues. We hold that the third world countries should, as a
matter of course, be included in the permanent membership
of the United Nations Security Council, in proportion to the
numbers of their members in the Organization.
At present, Japan is launching a public relations
campaign to gain a seat as a permanent member of the
Security Council. But Japan is not assuming its due
responsibility for the acts of aggression and war crimes
committed during the Second World War and has so far
failed to make a clean slate of its past. Therefore, it is not
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
reasonable to talk about
membership.
its qualification for permanent
Only when the United Nations measures up to its own
responsibilities and role on an unprejudiced basis can it take
its rightful place as the international Organization that serves
international justice and champions world peace; only then
will it be able to meet the expectations of its Member States.
The destiny of each country and nation is closely
interlinked with the common destiny of mankind.
The world’s people advocating independence should
work together in unity to consolidate their respective national
independence,
independent
development, and to contribute actively to a stronger world
peace and security.
their countries’
to further
We fully support the Cambodian people in their efforts
to promote national reconciliation, unity and rehabilitation,
as we do the peoples of
the
Association of South-East Asian Nations in their endeavours
to establish a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in
South-East Asia, and we support other Asian people in their
struggle to build a new,
independent, peaceful and
prosperous Asia.
the member States of
including the Palestinian question;
We would like to express our firm solidarity with the
Palestinian and all the other Arab peoples who are engaged
in efforts towards a fair and lasting solution of the Middle
East question,
to the
entire African people in their
struggle to overcome
socio-economic difficulties and achieve the independent
development of their countries; to the Cuban people in their
struggle to defend the country’s sovereignty and dignity and
the gains of socialism; and to the Latin American peoples in
their efforts towards peace and prosperity.
The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea and the Korean people will offer active support and
firm solidarity to the people of all countries throughout the
world who are struggling to oppose all sorts of domination
and subjugation, to build a new society and to promote the
common cause of mankind.
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is guided
by its consistent
independence, peace and
friendship in international relations, and these ideals coincide
with the ideals of international society.
ideals of
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will
continue to hold fast to independence, to further strengthen
contacts and cooperation with United Nations Member
States, and to remain faithful
to the common cause of
mankind for global independence.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea wishes, in conclusion, to express its hope that at its
current session the General Assembly will have a successful
discussion of all the agenda items placed before it at this
session
the
representatives of the various countries, thus contributing to
building a new, free and peaceful world.
concerted
through
efforts
the
of
all
(interpretation
Mr. PAREDES (Ecuador)
from
Spanish):
I am pleased to convey my congratulations to
Ambassador Samuel Insanally, the Permanent Representative
of Guyana and a distinguished member of our Latin
American and Caribbean Group, on his well-deserved
election as President of the General Assembly.
A short while ago, we were hailing the end of the cold
war. There seemed to be a fresh possibility of building a
new international order based on sound moral principles,
namely the principles of
freedom and
democracy.
justice,
law,
The Gulf crisis, caused by Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait,
offered the international community an opportunity to react
resolutely to restore the rights thus violated. The principles
of condemnation of the use or the threat of the use of force
as a means of settling disputes were underscored. The
inadmissibility and illegitimacy of
the acquisition of
territories through force were reaffirmed. The principles of
the peaceful settlement of disputes and respect for the
sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of States
were strengthened.
Ecuador was gratified to see the
resultant reinforcement of the fundamental and age-old
pillars of its international policy.
The world today aspires more firmly and decisively to
live in freedom and democracy and in an atmosphere of full
respect for human rights.
This fundamental change has allowed the spread, not
only of positive forces, but also of underlying conflicts
which, within various regions, have set off apparently
uncontainable escalation.
The United Nations, whose prestige had reached new
heights, was facing increasingly numerous, pressing and
complex problems. Extreme nationalism had flared up in the
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
17
Balkans and elsewhere, while the breakdown of authority
had given rise to tragic humanitarian situations in Somalia
and in other regions. In Cambodia, the Organization had to
contribute to rebuilding the State.
The problems have not disappeared; on the contrary,
they proliferate in the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and in the former Soviet Union. The large
numbers of refugees created by war serve as a pretext for
extremist, nationalist and xenophobic ideologies to arise in
the very heart of Europe.
The world, which applauded United Nations action on
the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, is examining with a critical eye
the Organization’s inaction and ineffectiveness in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. In Bonn, the graffiti read, "Europe is dying in
Sarajevo". In the Iraq-Kuwait conflict, the use of force and
the acquisition of territory by force was condemned, but it
seems that in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina the use of
force is being allowed to yield results and to expand the
territory of the aggressor. Here is a clear illustration that
international morality is opposed to double standards of
action.
In that context, Ecuador views as vital the work under
way to restructure and strengthen the world Organization.
The General Assembly must shoulder with greater authority
its responsibilities as the most representative democratic
organ of the United Nations. The Security Council needs to
be restructured to reflect
the striking changes in the
membership of the United Nations and to ensure that it is
more representative and, hence, more legitimate. We
commend all the steps being taken to that end, and we
support others that still need to be taken to ensure that the
is characterized by vision and
work of
its membership should be
transparency. We think that
its work will be
expanded, within limits ensuring that
effective
the
Organization. Democratizing participation in the Council’s
work requires the presence of States of special significance
on the international scene, such as Germany and Japan, and
of representatives of other geographical areas not now
properly represented.
the democratization of
and aimed at
the Council
General Assembly has requested of the Secretary-General, on
an agenda for development.
Ecuador was pleased by the results of the recent World
Conference on Human Rights. We believe that the Vienna
Declaration and Programme of Action constitute an
important step forward towards recognizing the universal
nature of human rights.
is
universal and inalienable. Ecuador appeals to all States to
make an effort to implement the goals and purposes of the
Vienna Programme of Action.
to development
The right
is
deeply
by
Ecuador
gratified
positive
developments in South Africa. We hope that the elections
scheduled for 1994 will mark the conclusive establishment
of a democratic, non-racial, pluralistic society truly free and
open to progress.
the
For
that
reason, Ecuador
The most important element of progress may well be
social development.
firmly
supported the initiative to convene the World Summit for
Social Development. We reiterate our backing for the
international community’s decision, which will add meaning
to the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations.
The world economy is at a difficult stage. Even the
developed economies are in deep crisis. We must adopt a
new monetary and fiscal policy aimed at promoting short-
term recovery and at eliminating structural imbalances in the
medium term. It is vital to coordinate the macro-economic
policies of the strongest countries in order to promote world
economic growth. It is necessary also to take account of the
legitimate interests of all countries, especially developing
countries.
It will be impossible to maintain and bolster our
democracies without at the same time engaging in economic
and social programmes aimed at improved living standards
for all. In addressing these issues we should not rely solely
on old economic statistical systems, but should turn to
systems that evaluate the quality of life, such as that
proposed by the United Nations Development Programme.
The work of the United Nations in the economic and
fields should be strengthened and made more
social
effective. We must not forget that peace is threatened not
only by military aggression but also, and even more, by
situations of injustice or crisis that ought to be settled in a
spirit of international solidarity. For that reason, Ecuador
looks forward to seeing as soon as possible the report the
I would recall that a country’s domestic policies play a
dominant part in its development process. Ecuador has
decided to carry out serious and thorough structural reforms
that will permit greater scope for private enterprise and
individual
reduce Government
intervention wherever it has proved to be ineffective and
inappropriate.
initiative and that will
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Economic development is meaningful when it addresses
human reality.
To achieve this, we must be firmly
committed to modernizing the State and, by our example,
ensuring that morality prevails
the
Government.
in the work of
But national efforts to modernize the State and open the
economy to the universal trend towards freedom require
timely, adequate financial support. This should be obtained,
basically, by establishing a trading system making possible
fair prices for commodities and other exports of developing
countries. Ironically, while they make splendid speeches in
favour of free trade, the powerful countries continue to
impose measures that contradict
their fine words. One
example is the import barriers on Latin American bananas
imposed by the European Economic Community.
We are concerned about what results will issue from
the Uruguay Round of negotiations under the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). We need
transparent machinery to fight protectionism; this must result
from true international negotiations.
For many countries, certainly including Ecuador, the
external debt continues to be one of the most serious
problems and one that has the heaviest negative impact, not
only in the economic but also in the social and even political
fields. We must review the financial policies of the
international credit agencies and complement their resources
with direct private investment, so that the flow of capital
from the developing world to the developed countries does
not, as has happened to date, exceed the amount of aid or
investment channelled to the developing countries.
Prudent and appropriate regulation of the environment
and development is a task that concerns and interests us all.
We must promote sustainable development that will meet
humanity’s needs today without jeopardizing the rights of
future generations. The Rio Conference is of far-reaching
importance and the fulfilment of
the decisions and
commitments undertaken there is crucial. Agenda 21 is a
historic document requiring political resolve on the part of
all
the
establishment and consolidation of financial sources is
essential.
In that regard,
into effect.
if it
is to be put
In the context of international security it is vitally
important that all international agreements concluded within
the framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency
be strictly complied with, and that the inspection systems be
strengthened to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
In this respect, we support all efforts to create new
nuclear-weapon-free zones and we voice our concern at any
failure to comply with the resolutions relating to the Korean
peninsula. We urge the Government of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea to heed the just demands of the
international community.
Today, I have heard with great concern of a possible
breach of the moratorium on nuclear testing by the People’s
Republic of China. If that information is confirmed, it will
represent a grave step backwards
in the process of
establishing moratoriums on nuclear testing. We hope that
it will not trigger a rush to new testing on the part of other
nuclear Powers.
In Latin America, democracy and freedom have been
strengthened.
It is our hope that, by means of the exercise
of the right of peoples to self-determination, Latin American
will soon be free of the remaining exceptions.
The case of Haiti is particularly disquieting. Respect
for democracy and human values is a basic pillar of civilized
coexistence. Ecuador believes that the joint action of the
international community must encourage a new phase that
will provide the Haitian people with certain basic guarantees.
Throughout its history, Ecuador has demonstrated its
peaceful spirit in true and unquestionable terms.
In that
spirit, it participated in the United Nations Observer Group
in Central America and the United Nations Observer Mission
in El Salvador.
It continues to support the latter and has
offered its forces for other peace-keeping operations.
The proliferation of peace-keeping operations has
highlighted the need to carry out a careful review of the
conditions in which these operations are created and carried
out and the limits of their respective mandates.
This
Organization should set the example of austerity in fund
management in order to enhance its moral authority and its
effectiveness.
In the light of its special links with Latin America,
Ecuador attaches particular importance to its relations with
neighbouring countries. Our Government has strengthened
and expanded its traditional relations with Colombia, and
they have recently been evolving with great promise.
A similar process
is under way between the
Governments of Ecuador and Peru. The Presidents of
Ecuador and Peru have given repeated and eloquent proof of
their political resolve to make progress in the process of
dialogue that has opened between the two countries. This
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
19
process will enable us to ensure a climate of friendship, trust
and understanding and to narrow the differences in our
positions on the territorial issue. Together we can make
significant steps towards promoting the well-being of our
peoples, and as we move towards understanding we will be
able to overcome the differences which have long been an
obstacle in the way of a new era of fruitful coexistence.
The Government of Ecuador was pleased and very
grateful to note the demonstrations of support from many
countries, particularly American ones, for our dialogue with
Peru. We also appreciated the message that His Holiness
Pope John Paul II addressed to President Sixto Durán Ballén
and President Alberto Fujimori on the occasion of their
meeting in Bahía de Caráques in December 1992.
Ecuador, by tradition and inclination, has been a peace-
loving nation and believes that
the only valid way to
overcome the territorial differences persisting between it and
Peru lies in the peaceful settlement of disputes. One option
in that regard is the arbitration of His Holiness the Pope,
who, with his lofty moral authority and his enduring
devotion to understanding and harmony among peoples, is
extremely well qualified. That is why the Constitutional
President of Ecuador, Sixto Durán Ballén, speaking from this
very rostrum at the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly, reiterated the initiative which former Ecuadorian
President Rodrigo Borja set forth at the forty-sixth session
of the General Assembly concerning the arbitration of the
Holy See.
In response to this initiative and in keeping with the
spirit of dialogue that has been maintained and cultivated
between the two countries, the President of Peru proposed
the participation of the Holy See through the mediation of an
expert adviser who would offer his opinion from the point
of view of that neighbouring and friendly country with
respect to the "frontier disputes" with Ecuador.
We now have two proposals that are distinct in scope
and content: on the one hand, arbitration, and on the other
the assistance of an expert adviser. But they coincide in
their recognition of the great help to be had from the Pontiff,
who in the course of history has traditionally worked for
rapprochement and understanding among peoples. These
very differences and varied proposals highlight the need to
preserve and strengthen the process of dialogue between the
two countries. Ecuador is faithfully committed to that
process with a view not only to finding the fairest, most
realistic and honourable solution to the problem, but also in
order to respond appropriately to all the possibilities for
complementary action, cooperation and joint endeavour that
these two countries could and should pursue with a view to
securing the development, integration and well-being for
their peoples.
Thus, we shall no longer be divided by borders and
borders will become points of union and of promising
cooperation, with tremendous scope and possibilities. This
has been the case with regard to the maritime area that we
share; this is the hope of the two peoples, especially the
peoples of southern Ecuador and northern Peru; this must be
the case with regard to the Amazon River meeting for a
historic reconciliation of our two nations that adequately
meets the major interests of the two countries in the Amazon
region and identifies them in plans that take account of their
individual and collective rights, enhance their potential and
create conditions reflecting the importance of a major river
system and a region that all the countries of the basin must
preserve and promote for the sake of current development as
well as the future well-being of our peoples.
In this spirit of
frank and constructive dialogue,
President Sixto Durán Ballén accepted the kind invitation of
President Alberto Fujimori to visit Peru. Ecuador’s Foreign
Ministry is busy making preparations with the authorities of
that friendly country for this mission so that the greatest
possible success may be achieved.
A few days ago the world enthusiastically welcomed
the handshake between two courageous men who had opted
for peace and understanding.
I should like, on behalf of
Ecuador, to pay tribute to Prime Minister Itzhak Rabin and
President Yasser Arafat.
I am confident that this gesture,
this historic event, will be not only the beginning of a tough
but promising relationship aimed at securing understanding
and cooperation between the two peoples but also a signal,
a sign of the times, for many other peoples who have to
pursue the arduous path of peace and understanding.
For this reason, President Clinton was absolutely right
when, on that historic morning, he said:
"We know that a difficult path lies before us.
Every peace has its own enemies - those who always
prefer the easy attitudes of hatred to the hard task of
reconciliation."
Ecuador believes in peace and trusts in peace and
understanding. Hence, I wish to associate myself with the
noble words of Cardinal Antonio Samoré, the delegate of the
Holy Father in the Papal mediation between the fraternal
countries of Argentina and Chile, in his speech at the time
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
of the signing, in Montevideo, of the commitment between
the two countries:
"I say to all of you - Christians, believers and men
of good will: do not be afraid to opt for peace, to
educate for peace. The aspiration to peace will never
be disappointed. The endeavour to achieve peace
inspired by charity that never fails will yield its fruits.
Peace will be the last word in history."
Against this background, and with a view to ensuring
that these efforts are made in an appropriate climate of
genuine understanding and harmony and will be effective, I
formally take the opportunity, at this rostrum, to propose to
the Government of Peru that, reaffirming the commitment
that both countries have made in accordance with many
existing international instruments - principally, the United
Nations Charter - we give our word of honour that, in our
mutual relations, we shall not resort to force or to the threat
of the use of force. Such a solemn commitment would
underscore an essential legal obligation and amount to an
eloquent additional means of promoting mutual trust; and it
would be an appropriate framework for continued dialogue
on the path of peace and understanding, with a view to
achieving, as soon as possible, a fair, honourable and lasting
settlement between the two countries.
Mr. MUSYOKA (Kenya): May I, at the outset, take
this opportunity to extend our most sincere condolences and
deepest sympathy to the delegation, Government and people
of India following the earthquake disaster, which has left
thousands of people dead and many villages destroyed. We
share the grief of the people of India at this sorrowful and
tragic time.
I should like to join those representatives who have
already congratulated Mr.
Insanally of Guyana on his
unanimous election as President of the General Assembly of
the United Nations at its forty-eighth session. His election
to this high office is a demonstration of the confidence that
the Member States have in him and of their respect for his
country, Guyana. We are confident that, under his wise
guidance, our deliberations in this session will achieve the
desired results.
I also wish to pay tribute to Mr.
Insanally’s
predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for steering the
forty-seventh session to a successful conclusion.
W e
t h e
c o m m e n d
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l ,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, too for the skilful and competent
manner in which he is directing the Organization.
Allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate the
Members that were admitted to the Organization during the
past year. Their admission strengthens the ideal of the
universality of the United Nations. We assure them of our
willingness to work closely with them in our common efforts
to create a better world.
The end of the cold war created an unprecedented
opportunity to increase international cooperation with a view
to achieving international peace and security and promoting
the socio-economic progress envisaged in the United Nations
Charter. However, the new challenges emerging on the
global scene demand that
the international community
summon up the will and imagination to overcome them.
The disappearance of the great
ideological rivalry
between East and West has resulted in a sense of soberness
and improvement in relations between States. It has also led
to a reduction in tensions and to significant progress in the
area of disarmament, thereby creating opportunities for the
conversion of massive resources to peaceful uses.
Peace and security, however, is not merely the absence
of war or the threat of war; it is the absence of conditions
that threaten the enjoyment of life and social harmony. The
United Nations now has an opportunity to put fully into
effect the system of security envisaged in its Charter. This
system is based on the principles of the peaceful settlement
of disputes and collective action in pursuit of international
peace and the maintenance of global security. Equally
important, the world has an opportunity to build pillars of
peace by tackling sources of instability in the economic,
social, humanitarian and ecological fields.
The brutal war in Bosnia, the destruction of Somalia
and the protracted civil wars in Angola and elsewhere
confirm the futility of the use of force as a means of solving
disputes.
The ratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty
(START I) by the Governments of the United States of
America and the Russian Federation and their signing of the
START II Agreements in January 1993 are significant
developments in disarmament. The primary responsibility
for nuclear disarmament rests with those States that possess
the nuclear arsenals. Kenya, however, strongly believes that
the international community as a whole must be involved
and should contribute to measures intended to achieve
nuclear disarmament and the non-proliferation of all
weapons of mass destruction.
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
21
Contrary to expectations, the collapse of the bipolar
world order has not given way to a new order of peace and
democracy and improved socio-economic situations. The
emerging order has
raised new challenges and new
approaches to solutions. As Members of the United Nations
family, we need to redouble our efforts with vision and
determination to balance both short- and long-term interests
as we struggle to shape the new order.
In many parts of the world, we are confronted with
assertions of nationalism coupled with territorial claims. As
the Secretary-General puts it in his Agenda for Peace,
"... the cohesion of States is threatened by brutal ethnic,
religious,
strife".
(A/47/277, para. 11)
and linguistic
cultural
social,
Kenya subscribes to the thrust of the Agenda for Peace
as elaborated during the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly, on the basis of which a draft resolution will be
adopted during this session. The elaboration of the Agenda
for Peace should take into account
the principles of
sovereignty,
and
non-interference in the internal affairs of nation-States.
independence,
territorial
integrity
The new approach will widen and deepen the scope of
the United Nations in the promotion of
the peaceful
settlement of disputes and the maintenance of peace and
security. In this regard, Kenya urges the full exploitation of
the potential of the International Court of Justice in the
adjudication of disputes between States as a potential
transparent and cost-effective means of conflict resolution.
The case of Somalia is particularly distressing. We
strongly believe that keeping United Nations peace-keeping
personnel in Somalia is critical to the pursuit of peace and
security in that
country. We note with appreciation the
Secretary-General’s report that, despite several incidences of
there are improvements in the
violence in Mogadishu,
overall
starvation,
establishment of a large number of district councils, opening
of schools and resumption of normal life in most areas of
the country.
including eradication of
situation,
We
also welcome Security Council
resolution
865 (1993) of 22 September, by which the Council, inter
alia, invites the Secretary-General to consult the countries of
the region and regional organizations concerned on means of
further reinvigorating the reconciliation process. We believe
that the regional peace initiatives can effectively complement
the United Nations efforts in facilitating reconciliation
between all the factions in Somalia.
The highest priority is to assist the people of Somalia
in furthering the national reconciliation process and to
promote and advance the re-establishment of regional and
national institutions and civil administration in the entire
country, as set out in Security Council resolution 814 (1993).
This requires improvement of the dialogue between the
United Nations personnel in Somalia and the general Somali
public as an essential element in confidence-building to
facilitate reconciliation between the various factions.
Kenya shares an 800-kilometre-long border with
Somalia.
In many ways, we are extremely exposed to the
Somalia problem. Somalia is a sister country with which we
share family relations as well as ethnic and cultural
affinities. The very heavy influx of Somali refugees into
Kenya has had a devastating effect on the most ecologically
fragile parts of the country. The border region has suffered
serious environmental destruction as a result of excessive
cutting of trees for building materials and firewood. The
physical and social infrastructures have been overstretched
by excessive usage and overloading.
Most seriously, our people and security personnel have
been subjected to numerous acts of banditry by armed gangs
crossing into Kenya from Somalia, causing general insecurity
in the border region. We have continued to lose both
civilians and security personnel at an unacceptably high rate
as a result of attacks by bandits. Huge numbers of livestock
and huge quantities of other property have also been lost to
them.
As peace is being restored in Somalia, we are
cooperating with the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees to accelerate the voluntary
repatriation of
the same time, we are
requesting the United Nations and the donor community to
urgently assist Kenya with programmes for the rehabilitation
of the physical and social infrastructures as well as for the
restoration of the ecosystem in the region.
refugees.
At
We are also requesting the Secretary-General
to
the United Nations Operation in Somalia
reinforce
(UNOSOM) patrols along the Somali side of the border so
as to complement
the Kenyan security
personnel on our side. We believe that the joint security
efforts will significantly scale down the flow of armed gangs
and individuals into Kenya.
the efforts of
Sudan is another neighbouring country that has for a
long time now been suffering devastating civil strife. The
problem has been of great concern not only to the
neighbouring countries but also to the Organization of
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations. There is an
urgent need for the United Nations to support the ongoing
regional efforts spearheaded by Presidents Yoweri Museveni
of Uganda, Afwerki of Eritrea and Zenawi of Ethiopia under
the chairmanship of President Daniel Arap Moi of Kenya.
We appeal
to be
to all parties involved in the conflict
flexible in the search for a just and lasting solution.
The experience of Somalia and other regional conflicts
convinces us that there is an urgent need for the United
Nations to re-evaluate the existing international control
systems for conventional-weapon production and trade. The
widespread availability of deadly conventional weapons
constitutes the most important factor in the prolongation of
regional and civil conflicts.
Elsewhere in our continent, efforts to find solutions to
ethnic and other conflicts have shown encouraging trends.
We are confident that the people of Mozambique, Rwanda
and Liberia will realize their dreams of peace through the
process of dialogue. Greater involvement by the United
Nations in the Rwandese peace process is pertinent at this
It is essential that the peace accords signed in these
stage.
countries be honoured by all
the parties, with effective
support from the United Nations, the OAU and regional
bodies, and with generous assistance from friendly countries.
The situation in Angola is very disturbing.
The
ongoing bloodshed could easily have been avoided if the
UNITA leadership had accepted the verdict of the people in
the elections. We appeal to UNITA to agree to a dialogue
for a peaceful political solution, with the mediation and
increased support of the United Nations, OAU and the
sponsors of the Peace Accords.
the creation of
We are also greatly encouraged by the developments
that have taken place in South Africa. The agreement
reached for
the Transitional Executive
Council and the setting of a date for the first democratic
elections pave the way for the establishment of a truly
non-racial, democratic South Africa. We support the recent
call by Mr. Nelson Mandela, the President of the African
National Congress of South Africa (ANC), for all diplomatic
and economic sanctions against South Africa to be lifted.
The recently concluded, momentous agreement between
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) marks
a turning point in the process of finding a just and lasting
solution to the Palestinian and, indeed, the Middle East
problem. We are encouraged by the assurances that this is
the first
tangible step towards the establishment of a
Palestinian State alongside Israel. We wish the Palestinian
and Israeli people happy and peaceful coexistence.
Further afield, we welcome the successful holding of
the elections under United Nations auspices in Cambodia,
the conclusion of the Governors Island Agreement on the
restoration of a democratically elected Government of Haiti,
and the progress towards the establishment of lasting peace
in El Salvador.
With its increased responsibilities and challenges, the
United Nations needs to be restructured and revitalized so
that it can effectively discharge its responsibilities. It must
also be provided with adequate resources. The tasks ahead
demand that the energy and attention of all components of
the United Nations be engaged fully and appropriately.
The General Assembly must be enabled to play its full
role in decisions affecting international peace and security.
There is a need to establish a balanced relationship between
the Assembly and the other principal organs of the United
Nations, and to ensure logical accountability of the principal
organs, in particular the Security Council.
The Security Council must also be reformed so that it
is more
and more
democratic in its decision-making process, while at the same
time its effectiveness is ensured.
transparent, more
representative
recommendations
The ongoing restructuring and revitalization of the
Economic and Social Council and the United Nations in the
economic, social and related fields should strengthen the
Council and enable it to play a central role in providing
policy
the General Assembly.
Similarly, the ongoing efforts to restructure the Secretariat
must be balanced and accord appropriate priority to
development concerns.
the
Organization must be provided with adequate resources on
a sustainable basis to enable it effectively to promote
socio-economic progress in accordance with its Charter.
Operational activities of
to
Peace-keeping operations have increasingly become
among the most utilized and widely acceptable instruments
of the Organization, especially in discharging its primary
responsibility in the maintenance of international peace and
security. The operations have also increasingly taken on
new and broader assignments and responsibilities. Kenya is
happy to be
closely associated with peace-keeping
operations. We have contributed military and police
personnel to many peace-keeping operations world wide.
The
and scope of
peace-keeping operations requires that the ability of the
to manage such large-scale operations be
Secretariat
in the number
enormous
rise
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
23
strengthened and also that Member States be ready to
finance the operations.
the Members of
In this connection, the serious concerns expressed by
the Secretary-General and his urgent appeals to Member
States to pay arrears of contributions must receive a concrete
and speedy response from all
this
Organization. The formula for apportioning contributions
should reflect the special responsibility of the permanent
members of the Security Council and of other developed
countries and take into account
the relatively limited
capacities of developing countries. A dramatic change in the
formula of contributions could, I submit, complicate further
the problem of arrears.
the
peace-keeping reserve fund would go a long way towards
making peace-keeping operations more efficient.
In this
regard, a timely and effective response by the United
Nations will largely depend on the availability of adequate
resources, at least in the initial stages, to cater for the critical
time lost in negotiations for the financing of peace-keeping
operations. It is also important that a formula be developed
to establish a more predictable financial basis for the
peace-keeping operations.
The establishment of
increased protectionism,
The uncertainty prevailing in the world economy today
is a cause for serious concern.
Insufficient growth in the
developed countries has contributed to the unfavourable
external conditions that threaten the political, economic and
social stability of many developing countries. These include
renewed pressures for
falling
commodity prices and the decline in financial flows, among
other conditions. Despite the far-reaching economic and
political reforms which have been put in place by most
African countries in the last
the situation
continues to be grim, since the region continues to
experience economic growth of less than 2 per cent. The
current trends, if not reversed, threaten to marginalize further
the participation of African countries in the global economy.
three years,
The liberalization of the African economies and the
hard work of the African people are not in themselves
sufficient
to transform the socio-economic situation in
Africa.
is not playing the international
The continent
economic game with other continents on a level ground. We
wish, therefore, to underscore the need for the international
community to seize the opportunity created by the positive
changes taking place on the continent and give Africa real
support so that the gains made for economic and democratic
reform will be sustainable.
At the same time, African countries should continue to
integration efforts within the
regional
strengthen their
regional bodies already established, such as the Preferential
Trade Area for the Eastern and Southern African Countries
(PTA), the Inter-Governmental Authority for Drought and
Development (IGADD) in the Horn of Africa, and the
ongoing efforts to revive East African cooperation.
Our experience in Kenya in implementing structural
adjustment programmes is that the reforms have inherent
negative short-term effects, particularly on the poor and the
other vulnerable members of society. These include the fall
in their purchasing power owing to the liberalization of
prices, job losses through a reduction of manpower in the
public sector, and the reduction of government expenditure
on
such essential social services as health, education and
other
The donor community needs,
to balance the aid conditionalities with the
therefore,
socio-economic
countries
implementing structural adjustment programmes, particularly
by addressing the social dimensions of such programmes in
concrete and human terms.
infrastructures.
obtaining
realities
in
the
The United Nations new agenda for the development of
Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the General Assembly at its
forty-sixth session, commits the international community to
implement concrete and effective measures to support
Africa’s own efforts in the process of economic reforms and
development. The success of the implementation of the
programme will depend, first, on the efforts of the African
countries themselves and, secondly, on the back-up resources
from multilateral and bilateral donors. We are concerned
that these resources are shrinking owing to diversion and
what appears to be a subtle disengagement from Africa.
The acute external debt of African countries and the
heavy and unbearable burden of servicing that debt are
among the matters on which concrete action is needed. The
burden of debt-servicing drains the continent of over $10
billion annually, thus diverting resources badly needed for
investment and alleviation of poverty.
On trade, it is gratifying to note that, after six months
of stalemate, multilateral negotiations of the Uruguay Round
of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
have resumed. We emphasize, however, that the outcome of
the negotiations should be balanced to take account of the
particular needs of the poor developing countries.
The World Conference on Human Rights, which was
held in Vienna, Austria,
in June this year, marked a
significant watershed for the international community on the
important question of human rights.
That Conference
emphasized that human rights are interdependent and
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
It recognized development as a basic human
indivisible.
right. Democracy, development and human rights go hand
in hand, as experience has shown that it is difficult to
guarantee some basic rights, especially economic and social
rights, in situations of abject poverty.
As I emphasized in my statement at that Conference,
the existing international institutions for human rights need
strengthening. At
the same time, developing countries
require support and assistance to strengthen their domestic
institutions and build strong foundations for the rule of law
and the administration of justice.
the
of
ensuring
effectiveness
Since the Rio Conference on Environment and
Development, Governments and international agencies have
focused their attention on the implementation of Agenda 21.
The first substantive meeting of
the Commission on
Sustainable Development, held in June this year, made
tangible progress in adopting crucial decisions on its work
programme. Kenya welcomes the progress being made
towards
the Global
Environmental Facility as an important
for
funding incremental costs related to the implementation of
Agenda 21. However, we are concerned that adequate
financial resources for the implementation of the programme
have fallen short of expectations.
On institutional
arrangements, while Kenya supports the mandate given to
the Commission on Sustainable Development in regard to
monitoring progress in the implementation of Agenda 21, the
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) must
continue to play a central role owing to the experience and
expertise it has accumulated over the years in the area of the
environment. The need to strengthen UNEP to enable it to
participate effectively in the implementation of Agenda 21
can therefore not be overemphasized.
instrument
the
facilities
conference
Accordingly,
at UNEP
Headquarters in Nairobi must be put to full use. It is neither
economically sound nor in keeping with the objective of
strengthening UNEP to have many meetings initiated by the
Organization held outside its Headquarters. As a host
country, Kenya shall continue to provide all the necessary
assistance to UNEP to enable it to play its central and,
indeed, its rightful role.
As the Secretariat of the United Nations undergoes
restructuring, we should be mindful of the mandates of
various agencies and bodies in order to avoid the possibility
of losing the original objective. Kenya is concerned that the
role of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
(Habitat), whose Headquarters are in Nairobi,
is being
eroded by the undue delay in filling the post of Executive
Director, despite the concerns expressed by the General
Assembly at its forty-seventh session. The filling of the post
will give the required impetus to the Habitat secretariat.
Mr. Pursoo (Grenada), Vice-President, took the Chair.
As to the social issues, I wish to assure members of our
cooperation with the international community in the
preparatory work for
the forthcoming Conference on
Population and Development,
the
Fourth World Conference on Women, also to be held in
1994; and the World Summit for Social Development, set for
1995. We need to put all our energies into the preparatory
work of these Conferences to ensure that they achieve their
intended objectives.
to be held next year;
In conclusion, the international community, through this
Assembly, must make every effort to face these challenges
and many more which are yet to come. We owe it to
posterity and to future generations to leave this world a
better place to live in. We have neither excuses nor reasons
to fail. And if we do fail, history will judge us harshly. In
this endeavour, our differences should strengthen rather than
weaken us, for in unity lies our strength. In the words of our
beloved President, His Excellency Daniel Teroitich Arap
Moi, love, peace and unity are the pillars for development
and progress.
Mr. SHIHMURADOV (Turkmenistan) (interpretation
from Russian): First of all, I should like to congratulate the
President on his assumption of his important post at the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
I should also like to express my gratitude for making it
possible for me to comply with the instructions of the
President of Turkmenistan, Mr. Niyazov, and the entire
Turkmen population in speaking to the world community.
A unique situation prevails in the world today. There are no
longer two inimical camps, and we virtually have eliminated
the most pressing problem of global nuclear conflict.
Furthermore, ridding ourselves of the ideological yoke has
freed us from internal conflicts and contradictions. As
political scientists said after the end of the standoff between
the two blocs, we now have on the world agenda urgent
problems - new and bloody regional and internal conflicts,
which are no less dangerous to the world than a global
confrontation.
What are the reasons for this seemingly unfathomable
outbreak of aggressiveness and conflict? In our view, the
answer to this question can be found in the lack of political
pragmatism and in a failure to understand realities. One of
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
25
the major reasons is the lack of a deep-seated political
culture and of restraint, and the desire to do everything at
once. But there are no miracles. We need political courage,
which has been demonstrated by the President of
Turkmenistan, in order to avoid the pitfalls of unrealistic
decisions, something which might, to put it mildly, lead to
social disappointment.
From the very first days of our independent existence,
Turkmenistan found itself faced with a whole series of
difficult and unique problems, which were determined by the
special characteristics of its attaining statehood. Proclaiming
its sovereignty and independence is only the starting-point
for a lengthy process which is to lead to the establishment
of an efficient political system, a strong national economy
and a workable social structure.
this, we need
essentially not just reforms but a full reorientation of the
political system and of the economy.
I should like to
emphasize especially this aspect, since at the same time very
difficult reforms will be needed in other areas as well.
For
The natural economic and social development of our
people was interrupted for seven long decades. As a result,
people lost the notion of private property, and their ways of
thinking and social morals became out of touch. This is an
important aspect, and we should bear
this mind in
establishing new States on a new legal basis.
At the present time, the most important possessions of
all the citizens of Turkmenistan are independence and the
opportunity to solve their problems independently. Perhaps
this would seem to be axiomatic, but as we see it, of the
entire system of priorities formulated by the Government of
our country,
this is the most desirable in the current
circumstances prevailing in Turkmenistan and in the area.
In order to achieve large-scale reforms of the political
and economic system in Turkmenistan, a programme of "10
years of stability" has been adopted. What are the tasks of
that programme? First and foremost, to wean the economy
away from the notion of State property, in particular from a
foodstuff-dominated economy and production towards the
production of prepared products.
The second is the
formation of the political, economic, social, spiritual and
cultural life of the State, without the infamous system -
inherited from the past - of roles played out in advance.
Thirdly is the formation and development of democratic
institutions, including a multi-party system. Against the
background of these processes, we see social psychology
transformed, away from political apathy and the lack of
responsibility.
In this regard, we are trying to pursue our policy in
such a way that we would strengthen our ability to avoid
social upheaval, breakdowns in all sectors of society and the
lack of social harmony. This is not easy. The people of
Turkmenistan need unity and solidarity. This gives us hope
for the future, however. Pragmatism will be a determinant
in overcoming our difficulties in establishing the major
criteria for Turkmenistan’s current foreign policy. In solving
these economic problems, we are offering to our foreign
partners businesslike cooperation without any ideological or
political passions, and we have found understanding
everywhere. The logical outcome of this development has
led us to the formulation of a foreign-policy concept of
positive neutrality, which is in keeping with the national
interests of our State and in the interest of maintaining peace
and stability in the region.
In solving military problems, we have been guided by
our neutral status, which stems from the principle of non-
interference in the internal affairs of States and the
recognition of territorial integrity and the inviolability of
their borders.
It is well known that sometimes the concept
of non-interference can be questionable or even rejected.
But in our view, a new independent State in Europe and
Asia also needs conditions for the peaceful resolution of its
internal problems in order to achieve civil calm and in order
to find the necessary compromises. Obviously, based on
military force, we cannot achieve development and progress
in the broad sense of the word. And we need to move away
from internationalizing the internal problems of various
States through military force. At the same time, we support
the peace-keeping actions of the United Nations and other
international organizations.
These are the factors that determine our view of events
in Tajikistan. I can state that our position has found support
and understanding among other countries. We have reached
agreement with the leadership of Iran on a new agreement,
one of the most
important conditions of which is the
transformation of the 1,500-kilometre border between Iran
and Turkmenistan into a border of peace and cooperation.
We are actively engaged in political dialogue with the
central Government of Afghanistan and also with the
authorities of the northern and north-western provinces.
Such a policy has brought positive results. Recently we
signed a three-party memorandum on the construction of a
railroad from Turkmenistan to Pakistan through Afghanistan.
In addition, Afghanistan will see the first major railroad in
its history. We will make it possible, therefore, to have an
outlet to the ports of the Indian Ocean through the States of
Central Asia and Europe.
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Speaking of relations with our neighbours, we must
especially emphasize the role of Russia in the creation of an
independent Turkmenistan. We well understand that this
process began in Russia and was initiated by its leadership.
A high degree of understanding at the level of leadership
and the traditional mutual respect of our peoples has
established a lasting basis for the development of mutually
advantageous bilateral cooperation on new and equitable
bases.
In speaking of this, I should like from this rostrum
to state that Turkmenistan supports the efforts of
the
leadership of Russia to establish order and to establish
conditions for the active continuation of political reforms and
the full dismantling of
the totalitarian system and its
replacement with a system chosen by the people.
Turkmenistan is actively developing relations with
Turkey, Austria, the United Kingdom, Indonesia, Pakistan,
Malaysia, Germany, France, Argentina and Italy, and
constructive dialogue with the United States is under way.
President Niyazov’s recent visit
to Belgium laid the
groundwork for new cooperation between Turkmenistan and
the countries of the European Community and between
Turkmenistan and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
We are also opening a number of Turkmenistan Embassies
abroad.
In short, our country is actively involved in
international relations.
We support those agreements that will lead to an end
of confrontation and make possible peaceful and constructive
dialogue.
Among those agreements, we note with
satisfaction the recent changes in the relationship between
Israel and the PLO.
Turkmenistan’s geopolitical situation - our country is a
member of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE) and is at the same time connected by deep
historical and cultural roots to the Middle and Far East -
enables us, in view of our country’s stability, to play a
constructive role in bridging the gap between two major
regions of the world.
I should like to say a few words on Turkmenistan’s
position vis-à-vis the Commonwealth of Independent States.
Turkmenistan is in favour of the Commonwealth, in favour
of the development of integrationist processes and, while it
opposed the establishment of any kind of rigid centralized
system in the past it is in favour of coordinating structures.
In our view, the coming forth today of super-national
formations has held back the process of independence and
has now led back to the former system of decision by force.
In States that have arisen since the dissolution of the Soviet
Union, we now see respect for national interests alone, and
we see only the bare beginnings of a process of inter-State
relations on new, qualitatively different bases.
The
statehood of these countries is a difficult matter, and this
process must respect national specificities and social and
economic factors. If all these factors are borne in mind, any
kind of rigid coordinating structure is impossible. Attempts
artificially to impose positions and a unified model for
development on new independent States cannot but work
against sovereignty and national
In the final
analysis, such an approach would lead to the establishment
of a new centre.
interests.
From the very outset, Turkmenistan actively attempted
to develop relations with the countries of the Commonwealth
of Independent States on the basis of bilateral relations and
various types of agreements, in view of the fact that the
Commonwealth is primarily a consultative mechanism that
gives us the opportunity to exchange ideas and experience
and to lay down programmes of action. We feel that such
an approach is more flexible and therefore more effective.
Experience has shown that at this current stage - and I
emphasize, at this current stage - bilateral agreements are a
more reliable basis for solving problems as they arise.
We often see the example of the European Community,
and, supposedly, the same thing could happen in our region.
To my mind, anyone who tries to achieve what the European
Community has done over 40 years is not
taking into
the high-level starting-point
account some essential factors:
of the unification of Europe, the very different market basis
of its economies and what might be called the European
psychology. We have none of these factors.
future relations,
It is important to establish the fact that if we cannot
count on our
the Commonwealth of
Independent of States has no prospects. We in Turkmenistan
believe, and have always believed, that a solution should be
found within the framework of the Commonwealth, should
be adopted by consensus and should be very broad and
based primarily on economic feasibility and attractiveness.
This will be only the first step, and it needs to be followed
by others on a higher level of integration.
But for this, the Commonwealth of Independent States
and the countries of which it is composed need a period of
transition in order to work out acceptable approaches and
adequately evaluate the existing realities. Over two years of
independent development, we have done a great deal of
work in establishing a legal basis for the market. We have
already established the basis and guarantees that opened up
the Turkmen market to foreign investors and enterprises. In
Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993
27
the
such as
international events,
The stronger our economy, the more reliable the fabric
of political and social life in our State. At the same time,
we believe that economic development
is inconceivable
without our country’s steady development of a society in
which the individual and his interests are regarded as the
most important end. For Turkmenistan, which for 70 years
had a totalitarian system with backward social development,
development of the economy remains the keystone of our
In this context, along with other forthcoming
State policy.
major
the International
Conference on Population and Development,
the Fourth
World Conference on Women, with the three objectives,
equality, development and peace, and the International
Conference on Population and Development, which will deal
with problems of human beings and their need for shelter,
we welcome the preparations for the World Summit for
Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen in 1995,
which will deal, we think, in detail with social consequences
of economic reform and restructuring as applied to countries
in transition. In the context of social problems, I should like
to point out that in 1990 we had the World Summit for
Children, which established a new basis for improving living
conditions for children the world over.
The Government of Turkmenistan gives priority
attention to these endeavours. Turkmenistan joined in the
Convention on the Rights of the Child and intends very soon
to sign the Declaration that was adopted at that World
Summit. We also have serious work under way for national
programmes of action in order to achieve the goals outlined
in the Declaration.
We welcome
attention the United Nations
specialized agencies have paid us with regard to our
problems. Despite our difficulties and the problems yet to
be solved, the Republic has achieved considerable success.
Over the first six months of 1993, Turkmenistan’s national
income increased by 112 per cent. Such growth would not
have been achieved by many States in a similar situation.
Over that same period industrial output increased by 116.9
per
and agricultural production increased by
124 per cent.
cent,
introduced
private property,
Turkmenistan we have
including land, and we have established zones of free
economic development. Today we have a stable political
situation and social agreement.
It is important that society
be psychologically prepared for new economic relations.
On 1 November this year, Turkmenistan will introduce
its own national monetary unit, the manat. We are in an
extremely unstable monetary zone, which would mean
certain limitations for Turkmenistan if we gave up our
sovereignty and formed our own policy regarding prices,
taxation, budgeting, credit and monetary policy. Hence, our
country has sometimes absorbed some losses because of
continuing inflation and the economic crisis.
from the time we introduce it,
All of this was conditioned by the need to introduce our
own currency. We believe that our own currency policy will
be closely linked to that of the United States dollar, and we
intend to ensure,
its
convertibility. According to prognoses of international
experts and our own evaluations, we have a real opportunity
of doing this. The manat will be a reliable currency for the
State reserves. The introduction of a national currency
policy will hasten structural changes in the economy and
bring us closer to the market.
With the International Monetary Fund we have worked
up a programme of structural economic changes, including
a step-by-step process. From 1 October we have begun a
broad liberalization of prices, including plans to enter the
world price system and this also includes energy prices.
With the introduction of the manat as our currency we are
beginning active privatization, which involves, first and
foremost, the sphere of services in the area of medium-sized
and large enterprises.
This is to be done by selling
enterprises at auction and distributing shares among workers.
We hope to conclude the privatization process by the end of
1995.
that
I should like to point out
the privatization
programme has been carried out in close cooperation with
the World Bank.
In addition, measures to free prices have
been undertaken by the Government in order to free up
trade. Licensing of exports will take place with a view to
observing norms ensured through national security and the
protection of our cultural and artistic heritage. We shall also
undertake other steps designed to promote maximum
stimulation of international trade and eliminate administrative
barriers and to increase access to the market.
In a time of
transition to a market economy, we intend to make the
State’s role more streamlined and open and significantly
reduce its interference in economic activities.
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
We share the view of the international community that
we must
rebuild the Earth’s ecology. We support
international cooperation in United Nations efforts in this
timely endeavour. In our view, it is sustainable development
and balanced attention to the interests of all countries that
will ensure the successful solution of global, regional and
subregional problems;
should accord with the
conclusions of the 1992 United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development and of the Convention on
climate change.
this
I announce before the Assembly that Turkmenistan
intends to eliminate all its nuclear weapons and will continue
its support for the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons
the chemical weapons
Convention, and for the bacteriological (biological) weapons
Convention.
(NPT),
for
I convey the gratitude of the President of Turkmenistan,
of our Government and of our people to the United Nations
for its support and its understanding.
I should also like to pay a tribute to the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
for his tireless and innovative work.
Turkmenistan wishes to state without reserve that it will
honestly and openly cooperate with all States that share its
attachment
to the principles of the Organization. Our
policies will be based on common sense and on protecting
our people’s
in creating a
democratic, secular State, is open to peaceful cooperation
and ready to engage in broadly-based, mutually beneficial
cooperation.
Turkmenistan,
interests.
The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.
