United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 11 (continued)
REPORT OF THE SECURITY COUNCIL (A/48/2)
of Brazil,
Mr. WISNUMURTI (Indonesia):
his
the Security Council’s annual
I should like at the
outset to commend the President of the Security Council,
Ambassador Sardenberg
cogent
introduction of
report
highlighting among other things a number of procedural
measures adopted by the Council with a view to enhancing
the efficiency of its work. We are confident that these could
constitute a basis upon which to build our endeavours to
further strengthen its efficacy.
for
for
the work of
Recent developments in the global
landscape have
in a position of increasing
placed the Security Council
importance, with ramifications
the
Organization and beyond. Numerous circumstances have
also contributed to an unprecedented number of activities
undertaken by this body. From the expansion of peace-
keeping operations to the task of constantly monitoring
events that threaten peace and security, the Council has seen
an active agenda, and its capacity to respond is at times
overburdened. We readily acknowledge that its members
have responded to the numerous demands placed upon it
with the sense of responsibility required of them by the
provisions of the Charter. The new cooperative spirit
prevailing among its members has allowed them to take a
number of unanimous positions on some of the most critical
and complex issues, while we are cognizant of the fact that
it has failed to address effectively certain critical issues. The
42nd
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 28 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
Council has thus reached a critical
in its
history, and members look forward to a more effective role
now that the obstacles which paralysed it for so long have
been removed.
turning point
At the same time, it is the ardent desire of Indonesia
and other non-aligned countries that the United Nations
should become fully effective as the central instrument for
a new and revitalized international order. We have always
insisted that this multilateral institution should reflect the
democratic spirit of equality, equity and transparency, in
representation as well as in the process of decision-making.
The United Nations and its principal organs should therefore
periodically undergo a process of review and revitalization
in order to ensure its dynamic adaptation to the evolving
realities of international life so that it may continue to play
a greatly strengthened role as the focal point for the
management of the critical issues of our time.
It is in this light that my delegation views the report of
the Security Council to the General Assembly. As in the
past, it provides a comprehensive account of its activities
during the preceding year and describes its task in the
context of
It also
contains a compendium of communications and other
documents as well as a listing of decisions and actions taken
on the issues that were brought before it.
its ever-increasing responsibilities.
It
that
the report
is clear, however,
is marked by
symbols and a chronology of issues and events that have
occurred during the past year. We believe that the annual
report required by paragraph 3 of Article 24 of the Charter
must be more than a mere description of activities and a
reproduction of resolutions and decisions already known. It
is particularly regrettable to note that it does not contain an
evaluation of the issues considered by the Council or a
detailed account of the work of its special committees.
In
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87000 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.42
19 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
short, it is not a document of substance commensurate with
the greatly expanded work of the Security Council.
therefore,
In addition,
In our view,
the reports of the Security
Council to the General Assembly should contain an analysis
and assessment of the decisions taken by the Council on
each issue in order to meet the need for greater clarity and
understanding of the Council’s reasonings and motives in
adopting decisions.
in the context of
accountability, transparency and openness, the contents of
informal consultations should be presented in summary form
to which
in the annual
non-permanent members
in
decision-making processes can be ascertained and increased.
Furthermore,
the membership of the
United Nations at large should have adequate and timely
information through an agreed mechanism or modality.
It
might also be desirable to submit reports more frequently in
order to keep the members abreast of its activities and
functions.
participate
it
is essential
that
reports
so that
the extent
actually
Consideration must also be given to reviewing the
Council’s relations with other principal organs, especially the
General Assembly. In this context, we hold that balance is
essential in the relationship between the General Assembly
and the Security Council in conformity with their respective
mandates as enshrined in the Charter. There should be
greater accountability of the Council to the Assembly on
decisions and actions affecting the interests of the entire
international community. We further believe that it may also
be timely and pertinent to undertake a constructive review of
the veto powers in line with the reform of the Organization
aimed at bringing about greater democratization and
transparency in the work of United Nations bodies.
We also believe that restructuring and reform of the
Security Council have become imperative in the light of the
profound changes that have taken place on the international
scene. As we are all aware, although the membership of the
Organization has increased to 184,
there has been no
proportionate increase in the non-permanent membership.
Hence, a serious review and reappraisal of the Council’s
membership has become necessary to ensure a more
equitable and balanced representation.
Finally, we would like to express our satisfaction that
the Council has agreed to implement proposals relating to its
future format as well as to the adoption and timely
submission of reports to the General Assembly. In the same
spirit, we remain hopeful that the Security Council will be
responsive to a change both in its composition and in its
procedures and practices.
In these endeavours, the main
objective is to render the Council more responsive to
changing realities and emerging challenges in a dynamic
context.
Indonesia is fully committed to participating
constructively in the process of adaptation and reform in the
firm conviction that an intensified dialogue and consultation
between the Security Council and the General Assembly will
be in the broader interests of all mankind.
Mr. YAÑEZ BARNUEVO (Spain) (interpretation from
Spanish): Once again this year the Security Council is
submitting to the General Assembly its report on its work,
this time for the year to 15 June 1993. This year, however,
the exercise is no mere repetition of that of past years, since,
in an effort that has only just begun, certain innovations
have been introduced. We believe that the changes, which
were explained in detail by the President of the Council,
Ambassador Mota Sardenberg of Brazil, when he introduced
the particular
contributed
significantly to improving the report.
this morning, have
report
The first group of improvements affects the process of
adopting the report, which this year took place nearer the
end of the period covered and was more widely publicized,
which allows for adequate consideration by the Assembly.
Secondly, my delegation wishes to highlight
the
improvements seen in the contents and format of the report,
which we consider make it significantly easier to read: an
expanded introduction, the better to inform the reader about
what
is in the report; a grouping of issues and related
subjects under general headings; and expanded and more
detailed appendices.
We hope that in future reports it will prove possible to
introduce some additional improvements, such as a more
analytical introduction, better reflecting the contents, as well
as a rationalized list of subjects under consideration by the
Council, omitting merely historical
issues unrelated to
current reality.
These improvements in the report, both present and
future, are part of the effort now being exerted by the
Council to improve the transparency of its work and, at the
same time, its efficiency; this began with the establishment
last June of a Council working group on documentation and
procedures. The initial results of this effort were reflected
in the Note by the President of the Security Council of
30 June 1993 (S/26015) and followed up in the Note of
27 July (S/26176), which were duly communicated to the
President of the General Assembly.
We believe that, given the measures that have been
adopted thus far, there has been a significant - though still
insufficient - improvement in the information that the States
Members of the United Nations but not members of the
Council receive concerning the Council’s work. In point of
fact, a monthly preview of the Council’s programme of work
is now circulated to Members of the Organization, and
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
3
informal consultations are announced beforehand, along with
- as far as possible - their planned content.
is
being
through
expanded
Also, the worthwhile dialogue between the Council and
regular
the Assembly
consultations between the Presidents of the Council and the
Assembly; up until now, this has been effectively limited to
the Council’s annual report. Even if this dialogue, which is
being conducted while still observing the jurisdictions
assigned the Organization’s principal organs by the Charter,
is as fruitful as our common effort towards international
peace and security requires, it should still be extended to all
Members of the United Nations, on whose behalf the
Council acts under Article 24 of the Charter.
In particular, we must
take up the complex and
sensitive issue of information about
the course and the
outcome of Security Council consultations and, possibly, of
participation by States that are not members of the Council
in the Council’s
informal discussion process when
circumstances require.
What we are talking about here is, first of all, setting up
an information system that would operate once informal
consultations have taken place - a system that should be as
comprehensive as possible, without detriment, however, to
the discretion such deliberations require and that would help
achieve agreement between members of
the Council.
Secondly, the question is one of finding mechanisms that
would make it possible to take into consideration, in the
Council’s deliberations,
the opinions of States that are
particularly concerned with a particular question before any
final decision has been taken.
This is a matter of great interest, and we hope that the
Council will go on examining it
thoroughly within the
working group on documentation and procedures that it has
set up.
Just glancing at the statistics on the number of meetings
held and decisions taken by the Council is enough to show
just how much of an increase there has been in its work over
the last few years. Also, the Council is dealing with issues
that are becoming ever more complex and that have an
increasing and ever more powerful impact on all the States
Members of the Organization.
Just one example of this
is the repercussions for many Member States’
impact
economies of applying the sanctions that the Council has
imposed where necessary, under Chapter VII of the Charter.
Under these circumstances, the only way of ensuring
that the Council’s decisions are effective is quite simply to
increase the level of participation by States that are not
members of the Council and to give them more information;
this would increase the legitimacy of the Council’s decisions
and thus enhance the prospects for seeing them implemented.
This is a task to which my delegation, as it takes part in the
work of the Council, will continue to contribute to its
utmost.
Mr. SYCHEV (Belarus) (interpretation from Russian):
The Republic of Belarus attaches great importance to the
Assembly’s discussions of the annual report of the Security
Council. We note that, in recent years, consideration of this
item has not been a mere formality, and this has made it
possible for all States Members of the Organization to
express their views on the work of the Council, point out its
achievements and shortcomings and provide specific ideas
and suggestions for its further work.
Our delegation notes with satisfaction that, this time, the
Security Council’s report was submitted to the General
Assembly in good time. The report’s contents confirm the
indisputable fact
is carrying out an
enormous amount of work towards maintaining international
peace and security.
the Council
that
We note the major changes that have taken place, both
quantitatively and qualitatively. The number of formal
meetings and informal consultations that the Council has
held has increased markedly.
is taking
consensus decisions on many acute problems, promoting the
peaceful settlement of many issues in various hot spots
around the world.
In our view, this intense activity on the
part of the principal United Nations body responsible for
maintaining international peace and security deserves every
support.
The Council
Under Article 24 of the Charter, the Security Council,
in discharging its duties, acts on behalf of all the States
Members of the United Nations. Thus, we find quite
understandable the interest shown by States that are not
Security Council members in the effectiveness of
the
Council’s activities, in improving its procedures and methods
of work
and
transparency.
accountability
enhancing
and
its
in
in our opinion,
forward deserve,
The proposals towards this end that many delegations
have put
thorough
consideration, and we are glad that the Council has already
taken into account some of the observations made by
representatives. These observations refer particularly to the
structure of the report now before us, and also to the
publication of a tentative draft programme of the Council’s
work for the next month. Of course, the Council’s working
procedures and methods still leave a great deal of room for
improvement.
The Republic of Belarus supports the reforms aimed at
adapting the United Nations to the fundamentally new
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
realities and at democratizing the procedures of its main
organs. Understanding as we do that under these new
conditions the Security Council cannot remain as it was
conceived and created half a century ago, we favour a
painstaking quest for a consensus on all issues relating to its
reform. Any changes affecting the Security Council -
especially now, when it is working much more intensively -
must not be carried out at the expense of the ability of its
efforts to achieve results.
As is well known, our Republic is a candidate for
non-permanent membership in the Council in 1994-1995.
As our State’s Minister of Foreign Affairs said during the
Assembly’s general debate this session,
the Security Council adopted 81 resolutions, heard 95
presidential statements, held 152 formal meetings and a still
greater number of informal meetings, as well as meetings of
the 10 subsidiary organs established under Article 29 of the
Charter.
This activity, unprecedented in the entire history of the
Security Council, reflects an international situation which
allows one of the principal organs of the United Nations to
operate with the harmony and firmness that the drafters of
the Charter had in mind at the time, and which, on the other
hand, bears witness to the outbreak of numerous regional
and inter-State conflicts which, given their very nature, are
jeopardizing international peace and security.
"...
pro-forma
prestige.
for
the submission of the candidature of
the
Republic of Belarus in the Security Council does not
represent merely a spontaneous political gesture nor a
hankering
Historical
circumstances are such that the experience and the
potential of Belarus, at this very difficult moment in the
formation of a new world order, can be of great
importance to the international community".
(Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth
Session, Plenary Meetings, 9th meeting, p. 27.)
We hope that during the upcoming elections, Belarus’
contribution to maintaining peace and international security
will be judged on its merits, and that it will be taken into
account that Belarus, as one of the founding Members of the
United Nations, has only once been elected a non-permanent
member of the Security Council.
In conclusion,
I should like to express my firm
conviction that the positive trends that have recently begun
in the development of the Security Council’s work will be
further consolidated and developed, and will thus strengthen
the role of the United Nations itself in solving the extremely
difficult problems facing the world.
Mr. CARDENAS (Argentina)
(interpretation from
Spanish): Today we are considering agenda item 11, on the
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly
covering the period from 16 June 1992 to 15 June 1993,
submitted in accordance with Article 24, paragraph 3, of the
Charter of the United Nations.
This report, which for a number of years now might
perhaps have been viewed as merely a matter of procedure,
has since 1990 taken on a relevancy which is directly tied to
the significant
increase in the activity of the Security
Council.
The new world scene and the increase in the number of
States Members of the Organization are making us think
about and discuss the reforms required to make United
Nations bodies better able to meet the challenge facing us in
respect of peace-keeping, economic development, and the
advancement of human rights and democratic values. This
process of reflection and debate must necessarily affect the
work of the Security Council, and the report could serve as
a benchmark for the discussion on that subject. Therefore,
though we do of course appreciate the new format and the
timely submission of the report
itself, we would also
consider it appropriate for a number of periodic reports to be
submitted by the Security Council to the General Assembly
in the course of the year. These reports might, whenever
circumstances so require, be more detailed. This would
ensure a better and smoother system of information and
communication, and a better and more appropriate balance
between the various bodies established by the Charter in
accordance with Article 24, to which I have already referred.
My delegation will participate in this process of
reflection to complement what was begun with General
Assembly resolution 47/62 in relation to the question of
equitable representation on and increase in the membership
of the Security Council. We have already addressed a note
to the Secretary-General on this subject and we will express
our views on it when the Assembly takes up the item
concerned.
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that the Assembly
takes note of the report of the Security Council contained in
document A/48/2?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
11?
According to the record as reflected in the report -
document A/48/2 - during the period under consideration
It was so decided.
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
5
AGENDA ITEM 112 (continued)
INTERNATIONAL DRUG CONTROL
PLENARY MEETINGS
TO
HIGH-LEVEL
EXAMINE THE STATUS OF INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION AGAINST
ILLICIT
PRODUCTION, SALE, DEMAND, TRAFFIC AND
DISTRIBUTION OF NARCOTICS AND
PSYCHOTROPIC SUBSTANCES:
DRAFT
RESOLUTION (A/48/L.12)
THE
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the first speaker in
the debate for this meeting this afternoon, the representative
of the Gambia.
Mr. SALLAH (Gambia): The holding of these high-
level plenary meetings on international drug control testifies
to the deep concern of the international community at the
growing global drug problem.
Drug abuse and its grave consequences continue to
affect every section of our communities. Countries and
communities that once were spared the scourge of drug
trafficking and consumption have now fallen victim to the
debilitating effects of these illicit and dangerous drugs. The
Gambia, which only a decade ago was a drug-free country,
has in recent years been used increasingly as a transit point
in the international trafficking of dangerous drugs such as
heroin, cocaine and all their derivatives. The spillover effect
has resulted in the use of these drugs by more and more
people in the Gambia.
It is regrettable to note that the
problem of drug trafficking and consumption is beginning to
reach dangerous proportions affecting the whole fabric of
our society.
Young people, the cream of our society, are the primary
targets and the largest group of victims. Most of these
children, untutored in the ways of a wanton world and not
knowing how to resist such temptation, become easy victims,
serving both as traffickers and as consumers of the illicit
drugs,
thereby ensuring the continuity of the chain of
trafficking and users.
The consequence for the Gambia in the rise in illicit
drug trafficking and usage is that there is an unprecedented
rise in violence and dangerous crimes, unknown in the
nation’s history. Violence within families, some with tragic
consequences, has also risen. The number of drug-related
medical cases has been on the rise, with some of these never
to be cured or rehabilitated in society. The rate of drop-outs
from schools, work and other gainful activities, almost all
attributed to the drugs menace, is on the increase.
The attendant social and economic stresses and burdens
imposed on the Gambia by these grave consequences of
illicit drug trafficking and consumption have made a serious
dent in the nation’s budget affecting our planning strategies
and creating some insurmountable and incalculable obstacles
to the smooth implementation of the country’s development
programme.
The existing economic situation just described, however,
should not suggest a state of total hopelessness on the part
of the Government of the Gambia. The Government has met
the menace head on. The percentage of the nation’s limited
budget allocation for illicit drug control has been increasing
each year to finance new programmes and measures to
combat the drug problem. The laws of the Gambia relating
to illicit drug trafficking and consumption are being revised
and new drug enforcement measures are being formulated
and effected.
The Government continues to set up and strengthen
structures and agencies relating to drug enforcement, drug
rehabilitation and the sensitization and education of the
public on the
illicit drug trafficking and
consumption. Indeed, the prevention and eradication of drug
abuse and illicit trafficking have become a national crusade
utilizing the
and of
non-governmental organizations, and are extended to all
facets of Gambian society.
the Government
evils of
resources of
The main obstacle to our national effort, however, is the
lack of adequate financial and material resources. Another
reason for the inadequacy of our drug control measures is
that the national drug menace is linked to the international
drug situation. The link between local and global drug
trafficking and drug abuse has become so formidable that
small States like the Gambia, with their fragile economies,
are unable to combat it effectively and consistently.
Statistics on the financing of the international drug
trafficking network by drug lords indicate that the money
expended is usually higher than the overall national budgets
of some countries. The Gambia is one such State and
therefore cannot, on its own, combat successfully this global
problem affecting all countries and all regions of the world.
The Gambia therefore welcomes the initiative and concerted
effort of the international community to arrest the growing
drug problem. We will continue to rely on the United
Nations and other bilateral and multilateral cooperative
efforts to evolve an international drug control programme.
The implementation of the Global Programme of Action
and the Programme of Technical Cooperation with
Developing Countries, in collaboration with the Financial
Action Task Force, has been a source not only of great
technical assistance but also of renewed hope and strength
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
in our fight against drug trafficking and consumption at the
national level. Technical assistance to developing countries
on international drug control should incorporate the latest
technology used in the detection of illicit drugs as well as
information on the setting up of the up-to-date strategies
used by drug lords in the trafficking of
illicit drugs
worldwide. The high cost of some of the sophisticated
equipment used in drug control has not only limited the fight
of the small and poor nations against drug trafficking but has
also to some extent alienated them from the international
effort to control global drug abuse.
Similarly,
the lack or non-availability of
reliable
intelligence on patterns and modes of international drug
trafficking have severely limited the capabilities of our drug-
law enforcement agencies to investigate and suppress the
international drug-distribution networks successfully. The
Gambia has always maintained that there is an intimate
complementarity and logical relationship between drug-law
enforcement and crime prevention, because there can be no
doubt that illicit-drug-related activities are based on criminal
practices. A two-prong attack on illicit drug trafficking and
drug abuse globally through the concerted efforts of the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme and
the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Branch would
yield greater and more-lasting successes. My delegation
fully supports the recommendation contained in General
Assembly resolution 47/102, which invites cooperation
between those two bodies.
The Gambia has realized the wisdom and benefit of
mobilizing and coordinating the resources of our drug-
enforcement agencies and the Crime and Justice Department
in the uphill task of stemming and eradicating from our
society the rising tide of
illicit-drug trafficking and
consumption. The results have been satisfactory, given the
high number of arrests, seizures and convictions in the past
12 months. With more funds and technical assistance, we
intend to expand this collective inter-agency drug-law
enforcement exercise as well as improve existing treatment
and rehabilitation facilities.
At the international level it is becoming increasingly
necessary to consolidate
the United Nations drug-
enforcement programme by reviewing and synthesizing,
where possible, the various international drug-control plans
and programmes being implemented by the United Nations
to ensure greater efficacy and effectiveness in combating the
drug menace.
In this regard we fully support recent
resolutions of the General Assembly calling for an integrated
approach in implementing the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme. National and regional drug-law
enforcement agencies and programmes would, within the
context of their drug-enforcement master plans, be able to
develop strong links with the United Nations drug-control
system in order to enhance their focus in handling the drug
problem.
reinforce
from these meetings will
It is our hope that the conclusions and recommendations
our
emanating
commitment to the active observance of the United Nations
Decade against Drug Abuse as well as strengthen our resolve
to ensure our collective adherence to the United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances, which should continue to serve as
the basis of international efforts to combat abuse and illicit
drug trafficking.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call upon Mr. Anicetas
Simutis, Permanent Representative of Lithuania.
Mr. SIMUTIS (Lithuania): The problems associated
with drug abuse and illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances transcend national borders and are
thus global in dimension. Under the Soviet regime, drug
abuse was not an issue of concern, and its existence was
even denied. Today, the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and
my own country, Lithuania, are increasingly aware of the
adverse consequences of the drug problem and of the need
for a comprehensive approach in combating this scourge.
The United Nations has an important role to play in the
international struggle against drugs. Our Governments note
with satisfaction that the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme (UNDCP) has since 1992 sent several
missions to the Baltic States and is carrying out scientific
and technical assistance projects in the laboratory and law
enforcement sectors. UNDCP is assisting us in acquiring the
defences necessary to address drug-control matters, since our
lack of resources and expertise in this area makes us
extremely vulnerable at this early stage. To fill the vacuum,
interministerial committees have been formed to plan
national drug strategies, coordinate implementation and
assure full utilization of limited available resources.
The Baltic States are at present pursuing the following
national objectives: We are adopting measures that will
enable us to comply with the provisions of the drug
Conventions while completing the comprehensive legislation
needed for
UNDCP has provided legal
assistance in drafting new drug-control laws and in adapting
our national legislation to international drug Conventions and
decisions dealing with drug abuse and illicit trafficking.
ratification.
We are increasing our expertise, technical capacities and
coordination to enhance our drug-management régime. We
require more assistance in meeting our legitimate need for
drugs in general, and narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances in particular, and in reducing to a minimum drug
abuse and such related public-health problems as the
increased risk of HIV-AIDS infection from drug injection.
of great concern to our Governments and one that needs to
be addressed with equal determination.
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
7
the Nordic Committee on Narcotic Drugs,
We are working with the Commission on Narcotic
the
Drugs,
Pompidou Group of the Council of Europe,
the World
Health Organization and the European Community PHARE
Programme in developing a coherent regional strategy in
dealing with traffickers using the Baltic States as transit
countries for the transportation of narcotic drugs to consumer
markets.
We are seeking recommendations for dealing with
problem areas and cultivating more effective enforcement
methods and cooperation between drug-enforcement agencies
and States and, in particular, between police and customs
officials.
are
We
judicial,
programmes
implementing
at
strengthening our
legal and law-enforcement
systems, with special attention to the training of personnel.
In close consultation with multilateral agencies and
bilateral partners, we are developing national, regional,
subregional and global drug-control strategies.
aimed
are
We
initiatives
encouraging grass-roots
and
programmes and the involvement of non-governmental
organizations in the treatment, rehabilitation and social
In this regard, we welcome
reintegration of drug abusers.
UNDCP’s
involve
non-governmental
organizations,
the private sector, schools and the sports
community more actively in the campaign against drugs.
initiative
to
We are creating and strengthening our control and
monitoring systems for licit drugs and enhancing measures
for surveillance of the diversion of precursor chemicals to
illicit production.
Because of the use of cheap and easily available
substances, such as volatile solvents - glue in particular - we
are increasing drug-education programmes, with the goal of
promoting healthy-lifestyle programmes among the young.
The post-cold-war era has brought with it many
problems and challenges resulting from the social, economic
and political transformation under way in our region of the
world. Because of severe economic difficulties, there is an
acute shortage of appropriate equipment in our laboratories,
inhibiting our ability to analyse seized drugs.
With the establishment of fully convertible currencies
in the Baltic States, money laundering is another growing
problem and a threat
This
phenomenon is closely linked to organized crime, a problem
to monetary stability.
The Governments of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania will
important coordinating
continue to support UNDCP’s
function in the world-wide campaign against drug abuse.
Because of the sophisticated and international nature of drug
crime, we believe that coordinated action, based on the
recommendations made under the Global Programme of
Action, is needed to tackle this issue on the global front.
We expect the United Nations will continue to play a leading
role in the fight against illicit narcotic drugs, and we are
ready to contribute our share to the reduction of this
problem.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Senegal.
Mr. CISSÉ (Senegal) (interpretation from French):
The head of the Senegalese delegation has already had the
opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your illustrious
election to the presidency of the Assembly at this session,
and I personally welcome your election because of your
outstanding qualities and talent as a diplomat.
The consideration of agenda item 112, in which we are
in accordance with General Assembly
now engaged,
resolution 47/99 of
16 December 1992, affords us an
opportunity to evaluate the struggle against narcotic drugs
and ponder ways and means of enhancing international
cooperation in this sphere. For this reason I have no doubt
that this debate will yield concrete proposals.
Indeed, illicit traffic in narcotic drugs is so extensive
that nothing short of well-coordinated international action
can make a real contribution to its eradication. The threat of
such a scourge hovering over our youth - and, hence, over
the future of the world - requires that increased attention be
given this problem.
It should be added that most of the victims of this
dangerous scourge that is spreading unabated are found
among the most disadvantaged, for the simple reason that
they are the most vulnerable. This is because there is a
direct correlation between the continued deterioration of
terms of trade - resulting in a dizzying drop in commodity
prices - and an ever-growing trend towards the development
of illicit drug crops that promise exorbitant income and
exercise an almost irresistible attraction on the people -
generally disadvantaged - of the zones of production. This,
in fact, explains why the majority of areas under cultivation
are found in poor countries.
The Senegalese delegation is of the view that restoring
balance to the world economy is one of the indispensable
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
for achieving success in the international
conditions
community’s fight against this scourge. To that end we
should, essentially, put an end to economic disparities,
which, as they continue to increase, create social inequalities
that drug traffickers will surely exploit in unloading more
easily their dangerous and harmful products.
It is a great challenge, but there is reason for optimism,
especially when we consider the results achieved by the
international community and the welcome decision of the
International Monetary Fund to include the problem of drugs
on its list of five world priorities. These efforts should be
strengthened so as to foster among the producing countries
policies to encourage, promote and popularize intensive
substitute crops and the establishment of a remunerative
price-setting system.
The international community’s fight against drug abuse
will not be effective unless Member States adhere to or
ratify and effectively implement the relevant international
Conventions. My delegation appeals to States that have not
yet done so to take such action.
In this way they would
show their determination to check and then eradicate this
scourge, while also presenting a deterrent to those who, for
personal gain, would like to see it perpetuated.
The scope of the phenomenon and its grave social
consequences fully justify waging the struggle at the regional
and subregional levels also.
In this regard, the signing of
regional and subregional agreements and the regular
organizing of seminars under the aegis of the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) would be
important steps in support of the Global Programme of
Action to combat drug abuse. The seminars being held in
various regions - Asia, Central America, the Near East and
Africa - and the determination of the States involved to
eliminate this scourge are encouraging. However, their
conclusions should lead to better follow-up and to concrete
action.
Africa is now the drug traffickers’ continent of choice
for
the transit of
their merchandise, as most African
countries are not equipped to combat this activity. The
traffickers benefit not only from this unintentional collusion,
but also use more and more sophisticated methods of
smuggling the desired quantities.
Thus it is urgently necessary to intensify international
cooperation in the provision of assistance to developing
countries in general - and to Africa in particular - if they are
to have effective and efficient equipment, at their airports
and in the administrative bodies concerned.
In addition to this lack of resources, Africa lacks
harmonization of legislation for the fight against drugs.
Progress has been made in this regard, but not enough. Up
to last March nine of the 16 countries in the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) had ratified
the Conventions of 1961, 1971, and 1988 to combat illicit
trafficking in narcotic drugs. Only two of the 11 States
members of the Economic Community of Central African
States (ECCAS) have so far ratified them.
It should be
pointed out also that only 11 of all the countries in those two
subregional organizations have carried out all the formalities,
eight of them having ratified only one or two of the
Conventions, while eight are still not involved at all.
Unfortunately, this situation benefits drug traffickers,
especially as, even in most of the States parties to the
Conventions,
it exists at all - is often
incomplete, or even obsolete. Thus, cracking down on
theoretically illegal acts is often almost impossible for lack
of a legal basis.
legislation - if
At a very early stage Senegal realized the dangers
In 1963 - 30
inherent in the phenomenon of drug abuse.
regularly
years ago - it adopted legislation, which is
amended to take account of changing circumstances.
In
certain cases, Senegalese law provides for sanctions, such as
the withdrawal of passports for periods of up to six years, in
addition to prison sentences. Above and beyond the
traditional law-enforcement structures, Senegal has set up a
national commission on narcotic drugs, which plays a
dynamic role in both prevention and education, especially
through an annual national week to combat drug abuse,
whose objective is to heighten public awareness.
I should also refer to the fact that since July 1991
Senegal has had a central office for the prevention of illicit
trafficking in narcotic drugs.
In addition to its law-
for
enforcement
centralizing
and
encouraging all measures to fight drug trafficking.
responsible
coordinating
function,
information
this office
for
and
is
I should like to conclude by emphasizing the need to
harmonize national
legislation so as to provide better
monitoring of the licit drug market, and thus to create a
more effective system of preventing and eliminating illicit
trafficking, and also to encourage all States to ratify the
three Conventions I have mentioned.
It is also absolutely necessary to strengthen subregional
and regional cooperation,
through the establishment of
technical structures to wage the struggle at these two levels.
More sustained and intensified international cooperation to
provide logistical assistance to developing countries and
practical measures against the laundering of drug money are
fundamental to effective action to combat drug trafficking.
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
9
This major challenge should be taken up most
energetically, for drugs are the worst enemy of mankind,
destroying its basis and all our efforts to build a world of
peace and security. Man is both the protagonist and the
beneficiary of development, and he must be protected against
any scourge that might destroy his mental faculties, his
creative imagination and his other talents.
Our young people, whom we have a duty to protect,
educate and guide along the path of progress, are also a
resource, vulnerable to devastation by this social scourge, if
we are not careful.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Kenya.
Mr. MUTHAURA (Kenya):
important
I wish to make a few
topic of
international
comments on this
cooperation against
the illicit production, sale, demand,
traffic and distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances.
The drug menace has brought untold suffering to
mankind. We support the measures that have been put in
place by the international community - ranging from the
Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its
seventeenth special session to the Global Programme of
Action, which contains a comprehensive list of measures and
activities.
the United States Department of Justice. Kenya - and,
indeed, many other developing countries - will need more
such facilities to strengthen their law-enforcement capacity
in this field. Many developing countries also need help to
obtain access to improved technologies for surveillance of
narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
Secondly, the drug menace is particularly devastating to
the youth who tend to be easy victims. The need to
establish facilities for treatment, rehabilitation and social
integration of drug and substance abusers can therefore not
be overemphasized, especially taking into account
the
compounding complications that arise as a result of the
deadly human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and the
immunity deficiency that is associated with it. It is therefore
imperative that public education programmes be mounted so
as to sensitize the general populace to the inherent dangers
of drug abuse.
International cooperation in this endeavour
therefore cannot be overemphasized.
Thirdly, Governments must agree on decisive measures
to curb and control the easy access to and marketing of
conventional weapons. My delegation is of the view that
easy and uncontrolled access to arms and explosives has
made it easy for drug traffickers and warlords to evade the
law enforcement agencies. In the process they have caused
loss of life to many innocent people and also posed a serious
threat to the security and stability of a number of countries.
The experience of Colombia should serve as a major
challenge to the international community in this regard.
By its nature,
the
is
the
concerted efforts of
the drug menace cannot be tackled
without
international
community. Over and above the global efforts to reduce the
production and supply of, and the demand for, illicit drugs,
efforts at the national and regional levels must be intensified.
It
therefore imperative that Governments establish
comprehensive global measures to fight all aspects of the
illicit drugs business.
The restructuring and strengthening of the United
Nations machinery in the field of the International Drug
Control Programme is a clear demonstration of the General
Assembly’s intention to maintain an intensified fight
to
eliminate the illicit production and supply of, and demand
for, narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Three years
after the launching of the Programme, it is now time for the
international community to evaluate its success.
In this
regard, I wish to comment on three important areas.
I wish to assure the Assembly of my Government’s
commitment to the United Nations System-Wide Action Plan
on Drug Abuse Control. My country was one of the first
countries to sign and ratify the 1988 United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances. At the national level the Kenya
Government has embarked on comprehensive legislation on
the control of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
which will be
debated and enacted by the National
Assembly in the very near future. This legislation, among
other
laws and
regulations with a view to eliminating the drug market as
well as the illicit trafficking of drugs through Kenya by
imposing stricter penalties on offenders.
It will also
introduce measures intended to eradicate the laundering of
monies made through the illicit trade in such drugs and
substances.
things, aims at harmonizing
national
First, the training component of the programme is one
area with great potential for achieving the desired results.
My country is one of those that have benefitted from the
courses organized by the Programme. We have benefitted
also from some bilateral training programmes, including
those organized by the Drug Enforcement Administration of
Finally, although the magnitude and scale of the drug
menace is still minimal in my country, Kenya is increasingly
being used as a transit point especially from the Asian and
southern African regions to the European and American
markets. This is not surprising because Nairobi is one of
the busiest connecting airports in the African continent.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
however, determined to do
The Kenya Government is,
everything possible to eradicate transit possibilities through
Nairobi International Airport. With the cooperation of the
international community we are convinced that we will
succeed in this endeavour.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on General Fouad Al-
Saleh, Under-Secretary, Ministry of the Interior of Kuwait.
instance, we promulgated a relevant law in 1983 and another
in 1987. Our efforts, however, have not been confined to
legislating against drugs. We have set up a national
commission at a very high level presided over by the
Minister of the Interior with the membership of eminent
scientists and field specialists to formulate our overall policy
against this scourge and to periodically take stock of the
effectiveness of such policy.
the outset
Mr. AL-SALEH (Kuwait) (interpretation from Arabic):
Allow me at
to thank and congratulate the
Secretariat of the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP) on its marvelous efforts in preparing
the documentation and drawing up of the reports now before
us.
The problems that beset the world nowadays because of
the drug trade and the attendant problems of addiction that
take considerable segments of the populace out of the
productive mainstream of society, side by side with the link
between trafficking and criminal activities of every sort,
create a serious situation that calls for concerted international
efforts and continuous exchanges of information and know-
how between States in the war on this illicit trade.
Accordingly, the United Nations system has continued
the international and
levels with a view to ensuring the required
to organize periodic meetings at
regional
inter-State cooperation and coordination in that area.
In this connection, I should like to pay tribute to the
UNDCP secretariat with regard to documentation on the
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and the provision of full
information that makes it easy to understand and implement
the stipulations of the Convention.
The State of Kuwait has often expressed its keen
interest in dealing with this scourge and has shown that
interest in a number of ways by participating in international
drug-combating conferences and by cooperating with the
competent
the
Council of Interior Ministers of Arab States and the Arab
Centre of Security Studies and Training in attempting to
coordinate and strengthen our efforts along those lines.
international bodies such as INTERPOL,
Kuwait has acceded to the 1988 United Nations
Convention. The competent authorities are now seeking to
ratify the Convention at
the earliest. We have also
concluded bilateral agreements with several countries with
the
exchanging
information.
combating
aim of
trafficking
and
At the national level, we have enacted the necessary
For
legislation to combat drug abuse and trafficking.
In trying to cope with problems associated with drug
abuse and drug trafficking and in view of the increase in
drug trafficking all along our land borders with Iraq, we
have begun to dig a trench and to build a sand wall along
our entire frontier with Iraq for a number of security reasons
and also to stem the flow of drugs from that particular
country, which is causing destabilization and threatening the
moral fibre of those who succumb to drug addiction.
The delegation of Kuwait attaches great hopes to the
activities of the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme, especially in the area of training, and thanks it
for the information it provides. We wish to offer the
following suggestions while urging the Programme Director
to give a higher priority to the training of personnel engaged
in the enforcement of anti-drug laws:
First, the training programmes UNDCP provides should
be expanded and better coordinated with relevant regional
international organizations.
Secondly, training programmes set up by UNDCP must
be scrutinized annually so as to assess their results and
develop them according to the findings of such assessment.
Thirdly, the provision of the technical assistance sought
from UNDCP by Member States should be linked to the
assessment carried out in the annual review process already
mentioned,
in all areas relating to those States’ drug-
combating activities.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the Permanent
Representative of Kyrgyzstan.
Mr. ATABEKOV (Kyrgyzstan) (interpretation from
Spanish): For me this is an extraordinary opportunity most
cordially to congratulate you, Sir, most warmly on your
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session. A month has gone by since you took
up that historic gavel in your hands and in that time you
have convincingly demonstrated that the presidency is indeed
in the firm hands of an extraordinarily able international
diplomat. My delegation rests assured that under your
skilful guidance this session cannot fail to achieve major
success that will lead us to a bright new horizon.
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
11
We consider this a fitting opportunity to express before
this Assembly our humble views on the complex and painful
issue of illicit
international drug trafficking, under the
agenda item on international control of drugs. Our concerns
have been made explicit in the statements of representative
of the Commonwealth of Independent States and other
representatives. The central idea expressed by all is, in our
view, quite clear: how and by what bilateral or multilateral
means can we win the battle against this intercontinental
scourge?
spread vertically through almost all
The international community is following the drug issue
very closely.
This emerges clearly from the report
(A/48/329) of the Secretary-General and from this debate.
From the report we see that the "infection" of drug abuse
has
international
structures, which to date have been trying in vain to fight
against it. The report presents in painstaking detail the many
steps that have been taken in this regard within the United
Nations system, both organization-wide and on a narrower
scale. We are left with the impression that after so much
work and so much intellectual, human and, of course,
financial effort, significant results should have been reached.
If that is not the case, the far-reaching effects of this illness
and the extent of its poisonous spread through societies have
been confirmed.
Because of our Organization’s precarious financial state,
we think it is now essential to weigh the expenditures to
which I have referred against the results that have been
obtained. An analysis would yield fresh insights as to how
to proceed. We wish to stress that our proposal would be
valid only in the absence of such an analysis.
The Kyrgyz Republic also suffers from this disease, and
it compels us to expend considerable effort on confronting
many specific problems. The scale of drug trafficking is
cause for concern, while the criminality associated with drug
use and the number of drug addicts is alarming.
For a very long time, opium poppies were cultivated in
Kyrgyzstan, and this became a favourite literary and
cinematic theme in our society, like some others. This
phenomenon refused to go away, despite the fact that since
1973 the planting of poppy in Kyrgyzstan had been
completely banned.
Recently, when democracy and
independence were established in Kyrgyzstan, it was forced
to mount a stern resistance to active movements, even in
Parliament, to resume the planting of poppy. Proponents of
this movement argued that our Republic would thus save
sufficient capital in foreign currency to solve other economic
problems. However, after carrying out a full,
in-depth
analysis of the possible consequences of such a step, being
aware of the dangerous experiences of many other countries,
and acting in accordance with the relevant international
Conventions on the issue, President Askar Akaev rejected
any notion of resuming the planting of poppy, despite the
difficulties our Republic would have to face. This reasoned,
courageous and prudent action is deserving of great
admiration.
Year after year, the Kyrgyz Republic wages a struggle
to prevent the exploitation of vast expanses of wild cannabis
and other narcotic-containing crops.
Poor control of borders - indeed,
But, in addition to domestic factors, there are also
external ones.
the
complete absence of such control in some parts of our
region - cannot but contribute to the unchecked spread of
raw opium originating
territories.
Unfortunately, poverty, hunger and the economic and
geographic isolation of such areas and their peoples make
trafficking in opium the only form of subsistence available
to them. All sectors of the population, including women
with many children, are at times involved in drug trafficking.
neighbouring
in
According to available data,
the volume of drugs
involved in illegal trafficking is growing, with the opening
of the new Khorog-Osh route for transshipment to the other
countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States. It is
no wonder, then, that drug trafficking in those areas appears
to be a permanent feature. There is a very strong temptation
to become involved in it, particularly for the most vulnerable
sectors of society.
In the case of some neighbouring
countries, for example, on the basis of data we have
obtained, an investment of one ruble in the production of
opium poppies yields an income of 1,242 rubles. Other data
indicate that annual exports from that zone total almost 200
tons of raw opium and that at this very time tons of it are
ready for export to the countries of the Commonwealth of
Independent States. Clearly, the border services have no
tranquillity to look forward to. There is also the probability
that Kyrgyzstan will gradually become another transit point
for moving drugs from the countries of the so-called Golden
Crescent to Europe.
In these circumstances, our Government is taking the
steps it deems appropriate. Aware of the still graver
consequences of trafficking in and illegal use of narcotics if
appropriate steps are not
taken, and with the aim of
cooperating in solidarity with the international community in
the effort to solve the problem of drug abuse, the Parliament
of the Kyrgyz Republic intends to ratify at
its current
autumn session the United Nations international Conventions
of 1961, 1971 and 1988.
By
decree,
presidential
the State Commission
responsible for drug control and attached to the Government
has already been created, and the Kyrgyz organization
affiliated with the international association for the battle
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
against drug abuse and drug traffic is now in operation. In
addition, Kyrgyzstan is already participating in the anti-drug
activities of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.
Finally, it is clear that what is happening in the world
of drug trafficking is of concern to our country. We have
taken certain steps in this regard, but it seems to us there is
still a long and difficult
As a newly
independent country that subscribes to the principles of
democracy, market economy, the protection of human rights
and the secular State, Kyrgyzstan is ready to cooperate
internationally to the extent it can to free our societies of
drug abuse, while hoping that the international community
will want to help us in our endeavours in this area.
road ahead.
We
are genuine
and sincere members of
the
international community. We share all its concerns and
problems, and we stand with it in resolute solidarity in its
struggle to find solutions. We long for that happy day when
free and democratic mankind will at last have eliminated the
scourge of drugs.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on Mr. Abdul-Hai Elahi,
Minister of State and President of the High Commission for
Drug Control of Afghanistan.
Mr. ELAHI (Afghanistan):
I am pleased to have the
opportunity to participate in these high-level meetings of the
plenary of the United Nations General Assembly.
I intend
to bring to the attention of the General Assembly the
strategy that the Islamic State of Afghanistan has adopted in
the
the
stockpiling and
trafficking of illicit drugs.
cultivation,
struggle
against
a result, this deadly phenomenon spread its shadow on some
parts of our society.
It must be mentioned, however, that the figures reported
by the international mass media relating to the amount of
narcotic drugs being exported from Afghanistan seem to be
exaggerated. It must also be noted that within Afghanistan
there are no laboratories to process opium into heroin, nor
do any conduits or staging areas for exporting narcotics
exist.
The production and export of
illicit drugs from
Afghanistan is incompatible with the national reputation that
the Afghan nation gained as a result of its 14 years of
victorious struggle against foreign aggression. Moreover,
illicit drugs are the source of calamities that threaten the
well-being of human societies.
The Islamic State of
Afghanistan, therefore, has adopted a strong and effective
policy to combat illicit drugs. To organize its struggle
against this great catastrophe, the High Commission for
control of production, smuggling and abuse of drugs was
established four months ago under the patronage of the
office of the President.
intellectuals, writers,
Seventeen executive branches of
the Government
actively participate in this Commission, which consists of
eight subcommittees. It has the responsibility of mobilizing
all available national resources in Afghanistan, including
young people,
lawyers,
religious scholars, artists and so on in the fight against illicit
drugs. The Commission further intends to coordinate its
activities with similar regional and international institutions.
The High Commission is resolutely dedicated to expanding
its struggle to other areas of Afghan life such as the health,
social, cultural and legal spheres.
journalists,
I would begin by assuring you, Mr. President, and
representatives, as well as the relevant United Nations
offices, of the full awareness of the Islamic State of
Afghanistan of the destructive impact on and consequences
for the individual of the illegal use of narcotic drugs on the
social, national, regional and international levels.
Until recently, many types of narcotic drugs, including
heroin, were unheard of in our country. However, the 14
years of war against the former Soviet Union’s aggression in
Afghanistan, which caused millions of Afghans to leave their
homeland, were a factor in leading some of our youth into
becoming involved with these physically and mentally
ruinous addictions.
In addition, the consequences of that
war - lawlessness and the lack of a central Government - left
our frontiers porous and vulnerable in the face of the
international smugglers’ network, who, taking advantage of
the poverty resulting from the war and the flaws in the rule
of law and order, induced the farmers to grow poppies. As
The High Commission, within a very short span of
time, and despite extremely limited resources, was able to
accomplish the following:
first, the adoption of a national
policy on combating illicit drugs and the introduction of this
policy to other executive branches of the Government for
implementation; second, the expansion of its structure and
composition for the purpose of increased effectiveness; third,
the preparation of plans of action and practical initiatives in
conformity with the provisions of the message of the
Secretary-General of the United Nations dated 26 June 1993,
including the publication of a plan of action with a view to
its enforcement and implementation by the Government and
by the Afghan people; fourth, plans for the establishment of
mental- health clinics and special
institutions for drug
addicts; fifth, the establishment of local commissions against
illicit drugs in 31 provinces under the supervision of the
Governors; sixth, the preparation of videotaped materials and
posters, extensive press campaigns and radio and television
programmes; seventh,
the destruction of poppy fields
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
13
the arrest and
covering an area of 82 hectares; eighth,
prosecution of 58 suspected criminals involved in drug
production and trafficking; ninth,
the confiscation and
destruction of 286 kilograms of heroin, 1,672 kilograms of
opium and 521 kilograms of cannabis; and,
the
preparation and drafting of a master plan consisting of four
specific projects in the field of drug-abuse control.
tenth,
Afghanistan is committed to observing the 1988 United
Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances and other pertinent international
Treaties. We are in great need of the assistance of the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme in preparing
the favourable ground that will enable us to effectively work
towards the realization of our commitments.
The President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan,
Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, sent on 5 August 1993 a
comprehensive message regarding this highly important
matter to the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, who responded to the President of
Afghanistan by his very positive message of 28 September
1993. Both texts contain important elements and provisions
for an effective anti-drug campaign in Afghanistan.
The Government of Afghanistan, having studied the
Memorandum of Understanding between Iran, Pakistan and
the United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP), has agreed to adhere to it. We are ready to
cooperate, in all fields of drug control, with Iran, Pakistan
and our Central Asian neighbours. Such cooperation is the
main condition for success in the anti-drug efforts in the
region.
The Afghan authorities have adopted a national-strategy
plan of action against drugs. This is to be implemented
through pertinent projects and programmes. However, as
our resources for post-war economic reconstruction and
revitalization are extremely scarce, we shall be able to fund
the plan only if we receive financial assistance from the
United Nations and the international community.
If it is to have a comprehensive strategy on research
and statistical records, if it is to keep track of patients, if it
is provide drug addicts with medical
treatment and
rehabilitation, Afghanistan will require funding. We need a
major campaign in public relations and information to
heighten public awareness. All of this demands financial
and technical preparation. Special teams are to be trained
and mobilized for the purpose of manning observation posts
that are to be constructed in border regions and along
highways, as well as the mobile law-enforcement units that
are to be formed and activated. These are some of the main
projects for whose realization we shall certainly need
international financial and technical assistance. We could
derive highly valuable information from the experience of
other nations in this field.
Our strategic plan also aims at the implementation of
income-substitution programmes. One of the basic steps
taken by the Islamic State of Afghanistan is replacement of
poppy cultivation with the cultivation of useful plants.
Farmers need financial assistance if they are to cease poppy
cultivation, if they are to convert from illicit activity to legal
agricultural production.
tackling poverty and
unemployment is a prerequisite for the struggle against the
production and use of narcotic drugs. We therefore need the
help of the United Nations and of the donor countries and
institutions.
In fact,
Training
for
technical
in
implementation of the anti-drug plans at various stages of
our endeavours
field in which we need
international assistance.
is another
personnel
involved
Afghanistan’s 10-year master plan for its struggle
against illicit drugs consists of four basic projects. The
financial implications amount to at least $580 million. We
should therefore welcome, as a first, urgent step,
the
appointment of a United Nations mission to spend a few
weeks in Afghanistan studying and assessing the country’s
anti-drug plans.
Subsequently, an office of the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme would have
to be established in Kabul. With an improvement in the
security situation in Afghanistan, illegal activity - including
the production,
trafficking and consumption of narcotic
drugs - will decrease substantially. The convening of an
Islamic National Assembly, through which our people will
elect the future Head of State and Government, will enable
Afghanistan to transform armed confrontation into political
competition. The attainment of normality and political
consolidation will certainly enable us to pursue our struggle
against narcotic drugs in a more efficient and effective
manner.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the Permanent
Representative of Morocco.
Mr. SNOUSSI (Morocco) (interpretation from French):
I should like, at the outset, to join those representatives who
have congratulated you, Mr. President, on the outstanding
manner in which you have been conducting these high-level
plenary meetings on drugs.
As has been said by a number of delegations, the drug
problem is sparing no country - whether industrialized or
developing; whether of the North or the South, whether
Eastern or Western. One finds everywhere the same
quantitative and qualitative worsening of the situation, with
increases in drug trafficking, in the extent of abuse and in
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the number of abusers, and with the advent of new products
or of more powerful derivatives of substances that have been
around for a long time. Beyond that, no one can doubt that
trafficking in narcotic drugs is at the root of social scourges
of many kinds, including organized crime, the corruption of
State
illegal
commercial and financial activity. And, of course, we must
not forget about the terrible impact of all this on individuals.
I refer, in particular, to complications arising from infections
such as AIDS.
terrorism and
structures,
international
Furthermore, drug trafficking is a major handicap in the
field of socio-economic development, as it
impairs the
productivity of individuals, distorts the rules of the game in
the economy, and puts an awful burden on the institutions
providing medical care and social security. At the same
time, it reduces the stability and jeopardizes the security -
indeed, the very sovereignty - of States.
On the other hand, it appears that the policies adopted
and the means employed for the purpose of coping with
these phenomena are largely inadequate and are failing to
check the problem. Indeed, notwithstanding the efforts that
have been made,
the demand for and supply of drugs
continue to be a major problem.
The Kingdom of Morocco, convinced of the importance
of international cooperation, became a party to the major
Conventions on this problem at an early stage. At the
regional level, it has participated actively in the work of a
variety of symposia and gatherings - Arab, African and
Islamic - that have become involved in various ramifications
trafficking in and the abuse of drugs.
of
Moreover,
it has entered into bilateral agreements with
numerous countries - notably, the States members of the
European Community and the United States of America.
the illegal
Our
law enforcement agencies - in particular,
the
national police force, the royal gendarmerie, the auxiliary
forces, the customs service and the tobacco bureau - have
been restructured with a view to the formation of units with
special expertise in fighting drugs.
With respect
to crop conversion and substitution,
activities are under way to reduce the scope of drug abuse
through the launching in 1989 of an integrated pilot project
on conversion of cannabis cultivation and through public-
information and prevention programmes. Moreover, we
have established care centres in several provinces and have
opened a pilot reception and orientation centre for addicts
and their families.
Once again, I thank all the organizations that have been
good enough to support our efforts, especially the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP)
and the European Economic Community.
Those activities constitute, it is true, a major step in the
struggle against the production, traffic and abuse of drugs.
But, unfortunately,
the data show that, despite the
achievement of notable results, our goal is still beyond our
grasp.
Firmly committed to the process of bolstering political,
economic and social freedom, Morocco could not remain
indifferent to this grave, growing problem. Hence, in 1992,
His Majesty King Hassan II, with his keen understanding of
the problem and of the importance of the stakes, issued a
series of royal directives to intensify the combat against
drugs and continue it unflaggingly.
On the occasion of the Edinburgh summit of the
European Community, King Hassan II addressed a letter to
the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Mr. John Major,
then President of the European Community, in which he
unambiguously set out the position of Morocco’s position,
while stressing the complexity of the problem, the close
connection between supply and demand, and the need for
increased cooperation, particularly with the countries
concerned, to put an end to this scourge that is eating into
contemporary society.
At the December 1992 meeting of the Trevi Group, the
Minister of the Interior and Information of the Kingdom of
Morocco presented our Government’s five-year programme
for the northern provinces of our country. It is an integrated
development programme.
In recent months, royal decrees
have given rise to many other initiatives as well.
In the legislative and legal sphere, we ratified the
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988. We then took
immediate action to amend and revise Moroccan legislation
and bring it into line with the provisions of the Convention.
Other provisions have been enacted to stiffen penalties
against all drug traffickers.
investigation department,
There have been great strides in law enforcement on the
part of the criminal
the royal
police, the customs service and the tobacco bureau. Detailed
plans have been put into effect, making use of considerable
human and material resources, for close surveillance of drug
trafficking, especially on the borders, where a mechanism
has been set up to cover the entire Mediterranean coast.
Along with legislative efforts and our fight against drug
sales, we have begun to strengthen our social and public
health activities. For example, for several months we have
been carrying out a broad preventive education campaign
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
15
aimed at individuals who have special connections with the
young or who can have a positive impact with respect to
lowering the demand for drugs, such as parents, teachers,
doctors, pharmacists and magistrates. In October 1992, my
country hosted the first Maghreb training course on drug
abuse, for health professionals and other practitioners in the
area of social welfare.
We support action by non-governmental organizations
and promote the inclusion of drug-related themes in the
activities of charitable organizations in the cultural, sporting
and scientific spheres.
The first Moroccan anti-drug
association was founded in May 1992 with the primary
objective of reducing the demand for narcotic drugs.
We are doing everything possible to implement all the
elements of the Global Programme of Action.
We shall continue our fight, our study and our analysis
in order to understand this serious problem better. But it is
already clear that we are dealing with a complex problem
with many elements that can be approached only in a
comprehensive way in the
concerted
international action.
framework of
The line between producer and consumer countries is
growing ever more blurred. Traditional producer countries
are increasingly consuming all manner of drugs, and some
traditional consumer countries are increasingly producing a
great variety of drugs and of licit psychotropic substances
that are being diverted to illicit use. Production is linked to
underdevelopment; it is not enough to promote substitute
crops if there is no market outlet for these or if they are
unprofitable.
Implementing and strengthening anti-addiction activities
require that both producer and transit countries - the majority
of
them developing countries - make great efforts that
interfere with the development strategies and policies that
are so vital for raising the often precarious living standards
of their peoples. The economic situation of those countries
must be taken into serious consideration in the context of
bilateral and multilateral cooperation.
We have barely reached the mid-way point of the
United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse. We have
achieved some results, and we have encountered new
problems. This will be a long-term battle, in which victory
will depend largely on the political will of States and on
international solidarity.
Morocco is convinced that the fight against drugs is
essentially the responsibility of each country, and will pursue
its national efforts, always aiming to find the most
appropriate solutions. We also understand the collective
realm and the
importance of
responsibility in this
international cooperation in the fight against demand and
production of and trafficking in drugs; Morocco is ready and
eager to expand its cooperation with other countries.
In our view, the United Nations system, in particular
the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and UNDCP, is the
proper and the authoritative framework for any global policy
to wage war on drugs at
regional and
international levels. We salute the considerable efforts made
by UNDCP,
sparked by its Executive Director, Mr.
Giacomelli. We hope the potential and operational resources
of the United Nations system will be strengthened, especially
with an influx of the resources necessary for successful
action.
the national,
The public at large, people directly affected by this
scourge and, especially, the parents of drug addicts are often
confused and are demanding quick solutions. They are
questioning the policies of Governments and international
organizations.
I wish to conclude by unequivocally stating the firm
political will of the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco
to continue to fight this scourge, and by appealing to the
organs of
the United Nations system and to regional
institutions, in particular the Commission of the European
Economic Community, to join and continue their association
with our efforts in this sphere.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Vladimir
Tonkovic, Assistant Minister o Health of Croatia.
In my country,
Mr. TONKOVIC (Croatia):
the
Republic of Croatia, we are deeply concerned and alarmed
that the illicit production, trafficking and abuse of narcotics
and psychotropic substances are increasing every day and
that these illicit activities are claiming a growing number of
victims in my country and all over the world.
All of us here today are responsible for the future of the
world community and for the welfare of our children, our
young people and all human beings. We have to work
together and develop measures to strengthen international
cooperation against
the illicit production, sale, demand,
trafficking and distribution of narcotics and psychotropic
substances.
The
proposed draft resolution, however, is an important step and
must be adopted.
Related activities are also needed.
The principle of shared responsibility should always be
the guiding principle in our work. We must also emphasize
and take into account the experience gained thus far. We
have to bear in mind that no one can fight the problem alone
because of the growing violence and economic power of the
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
They have strong cross-border
criminal organizations.
networks that are engaged in the production of drugs and
essential chemicals. All of this portends an increase in
financial costs for Governments and threatens the economic,
social and political structures of the communities affected.
A global, comprehensive and multidisciplinary long-
term programme of action is to be followed by future
activities in drug abuse and control, taking into account all
the possible health, economic, social and political elements.
Action against drug abuse and the illicit trafficking and
production of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances is
a high priority of my Government.
All Conventions on narcotic drugs and psychotropic
traffic have been
substances and Conventions on illicit
ratified and fully implemented in Republic of Croatia.
The Government’s Commission on Drug Abuse was
established to coordinate the programmes and activities of
the Ministries of Health, Justice, Police, Finance, Work and
Social Welfare, Education and Foreign Affairs.
The
Commission is developing a national programme on drug
abuse, which will be the general plan for
long-term
In the Croatian National Programme the
activities.
importance of international cooperation will be noted, as
well as cooperation with non-governmental organizations.
Those organizations have tremendous importance for various
reasons.
My country has been a victim of aggression. One third
of my country is destroyed and devastated by war. The war
damage is estimated to amount to about $23 billion. There
are nearly 600,000 displaced persons and refugees in Croatia
at this very moment. Their care costs Croatia about $62
million per month. This year we have already spent over
half a billion dollars for their care. This is significant for an
economy of a mere $8 billion.
Mr. Soh (Republic of Korea), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
In Croatia 31 health-care facilities, hospitals or health
centres have been damaged or destroyed; 16,000 have been
disabled or handicapped by the war. The cost of war
damage to the health network is over $1 billion. We have
already noted that
traffic and distribution of
narcotics and psychotropic substances is increasing in
Croatia. There is a tremendous need to support the work of
the Croatian governmental Commission on drug abuse and
the financing of equipment, training programmes and health,
social-welfare and education programmes.
to
members for such assistance.
the illicit
I appeal
The PRESIDENT:
the
representative of the Syrian Arab Republic, and I now call
upon him.
The next
speaker
is
Mr. JAAFARI (Syrian Arab Republic) (interpretation
from Arabic): These high-level plenary meetings of the
General Assembly clearly demonstrate that the problem of
illicit narcotic drugs has become a world-wide phenomenon
that transcends national boundaries and that is of concern to
all States, a problem that poses a challenge to the concept of
sovereignty, national borders and national legislation. There
is therefore a need to strengthen international cooperation in
the campaign against this grave problem that is posing such
an enormous challenge to efforts being made to achieve
development and economic growth throughout the world.
Since the convening of the seventeenth special session
the General Assembly in 1990, which dealt with
of
international cooperation to combat narcotic drugs,
the
United Nations has been attempting to coordinate
international efforts
sphere by following the
Programme of Action adopted for the control of narcotic
drugs under the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP), which has underscored the focal role
of the United Nations as the centre for directing and
coordinating efforts in this sphere.
in this
In facing up to the challenge of the scourge of drugs
and the serious economic and social problems it creates, our
efforts will be crowned with success only if we adopt an
integrated approach that deals with both supply and demand,
production,
trafficking - including arms trafficking - the
control of basic chemical products and money laundering.
We would also emphasize in order for such efforts to
succeed, they must be based squarely on the principles of the
United Nations as set forth in the Political Declaration and
Global Programme of Action adopted at the seventeenth
special session, which include, inter alia, respect for State
sovereignty, shared responsibility, non-intervention in the
internal affairs of States, strengthening of international
cooperation in agreed circumstances and through bilateral,
regional and multilateral agreements.
and
specialized
to combat
institutions,
My country has been an active participant, along with
regional, Arab
in
the
coordinating international efforts
the use,
production, distribution and trafficking of narcotic drugs and
the investment of the income derived from the drug trade in
other illicit activities that have an equally serious social and
economic impact. My country’s cooperation in these efforts
is in keeping with the control mechanisms mentioned in the
Secretary-General’s report on international drug control and
with the goals of the United Nations Decade against Drug
Abuse 1991-2000.
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
17
At the national level, we have promulgated recently
Law No. 2, 1993, on drug abuse. That law takes into
account the provisions of three United Nations Conventions
on drugs and adapts national Syrian legislation to the
provisions of international Conventions. In our own region
my country participates in monthly meetings of liaison
officers in Cyprus, at the invitation of the United States
Department of Drug Abuse Control, as well as in meetings
of the sub-committee dealing with the illicit traffic in drugs
and psychotropic substances in the Near and Middle East.
The President returned to the Chair.
My country is also a party to bilateral conventions on
information exchange on drug-trafficking with Cyprus,
Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Egypt and Lebanon.
At
the international
level, Syria participates in all
international drug combating meetings and conferences, the
latest of which was the meeting of the Heads of National
Drug Law Enforcement Agencies held in Vienna in 1992.
Other meetings continuously take place in Syria between the
Syrian drug combating agency and the coordinators of drug
combating activities in the Western embassies to my country.
Syria also participates in the meetings organized by
INTERPOL and the United Nations on combating drugs. As
a matter of
fact, Syria has furnished very important
information to INTERPOL which enabled that agency to
confiscate several tons of hashish and other narcotic drugs
over the period from 1991 to 1992.
As I have said, the problem of narcotic drugs has
become truly universal without distinction between producer,
transit or consumer States. Although Syria is basically a
transit State, because of its geographical position between
the producer and consumer countries, the political will to
combat the transit activities of the drug trade across Syrian
territory is strong indeed. As an example of the results of
such resolve, 10 tons of hashish have been destroyed in
Damascus in the presence of liaison officers from the
European Community and the United States. A delegation
from the United Nations
International Drug Control
Programme has visited Syria and Lebanon, at the invitation
of the Governments of the two countries, over the period
from 15 through 21 May 1992. In the course of its visit, the
delegation was informed of the joint operations undertaken
by the Lebanese and Syrian authorities to destroy narcotic
drugs.
In order for peace to be comprehensive and just, it
should be based on solid legal and political foundations. It
cannot be established between societies that are at odds with
each other, just for the sake of combating drugs. Therefore,
the call for regional cooperation and a united front in the
war on drugs are matters that should be considered after the
establishment of peace in the region, and not before. The
continued Israeli occupation of Palestinian and other Arab
territories is directly responsible for the persistence of social
and economic
the
displacement of hundreds of thousands of refugees with all
the attendant splitting and dispersal of families and despair
of the young who are deprived of hope in a secure decent
future.
region and for
tensions
in the
The Middle East region is, perhaps, more interested
than any other region in combating the scourge of drugs as
it is a region that has suffered enough already from the
economic and social dislocation brought about by the
scourge of aggression and the resultant evils of occupation,
deprivation and the wasting of development potential and
resources that could have been channelled towards the
betterment of standards of living of our populations.
There is no doubt that a just and lasting settlement of
the Arab-Israeli conflict - a process that was begun in
Madrid on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242
(1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and the principle of
returning the occupied Arab territories to their rightful
owners in exchange for peace - could put an end to the
wasting of the huge resources my country as well as many
other Arab countries have been forced to divert to self-
defence and the ending of Israeli occupation.
In conclusion, my delegation welcomes the efforts of
the United Nations International Drug Control Programme
and reaffirms its readiness to cooperate effectively and
closely with the Programme’s Executive Director, Mr.
Giacomelli, because we wish to participate in strengthening
the international strategy to combat drug abuse.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on Major-General Abdel
Investigation
Ghani Elrabie, Director of
Department of the Ministry of the Interior of Sudan.
the Criminal
Mr. ELRABIE (Sudan) (interpretation from Arabic):
Public awareness in Sudan of the evils of drugs has always
been deep-rooted and comprehensive. This can be seen in
the enactment of the Law against Trafficking in Illicit Goods
in 1902 which was the first legislation in Sudan to prohibit
the abuse of drugs and which was followed by the Law on
Hashish and Opium of 1924, the Law on Pharmaceuticals
and Toxic Materials of 1963 and the Law against Illicit
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1993. This was
preceded in 1989 by an important amendment of the 1924
Law. The amendment introduced the death penalty for drug
trafficking, and stiffened the penalties for other related
crimes.
Sudanese society does not suffer as other countries do
from the problem of drugs, thanks to its religious and social
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
values, which constitute a true guarantee against drug abuse,
particularly amongst the young, who receive broad education
on the teachings and values of Islam.
The geographical location of Sudan contributes to the
transfer of drugs through its territory as a transit country.
Synthetic and other drugs enter Sudan from West Africa
across our western borders and from Central Africa across
the southern borders. They are then transferred via little-
used routes to our Red Sea coast and thence to Europe and
the Arab world. Drug-smuggling through Sudan is done by
various means and evasive tactics taken by the smugglers to
penetrate the lines of our security forces. I should like here
to cite a few examples of such methods.
Substances. Our concern with the issue of drugs has not
been confined to the executive institutions.
It has been
transformed into concrete action by the legislature, as well,
and we have recently organized a workshop on the issue to
devise a strategy that will enable the Sudan to contain and
control the problem.
Our anti-drug strategy is based: Firstly, on preventive
information and awareness campaigns aimed at preventing
new victims from falling prey to the scourge of drugs.
In
1992, we organized 207 lectures for those segments of our
society which could be attracted to drug abuse. We have
also issued various manuals and booklets and we have
prepared anti-drug abuse documentary films.
First, passing ships unload their drugs in the waters of
the Red Sea near harbours. Those drugs are then picked up
and transferred to the coast by specially equipped boats and
loaded on trucks and pack animals headed inland. In many
instances, we have succeeded in arresting the smugglers.
The largest quantity yet intercepted has been 15 tons of
hashish.
Secondly, another form of smuggling is carried out by
hiding drugs in different types of machinery that are shipped
by normal means. We have seized 445,000 psychotropic
pills and 3 kilograms of heroin in a bus that was being
shipped.
Thirdly, yet another form involves hiding the drugs on
the coast to await the passage of ships that are in collusion
with the drug smugglers; we have
seized 90,000
psychotropic pills in that manner. Fourthly, another form of
smuggling consists of storing drugs on some uninhabited
island to be later reloaded onto another ship so as to avoid
tracking operations, and fifthly, unloading drugs that are
very carefully packed in the open sea, hiding them amid
coral reefs under water in previously agreed-upon places for
later collection by boats.
The coasts of the Red Sea witness a great deal of drug
smuggling activity which threatens both North and South, as
well as Europe and America in particular.
Sudan has
participated in all conferences and activities against drug
abuse at both the international and regional levels. I had the
honour to be the only observer from outside the European
Community in the Conference Against Illicit Drugs held at
The Hague in the Netherlands in the spring of 1976. We
have also attended other conferences in Vienna, Abidjan,
Harare and Europe, in support of international efforts aimed
at containing the drug problem.
The Sudan has
the drug combating
conventions including the 1988 United Nations Convention
against Illicit Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
signed all
Secondly, on combating drug smuggling and drug
trafficking: we have destroyed 67 tons of hashish cultivated
on 120 acres in the region of Radom at the southern end of
the province of Darfur in western Sudan. We have also
destroyed 47 tons of hashish in Darfur, and the latest big
operation, organized in the area of Reqsham in Darfur in
November 1992, led to the destruction of 65 tons of hashish.
We have also destroyed many illicit plantations in the
Qadaref region of the Sudan. Yet we do not leave simple
citizens without a source of income. We have transformed
them into growers of licit agricultural produce, providing
them with tractors and seeds.
Our anti-drug efforts have been given concrete shape by
the establishment of a National Committee against Drugs in
1960, whose membership includes representatives of the
police force, the Ministry of Justice, the Judiciary, and the
Ministries of Health, Social Welfare, Education and Sports,
as well as the University of Khartoum. The Committee,
which coordinates efforts, organizes various programmes and
formulates plans aimed at increasing public awareness of the
dangers and harmful effects of drugs operates under the
leadership of Mr. Abaro, the former Director General of the
police force. With the National Commission on Medicines,
the Committee organizes programmes aimed at controlling
the use of licit drugs and ensuring that they are used for
medical purposes only. This coordinating operation covers
every part of the Sudan and comes as a serious response to
the recommendations of the United Nations Commission on
Narcotic Drugs and in implementation of the many decisions
taken by the heads of drug enforcement agencies in Africa,
at their Cairo meeting in 1990.
We have taken several
initiatives which have had
positive returns in the context of our drug combating
activities. In 1991, we transformed our Customs and Excise
Department into a police force. This has greatly facilitated
the exchange of information and promoted coordination and
cooperation between our law-enforcement agencies. Strict
banking controls have blocked money laundering operations.
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
19
Drug traffickers are not able to ply their trade in Sudan by
the force of arms as we do not allow the possession of arms
without permits. We also impose strict controls on
governmental and private pharmacies to prevent any possible
abuse of psychotropic substances. We also coordinate with
the authorities of sister Arab and African countries. In this
context, Sudan hosted the drug combating conference for the
Arab region in which experts from the United Nations
participated.
The Sudanese Drug Combating Agency
furnishes the United Nations with reports and exchanges
information through INTERPOL.
We believe that the United Nations, while conducting
peace-keeping operations in the world, should also take
concrete initiatives to organize drug-combating campaigns
aimed at fighting drugs. Drugs are like wars; both target
human beings and their very existence. Drug trafficking is
as dangerous as trafficking in arms. We look forward to
more substantial support from the United Nations for our
efforts. Such support began in 1987, but it has not yet risen
to the level of our expectations.
We have received a positive response from the
Assistant Secretary-General and the Executive Director of
the United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP) during the meetings of the thirty-sixth session of
the International Narcotics Control Board in Vienna this
April. We appreciate their assistance and appeal to them to
help transform our aspirations into concrete actions which
will help us in this fight of good against evil and enable us
to control, if not completely to eradicate, drug abuse, in
order to protect our societies and future generations and
guarantee the continuation of civilization on earth until the
end of time.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Fiji.
Mr. SENILOLI (Fiji): First, I wish to state that my
delegation fully supports the statement made by the
representative of the Marshall Islands, who spoke on this
issue on behalf of the members of the South Pacific Forum.
In recent years the use of illegal drugs has spread at an
unprecedented rate and has reached all corners of the globe.
No nation has been free of this devastating problem. The
long-term effects of chronic drug abuse and its impact on the
user, the family, the community and society have aroused
the concern of the world community.
Reasons for this concern include related increases in
crime; drug-related automobile accidents; accidents that take
place on the job; learning disabilities and other mental health
problems; family dislocation and disruption; and health
problems, including long-term damage to the brain, heart and
lungs.
The General Assembly, recognizing the central role that
it must play in fostering concerted international action
against illicit drug production, trafficking and consumption,
adopted resolution S-17/2 in 1990, by which it approved a
Political Declaration and a Global Programme of Action.
The Global Programme of Action outlined activities
Governments could undertake to combat drug abuse and
trafficking. It also proclaimed the period from 1991 to 2000
as the United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse, to be
devoted to effective and sustained national, regional and
international actions to promote the implementation of the
Global Programme of Action.
The problem of drug abuse and drug trafficking cannot
be solved quickly; it will need the cooperation of all States
in taking strong measures by enacting appropriate laws and
enforcing them.
We in the South Pacific are disturbed by the increasing
problem of drug trafficking and drug abuse in the region.
The region, because of its great expanse of ocean, many
uninhabited islands and weak economic base,
is fertile
ground for drug traffickers as a staging post
the
transmission of their supplies to lucrative markets in Europe
and North America.
for
Fiji, a major tourist destination, port and transit point
for air traffic and small craft, is vulnerable and is now
probably serving as an important drug trafficking point
because of our less sophisticated detection capability, limited
financial resources, and lack of adequate equipment and
specialized personnel. While illicit drug abuse has not
become a major concern, the changing drug scenario is
worrying.
In recent years, the incidence of drug abuse -
especially involving cannabis, which is also grown locally -
has increased substantially. The major drug find of 173
kilograms of hashish concealed inside gas tanks and buried
in an isolated and uninhabited island was most disturbing.
Our
periodically
apprehended non-Fiji citizens who were involved in efforts
to transport hard drugs, using couriers or unaccompanied
packages. A big consignment of cocaine destined for a
South Pacific State was discovered some years ago.
law-enforcement
authorities
have
As the scourge of drug abuse establishes itself in
various communities, the Fiji Government is taking steps to
strengthen its preventive measures.
The Fiji Police
Department has created a National Drugs Enforcement Unit
with the mandate of prevention and control,
if not
elimination, of the importation, production and use of illicit
drugs in Fiji. The Unit is vigorously pursuing its work of
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
We welcome the report of the UNDCP Mission to the
Pacific in November and December 1992. It clearly points
out areas which need some attention. My Government
welcomes UNDCP’s interest
in and emphasis on our
subregion, and we thank it for its decision to implement the
Mission’s most urgent recommendations.
Finally, my delegation supports the draft resolution that
is before us, which suggests, amongst other things, that these
crucial issues which we have discussed at length in these last
few days be discussed further in the high-level segment of
the Economic and Social Council next year.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.12, entitled "Measures to
strengthen international cooperation against
the illicit
production, sale, demand, traffic and distribution of narcotics
and psychotropic substances and related activities".
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/48/L.12 by consensus?
Draft resolution A/48/L.12 was adopted (resolution
48/12).
eliminating illicit plantations of marijuana and they are being
given every support by the affected communities.
In order to upgrade the capacity of the regional police
on drug matters, Fiji will be seeking the blessing of the
South Pacific Police Commissioners’ Conference in Papua
New Guinea next month to establish regional training at the
Fiji Police Academy. We hope that if the recommendation
is accepted funds will be available from the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme
to
complement what will be found locally.
(UNDCP)
The legislation in force in the field of drug control was
recently amended to remove the discretionary powers of
magistrates to impose a fine or a suspended sentence. Under
the amendment a mandatory custodial sentence of a
minimum of a three-month term of
for
possession or use of cannabis must be imposed; this is
intended as a deterrent.
imprisonment
Last March the Fiji Government, in support of the
efforts of the United Nations on drugs, acceded to the United
Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances of 1988. The Pacific Islands
Law Officers Meeting was mandated in 1992 by the South
Pacific Forum island leaders, who met
in the Solomon
Islands, to pursue actively and implement strategies that will
satisfy the law-enforcement requirements of the 1988 United
Nations Convention on drugs. The Declaration by the South
Pacific Forum on Law Enforcement Cooperation, referred to
as the Honiara Declaration, has been pursued with some
vigour by the Senior Legal Advisers of the Governments of
the South Pacific region. Fiji chaired the Committee of
Legal Advisers in 1992 to 1993 and has actively participated
in assisting countries in our region in three principal areas,
namely, a framework of mutual assistance in criminal
matters,
legislation on the proceeds from crime, and
extradition.
We have embarked on a programme of reviewing
existing legal frameworks with a view to improving them to
satisfy the mandatory requirements of the 1988 United
Nations Convention on drugs. At this point, I wish to thank
Australia for offering to fund the cost of a suitable
legislative drafter, who is to carry out the review of the
relevant legislation in the smaller Pacific States.
Money laundering is becoming a serious problem in our
region. Given our smallness and the openness of our
economies, we are acutely concerned about the negative
impact it has on our economies, and we are taking steps to
tackle this menace. We in Fiji currently have before
Parliament legislation that will criminalize money laundering
not only as regards illegal proceeds from the sale of illicit
drugs, but to cover all proceeds from criminal activities.
42nd meeting - 28 October l993
21
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to express my
appreciation and, I believe, that of the entire Assembly to
the delegation of Mexico and others that shepherded this
resolution to consensus.
The General Assembly has
thus
consideration of
against
distribution of narcotics and psychotropic substances.
concluded its
the status of international cooperation
traffic and
the illicit production, sale, demand,
The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.
