United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President:
INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. KIJINER (Marshall Islands): On behalf of the
people and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands, I warmly congratulate Ambassador Samuel Insanally
on his election as President of what promises to be a historic
session of the General Assembly.
I would also like to
express my country’s profound appreciation to his
predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, Foreign Minister of
Bulgaria,
for his superior guidance during a time of
unprecedented change.
We are gathered here at a crucial juncture in human
history when numerous changes are becoming apparent.
Few of us ever imagined that we would witness in our
lifetimes the dismantling of the Berlin Wall, a handshake
between the leaders of Israel and the Palestine Liberation
the peaceful separation of Eritrea from
Organization,
Ethiopia after decades of war, or
the transition to a
Government in South Africa that is truly representative of its
In the current international climate we can be
people.
optimistic about
the peaceful resolution of the difficult
problems of our time. However, at the same time our world
witnesses these triumphs of the human spirit, it also faces
grave new problems, such as the tragedies that are unfolding
in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Somalia.
18th
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 6 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
The new order will require fundamental changes in the
attitudes and thinking of nations and all mankind. Gone are
the clearly defined divisions of super-Power conflict.
In
their place are a myriad of problems, suppressed during the
cold war,
that are now resurfacing. The confrontation
between East and West has given way to more intricate
problems, without readily apparent solutions. There are no
easy answers for bringing restraint to the extremes of ethnic
and religious nationalism, or promoting human rights and
sustainable development. Yet the past few months have
shown the real progress that can be made on even the most
intractable problems. Rather than wringing our hands, we
must draw upon the diversity of views represented in this
grand Hall and upon the examples of those who dedicated
their lives to the struggle to bring peace to the world.
The world’s billions are increasingly looking to the
United Nations for solutions.
However, as currently
structured and financed, the United Nations by itself cannot
accommodate the breadth and gravity of the many problems
it faces.
It is our view that the Organization must be
carefully re-evaluated to ensure its effectiveness in a
situation of new realities. We support the creation of an
Office of Inspector General and will continue to study the
various proposals for expansion of the Security Council
membership.
As proud Members of
this body, we cheer our
Organization’s successes and are troubled by its few
setbacks.
The Marshallese people mourn the loss of
members of United Nations peace-keeping missions, which
are bravely endeavouring to maintain peace and provide
assistance to those in danger.
Allow me,
to address the special
situation of the island nations. The physical limitations of
islands and their lack of natural resources, which larger
for a moment,
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86770 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.18
22 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
nations might regard as insurmountable barriers, we, by
necessity, view as challenges to overcome. Throughout
history, islanders have displayed a remarkable degree of
innovation and adaptation, which has allowed us to survive
numerous natural and man-made disasters. Our people and
way of life were not deterred by the horrors of modern
weaponry from which the Marshallese people suffered
during the nuclear testing. Despite the end of the super-
Power arms race, the world must still confront the grave
dangers of nuclear testing, nuclear proliferation, and the
production, transit and disposal of nuclear material. The
Marshall Islands will forever have a special interest in the
dismantling of nuclear weapons because many Marshallese
people are still prevented from returning to their ancestors’
homeland.
As survivors of that legacy, we very much welcomed
the nuclear-testing moratorium. We are greatly distressed
that this moratorium has now been broken by one of the
nuclear Powers, and we would appeal to the others not to
follow this path.
I should like to lend my Government’s
voice to the voices of others that have called for negotiations
on a lasting and effective comprehensive nuclear-test-ban
treaty that will enjoy universal adherence. It is the wish of
the people of the Marshall Islands that no one else should
have to endure the same hardships and physical harm that
we did. We pray for a world free from nuclear testing and
intend to participate actively in the steps leading to such a
treaty.
We were proud to be one of the first signatories of the
Convention on the Prohibition of
the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and
on Their Destruction earlier this year in Paris. We will do
our part to contribute to the goal of the abolition of that
immoral class of weapons and commend the many officials
who worked on the Convention for their tireless efforts.
Perhaps the most effective way to avoid the grave
consequences of nuclear weapons is to address the problem
at its source by prohibiting the production of weapons-grade
plutonium. We therefore look forward to working on a
treaty to this effect, and we commend the United States and
others for taking the lead in this regard.
The islands of the Pacific are especially vulnerable to
the dangers posed by transport of nuclear material. We hope
that such shipments will cease. If they are to continue, the
States responsible must take every precaution to ensure that
the safety of States along the sea lanes and the high seas is
ensured.
All of humanity is shocked by the brutality of
nationalist and ethnic conflicts raging throughout the world
today. The possibility of introducing nuclear weapons in
these disputes threatens global peace and security and raises
the spectre of death and suffering on a magnitude never
before witnessed. My Government will continue to support
all efforts to limit the spread of nuclear weapons.
The efforts of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) in the area of nuclear safeguards merit special
praise.
I am very pleased to report that last week the
Marshall Islands was accepted as a member of the IAEA,
and we look forward to contributing to the work of the
Agency. We are confident that the Agency’s vast expertise
in the area of protection from radiation can shed light on the
matter and at
the same time come up with remedial
treatment for the many Marshallese victims afflicted by
numerous cancerous diseases resulting from nuclear testing.
My Government warmly applauds
the increased
attention by the world community to human rights and
democratic institutions. Although it fell short of some of our
expectations, this year’s World Conference on Human Rights
was an important milestone in the efforts to protect the
rights of individuals and vulnerable sectors of society.
Perhaps more important,
the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action clearly demonstrated that respect for
basic human rights and fundamental freedoms can exist in a
context of cultural diversity.
it
As important as the Vienna Declaration is,
is
meaningless without the means to enforce its provisions.
We will therefore continue strongly to support efforts aimed
at creating a post of United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights and a Special Rapporteur for Women’s
Rights, and we will continue to study proposals for an
international court with jurisdiction to consider cases of
human-rights violations.
Tomorrow’s leaders are today’s children. With this in
mind, we must ensure that our children are well prepared to
accept the mantle that will be passed on to them. For
decades, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has
advanced this objective with determination, and we are
especially appreciative of its assistance to the Marshallese
children. We are proud to have recently ratified the
Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we encourage
others to do the same so that
the world may attain
UNICEF’s goal of universal adherence by the year 2000.
The Marshall Islands are endowed with natural beauty
and a rich cultural heritage. The development potential of
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
3
our islands resides in the preservation of their fragile
environment. Because our land area is so limited, we treat
it with the greatest respect and conserve it as best we can.
Given the small
land area of our atolls, we face
constraints to agricultural and industrial development. As
the pressure from a growing population increases in my
country, additional demands are made on our resources.
Regrettably, we have become increasingly dependent on
imports to meet basic human needs.
The long distances from markets of many islands result
in especially high transport costs. In our case, we are almost
2,000 miles from the nearest major market for our goods.
Consequently, transport costs raise the cost of goods to
levels that are often not competitive. Even with competitive
products, restrictive trade barriers further limit our access to
markets. We are hopeful that the negotiations of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) will produce a
trade agreement that is equitable and fair to all nations.
The Marshall Islands welcomes with gratitude the
recently approved country programme of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP).
It would be especially
welcome if this plan of action could assist my country
significantly along the road to sustainable development. The
spirit of cooperation that was exhibited at the first round-
table meeting in 1991 is evident in this programme.
It is
hoped that this will be the first step in a long and fruitful
partnership and that the UNDP will become more responsive
to the special needs of the Marshall Islands. Like many of
the island States in the region, the Marshall Islands is not a
traditional recipient of overseas development aid, and we
have few bilateral partners. Given its regional expertise, we
are pleased that UNDP is becoming a major focal point for
our development assistance.
the
complexities of the Pacific region and the development
challenge for the island States. We hope that the UNDP
budget for the region will not be cut back any further. The
Pacific is a vast area, and the logistical challenges faced by
the field office in Suva, Fiji, are daunting.
UNDP understands
Sustainable development
is a primary objective of
Government planning. We are increasingly aware of the
limits that constrain our development potential. We want to
prosper on the resources that we have, but we do not want
to repeat mistakes that others have made on their road to
development.
I commend our neighbour, Papua New
Guinea, for the important work it has initiated to integrate
sustainable development into the framework of international
relations.
The Marshall
Islands is a small nation, and we
increasingly feel the strain caused by our expenditures on the
United Nations. We are, of course, very grateful and proud
to be a part of this body, but we are becoming worried at the
scale of new contributions, particularly for peace-keeping
operations. The burden of membership is not shared equally
by every citizen of the world, and we would like to see this
inequity in contributions addressed in some way.
If one
looks at the cost of United Nations membership on a per
capita basis, one sees that the island States are among the
very top contributors.
The vulnerability of small islands to natural disasters
and to fluctuations in the world economy make it difficult to
quantify the well-being of our people. Calculations of per -
capita gross domestic product and other traditional economic
indices do not accurately represent the standard of living in
the islands. Perhaps other criteria could be devised to reflect
the complexities of our situation.
The Marshall Islands was one of the first countries to
ratify the Conventions adopted at the Rio Conference on the
environment. Developments subsequent to the Rio summit
have been closely observed by the Marshall
Islands
Government. It is our sincere hope that the process initiated
at Rio de Janeiro will succeed, so that our islands can be
saved from possible destruction by global climate change.
The Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of
Small Island Developing States will increase world-wide
understanding of the vulnerability of our islands. The
Government of Barbados is to be thanked for generously
offering to host
that Conference next year. We are,
however, a little disturbed by the response by some donor
countries to the Conference.
It must be reiterated that the
Conference has its mandate from Rio and from the forty-
seventh session of the General Assembly, and that it should
be considered as a test case for sustainable development. It
will be an attempt to address issues that are specific to small
island States in their quest for sustainable development. The
will of the global community to live up to the promises
made in Rio will face its first test, and the implications of
the outcome of the Conference will be significant to all.
Throughout history the sea has united my people and
has been vital to our lives.
It provides our nourishment; it
is a source of income; and our culture and traditions have in
large part been shaped by the ocean. The majority of our
population derives its livelihood from ocean-based activities,
and our territorial waters abound with fish that can feed
people around the world. Clearly, our fate is tied to the
ocean. Today, however, our way of life is threatened by a
rise in the level of the very ocean that has given us life for
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
thousands of years. We are greatly appreciative of the
efforts and attention given to the problem by the world
community, most notably in the Framework Convention on
Climate Change, signed at the Rio Earth Summit, which my
Government is proud to have ratified.
However, for a low-lying atoll like the Marshall Islands
the Framework Convention may have come too late. We are
eager that funds from all sectors of the United Nations
system, especially the Global Environment Facility, be made
available for the purpose of adaptation to a rise in the sea
level. We also realize fully that changes required of
residents of industrialized countries will entail considerable
sacrifice, at least initially. However, countless studies have
shown that steps to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions would
greatly benefit those countries in the future.
The threat to the Marshall Islands is imminent. Our
way of life is threatened. My country is threatened with a
loss of identity and culture. We are powerless in the hands
of others and my country may cease to exist as a result.
I would like everyone in this Hall to visit our corner of
the world before it disappears.
I hope that 30 years from
today our islands will not have been swamped by the sea
and that we will be able to invite you again, rather than
referring you to a page in a history book. For many, the
Marshall Islands may be little more than specks on the map.
The peoples of the Pacific hold a very different view of the
world:
that the world would be greatly diminished by the
loss of even one of the diverse cultures that have been
crafted by mankind.
Let us strive during the coming months to work in
tandem and to endeavour to fulfil the grand aspirations and
lofty goals that this Organization represents. As we do this,
allow me to offer a Marshallese proverb to guide our work:
"Jouj eo mour eo, lej eo mij eo" - "Alone we cannot survive,
but together we are strong".
Mr. AL-KHALIFA (Bahrain)
(interpretation from
Arabic): At the outset, I take pleasure, Sir, in congratulating
you sincerely, on behalf of the delegation of the State of
Bahrain’s delegation, on your election as President of the
Assembly at this session. As you assume your important
task, it is my pleasure also to wish you success in carrying
out your duties and to assure you of my delegation’s full
cooperation with you in making the work of this session a
success.
I
take
and
appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who
this opportunity to convey thanks
conducted the proceedings of the last session with skill and
efficiency.
It
is also my pleasure to mention with great
appreciation the continuing efforts of the Secretary-General,
His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to further the
objectives of the United Nations and his tireless drive to
enhance the Organization’s role in maintaining international
peace and security.
I should also like to take this opportunity to extend our
warmest congratulations to the delegations of the Slovak
Republic,
the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco
and the Principality of Andorra on their accession to the
membership of the United Nations.
the Czech Republic,
is
Because of the important issues on our agenda, this
session of the General Assembly is a significant one indeed.
These issues under consideration demand close attention, if
we are to benefit from the object lessons of the past in
formulating future parameters, as
required by the
ever-accelerating changes in the international arena. As we
look at the historical events, that have followed upon one
another, we find that
the world is in the midst of a
qualitative transformation that is virtually unprecedented. If
we examine the causes and aspects of that transformation,
we shall find that the conflict that raged between the eastern
and the western blocs was no mere ideological dispute
articulated in academic forums. Rather, it was a violent
political type of rivalry that escalated into grave military
confrontations that were, at
times, direct and at others,
indirect, between the super-Powers. The past few years,
however, have witnessed the end of that conflict, and this in
turn has entailed major changes in the political outlook of
various world Powers.
It
is regrettable indeed that,
in the midst of these
changes, new problems have surfaced and have thus
strengthened our conviction that the ending of the cold war
will not make the world a more secure and stable place. For
all its conflicts and tensions the cold war, when it ended,
contrary to all expectations has brought to the surface the
banes of extreme nationalism and such aberrations as "ethnic
cleansing",
in Eastern
Europe and Central Asia.
things which had been dormant
This has led, in certain regions, to acts of violence that
threaten to change the very nature of relations between
States at a time when the path of international politics has
become really bumpy as a result of the restructuring of the
world order. This is a time of profound change in the lives
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
5
of States and nations in which people’s aspirations after
stability and development merge with the fears generated by
the gap between a developed, affluent world and a world
that is unable to meet the minimum requirements of decent
living.
The major transformations that are taking place today,
in the areas of politics,
technology and information,
underscore the fact that our world has become a truly global
village and that the scientific revolution is about to bring
down the barriers and boundaries between its various
countries and regions.
It is regrettable indeed, at such a
juncture, that while we stand on the threshold of a new
century of man’s history, we perceive that the interests of
humanity lag behind the advances made by science and
technology.
the increased
interdependence dictated by the developments that are taking
place at the present time should go hand in hand with
political fragmentation and clash of interests as individual
States pursue their own narrow interests and ambitions.
is paradoxical
indeed that
It
Such a situation should urge us to look at what is going
on around us with a large magnifying glass so that we may
be able to fathom the depths of international problems and
scrutinize their interlocking strands on the wider screen of
the global scene.
If we take the measure of the rapid
changes in the international arena, we may be able to foresee
the enormity of the dangers that the future may bring and
the extent of the harm to peoples’ security and stability that
may result therefrom. For, in a world whose spaces and
distances have shrunk and whose different parts have come
closer together more than at any other time before, peace
cannot be achieved in one region while the peace of another
region is left at the mercy of tensions.
It is therefore
incumbent upon us all to develop a practical strategy for the
future through a new outlook that would be capable of
grasping and understanding the nature and drift of the
changes and harnessing them in the service of humanity as
a whole and for the strengthening of security throughout the
world.
After this introduction, which reflects the way we see
the past and look at the present, my delegation should like
to share with you certain thoughts on the building of the
post-cold-war world:
Firstly:
there should be agreement on new concepts
concerning the issues of world peace and development
that would rid the world of the residues and perceptions
of the ideological and strategic thinking that prevailed
throughout the cold-war period;
Secondly: appropriate criteria should be defined for the
achievement of world stability through the common
security of all States;
Thirdly: existing and traditional boundaries between
States should be respected, and all boundary disputes
should be resolved by peaceful means that are agreed
upon by the parties concerned; and
Fourthly:
there should be support for the United
Nations, as the appropriate international tool for the
establishment of a new international order where
justice, equality, respect for international resolutions
and the abandonment of double standards prevail.
War and peace are inseparable opposites. Given this
perspective, the most difficult task in international politics is
to devise an effective machinery to prevent the causes of
war on the one hand, and to preserve, maintain or keep the
is our conviction that current
peace, on the other.
international
favourable
conditions for making use of the United Nations potential to
create a political climate that would be favourable for
developing the foundations of a collective security system.
developments
created
have
It
Here it should be pointed out that one of the most
important means suggested for promoting collective security
is the use of preventive diplomacy to prevent disputes from
arising between parties and to prevent existing disputes from
escalating, and the development of preventive deployment of
United Nations forces in such a way as to allow those forces
to defuse potential tensions in any region of the world. We
hope that Member States will reach a consensus on the
formation of such forces, and that cooperation between the
United Nations and regional organizations can be enhanced
so that
the regional organizations’ experience and their
human and material resources in the field of peace-keeping
can be tapped.
In this context, I applaud the current cooperation
between the United Nations and the League of Arab States
and
and
strengthening the existing relations between the two
organizations in all fields.
importance
emphasize
enhancing
the
of
its
The United Nations now approaches
fiftieth
anniversary. The peoples of the world, with their hopes and
aspirations, continue to look to the Organization to lead the
way to the turning of a new leaf
in the history of
international relations so that they can finally enjoy the
security, peace and stability for which they have long
yearned.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
This calls for
The world Organization has managed,
since its
beginnings, to achieve some of the purposes of the Charter,
but has failed to achieve others.
It is now at a juncture
where new hopes, accompanied by new problems, have
arisen. Over the last five decades, the membership of the
Organization has risen from 51 States in 1954 to 184 in
1993.
restructuring the Organization’s
principal organs, especially the Secretariat and the Security
Council. We welcome the Secretary-General’s statement, in
his Agenda for Peace, that important steps have been taken
to reorganize the Secretariat in order to avoid duplication
and
its
effectiveness. We call for further reforms to be effected,
methodically, so that the Secretariat can perform its duties to
the optimum.
overlapping
functions
of
and
to
enhance
As for
international peace and security,
the Security Council and its role in the
maintenance of
the
development of this important organ and the review of the
provisions relating to its membership have recently been the
object of world attention.
the General
Assembly has included in the agenda of its forty-eighth
session an item entitled "Question of equitable representation
on and increase in the membership of the Security Council".
Consequently,
The inclusion of this item has taken place in response
to the desire of many States to emphasize the importance of
adequate and equitable representation in the membership of
this important organ in line with the increase in the
membership of the Organization and the glaring disparity
between the composition of the Council and the membership
of the United Nations.
the
proportion has dropped to 8 per cent now. We support the
call for a review of the composition of the Security Council
that would ensure equitable geographical representation.
From 20 per cent
in 1945,
to refer
I should like,
in this connection,
to the
resolution adopted by the Arab League Council at its regular
session, held in Cairo from 19 through 21 September 1993,
which calls upon the United Nations
to take due
consideration of
the need for equitable geographical
representation and to establish a permanent seat on the
Security Council for the Arab Group.
We should like to stress that it is vitally important to
ensure that in adopting any of the proposed formulas for
increasing the membership of the Security Council, care
must be taken that this should not lead to impeding the
proper functioning by the Council in carrying out its duties,
and that the power of veto should not be used as a means of
undermining the decision-making process or of diluting the
urgent nature of critical issues, especially those which have
to do with peace and security.
In recent weeks, a ray of hope that augurs well for the
future of world peace has appeared on the horizon of the
Middle East and the world at large: namely, the accord
signed by the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and
Israel. We have consistently encouraged any sign of
movement
just and comprehensive
settlement of the Palestine question. There is firm hope
today that this step will be a precursor to a real opening for
peace and stability in the Middle East region.
towards a peaceful,
While we welcome this significant and historic step, we
view it as a first step on the road to a just, lasting and
comprehensive solution to the Palestine question and the
Arab-Israeli conflict, based on Security Council resolutions
242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and other
resolutions of
international legality as well as the land-for-peace principle.
We hope that efforts will continue to be made towards the
speedy implementation of the provisions of the accord and
that the negotiations between other Arab parties and Israel
will make progress on the other tracks so that the existing
opportunities for peace may be put to good use.
We look forward to the day when the Israeli forces will
withdraw from the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, including
Holy Jerusalem, the occupied Syrian Golan Heights and the
occupied Lebanese and Jordanian territories, and to the day
when the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people,
including the right of return for the Palestinian refugees, will
be guaranteed, in consonance with relevant United Nations
resolutions.
It should be emphasized that stability in the Middle
East is fully dependent on its being freed from chemical,
biological and nuclear weapons. Declaring the Middle East
a region free of weapons of mass destruction would enable
its States to focus their attention on questions of economic,
scientific
and would
encourage them to cooperate in the field of peaceful uses of
nuclear energy and to make a constructive contribution to the
maintenance of world peace.
and technological development
Two devastating wars have swept over the Gulf, and
their consequences have adversely affected development in
the area.
It behooves us, therefore, to intensify efforts to
keep that important area free of any further tensions, through
the settlement of disputes by peaceful means and through
respect for the principles of territorial integrity and political
independence,
the sovereignty of States over their own
resources, non-interference in the internal affairs of other
States and strict observance of the norms of international
legality.
United Nations endeavours to contain existing and potential
conflicts in the world.
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
7
resolutions relevant
We should like to emphasize the need for Iraq to
to its
implement Security Council
aggression against the State of Kuwait, and in particular the
provisions of Security Council
resolution 687 (1991)
relating, inter alia, to the release of Kuwaiti and other
prisoners of war and detainees, and to recognize the
international boundaries between Kuwait and Iraq as
demarcated and set out
in Security Council resolution
833 (1993).
We also hope that the dialogue between the United
Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran will lead to
the settlement of all outstanding questions regarding the
three islands of Abu Mousa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb
in a manner that would guarantee the rights of the United
Arab Emirates as set out in the resolutions of the Gulf States
Cooperation Council.
The
has witnessed
international
this year,
the international community,
arena
some
development,
in relation to the situation in
Somalia. Although that situation continues to irk the
conscience of
the United
Nations has been able, through the efforts of a large number
of its members, to restore peace in most parts of Somalia.
Security Council resolution 814 (1993) has had a positive
effect
the drawn out
suffering experienced by the people of that country. We
should like to voice support for United Nations efforts to
rebuild the political, economic and social infrastructure of
Somalia. We hope that the Somali people will be able to
reach comprehensive national reconciliation between the
various factions.
in improving the situation after
The world has been following the tragic situation in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Despite all the efforts deployed in
an attempt to contain the conflict, we see no glimmer of
hope that aggression against that country will cease. The
Serbian side rejected the Vance-Owen peace plan, while the
Government of Bosnia-Herzegovina accepted it. Massacres
and acts of aggression against Bosnian cities continue
unabated, and the Serb forces have committed the most
atrocious crimes of genocide and "ethnic cleansing" in open
defiance of the international community. Yet the Security
Council has not taken any effective measure to suppress the
aggression or to enable the legitimate Bosnian Government
to defend itself. That, surely, sends the wrong message to
all those who do not believe in the system of international
collective security and could give rise to a surge of violence
and extremism that would have an adverse effect on the
The international community is duty-bound to move
the Republic of
urgently to stop the aggression against
Bosnia and Herzegovina, to safeguard the legitimate rights
of its people, to force the aggressors to comply with the
principles
any
demographic change or any territorial gains through the
policy of fait accompli pursued by the Serbs and the Croats,
and to enable the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to
exercise the right of self-defence by lifting the embargo on
arms supplies to it.
international
legality,
prevent
of
to
It is regrettable, at a time when the features of a new
world order are beginning to take shape, that Central Asia
should be in the grip of a situation of instability that
threatens to tear it apart. Internal strife continues without let
up in Tajikistan and Georgia and the war between Armenia
and Azerbaijan has grown even more vicious.
In this
connection, my delegation supports Security Council
resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993), which reaffirm the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan and of all
other States in the region and the inadmissibility of the use
of force for the acquisition of territory. We reaffirm our
endorsement of the efforts made by the United Nations and
regional organizations to restore stability in that region.
For years, the Cyprus problem has continued to defy
solution. We are encouraged, however, by the efforts of the
Secretary-General to bring the two Cypriot parties closer to
agreement. Despite the remaining obstacles that obstruct the
settlement of this problem, it is our view that the good
offices of the Secretary-General should continue until a
solution that would be satisfactory to both parties may be
reached.
With regard to the situation in Cambodia, positive
results have been achieved, and the United Nations, through
the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
(UNTAC), has been able to restore political stability to that
country. We should like on this occasion to extend our
sincere congratulations to the people and Government of
Cambodia on the outcome of their efforts in pursuit of
national reconciliation and peace. We also commend the
constructive efforts of UNTAC in carrying out its mandate
in Cambodia.
South Africa is now going through a significant and
crucial phase in its march towards political reform. The
main features of this reform are the agreement on the
drafting of a new constitution,
the formation of a new
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
in April 1994.
transitional multi-party Government, and the agreement to
hold constitutional elections
These
developments demonstrate the sincere desire of all parties in
South Africa to turn a new leaf in their relations. We
support the reforms currently under way in South Africa and
welcome Nelson Mandela’s call, in his recent address at the
United Nations, for lifting the economic sanctions now in
place against South Africa.
Although the fires of the cold war have been put out
and have become something of the past, we cannot but voice
our concern over the numerous difficulties which continue
to beset the world economy. The gap is still wide between
the average per capita income in developing countries and
that in developed countries.
In 1992, that figure was over
$18,000 in the developed countries, while in the developing
countries it did not exceed $800. There are distressing
indications that the rate of world economic growth lags
behind the rate of world population growth.
The continuing social deterioration and lack of
economic security which result from continuous political
upheavals will undoubtedly impede economic development
in the long term. So long as the world economy continues
to stagnate, the urgent social problems connected with the
economy, in the areas of population, health, housing and
environment, will continue to defy solution.
the States of
Any change in the world economy, whether it be
negative or positive, affects every State.
The world
economy stands in need of the political will that should lead
all
the world, especially the developed
countries, to cooperate in solving those problems that face us
all. This makes it incumbent upon us all to strengthen the
role of the United Nations, as the Organization that has
continued for about half a century, to embrace the countries
of the world with the distinctive and varied experiences each
and every country has gained in the areas of developmental
coordination and cooperation.
Over the past decades, the world has been focusing on
economic development owing to the immediate and speedy
returns it generates for the world economy. Voices have
been raised in the United Nations, in recent years, urging
that attention should be paid to social development as well.
This has led to the adoption by the General Assembly of
resolution 47/92, in which it decided to convene a World
Summit for Social Development early in 1995. We hope
that those in charge of preparations for that conference will
reach agreement to further those objectives of the Charter set
out
in Article 55, relating to the promotion of higher
standards of living, conditions of economic and social
progress and development as well as to the resolution of
international economic and social problems.
Our planet
faces man-made environmental
threats
whose consequences are unpredictable. The Earth Summit
in Rio de Janeiro was an important step towards world
partnership in combating those environmental threats. We
should like, in this context, to reiterate our support for the
efforts to contain the threats to our environment, and we
hope that the programmes adopted by the Rio Summit,
especially
be
implemented.
in Agenda
those
included
21, will
The attention focused on population problems stems
from the tremendous density of population in some countries
and the adverse effects that density has on development. We
welcome the efforts by the United Nations and particularly
by the United Nations Population Fund, to address such
issues. We hope that
the International Conference on
Population and Development scheduled to be held in Cairo
next year, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 47/176,
will adopt recommendations that may ensure the resolution
of urgent population and development problems in the next
decade.
Several years have passed since the world first
witnessed that novel, unique situation in the history of
international relations, namely the ending of bipolarity. The
result of this is that the world now stands at the crossroads
of history, where it faces difficult challenges. This is
especially so because certain evil tendencies have caused the
eruption of volcanoes of malevolent hatreds and racism,
which have destroyed many hopes and shattered the
expectations of millions of people to achieve security and
prosperity for future generations.
It may be appropriate to stop here and wonder whether
the United Nations has done all it should to address the
problems that have surfaced due to this major transformation
in world order? Has the machinery which we and many
others have called for been made available to the world
Organization to enable it to fulfil its role in a manner that is
compatible with the developments of our time? Even if the
United Nations has moved as we had hoped, have the
Member States made available to it the material and moral
resources to enable it to take effective action to address all
of the world problems, wherever they may appear?
We do not believe anyone in today’s world searches for
the Utopia described in Plato’s Republic or Farabi’s Ideal
City. Yet everyone would like to see the United Nations
made able to achieve practical solutions for world problems.
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
9
For it is our conviction that any blood shed by a hand
prompted by an ethnic bigotry or racial hatred would be a
clear indication of our failure to respond to the aspirations
of all our peoples.
in their proper
It is in this context that we call for resorting to reason
in trying to understand the new phenomena and to deal with
political, economic and social problems in a rational and
dispassionate manner. The time has come for issues relating
to international and regional security and development to be
put
realistic perspectives, without any
idealistic flights of fancy. Such problems should be dealt
with in the light of the objective realities of the world we
live in with all its successive developments, so that the
solutions devised for them may be applicable in the current
atmosphere of inter-State rivalries. We are confident that,
with
and moral
encouragement, it will be possible for the United Nations to
perform its role in steering the ship of hope towards the
shores of security and peace we all seek.
political will, material
support
ADDRESS BY MR. CHUAN LEEKPAI, PRIME
MINISTER OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear a
the Kingdom of
statement by the Prime Minister of
Thailand.
Mr. Chuan Leekpai, Prime Minister of the Kingdom
of Thailand, was escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of
the Kingdom of Thailand, His
Excellency Mr. Chuan Leekpai, and inviting him to address
the General Assembly.
(Thailand):
On behalf of
Mr. LEEKPAI
the
Government and the people of Thailand, may I extend my
warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as
President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I am confident that you will provide the Assembly with the
necessary leadership and direction in this period of systemic
change in the international order.
I also wish to congratulate Mr. Stoyan Ganev of
Bulgaria for having guided the forty-seventh session of the
Assembly to a successful conclusion.
Allow me also to express our admiration to and support
for Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his untiring
efforts in guiding the United Nations through this period,
when the Organization is being called upon to undertake
peace-keeping activities around the globe on a scale
unprecedented in its history. I also wish to congratulate him
on his vision, so lucidly expressed in his report, "An Agenda
for Peace." We look forward with anticipation to his
forthcoming report on an agenda for development.
It
the United Nations, Andorra,
is with great pleasure that we welcome, as full
the Czech
Members of
Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, and the Slovak Republic. We sincerely believe
that these States’ assumption of their rightful places in the
family of nations will further strengthen the universal
character of the United Nations.
Before proceeding further, may I, on behalf of the
Government and the people of Thailand, convey profound
sympathy to and express solidarity with the Government and
the people of India following the massive destruction and
loss of life that resulted from the devastating earthquake last
week.
With the end of the cold war, a new spirit of friendly
cooperation prevails in South-East Asia. The international
settlement of the Cambodian problem means that, for the
first time in recent memory, the region is free of major
armed conflict. With a view to constructing a new regional
order of peace, harmony and prosperity, we the countries of
the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) are
seeking to intensify various cooperative efforts among
ourselves and with our neighbours and our friends outside
the region.
ASEAN was born in Bangkok more than 26 years ago,
when the cold war was at its height. Now, at the end of the
cold war, ASEAN has attained the political and economic
standing to play a greater role in the affairs of the region
and
the ASEAN
chairmanship this year, and it looks forward to working with
all concerned, both within and outside the Association, to
advance the causes of peace and prosperity in South-East
Asia.
Thailand will
beyond.
assume
As the ASEAN member geographically closest to the
rest of South-East Asia, Thailand is in a unique position to
serve as a bridge to our non-ASEAN neighbours. Thus, my
Government wholeheartedly welcomes the accession by the
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam and the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic to the ASEAN Treaty of Amity and
Cooperation, which sets the broad framework for enhanced
cooperation in South-East Asia. We earnestly hope that the
day is not too distant when Laos and Viet Nam, together
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
with Cambodia, which is on the path towards rejoining the
international community, will become full members of
ASEAN.
In seizing the opportunity to help to forge a new
regional order of cooperative peace and common prosperity,
ASEAN is increasingly appreciative of the function of
multilateral
enhanced
cooperation between ASEAN and the United Nations.
diplomacy -
particularly
the
settlement of
the Cambodian problem.
For well over a decade, Cambodia has commanded the
attention of the world. ASEAN and the United Nations have
been working closely with each other to secure a durable
political
In
Cambodia, the United Nations has just undertaken one of the
most comprehensive peace-keeping operations in its history.
The Organization - essentially through the United Nations
Transition Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) - must be
congratulated for organizing the massive repatriation of
Cambodian refugees from neighbouring Thailand and the
crucial elections
resulted in the creation of a
democratically elected majority Government in Cambodia,
thus enhancing the prospect of national reconciliation.
I
should like to express my Government’s appreciation to Mr.
Yasushi Akashi,
to his colleagues and to the men and
women of UNTAC for successfully fulfilling their mission
of helping to restore peace to Cambodia. Above all, our
warmest congratulations go to the courageous Cambodian
to His Majesty
people themselves and,
Samdech Norodom Sihanouk for his vital
role in the
restoration of the Cambodian nation.
in particular,
that
international
Besides facilitating the return of more than 300,000
Cambodians to their homeland, Thailand had cooperated
with the United Nations from the outset. We participated in
the mine-clearing and road-building operations in western
Cambodia, and, as I speak, Thailand is working closely with
UNTAC in implementing the withdrawal of the remaining
UNTAC personnel. Thailand will continue to participate in
the
to rehabilitate
Cambodia. To this end, we welcome the success of the
International Conference on the Reconstruction of Cambodia
that was held in Paris in September this year. With the
return of peace and normality to Cambodia, we are confident
that the country will resume its rightful place in the South-
East Asian family of nations. Thailand pledges its friendship
and cooperation to the newly elected Government of
Cambodia as it embarks on the path of nation-building.
community’s
efforts
terms
In particular,
than in the past.
the
broader
non-military aspect of security has assumed greater urgency
than, and now takes precedence over, its military dimension.
It is now seen more as a confidence-building process than as
a process of either defence or deterrence. Activities to
"reassure" other parties, political dialogue and similar
arrangements to engender and enhance mutual understanding,
mutually beneficial collaborative efforts to solve common
other
problems,
preventive measures could all be subsumed under
the
heading of security.
crisis-management mechanisms
and
Such a concept of security, particularly at the regional
level, fits in well with the preventive-diplomacy approach.
This is one area in which there is potential for the United
Nations to define its role as being to strengthen and facilitate
regional cooperation and understanding.
Naturally, all efforts in this regard must be undertaken
within a multilateral framework. The collaborative agenda
for preventive diplomacy would include conflict forecasting,
conflict avoidance or prevention, conflict management, and
the prevention of conflict escalation.
In this regard, my
Government welcomes the Secretary-General’s excellent and
comprehensive report "An Agenda for Peace", which
represents new thinking and an innovative approach to
strengthening the role of the United Nations. Moreover, my
Government is heartened by the enthusiasm that Member
States have shown for the report. Our next step must be full
and speedy implementation of the recommendations put
forward in the report, as well as those contained in various
Security Council documents and in General Assembly
resolution 47/120, which was adopted at the last session.
A mature and self-confident ASEAN is in a singular
position to enhance the role and effectiveness of the United
Nations in South-East Asia - particularly in the areas of
preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and
peace-building. In the aftermath of the cold war, the success
of
the United Nations depends very much on close
cooperation with countries in target regions. Put simply, the
United Nations needs all the help it can get. Regional
organizations can help to identify potential conflicts and,
together with the United Nations, contain them before they
erupt. Cooperation between the United Nations and a
regional organization with a solid track record - such as
ASEAN - can compensate for
the weaknesses of any
organization acting singly.
In the post-cold-war world, the changing concept of
security provides further impetus for the regional role of the
United Nations. In the present era, security is defined in far
To explore how best the Association of South-East
Asian Nations (ASEAN) could act in accordance with the
recommendations contained in "An Agenda for Peace",
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
11
Thailand has initiated and organized, in collaboration with
our ASEAN partner Singapore, a series of international
workshops on ASEAN-United Nations cooperation for peace
and preventive diplomacy.
The rationale behind this initiative is simple enough.
The threat to international peace, actual or potential, often
arises out of a certain specific region. With cold-war
constraints on United Nations regional intervention removed,
the Organization is in an ideal position to cooperate with
ASEAN to ensure peace and stability in South-East Asia.
The foundation for such cooperation already exists.
The ASEAN Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South-East
Asia forms the basis for a new code of conduct in the region
and was endorsed by the forty-seventh session of the
General Assembly.
Other
factors may also favour United Nations
preventive diplomacy in South-East Asia. One of these is
the regional presence of the major Powers. Under certain
circumstances, the United Nations provides a framework for
action by major Powers. A case in point
is Japan’s
peace-keeping role in the region under the United Nations
Transitional Authority in Cambodia. Arrangements could
thus be made for these nations to play a "legitimate"
crisis-prevention role involving,
for example, political
dialogue and mediation. Similarly, the regional economic
development imperative may add impetus to United Nations
regional involvement. The Organization has long been in
place in South-East Asia in this regard.
Its development
commitments to and development efforts in the region have
been evident in the location there of various United Nations
regional bodies.
The next step will be to work out specific functional
arrangements for ASEAN-United Nations cooperation. It is
anticipated that the third and final workshop, to be held in
Bangkok in January 1994, will come up with suggestions on
appropriate mechanisms for fostering the conditions for
regional peace and prosperity through closer cooperation
between ASEAN and the United Nations.
The improved outlook for greater economic cooperation
in the region is manifest in the enthusiasm for economic
networking. Within ASEAN we have set up the ASEAN
Free Trade Area (AFTA)
to intensify intra-ASEAN
economic cooperation and attract outside investment. The
countries of South-East Asia are taking up the challenge of
forging economic linkages through various schemes known
as "growth triangles", "growth quadrangles" and "special
economic zones". These linkages will help further promote
the spirit of friendship and cooperation and serve to provide
a nucleus for greater interaction with other parts of the
world.
A livable world is a world in which governmental
development strategies can be implemented in a favourable
international environment. The international economy must
provide a supportive climate for achieving environment and
development goals. Among others, we must further pursue
the liberalization of global
trade policies, promote the
efficient allocation of the world’s resources, make trade and
environment mutually compatible, and provide adequate
financial and technical resources to developing countries.
These measures are prerequisites for creating a more
prosperous world, where countries share their wealth in a
liberal
trading system and where fair competition is
guaranteed by broadly accepted rules. For this reason, my
Government believes that an early and successful conclusion
of the Uruguay Round is imperative to revitalizing world
trade. Thailand joins our ASEAN partners in welcoming the
renewed determination and commitment of the industrialized
countries at the recent Group of Seven meeting in Tokyo to
resolve remaining problems and to conclude the Round by
the end of this year.
Balanced world development is not only an enlightened
aim, it is the foundation for the enduring progress of all
societies. And this should be the basis for reactivating
North-South cooperation.
It should mark a new beginning
in international development cooperation based on the
principle of the Cartagena commitments. It must go beyond
aid to embrace partnership and reciprocal responsibilities. It
must address global and regional concerns by meeting local
needs.
is development
The global consensus reached at the Earth Summit in
Rio de Janeiro last year has equipped us to take collective
action to meet new priorities. We have built the consensus
to pursue development which goes beyond economic growth.
It
in a comprehensive sense, guided by
principles of equality and justice, and underpinned by social
and ecological responsibility. As we, the leaders, proclaim
change, we must demonstrate our political conviction
through national policies
that are in line with the
international consensus.
is
fully
to
My Government
the
implementation of the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development (UNCED) agreement. Our
national development plan for 1992 to 1996
reflects our
determination to achieve sustainable development. My
committed
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Government has taken various necessary administrative and
legal steps to integrate the environment with development
and to implement the programme of action as reflected in
Agenda 21.
of
the
intimate
As my Government is the first elected Government
following the May incident of 1992, we are more keenly
aware
democracy,
development, and human rights. Hence, democratization
must be accompanied by sustained efforts to further the
cause of human dignity and freedom.
between
links
Forty-five years ago, Thailand joined the international
community in adopting the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.
the international community has
achieved a number of positive results in the protection and
promotion of human rights.
Since then,
From the time of the first International Conference on
Human Rights in Teheran in 1968,
the international
community has assumed new responsibilities not only to
protect but also to promote human rights. The time has
come to work on the prevention of human rights abuses.
Last June, the World Conference on Human Rights in
Vienna concluded with a consensus document. The Vienna
Declaration brings together views on fundamental rights, and
serves as a universal basis from which the international
community will proceed. Thailand reaffirms its commitment
to and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
as set out in the Vienna Declaration and Plan of Action.
The task before us now is
to implement
the
recommendations of the Conference.
In this regard, the
United Nations has a central role to play. The Organization,
with the collective efforts of its Member States, must
strengthen the mechanisms for allocating sufficient human
and financial resources to carry out the activities required of
it.
Before I conclude, may I emphasize that Thailand has
been fortunate enough to have the benefit of the guidance
and wisdom of their Majesties the King and Queen in all
spheres of national life. Indeed, our monarchy has been the
symbol of national unity, a beacon of hope and the ultimate
source of strength in the hearts of all Thai people.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Thailand for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Chuan Leekpai, Prime Minister of the Kingdom
of Thailand, was escorted from the rostrum.
Mr. ZIELENIEC (Czech Republic): Mr. President, let
me start by congratulating you on your election to this high
office.
I am sure that under your leadership this year’s
General Assembly will be particularly successful and
effective.
Still,
Today is the first time that a representative of the
Czech Republic has had the honour to address the United
Nations General Assembly as part of the general debate.
The Czech Republic is indeed a new State.
the
division of Czechoslovakia is nothing to be happy about. It
is always better for equal communities to unite than to
separate. However, once we determined that the continued
existence of Czechoslovakia could not be assured by quiet
and peaceful means, we strove to separate peacefully. While
in other parts of the world similar separations are frequently
accompanied by terror and violence, in our country not a
single window pane was broken. This experience makes us
believe that good will and common sense can lead to
peaceful
traditionally
accompanied by violence.
even of problems
settlements,
The Czech Republic is currently undergoing profound
political and economic changes. On the political side, we
are constructing a democratic regime in what used to be the
communist world. The Government has proven to be a
stable one. Meanwhile, we emphasize human rights, and our
robust press freedom as well as our human-rights record
have been recognized even by very finicky non-partisan
international organizations.
On the economic side, the Czech Republic has also
chalked up certain successes. Privatization of property that
was formerly State-owned is continuing apace. Prices are
being freed so that they can find their natural, market-driven
level. Meanwhile, we have managed to maintain tight
monetary policies, keep inflation and unemployment at rather
modest levels, and hold to a balanced budget. We live
within our means.
Mr. President,
let me conclude my statement by
wishing you every success in your new responsibilities. You
have a long and important session of the General Assembly
ahead of you.
I have no doubt that you will fulfil your
responsibilities with great dignity and distinction.
In this context, let me emphasize one thing. We are
managing the process of economic transformation with our
own efforts and our own resources. We do not ask for
direct financial assistance. We do not seek to siphon off
scarce development resources from countries whose situation
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
13
is much worse than ours. We tell our friends from
developed countries, "We seek trade not aid from you.
Open your markets to us, not your pocketbooks." Actually,
open markets would benefit all of us, whether our economies
are developed or developing, settled or in transition. This is
why we are convinced that the successful conclusion of the
Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade would finally benefit us all.
In addition to the transition of our domestic political
system and the transformation of our economic system, we
have also modified our foreign policy. One of our foreign
policy priorities concerns Slovakia. Over the last months,
the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic have been
learning how to live together as two independent countries,
rather than as two regions of the same country. We have
concluded a series of agreements and treaties, and have
become used to having an international border between us -
a border, I stress, which is peaceful.
We are assuming our natural place in Europe. My
country has recently been accepted as a member of the
Council of Europe, which my President is about to address
in a day or two. Just two days ago in Luxembourg I signed
a Europe Agreement with the European Economic
Community.
the transatlantic
dimension of our diplomacy, as exemplified by our activities
within the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE) and the North Atlantic Council
for
Cooperation (NACC), and by our interest in joining the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
Also unmistakable is
Our relations with the developing world have also been
changing. On the one hand, there is a long history of
friendly relations with many countries which we are now
trying to put on a new and more balanced footing. On the
other hand, we are seeking cooperation with a number of
important countries which until recently had been ignored for
political reasons. Thousands of physicians and technicians
from the developing world who have been trained in our
universities act today as so many goodwill ambassadors for
us. I am sure that in a short time we will be able to provide
appropriate economic assistance to needy regions of the
world, preferably through multilateral channels.
Our foreign policy is that of a small country and
reflects that country’s position in Europe and in the world.
It is, however, an independent foreign policy which is not
beholden to anyone and which does not blindly copy the
foreign policy of any other country.
The end of the cold war era is connected with the fall
of European communism, and its consequences have not yet
been fully grasped. While the danger of a world nuclear
catastrophe has significantly abated, conflicts provoked by
political, ethnic, religious, social and economic disputes have
flared up. Meanwhile, rays of hope have appeared in
regions where we perhaps did not expect them.
I have in
mind the prospects for a peaceful settlement in the Middle
East, the shaping of a democratic process in the Republic of
South Africa and last, but not least, the success of the
United Nations in Cambodia.
In recent days we have been following with great
concern developments in the Russian Federation. We had
hoped that Russia’s problems would be settled peacefully,
but the anti-reformist opposition initiated violence. Free and
democratic elections are the only solution to the situation.
Elections will determine whether those who waved the
Russian flag in Moscow or those who waved the communist
red flag should guide Russia’s future.
Post-cold-war conflicts have shaken many of the values,
principles and certainties with which we have been living.
Nowhere have these values been questioned as radically and
as viciously as in the countries of the former Yugoslavia
during the several wars that have taken place there in recent
years. Wars in the former Yugoslavia, the Caucasus and
elsewhere have made us aware of the need to ask old
questions anew, to re-examine concepts that have been basic
to international politics since the Second World War.
for
These
concern,
questions
example,
self-determination; the role of internal borders as new States
emerge; non-interference in internal affairs; international
recognition of new States and its timing; and probably
others. We will need to scrutinize them far more daringly
and rigorously and with far greater imagination. Here, I
think,
is where some of the greatest challenges for the
United Nations will arise in the immediate future. This is
treacherous ground, but it might offer one possible vehicle
in the search for guidance in the times ahead.
the
Today,
fighting
however,
in Bosnia
and
Herzegovina seems to be resulting in a division of that
country along ethnic lines. We find the enforced
coincidence of statehood with ethnicity odious. We cherish
the principle of a civic society in which citizens enjoy equal
rights regardless of their ethnic background, mother tongue
or religious creed. By contrast, we feel that ethnic, not to
mention religious, purity is a concept from another age,
irrelevant in the modern world. We regard as inadmissible
any violent changes of frontiers as well as "ethnic cleansing"
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
accompanied by massive and flagrant violations of human
rights.
One need not stress how important for my country -
particularly when it was not free - was adherence to human
rights, including their codification by the United Nations.
Individual, universally valid human rights and their
observance are inseparably linked to democracy and
prosperity. This year’s World Conference on Human Rights
held in Vienna was an important turning-point.
In our
opinion, a more effective use of the means spent on the
protection of human rights, the concentration of activities
into one body, and the establishment of the office of a high
commissioner for human rights would be steps in the right
direction.
The Czech Republic is proud of its share in the work
of the United Nations. Let me mention some of our
contributions. Currently we have military observers in
Mozambique and in the former Yugoslavia. Two more
teams are to be deployed in Georgia and in Liberia. Others
have helped keep the peace in Angola and in Somalia. We
have an infantry battalion stationed in Croatia under the
command of the United Nations Protection Force. Our
civilian observers monitored Haiti’s elections. Our military
participated in the liberation of Kuwait. Our specialists are
working for the United Nations Special Commission. A
large group of security personnel is about to join the United
Nations guard contingent in Iraq. Our officers also served
for 40 years on the armistice line in Korea as members of
the Neutral Nations Supervisory Commission.T
s
demonstrates our tradition of service to the international
community, a tradition of shouldering our fair share of the
international burden.
h
i
have reached a turning-point. Still, it is the considered
opinion of my Government that, on the whole, the Security
Council now serves us well.
In the past few years, it has
ceased to be a mere side-show in world politics. Indeed, it
has frequently come to occupy centre stage. As a result, the
Council and the United Nations as a whole are striving to
meet the rising expectations the world is pinning on them.
Whatever changes we suggest, we must proceed
responsibly in efforts to reform the Council, in the spirit of
mutual understanding and consensus. The Security Council
must adapt
to the new political, economic, social and
security realities of the world. Some countries have become
important members of the international community. An
expansion of the Security Council must above all respect
principles
for
implementing its own decisions. A just geographical
representation is equally important.
responsibility
effectiveness
of
and
However, some changes should be made today. There
is a certain sense of frustration among non-members of the
Security Council, which is steadily increasing the number of
its informal meetings behind closed doors. We need greater
transparency. We need more communication. We need a
better balance between the Council and the General
Assembly.
In this respect, distributing the monthly agenda of the
Security Council
to Members is a welcome first step.
Inviting the chairmen of regional groups for briefings is also
helpful.
the Council will find further
measures along these lines that could be implemented
immediately.
the Czech Republic is elected, my
Permanent Mission will try to identify other such measures.
I am sure that
If
Along different lines, we have participated for 30 years
in the work of the United Nations decolonization Committee.
And as I look around this Hall, I realize that there is not a
single country among the 130 or so which have been
admitted after the founding of the United Nations that we
would not have helped assume its seat here.
As members of
the Assembly know,
the Czech
Republic is running in elections for one of the non--
permanent seats on the Security Council. We are running on
our record - our record of service and the record of our
experience. On this basis I ask members for their support in
the forthcoming elections.
The credibility of the United Nations hangs on, inter
alia, the performance of some 80,000 military and civilian
members of United Nations forces in 17 peace-keeping
operations all over the world. Crisis management now
includes not only the classical separation of adversaries but
also the protection of humanitarian convoys, the monitoring
of elections and the observance of human rights. Peace-
keepers are sent more often to countries where there are no
functioning Governments and where agreements are worth
only the paper they are written on. Thus, Blue Helmets are
increasingly becoming the targets of uncontrolled armed
groups. Even as we hold this general debate, members of
peace-keeping forces are dying in clashes with warlords.
As many have already mentioned in the general debate,
the world is different
ago.
Consequently, the United Nations and its Security Council
than it was 50 years
The Czech Republic welcomes
intensifying
discussion of
the Secretary-General’s "An Agenda for
Peace". The resolution adopted at the forty-seventh session
the
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
15
of the General Assembly is a first step, however small, in
the right direction.
However, much more intensive
cooperation not only among Member States but also between
Member States and the United Nations Secretariat is needed
in order to create an effective mechanism of functioning
peace-keeping.
The work of our Organization must
correspond to the changing character of peace-keeping. One
interesting idea is the proposal to create a working group
under the auspices of the Security Council that would review
these issues and prepare proposals and recommendations.
The considerable number of regional and domestic
conflicts is a part of the global security picture. Cooperation
between the United Nations and regional
institutions is
another useful instrument for solving them. The Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) is one
organization that plays an important role in the Euro-Asian
area. The first formal step towards cooperation between the
United Nations and the CSCE was resolution 47/10, adopted
at the last session of the United Nations General Assembly.
Not by accident, the cooperation and coordination of these
two organizations was formalized during Czechoslovakia’s
presidency of the CSCE. The limited resources of both
organizations force us to try to coordinate and complement
their operations and missions.
Guided by our own vital
interests, we have been
striving to develop closer cooperation and interaction with
organizations capable of giving effective security guarantees.
This, however, does not mean we want passively to let
others look after our security. On the contrary, we wish to
be active participants in this two-way process. This effort
involves, for example, the following: first, our constructive
contribution, as a country with an advanced nuclear industry,
towards
the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and its extension
beyond 1995; secondly, the adoption of obligations to reduce
the risks of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and
their means of delivery, particularly through joining the
Missile Technology Control Regime and the so-called
the early ratification and
Australia Group; and thirdly,
thorough implementation of
the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and
Use of Chemical Weapons.
strengthening
the
of
the Treaty
on
A financial crisis is threatening our Organization. The
financial discipline of Member States is but one prerequisite
for improving the situation. Equally important is the need
to make more effective use of available resources and to
strengthen the control of Member States in using them. We
need to make better use of existing control mechanisms. We
favour the creation of a strong, meaningful post of an
inspector general.
since development programmes
The United Nations system also pays great attention to
the problems of social development, and a lot of good work
has been done
and
specialized agencies were established. The Czech Republic
considers the problems of economic and social development
to be one of the priorities for international policy-making, as
these issues directly influence other current burning issues,
such as
local and ethnic wars, drugs, poverty and
undernourishment in some regions of the world.
However, despite the numerous successes of specialized
agencies, there is considerable space for further improvement
of their performance and efficiency. We think there is room
for improvement in, inter alia, focusing more carefully on
specific targets; eliminating overlap in some activities;
utilizing available resources more effectively;
reducing
bureaucracy and enhancing flexibility; and developing
greater cooperation among agencies.
Environmental issues are also high on our agenda, as
parts of our country are in the most environmentally
devastated areas of the world. The situation is not only
taking its toll on people’s health but is also undermining the
economy of
Sustainable
development is more than a new-fangled catchword for us:
in our country, it means finding the right balance between
environmental concerns and aspirations of development.
the country as a whole.
its dimensions.
The United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development (UNCED) was an important step forward in
tackling this problem in all
All
UNCED-related decisions adopted at
the forty-seventh
session of the United Nations General Assembly are very
important. The Czech Republic will
in their
implementation, even if not all of them relate directly to its
national
the
Commission on Sustainable Development. The mandate of
the Commission, its programme of work and the experience
it has accumulated even during the short period of its
existence indicate its budding importance.
The Czech
Republic, as a member of the Commission, is seriously
involved in its work.
interests. We welcome the creation of
take part
Central and Eastern parts of Europe border on a zone
of instability. We have gained priceless experience in
solving problems resulting from the disintegration of the
totalitarian world, even as we perceive the world through the
eyes of a stable European democracy. This dual vision can
help us identify risks and seek their solutions. We feel we
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
have something to contribute, and we are prepared to
shoulder our share of responsibility for world affairs. This
is one of the reasons why the Czech Republic submitted its
candidacy as a non-permanent member of the Security
Council. We believe we will be able effectively to use our
experience and our perception of the world, and we hope
that you will all support us.
Mr. WONG (Singapore): Since PLO Chairman Yasser
Arafat shook hands with the Israeli Prime Minister on the
White House lawn, nothing seems impossible any more.
The end of the cold war has opened opportunities to set
aside some of the most intractable, destructive and polarizing
conflicts of our time.
Apartheid is coming to an end in South Africa. Eastern
Europe is free. Russia and the other States of the former
Soviet Union are shaking off the stifling effects of more than
70 years of communism. Germany has been peacefully
reunited.
In Asia, Cambodia is moving towards national
reconciliation after almost 20 years of war. Viet Nam and
Laos are reintegrating themselves into the South-East Asian
community.
informal
China and Taiwan held direct
talks in
Singapore and Beijing this year. They will continue their
own dialogue at their own pace. They should be encouraged
to build confidence by working together, as they already
have in the Asian Development Bank and the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Council (APEC) and as they hope to
do in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
Change has its own dynamic. And not all changes are
benign. The post-cold-war problems are legion and well
known.
It will be a challenge for the United Nations to
respond. In recent years, there has been a marked expansion
in the number and scope of the operations and activities
authorized by the Security Council.
Established procedures, such as the Security Council-
mandated Commission that has demarcated the boundary
between Iraq and Kuwait, have made and will continue to
make positive contributions to stabilizing the post-cold-war
world, providing authoritative reference points. United
Nations specialized agencies, such as the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), are playing an important
role in holding renegade countries like North Korea to
internationally accepted standards of conduct in the critical
The international
area of nuclear non-proliferation.
community must continue to support such tried and tested
measures and organizations.
But there is also an expectation that the end of the cold
war will enable the Security Council to play more ambitious
roles and at
last assume "primary responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security" under
Chapters V and VII of the Charter. In Cambodia, Haiti and
Somalia, among other places, the United Nations is breaking
new ground by actively interposing itself as a vital
stabilizing actor in situations which would once have been
considered essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of
States.
The legal, diplomatic and political implications of these
developments are still unfolding and are not yet fully
understood. Not everyone is entirely comfortable with them.
But I believe that most Member States regard the trend as
generally positive and as making for a more secure world.
The majority wants a more active and effective Security
Council.
The Secretary-General’s report on the question of
equitable representation on and increase in the membership
of the Security Council, submitted in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 47/62, has thus occasioned
great interest. There is wide consensus that if it is to be
effective in the next century the Security Council cannot
simply extrapolate its mandate from the starting-point of
1945 after the cold-war interregnum, but must accurately
reflect
power.
International order cannot be built on nostalgia. Too great
a disjuncture from reality will doom the Security Council to
eventual irrelevance. As membership of the United Nations
expands, there is also a general expectation that the Security
Council
the
Organization as a whole.
should become more
representative of
configuration
the
current
of
global
The composition of
the Security Council
is a
compromise between the principle of the sovereign equality
of States and the realities of power politics. That all States
are equal but that some, for better or for worse, have a
disproportionate influence on the international order is a fact
of life. Great-Power leadership is vital.
It is a reality.
Recognition of the special status of great Powers is thus a
requisite for effective action by the Security Council. When
it comes to the crunch, only the great Powers can make a
decisive difference. But
the temper of our times also
demands that if action is to command a general consensus:
the great must seek the mandate of the many.
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
17
The issue is, however, more easily defined than
resolved. The only previous increase in the size of the
Security Council began in the 1956 session of the General
Assembly with discussions on an increase of non-permanent
seats. Agreement was reached only in 1963 and came into
force two years later, almost a decade after the process had
begun. The lapse of time shows the complexities involved.
The difficulties are still with us. To be sure, there are
established principles laid down in Article 23 (1) of the
Charter to guide the way to a possible further expansion of
non-permanent seats. But there are no such guidelines for
the more crucial question of an increase in permanent
members. The Secretary-General’s report must therefore be
realistically considered as only the beginning of a long
process of debate whose outcome cannot be confidently
predicted at this point.
There are two basic problems. The first is simply to
decide what is the current configuration of international
power
that should be reflected in the distribution of
permanent seats. This is not as straightforward as it may
seem. When the Charter was being drafted, the end of the
Second World War, with easily discernible winners and
losers, was in sight and was being prepared for. The
intention was for the winners to have primary responsibility
for guiding the new international order. Yet even then, two
of the "Big Three" victors, the Soviet Union and the United
Kingdom, were sceptical of Roosevelt’s view of China’s
ability to play a major
role in the post-war world.
Churchill’s insistence on including France among the elite
group was met with similar scepticism by Roosevelt and
Stalin.
from clear-cut
It will be even more difficult to decide who belongs to
the new elite. The end of the cold war took everyone by
surprise and was far
in its resolution.
Economic, political and military power no longer necessarily
cohere in one single locus. The United States is victor, but
its economic recovery is slow and its competitiveness
blunted.
Russia is in serious economic and political
difficulties but, because it has nuclear weapons, it remains
a military great Power exercising a commanding influence
on its former dominions, where the threat of chaos in the
post-cold-war world is also greatest. Japan and Germany are
clearly world economic powerhouses, but both lack an
internal and regional consensus on the use of military forces
beyond their borders.
organization. The United Nations was created by sovereign
States and can do nothing without their assent, in which
the permanent members have a more than
process
proportionate say through their veto.
I state this without
rancour as a fact well known to all. Any design for
enhancing the effectiveness of the Security Council therefore
cannot just be based on abstract wisdom concerning the
requisites of the international order. No plan that has any
prospect of succeeding can avoid reckoning with calculations
of the national advantage of the current permanent members.
international distribution of power,
But if the new Security Council is really to reflect the
current
the process
should logically entail the deposition of some from the elite
as well as the anointment of others. Even if some were to
be elevated without necessarily displacing others,
the
expansion of the small group of the select would imply the
relative diminution of the status of the current permanent
members.
that only one
permanent member has so far come out unambiguously in
favour of an expansion in the number of permanent seats.
It does not
it was
emboldened to do so because the others have been so
conspicuously coy on this critical point. No country has
ever voluntarily relinquished privilege and power. We are
after all in the company of sovereign States, not saints.
take a cynic to wonder whether
It
is not surprising, therefore,
There is no circumventing the veto. There is no
constitutional means of amending the Charter without the
assent of all the permanent members, some of whom may
believe they stand to lose by it. Yet change is imperative if
we are not to squander the opportunity afforded by the end
of the cold war - more so for small States that have few
better choices than an effective United Nations for their
security.
To make progress, there is no alternative but gradually
to shape a consensus through a patient process of debate and
discussion. To force the pace or attempt
to impose a
majority agreement will not work. At this preliminary stage,
it would be most useful
to try to identify and build
consensus on objective general criteria that all permanent
members, present or aspiring, must fulfil. This is a more
clinical and constructive approach than engaging in a horse
race or a beauty contest to pick specific countries. To
attempt to do so at this stage is premature and would only
be divisive. But the identification of objective criteria will
set a common standard and, if we can agree on them, a
consensus on specific countries will naturally emerge.
The second problem is even more fundamental and
vexing. The United Nations is an international Organization.
It is not and was never intended to be a supranational
This will entail thinking through the role of the United
Nations into the next century. What challenges will the
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
United Nations face in the next decade? What will be the
role and priorities of a new Security Council under these
conditions? What capabilities will it need? These difficult
questions demand the most exhaustive possible examination.
The General Assembly should consider the formation of a
working group, representative of the whole membership, to
consider them and formulate agreed objective criteria for the
expansion of the Security Council, especially its permanent
membership.
To stimulate discussion, Singapore suggests
the
following:
First, there should be a level playing field with regard
to all present and future members of a possible expanded
Security Council. Anachronistic references to "enemy
States" in Articles 53, 77 and 107 of the Charter should be
removed.
It is time to set aside the baggage of the past.
Suggestions that there could be or should be a different set
of permanent members without the veto are also impractical.
No country that is capable of making a contribution as a
new permanent member will accept such second-class status
for long. It will only undermine the principle of great-Power
cooperation, in the absence of which the Security Council
cannot function. Nor is it practical or even desirable to do
away with the veto. The fact that the veto has been abused
does not detract
is a
recognition of the hard reality that great Powers will not
consent to put their power at the disposal of a sheer majority
for the implementation of decisions which they do not agree
with.
It is a safety valve that prevents the United Nations
from undertaking commitments that it lacks the power to
fulfil. However, to minimize the misuse of the veto, if
permanent membership is expanded at
two vetoes
should be required to block a resolution.
from its intended function.
It
least
Secondly, privilege must be paid for. An expanded role
for the Security Council will require more resources. A
United Nations perennially on the brink of
financial
insolvency cannot effectively meet the challenges of the next
century. A permanent member should therefore carry a
larger portion of the financial burden of the United Nations.
Each permanent member should pay at least 9 per cent of
the operating expenses of the United Nations as well as
11 per cent of the costs of the peace-keeping operations of
the United Nations, which are the average percentages of the
permanent five’s current collective percentage of these
budgets.
Thirdly, permanent members must have muscle and the
will and the capability to wield it for the cause of the United
Nations. The main mission and primary responsibility of the
is to maintain international peace and
Security Council
stability. Force will be needed in pursuit of order and the
Security Council cannot be effective without a sword that is
sharp and ready. All permanent members should be
prepared to give effect to Article 43 of the Charter and be
ready to place their military forces at the disposal of the
United Nations and shed blood to uphold international order
if necessary.
This list is by no means exhaustive. Other members
will have their own suggestions for appropriate criteria.
I
urge all members to participate in discussions on the
expansion of the Security Council so that we may have the
benefit of the fullest possible range of views and emerge
with the widest possible consensus.
Finally, Mr. President, I should like to congratulate you
on your unanimous election.
I am confident that you will
lead the Assembly at this session effectively. I should also
like to take this opportunity to welcome the six new
Members that have joined the Organization.
I am certain
that they will contribute positively to the work of the United
Nations.
Mr. TSERING (Bhutan): I have the honour to convey
to all members of the Assembly the warm greetings and
good wishes of His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck, King
of Bhutan, for the success of the forty-eighth session of the
United Nations General Assembly.
I begin by congratulating you, Mr. President, on your
unanimous election. We are confident that with your wide
knowledge and experience you will provide proper direction
to our discussions. We would also like to pay a tribute to
our outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the exemplary
manner in which he led the Assembly at the last session.
We extend a warm welcome to the peoples and
Governments of Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and the
Republic of Slovakia on their joining the family of nations.
We are confident that their membership will add to the
strength and vitality of the Organization.
We would like to pay a special tribute to our Secretary-
for his dynamic
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
leadership. His initiatives have already started to steer the
course of the United Nations into new and bold directions.
His report to the Assembly is clear and concise and provides
a good basis for the work of this session.
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
19
to pose
The momentous events taking place around us in this
new decade continue
challenges and offer
opportunities of an unprecedented scale. The handshake on
the White House lawn between Prime Minister Rabin and
Chairman Arafat opened a window for peace and tolerance
in the Middle East after a century of hatred and suspicion.
When President Clinton called the agreement the "peace of
the brave", he paid just tribute to their courage. Deep-seated
emotions will continue to blur reason and not all groups will
take to the road of healing at the same pace. We join those
calling on extremist factions on both sides to desist from the
use of force. My delegation hopes that the agreement will
lead to a comprehensive and durable peace on the basis of
relevant Security Council resolutions. We appeal to the
international community to give even stronger support to the
implementation of the agreement in all its aspects.
With regard to the situation in the Persian Gulf, we
urge all parties to abide by Security Council resolution 833
(1993).
is our view that for the full recognition of
Kuwait’s sovereignty, the boundary as demarcated by the
United Nations must be internationally respected.
It
My delegation is happy with the progressive
dismantling of apartheid and the process towards universal
franchise in South Africa. We have recently heard in this
forum Mr. Mandela’s historic call
to end all sanctions
against South Africa, a call which must be speedily
honoured.
We applaud the positive results of United Nations
involvement in Cambodia, El Salvador and Haiti. These
successes, however, have not yet been replicated in Somalia
and Bosnia. My delegation strongly condemns violence
against United Nations peace-keeping and humanitarian
workers. As the need for peace-keeping in other parts of the
world grows, it is clear that in future the terms of every
intervention must be carefully defined.
My delegation welcomes
reduction in the
international arsenal of nuclear and other weapons and we
support the continuation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty
beyond 1995.
the
With regard to the nuclear situation on the Korean
peninsula, we urge the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea to comply fully with the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) Safeguards Agreement in order to avoid any
suspicion and speculation.
In an age focused on reducing the world’s nuclear
arsenal, further testing is unnecessary and inconsistent. We
urge all nuclear States not to carry out further tests and to
continue negotiations towards a comprehensive test ban.
While the world’s nuclear arms and other weapons of
mass destruction are being dismantled, we are aware that
conventional weapons are used in all present-day conflicts.
No country which supplies arms can dissociate itself from
the moral responsibility for the use of such arms. We fully
support the United Nations Register on Conventional Arms
and urge the reduction of the international arms trade.
Over the past two years, considerable emphasis has
been put on streamlining the United Nations Secretariat and
making it more efficient. At the last two sessions the
General Assembly has directed its attention not only towards
reforming and revitalizing the United Nations but also
towards making the General Assembly a more effective and
responsive forum. While some progress has been made, the
discussion on reforming and restructuring the United Nations
continues. We cannot expect the United Nations, formed
nearly five decades ago with just 50 members, to remain
unchanged and yet be able to fulfil
the hopes and
expectations of the current 184 Members in a vastly different
world. Clearly, the reforms and revitalization cannot be
limited to managerial and organizational changes:
the roles
and responsibilities of all the principal organs of the United
Nations must be taken into account.
My delegation believes that during our discussion on
the time is opportune to
reforming the United Nations,
enlarge the Security Council.
its
membership must be taken up together with the issue of
accountability. While it is necessary to preserve the Security
Council’s new-found effectiveness, it must always be made
accountable for its actions to the General Assembly.
The expansion of
financial difficulties
The need for reform and restructuring seems in recent
months to have been somewhat overshadowed by the
Organization’s
and questions of
effective operations and proper accountability. We fully
agree that it is necessary to minimize waste and streamline
operations.
These issues, however, must be pursued
independently of the concerns over the financial health of the
United Nations. We urge all Members to pay their assessed
contributions promptly. We are of the view that the current
level of assessment has fully taken into account both the
financial capacity of Member States to contribute and the
role they have assumed in the Organization. There is a
saying in my country that one must load the pony according
to its ability to carry the burden. Although the United
Nations has travelled far in the last three years, it is clear
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
on the international agenda.
investment
in environmental
measures,
against natural disasters.
including early warning facilities,
This includes long-term
conservation and other
to protect
identity.
Bhutan continues to make considerable progress in the
field of social and economic development. We are currently
in the process of decentralizing the administration in terms
of decision-making and implementation of development
projects. We are also giving priority to the development of
human resources.
In all our nation-building activities, we
have sought to protect our rich natural environment and
distinctive national
In our efforts, we have
continued to receive generous support from India, Japan,
Switzerland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Kuwait, Austria,
Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom and Australia, and
from various specialized agencies and bodies of the United
Nations, particularly the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF), the United Nations Fund for Activites (UNFPA),
the United Nations Capital Development Fund, (UNCDF),
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
the World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations
Volunteers (UNV), the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations (FAO), the World Health Organization
(WHO),
the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development
the United Nations
Educational,
and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO).
I take this opportunity to express the sincere
gratitude of the people and Government of Bhutan to our
development partners.
(UNCTAD),
Scientific
and
This is an age of multilateralism, and the United
Nations is the centre around which this new age will
revolve. The United Nations is no longer just the
now that we cannot keep overloading it without putting the
necessary means and resources at its disposal.
The Second World Conference on Human Rights, held
in Vienna this year, clearly recognized that social progress
and political stability cannot be ensured without respect for
human rights. The Conference also recognized that human
rights and social progress can be promoted and preserved
only in a healthy economic and natural environment. For
our part, we are fully committed to advancing the human
rights of all our people.
This year, as agreed to in Agenda 21 of the Earth
Summit, the Commission on Sustainable Development has
been established. The work of this Commission will provide
a new direction for the preservation of the environment and
give added impetus to developmental activities. We
recognize that while all development must take place at local
and national
and
international dimensions for which solutions must be found
at the global level. Bhutan looks forward to participating in
the upcoming global conferences on population and
development, the World Summit for Social Development and
the Fourth World Conference on Women.
clearly regional
levels,
there
are
The recession that has afflicted much of the world
economy in the past year has not shown any signs of
improvement. In such conditions, it is hardly surprising that
the economic performances of most of the world’s least
developed countries have continued to be dismal. Per capita
income for the one tenth of the world’s population which
lives in these countries has fallen in the past three years
despite the adoption of the United Nations Programme of
Action in 1990. While the least developed countries have
begun to initiate bold and painful structural reforms in their
economies, budget constraints on donor nations and
competing claims on aid resources have continued to slow
down the flow of official development assistance to the least
developed countries. While expressing our gratitude to
donors who have met
and even exceeded official
development assistance targets, my delegation would like to
appeal to the others to follow suit so that the reforms can be
sustained and promoted.
The sluggish international economic climate in the last
two years has been further compounded by a spate of
unusually harsh natural disasters that have affected many
parts of the world. We would like to express our heartfelt
sympathies to all those in the United States of America,
Japan, Nepal, and India who have suffered heavy loss of life
and property because of recent natural calamities. The
capacity to respond to such disasters should be placed high
Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993
21
preserver of world order but an active promoter of peace and
human advancement.
Increasing cooperation among its
Members since the end of the cold war has made it possible
for the Organization to become more effective in pursuing
these objectives. The long-term success of the United
Nations, in our view, will depend on how democratic it
becomes in its functioning and to what extent it will involve
all its Members, large and small, in the decision-making
process. We hope that the United Nations will become the
centerpiece of a more just and equitable world order and will
speak for the whole of humanity rather than just for a
privileged few.
The PRESIDENT: Despite at least two reminders on
my part so far of the Assembly’s decision to prohibit the
practice of expressing congratulations in the precincts of this
Hall, this practice appears to flourish. It is not my intention
to have this decision further undermined under my watch.
I therefore warn all delegations that if the practice resumes,
I shall be forced to interrupt the speaker - discourteously, of
course - to allow for order to be restored.
I appeal once
again to the Assembly to respect the decision we have all
taken together for the orderly performance of our work.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
