United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President:
INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
ADDRESS BY MR. CHEDDI B. JAGAN, PRESIDENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the President of the Cooperative Republic of
Guyana.
Mr. Cheddi B. Jagan, President of the Republic of
Guyana, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the distinct honour to welcome to the
United Nations the President of the Cooperative Republic of
Guyana, His Excellency Dr. Cheddi Jagan, and to invite him
to address the Assembly.
before
President JAGAN: As I stand today at this rostrum, a
flood of memories rushes to my mind. I recall appearing as
Premier
on
decolonization in 1961 to plead the case of my country’s
independence. Like so many other colonies after the Second
World War, Guyana was anxious to secure its freedom and
exercise its right to self-determination.
the United Nations Committee
The road, however, was far from easy. Along the way
there were many stumbling-blocks and casualties. It was not
until 1966, long after most subject peoples had been set free,
that we became independent and took our place in the family
of nations.
12th
PLENARY MEETING
Friday, 1 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
The world today is radically different from what it was
then.
The total membership of the United Nations has
grown significantly. The cold war, which had bedevilled
international relations since 1947, has ended, with a promise
of a new and more democratic world order. With the
collapse of the Soviet Union, one of the two super-Powers,
there are severe difficulties for the new structures which
have been established. Nevertheless, hope is alive for the
construction of an era of peace, based on respect for all
peoples and the promotion of their general welfare. It is an
exciting moment
in world history, and for the United
Nations there is a defining role.
It
the General Assembly.
Guyana has been honoured by the unanimous election
of its representative to the presidency of this forty-eighth
session of
This session will
undoubtedly be a challenging one. I wish to thank the entire
membership for its vote of confidence in our ability to
undertake this lofty responsibility.
is, after all, an
acknowledgement that all States, irrespective of their size,
can play an important role in the Organization’s work. I am
especially
the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) group and the wider Latin American and
Caribbean Group for
full endorsement of our
candidacy. I must also pay a tribute to His Excellency Mr.
Stoyan Ganev for his capable direction of the forty-seventh
session and to our distinguished Secretary-General for his
efforts to promote the continuing success of our world
Organization.
grateful
to
their
Success in these volatile times is often tempered. For,
notwithstanding its important accomplishments, the United
Nations cannot be said to have fulfilled the highest
aspirations of its creators. The scourge of war is still
rampant in many places. Colonialism is certainly not extinct,
and today it threatens to survive in different forms. Many
aspects of colonialism are evident in the ever-widening gap
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86701 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.12
19 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
between the developed and the developing countries and the
dependence of impoverished millions on the largesse of a
few. This prevailing economic and social disparity provides
a breeding ground for hunger, disease and poverty and
ultimately constitutes a threat to international peace and
security.
As the focal point of multilateralism,
the United
limits of
Nations must continue to explore the full
international cooperation in order to eliminate, or at least
alleviate, the problems of the disadvantaged.
I should like
to think that there is now agreement that the grave situation
requires collective action. Whatever its limitations, it is still
the best forum available to States for diplomacy, dialogue
and negotiation, and thus for the avoidance of conflict. We
should seek, therefore, to enhance its ability to address our
common goals.
As a small developing State, Guyana is fully committed
to the ethos of multilateral cooperation which is embodied
in the United Nations. We have come here to renew
publicly our faith in the Organization and to urge all
Members to pledge to deepen and strengthen multilateralism
as a foundation for inter-State relations. Experience has
shown that no nation, however powerful,
in
isolation. Its borders are not impervious to encroachment by
universal ills. Ultimately, it must come together with the
rest of the world to find common solutions to common
problems. AIDS, narcotic drugs, poverty and pollution are
striking examples of the pandemic which affects us all.
Control of these scourges requires concerted action by the
United Nations as a whole. Added to these are natural
disasters, such as the recent earthquake in India. Our
deepest sympathy goes out
to the Indian people and
Government.
can exist
We note with some disappointment that international
the
conflicts continue to undermine the capacity of
Organization to promote the cooperation which is deemed
essential for reaching solutions to current global problems.
The real value of the United Nations in this period will
depend on its collective ability to respond effectively to this
wave of international conflicts, and to find acceptable means
of peace-keeping and peacemaking which will not be a
burden on its membership.
Such a development will inspire confidence among
member nations to refer issues to the United Nations body,
and to restore their reliance on the Organization’s ability to
resolve disputes before they resort to the battlefield.
Our
first effort at constructing a framework for
international peace and security through the League of
Nations ended in failure. The reason can be found in the
inherent weakness of the League, in the resultant inability to
contain rampant nationalism, particularism and insularity and
in the lack of respect for its fundamental principles. The
United Nations is a second experiment, prompted by the
disasters consequent upon the failure of the League. At San
Francisco we vowed to spare succeeding generations from
the scourge of war. We have before us today another
opportunity to secure an era of real peace and stability, to
deploy fully the resources of the Organization in the service
of humanity, and to reach for a broad-based, sustainable
development and some measure of prosperity and fulfilment
for the peoples of this planet.
In our efforts to bolster international peace and security,
the report, "An Agenda for Peace", which was prepared by
the Secretary-General in response to the Security Council’s
request, sets out a number of proposals which merit serious
consideration. While recognizing the need to provide the
Council with enforcement capacity under Chapter VII of the
Charter, we place special
importance on preventive
diplomacy, which would obviate recourse to physical
intervention. As the experience of some recent peacemaking
and peace-keeping operations has shown, these measures are
fraught with uncertain political consequences. Moreover,
they have proved extremely costly, particularly to small
States such as ours which can ill afford such expenditures.
So diverse are the origins of conflict that each situation
must be examined in depth to determine the most
appropriate means of peaceful solution.
In some cases the
dispute may have legal implications and may therefore be
best handled by a suitable judicial body. More often than
not, however, the roots of conflict are embedded in a history
of complicated political, economic and social factors.
In
such instances the ground must be carefully prepared for the
cultivation of peace and stability.
the
advantages of the diplomatic approach are not lost in the
United Nations, which increasingly is using the good offices
of the Secretary-General and his representatives to induce
solutions to long-standing conflicts.
Fortunately,
We believe that these examples reaffirm the virtue of
dialogue and negotiation. However, although promising for
the future, other situations remain tenuous and require
constant monitoring. Somalia and Sudan must be carefully
nurtured back to normalcy.
In Europe, Bosnia and
Herzegovina stands out as an horrific example of man’s
inhumanity to man, and compels us to search for a quick end
Indeed, the
to the wanton killing of innocent thousands.
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
3
United Nations must hasten to devise new strategies to deal
with these persistent convulsions in the global body politic.
The Middle East has been embroiled in conflict for
much too long. With the recent signing of the declaration of
principles for Palestinian self-rule,
the road ahead is
encouraging. Peace and stability throughout the region now
seem to be within our grasp. We hope also that
the
territorial problems between Iraq and Kuwait can be
amicably settled.
As far as South Africa is concerned, the announcement
of a date for elections, coupled with supporting structures,
gives rise to the hope that majority rule is not far off and we
may in the near future welcome that country back into the
fold of the international community. We urge the peoples of
South Africa to eschew further violence and to come
together for their common good.
I wish to record with satisfaction the view that a return
to democratic traditions and respect for good governance and
human rights has helped to further promote peace. Guyana
will support any confidence-building mechanism which
favours dialogue over confrontation as the means of choice
for the pacific settlement of disputes. Because of the
inherent correlation between peace and development
it
behoves each member of the international community to
continue the search, where needed, for creative ways to
settle disputes that could otherwise imperil not only
international
national
development.
security
also
peace
and
but
this is a serious anomaly in the context of
In this hemisphere, of which Guyana forms part, we are
concerned that, despite the end of the cold war, Cuba
remains outside the inter-American family. We truly believe
that
the
Organization’s efforts to build a new world order based on
mutual understanding and respect among all States in a
united international community. We appeal to the United
States and Cuba to demonstrate their good will and seek
urgently to reconcile their long-standing differences. The
Caribbean Community (CARICOM), which has a vested
interest in the early rapprochement between these two major
partners, stands ready to play a role in this process.
We are particularly pleased that the Central American
region, which for far too long has been entrapped by
anachronistic economic and social structures, has emerged
from a vicious cycle of internecine violence. CARICOM
welcomes the opportunity which this development offers for
closer cooperation between two neighbouring regions. We
are equally pleased that, after being held hostage by a
military dictatorship unwilling to heed the popular will, Haiti
is once again free to pursue a democratic path. We offer to
President Aristide and his government our ready cooperation
in the urgent task of reconstruction for social progress.
Guyana has itself only recently emerged from a difficult
electoral process that, under international vigilance, proved
to be free and fair. We are particularly grateful for the role
the United Nations played in ensuring that the democratic
will of our people was fully respected. After all, the right
to choose one’s government is a fundamental human right,
which should never be denied. We commend the United
Nations for providing electoral assistance at the request of
those who seek it, and with due respect for the principle of
national sovereignty. Elections alone, however, do not
guarantee the preservation of democracy:
they must be
accompanied by the establishment of machinery that protects
every individual in our societies. I am pleased to report that
one of the first steps my Government took upon assuming
office was to accede to the Optional Protocol to the United
Nations Human Rights Covenants. We followed that with
the establishment of an Inter-Agency High-Level Committee
on Human Rights, whose function it is to ensure that Guyana
complies with its reporting responsibilities under the Human
Rights Conventions.
It is not enough, however, to satisfy the civic and
political rights of our citizens:
their fundamental economic
and social entitlements to food, clothing, shelter and so on
must also be provided. Human rights are indivisible, and to
prefer one above the other
is to deny their essential
interrelatedness. The Vienna Conference appears to have
recognized this fact and to have confirmed the need for a
holistic approach. My own Government is dedicated to the
proposition that human development must be comprehensive
if our society’s welfare is to be secured. Our stated policy,
therefore, is to create an environment in which democracy
will work to fulfil our people’s spiritual and material needs.
To implement our development programme, however, we
shall require the cooperation of the international community
to supplement our own limited resources.
As I observed earlier this year at a Conference entitled
"Poverty in Guyana - Finding Solutions", we are in a
situation of crisis. For, while we have recently begun to
experience high growth rates, the economy continues to be
weak: unemployment is high; human and financial resources
are scarce; and basic infrastructure has deteriorated, leaving
the social sectors vulnerable to all the ills of poverty. We
have been somewhat successful in raising production and
productivity levels, but are seriously limited by a heavy debt
Some 90 cents of each dollar earned now go
burden.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
towards the repayment of the national debt. And the
proportion of our external commercial earnings for payment
of our foreign debt is nearly three times the average of the
47 least developed countries - an unbearably heavy burden.
Even though we attempt to manage expenditure judiciously,
through good governance - efficient management, a clean
and lean administration and fullest respect for human rights -
we cannot perform miracles. At the end of the day, we must
look for assistance to buttress our domestic efforts and to
preserve our tender democracy. With nearly 80 per cent of
our people below the poverty line, we shall succeed in
consolidating
economic
development with social justice.
democracy
only
through
countries
experience difficulties.
At the present time, however, the prospects for such
support appear rather bleak. There has been a noticeable
contraction in development aid as the economies of some
donor
Their own
electorates appear increasingly concerned with domestic
problems,
such as unemployment and falling living
standards. Whatever limited resources are available are
allocated by the developed nations largely on the basis of
strategic concerns. The international agenda is therefore
being set more and more at the sacrifice of the developing
world. There is consequently an urgent need to reorder our
priorities and to place development at the top of our agenda.
At best, however, development aid is no more than a
palliative. Significant economic and social progress will
come to the developing countries only when inequitable and
unjust economic and trade practices in the global system are
removed. As the 1992 human development report pointed
out, we are denied some $500 billion in market opportunities
annually, 10 times what we receive as foreign assistance,
primarily because of protectionist policies still being pursued
by the developed countries. We call, therefore, on those
countries to open up their markets to our goods at prices that
compensate us fairly for our labour and production. In this
context, we urge the industrial nations to expedite the
conclusion of trade negotiations, taking fully into account the
interests of our small, developing economies. We would
also wish and ask that
the formation of large regional
economic groupings - the megablocs as they are called -
guard against the further marginalization of our economies
and our countries.
Additionally, a definite solution must be found, during
the current decade, to the third world’s crushing external
debt problem.
In Latin America and the Caribbean, with
181 million out of 441 million people living below the
poverty line, in the mire of destitution, how can human
take place when, despite onerous debt
development
the stock of debt continues to grow?
A
payments,
prospective Economic Commission for Latin America and
the Caribbean (ECLAC) study for the region over the
1985-1995 period shows a serious aggravation in terms of
poverty, unemployment and foreign debt during the decade.
Between 1981 and 1990, the region’s foreign debt payments
were $503 billion, of which $313 billion were interest
payments. However,
the region’s
consolidated foreign debt increased from $297 billion in
1981 to $428 billion in 1991. Little wonder that the United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) publication entitled
"Children of the Americas" commented that this mechanism,
whereby the more you pay the more you owe, is perverse
and must be stopped.
in the same period,
Debt relief in the form of debt cancellation, grants, soft
loans and rescheduling is urgent if the developing countries
are to eradicate poverty, protect the environment and play a
meaningful
role in expanding world trade and ending
stagnation and recession in the industrially developed
countries. Debt relief must be seen as an investment not
only in the development of poor countries but also in the
security of the rich nations.
Recognizing the link that exists between poverty, trade,
population, development and the environment, we must
hasten to implement the Rio programme of action outlined
in Agenda 21. The developing countries urgently require the
resources - both financial and technological - necessary to
fulfil their obligations under that compact. As proof of its
commitment to protect the environment, Guyana has set
aside nearly 1 million acres of its tropical forests for
research, management and development of our
rich
biodiversity. With the welcome of entities such as the
Commonwealth Secretariat, the United Nations Development
Programme and the Global Environment Facility,
the
Iwokrama project, as it
is now known, has been fully
launched. At the commissioning ceremony held on World
Environment Day this year, I dedicated the enterprise to our
indigenous peoples, who are not only the principal
inhabitants but also the custodians of our forests.
It is
fitting, especially in this,
the International Year of the
World’s Indigenous People, that full recognition be given to
the important
role they play in harmonizing man’s
relationship with the Earth on which he lives.
We also urge full support for the Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States, scheduled to commence in Barbados in April 1994.
We trust that there will be adequate preparation and the
widest participation in that Conference.
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
5
In a spirit of genuine cooperation, therefore, let us
proceed to address the proposed agenda for development,
which we have accepted as a natural concomitant to "An
Agenda for Peace".
Indeed, peace cannot prevail in the
absence of development. Our attempts at peacemaking and
conflict resolution in general will not succeed if inequitable
and unjust economic and social conditions are allowed to
persist. Of late, many of the organs and agencies engaged
in the development process have had cause to lament the
growing diminution of
resources available to them, a
problem now aggravated by continuing diversion of funding
to a multiplicity of peace-keeping operations. Obviously,
one recognizes the importance of maintaining global peace.
However, it should not be at the cost of a disproportionate
sacrifice of development, which leads to peace-keeping
becoming an end in itself instead of a means of encouraging
economic and social welfare.
It
that, as currently conceived and structured,
The United Nations, whose universal membership
encompasses both developed and developing nations,
remains the ideal forum for forging a consensus on the
major issues of peace and development.
is evident,
however,
it
cannot adequately perform the role expected of it. That
realization has led us to undertake the exercise of reforming
and restructuring the Organization. To this end, we must
ensure that the changes we make are not simply cosmetic
but serve effectively to enhance the Organization’s capacity
to deal with the challenges of the post-cold-war period. Our
reforms must therefore seek to establish the United Nations
as the principal forum in which macro-political, economic
and social policies are collectively and consensually devised.
If truth be told, the United Nations is still largely
perceived, notwithstanding its recent successes in the
political field, as a "talk shop". Like the old Congress of
Vienna, which was described as a "perpetual dance", it is
viewed in the eyes of our peoples - particularly the poor and
the suffering - as an endless round of dilatory debate which
produces fine resolutions but precious little by way of
concrete action. To survive and succeed, therefore, the
United Nations must become relevant to the lives of men,
women and children everywhere.
Urgent action is required at this explosive period of
mounting external debt, falling economic growth, falling
third-world commodity prices, increasing unemployment,
environmental destruction, underdevelopment
and the
persistence of poverty. Our
troubled planet calls for
statesmanship, political will and cooperation for meaningful
change. Market forces alone are not providing the people
with adequate opportunities to participate in and benefit from
economic growth and development. We have a paradox of
growing poverty in the midst of potential plenty. Science
and technology have the capacity to eradicate poverty in the
not too distant future and to halve it by the end of the
century. Instead, we have today, both in the developed and
in the developing countries, only about half the growth rate
of a decade ago and the catastrophic phenomenon of "jobless
growth" - fewer and fewer jobs and more and more poverty
and inequality.
It is necessary to ascertain the root causes of global
poverty and to develop an integrated strategy for
its
eradication. This necessitates a comprehensive world view
and a recognition of the major contradiction of our time: the
tremendous growth of the means of production and the
anachronistic relations of production and the collective will
to resolve this contradiction.
In the intense competition in a shrinking global
market - owing in large part to the increasing poverty and
the widening gap between the rich and poor in both the
North and South, and between the North and the South - the
three centres of the industrialized world - North America,
Western Europe and Japan - are resorting to even more
capital-intensive growth and the use of more and more
sophisticated technology: computers and robots, cybernetics
and automation. How can the poor and unsophisticated in
the third-world countries survive in the "global village", in
the "borderless world" when collectively these countries have
not attained the target projected long ago of 25 per cent in
the production of industrialized goods and with the great
majority light-years behind in human-resource development
and burdened by the dead weight of unconscionable and
immoral debt payments? The rapid advance to robots and
automation in the North also poses a threat
to the
advantageous position of competitive wage rates in many
countries of the South. And the industrialized countries with
budget deficits, growing numbers of jobless and retirees and
inadequate welfare funds cannot afford the Keynesian luxury
of pump-priming and "workfare".
the
reactionary ultra-rightists
In a situation of confusion and uncertainty, and with no
solution in sight,
and
neo-fascists are getting stronger politically and becoming
more vocal and strident.
There is no answer to the
hopelessness and despair of the more than 30 million
unemployed in the countries of
the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. Despair is leading
to alcoholism, narcotics use, crime and suicide. Meanwhile
nationalism, xenophobia and neo-fascism are on the rise,
leading to racial and ethnic tensions and growing civil strife.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The North-South dialogue has been languishing and has
become a dialogue of the deaf.
In the South, rising
unemployment and abject poverty are interacting with rapid
population growth, urbanization, overcrowding, disease, the
production and use of narcotic drugs, increased flows of
refugees across
frontiers and irreversible
damage to the environment. Whereas it was said previously
that the Berlin Wall prevented peoples in the Soviet Union
and Eastern Europe from travelling to the West, now new
walls are being erected to prevent people from entering the
developed, industrialized countries.
international
BY MR. ALBERTO FUJIMORI,
ADDRESS
CONSTITUTIONAL PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
OF PERU
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): The
Assembly will now hear an address by the Constitutional
President of the Republic of Peru.
Mr. Alberto Fujimori, Constitutional President of the
Republic of Peru, was escorted into the General Assembly
Hall.
It is not enough to treat the symptoms of the global
malaise. Radical reforms are urgently needed. Structural
adjustment is as necessary for the developed countries as for
the developing countries, but reforms must be predicated on
social justice and have a human face. Human needs and
human security should be the object of development. In this
regard, greater emphasis must be placed on human capital
and natural capital, and much more must be done to speed
up disarmament so that the despairing and hungry of the
world can benefit from greatly enhanced savings.
the third world,
The development agenda must include a critical analysis
of possible options and must deal with the international
competitiveness of
the basis of new
modalities of international cooperation for development and
the financing of development.
It must also address core
problems: alleviation of poverty, expansion of productive
employment
integration,
particularly of the more disadvantaged and marginal groups.
and enhancement of
social
To attain these objectives, the people - I repeat, the
people - must play a central role. They must be fully
involved in all aspects of life to take advantage of their
initiatives and creativity in the fashioning of a better future
and a peaceful and prosperous world.
As the leader of a small nation which continues to
believe in the vast potential of this Organization for making
the world a better place in which to live, I appeal to the
Assembly to devote itself to this urgent task. Let us work
together
to advance the cause of global peace and
development.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Cooperative
Republic of Guyana for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Cheddi B. Jagan, President of the Republic of
Guyana, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT: (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the Constitutional President
of
Excellency
Mr. Alberto Fujimori, and to invite him to address the
Assembly.
Peru, His
Republic
the
of
President FUJIMORI (interpretation from Spanish):
In 1990 the Peruvian people - heirs to an ancient culture,
who, like other peoples of the third world, suffered the
consequences of colonialism and later various frustrations
caused by our history - began to ask themselves more and
more why they had not reached a truly dignified level of
existence comparable to that of the developed countries.
it
Why was
that a rich nation, known for
its
hard-working population and enjoying apparent democracy,
should have to suffer from hyperinflation, isolation from the
international financial community, terrorism, drug-trafficking,
corruption and internal and external debt? In short, why was
it ungovernable?
The so-called traditional democracy, which solved none
of Peru’s serious problems, had been nothing more than a
struggle between privileged minorities, the elite and party
leaders who took turns in power while the country sank
deeper and deeper into misery.
Nations, however, do not disintegrate in such crises;
rather, they are roused to carry out moral and material
reconstruction. Such has been the case in Peru.
I ask myself, and I ask all
the
representatives of all the nations of the world, "Which is the
first priority:
the narrow, blind defence of an institutional
formality that is now worthless and obsolete, or a better
destiny for millions of human beings?"
those present,
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
7
We in Peru have experienced this disjunction which the
Government of President Boris Yeltsin in Russia is
experiencing so dramatically today.
Why should we fear making corrections in the course
of our history, however radical they may be? To govern is
to confront problems firmly, and not to defer, much less to
evade, decisions.
In exceptional circumstances, when the civilized
existence and survival of a nation is at stake, each country
has to find its own course and its own solutions and then
reconstruct its democracy in touch with its own reality.
Failing this, it will simply become ungovernable - a situation
that most often leads to anarchy, which in turn inevitably
generates violence.
The institutions of Peru’s incipient political system
proved to be among the most inefficient on the continent.
That was the context within which Shining Path and the
Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement came into existence.
The model for Shining Path is Pol Pot’s Khmer Rouge.
that group’s activities were
This is why, for 10 years,
directed toward destroying the existing system:
industries,
laboratories, electrical towers, machinery, bridges, highways
and public buildings, costing the country US$ 25 billion in
material damages and losses. New York learned what
terrorist insanity is all about with the criminal attack on the
World Trade Center - an isolated case, thank goodness.
We had reached a clear and elemental disjunction:
either we stopped the crisis and the terrorism which steadily
nourished it, or the country would collapse completely. My
responsibility was to govern, not to serve as Peru’s undertaker.
Our anti-terrorist strategy has led to the reinstatement
of
the principle of authority throughout
the country,
particularly in places as dissimilar as state universities and
penitentiaries.
After being captured a year ago, Abimael Guzmán
made a fiery proclamation to all his followers to continue
relentlessly the war against
the Peruvian State and its
society. Today, in a 180-degree turn, he appeals to your
speaker,
in order to retract his
previous atrocious objectives. This shows essentially that he
has inevitably come to terms with the total defeat of his
totalitarian project.
the President of Peru,
between
two
belligerent
negotiation
In fact, I recently received a revealing communication
from the leader of Shining Path, Abimael Guzmán, who is
in jail, in which he asked for "a peace agreement". I repeat,
Abimael Guzmán Reynoso has asked the President of Peru
to talk about a "peace agreement". But a "peace agreement"
implies
groups
considered to be equal - equal not only militarily but also
from a moral and ethical standpoint. This is inadmissible,
for there can be no negotiations with a genocidal terrorist group -
described as such by the United Nations itself - whose
leader, having been captured, tried and sentenced last year
to life imprisonment, has absolutely no power to negotiate.
Moreover, there is no correlation of forces between the
Peruvian State and these criminals that could put them on an
equal footing. There can be no doubt that it has been
completely recognized that the State, the Armed Forces, the
National Police and the people of Peru are prevailing over
terrorism.
the international principles of
The Government of Peru is fully aware of its obligation
to respect
the Geneva
Convention. Nevertheless, it will make no concession in any
way that would jeopardize the process of restoring peace
completely to Peru. Through the attainment of peace in our
country and the definitive eradication of terrorism, we are
also preventing the spread of terrorism to the rest of the
Southern Cone of our continent.
to fight
The Peruvian Government and its people will tirelessly
terrorist violence, with or
continue their effort
without requests from the heads of these organizations.
If
they really wish peace to be achieved as soon as possible,
they should immediately and unconditionally stop terrorist
actions and their methods of propagation, as a preliminary
step enabling the Peruvian State to prevent further bloodshed
and suffering for the Peruvian people and to take the further
steps required to facilitate the process by which the
Government will fully consolidate national peace before the
date I promised to my fellow citizens, that is, 1995.
Twenty-five thousand deaths; hundreds of thousands of
refugee peasants displaced from their villages; thousands of
widows and orphans; hundreds of handicapped and maimed,
including civilian, police and military; thousands of children
who have grown up in the middle of a cruel war; $25 billion
of material waste; an entire country paralysed by terror and
uncertainty:
this is the sum of 13 fateful years, during
which a State considered to be democratic appeared not to
exist in the face of totalitarian terror. The end of this
vicious circle is approaching after 17 months - barely 17 months -
of
strategy developed by my
counter-terrorist
the
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Government. Now we can talk about
democracy in Peru.
the State and
In our country, a new and exemplary democracy is
the common
being devised. It has some unusual elements:
man’s awareness of his chronic exclusion from the
mainstream of civic life; his experience and sacrifice as a
survivor of one of the century’s worst economic crises; and
his equally successful involvement in the war against the
nation’s terrorist threat - within the framework of the full
exercise of his right to self-defence and the universal rights
of the individual and of every citizen.
Peru can once again see the light of day.
The
nightmare of war is now behind us. Those who doubted that
this was possible must now admit that it has happened and
must recognize that the decisions taken in April 1992 were
absolutely necessary. Peru is beginning to be a viable
country again - an attractive country visited by thousands of
tourists, who can confidently bear witness to its new look,
a country with hope, one into which foreign capital
is
flowing, thereby generating more employment and wealth.
In the near future, the Peruvian people will have the historic
opportunity to decide upon a constitution incorporating the
thoroughgoing reforms that will guarantee peace and
progress in our country. This will be the end of a grim
cycle. Peru is now a country open to the world - one which,
like other countries all over the planet, is beginning fully to
exercise its right to be a free and prosperous nation through
the implementation of a true democracy and of a system of
government that will benefit our people.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
Constitutional President of the Republic of Peru for the
statement he has just made.
Mr. Alberto Fujimori, Constitutional President of the
Republic of Peru, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. OCHOA ANTICH (Venezuela) (interpretation
from Spanish): Allow me, on behalf of Venezuela, to extend
to you, Sir, our very special congratulations on your election
as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session. It is of great significance to us that the Permanent
Representative of Guyana - a country with which we
maintain special relations of friendship and cooperation -
should be directing the work of this important Assembly.
The President of Venezuela, Mr. Ramon J. Velásquez, would
have liked to be present on this important occasion.
However, the current situation in the country necessitates his
remaining in Caracas.
In recent months Venezuela has had to assume
exceptional responsibilities. Yesterday marked the end of
our term as president of the Security Council. During that
term, events of vital importance have taken place in the
world.
In particular, during the past 12 months we have
witnessed with horror the re-emergence of hatreds, barbarism
and episodes of ethnic cleansing that we thought had been
consigned for ever to the saddest and blackest pages of
history.
In the conflict that is tearing apart the former
Republic of Yugoslavia, Venezuela has played an important
role - a role widely recognized by the other members of the
Council - in the protection of human rights. Acting within
the framework of the international bodies, we have sought,
above all, to restore peace to that tormented region.
for
The United Nations has accumulated a wealth of
experience in the deployment of operations
the
maintenance of order - even in some situations in which
peace had not yet been attained. With the new situation in
the world, an organization that was established for purposes
of dialogue and negotiation is faced with challenges of a
different kind.
in a
traditional sense, it has moved on to operations that include
military aspects, humanitarian,
institutional and electoral
assistance, the monitoring of human-rights issues and even
development aid.
In recent months the United Nations has
played an active and varied role against an ever-changing
international background.
From the maintenance of order
This year, too, the world has seen the emergence of new
hopes.
In one of the most strife-torn regions of the planet,
where there appeared to be no prospect of understanding or
future coexistence, two old enemies, the State of Israel and
the Palestine Liberation Organization, have taken significant
steps towards a joint search for peace and the harmonious
development of the two peoples. Venezuela welcomes the
Washington agreement between Israel and the PLO, and will
work within the framework of the United Nations to achieve
a body of measures and resolutions that will help to erase
the hatreds of a past that is still too close. Similarly, we
support
of
demilitarization and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons
that have always been an essential part of the work of this
Assembly.
initiatives
peace
the
and
the
process
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
9
During our months on the Security Council, we have
experienced, at first hand, the accelerated pace of world
events today. We are concerned at the uncertainty of the
roads to be taken and the instability that prevails in many
corners of the world. There are no longer any ideologies,
established values or clear directions. Nevertheless, amidst
all the confusion a few issues have emerged which could
become the single prevalent ideology of mankind. These are
human rights, the defence of democracy and the protection
of the environment.
Last June, in Vienna, the United Nations sponsored that
remarkable encounter, the World Conference on Human
Rights. We engaged there in a fruitful dialogue between
Governments and non-governmental organizations, with the
aim of working together to wipe out the injustices that still
exist in our countries.
In Vienna, we came to realize that
the protection of human rights has become a topic of interest
to people of different races from all parts of the world. The
Conference confirmed the universal value of those rights and
reaffirmed that democracy, human rights and development
are equally important and mutually reinforcing objectives.
The further improvement of democracy might begin in
this Organization, where the reform of the Security Council
continues to be necessary in order to make its decisions
more representative. The General Assembly must attach the
proper importance to the discussion of this issue. Venezuela
shares the general concern with making the United Nations
a more transparent and democratic Organization. The new
international scenario calls for a more representative Security
Council without exclusive rights that discriminate against
some Member States.
In the context of the defence of democracy, the United
Nations and regional organizations have made outstanding
efforts, especially in Haiti, where it is our hope that the
lawfully constituted Government will be restored, and in
Guatemala, where forces attempting a coup d’état were
defeated by the weight of civil society. Today, democratic
regimes prevail in almost all of Latin America. However,
our democracies are still young and have experienced
difficulties in recent months.
In Venezuela, we have overcome a severe political
crisis which undoubtedly had the result of strengthening our
institutions. Following a process which took place entirely
within the framework of the law, Mr. Ramón J. Velásquez
succeeded to the highest office. He is a distinguished
historian, respected by all political forces in the country for
the honesty he has shown in his career and for his profound
knowledge of the Venezuelan mentality.
force.
Order,
Democracy is a system of values within which respect
for institutions is not only a duty but a necessity. There
have always been attempts in Latin America to justify the
terrorism or
use of
the fight against
communism, the inefficiency of the State:
these reasons
have often been used to justify regimes that, finally, did not
re-establish order but abolished freedom.
In the past, this
has happened in Venezuela. Today, we have the serenity of
waiting for our institutions to function, and we can now say
with pride that democracy persists in Venezuela and that we
have been able to overcome a serious political crisis.
Nevertheless, our
future is clouded by economic
difficulties. The defence and maintenance of democracy
requires the full cooperation of the industrialized countries
in the search for a form of economic development that will
afford our impoverished peoples a life of dignity. Hence,
we support the proposal by the President of the General
Assembly, Mr. Samuel Insanally, for a summit to discuss the
world’s economic problems and agree on programmes of
action to solve them. We agree that the "Agenda for Peace"
p u t
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l ,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, should be complemented by an
agenda for development which would place socio-economic
problems on the same level as those of a purely political
nature. The establishment and preservation of democracy
involves reaching a balanced and equitable global growth
rate.
f o r w a r d
b y
t h e
Balanced growth was the central
topic of the first
session of the Commission on Sustainable Development in
New York. The establishment of that Commission is one of
the most significant outcomes of the Earth Summit in Rio de
Janeiro. There is an intimate link between the issue of
development, the financial resources required in order to
attain it and the strict protection of the environment. Despite
the lack of encouraging results, we still believe firmly in the
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and we
wish to draw particular attention to Principles 3 and 4, which
read as follows:
Principle 3:
"The right to development must be fulfilled so as to
equitably meet developmental and environmental needs
of present and future generations."
Principle 4:
"In order to achieve sustainable development,
an
environmental protection shall
constitute
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
integral part of the development process and
cannot be considered in isolation from it."
Fully 17 per cent of our
Accordingly, we are greatly concerned at what
is
happening on Venezuela’s Amazonian border. My country
has attached very special importance to the preservation of
nature.
territory consists of
specially protected national parks in which economic
activities are closely monitored and restricted. On the
southern border, in particular, we have had the support of
scientific organizations and universities in the establishment
of the Alto Orinoco-Casiquiare Biosphere Reserve, covering
an area of 60,000 square kilometres.
In this zone, by law,
economic activities must be compatible with the fragility of
Particular importance is
the tropical forest ecosystem.
attached to the cultural and linguistic heritage of
the
indigenous peoples, whose way of life has always been
compatible with preservation of the environment.
Over
the past
five years, unfortunately, we have
undergone a true invasion whose results are disastrous for
the environment and which has introduced a climate of
violence hitherto unknown in the area.
and
it
is
plants
animals:
of forest the size of Portugal is destroyed. They are wiping
out
that
1,200,000 species will disappear in the next 25 years. They
are annihilating the local population, and this in 1993, when
the whole world is commemorating the International Year
for the World’s Indigenous People.
estimated
the
addresses
the countries of
Therefore, Venezuela
international
community to denounce this serious environmental situation.
the Amazon Basin have clearly
All
proclaimed our sovereignty over
the land in question.
Amazonia belongs to us, but we have the responsibility to
protect it, now and for future generations. We must work
together to preserve our tropical forest. Each country in the
region is making special efforts to take up the challenge of
sustainable development in this zone where the ecological
balance is so precarious. We particularly welcome the
establishment in Brazil of the Ministry of the Environment
and the Conservation of Amazonia, which will undoubtedly
be an important factor in solving the problem. Only open
and sincere dialogue between the countries of the region will
enable us to resist the gold and diamond multinationals that
are destroying, without regard for morality, this important
part of the heritage of mankind.
The cause is illegal mining, which, while taking
the forested and inaccessible nature of
advantage of
Amazonia,
is destroying rivers and whole hectares of
vegetation. This phenomenon has reached a scale large
enough to cause concern, to the point that it is escaping
control by the States.
Just recently - last July - illegal
miners massacred a group of Venezuelans, of the Yanomami
tribe. Brazil and Venezuela, where the criminal act was
carried out, have established an ad hoc commission to
investigate the facts and to make sure that the criminals are
punished. But the fact that these events can occur gives a
clear idea of the seriousness of the situation we are facing in
Amazonia. Trees are being cut down, the sources of our
great rivers are being deforested, the waters of the great
tropical forest are being polluted with mercury and the
indigenous population, the original inhabitants of the region,
are being murdered.
The Amazonian border of Venezuela, 2,200 kilometres
long, has been preserved. On our side there is the biosphere
reserve, and in Brazil
there is the Yanomami park,
established in 1992 and covering 94,000 square kilometres.
Nevertheless, the deaths of the indigenous Venezuelans show
that violence and destruction are beginning to penetrate these
protected areas.
Illegal mining is a business behind which
are the gold and diamond transnationals that arm them,
provide them with machinery and build landing strips in the
forest. They are deforesting Amazonia. Each year an area
We must live up to the environmental commitments
entered into at the Rio Summit. We need technical support
and political, economic and social backing to confront the
economic interests that are destroying our heritage. I appeal
to the mining transnationals to understand that development
does not mean destruction; to international agencies to help
us implement the principles of sustainable development in
this zone; and to the wealthiest countries to understand that,
while poverty and ignorance persist among large segments
of
and
environmental destruction will continue.
the population in Latin America, violence
The United Nations has performed a monumental task
in convening the Earth Summit and the Conference on
Human Rights, and now the major meetings on population
and social development. The resolutions adopted at these
conferences are now being violated in Amazonia. Venezuela
is making a great effort to ensure the preservation of the
environment, often in areas to which access is extremely
difficult. We are fighting for human rights among people
who are not accustomed to respecting the law. We are
trying to proceed in accordance with the principles of
sustainable development, standing up to the companies that
are seeking only to extract the wealth of the soil at a rapid
pace. These are difficult tasks, but we are convinced that
this effort is necessary in order to conserve our Amazonia
and preserve it for future generations of our peoples and also
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
11
for future generations of all mankind. The United Nations
is the appropriate forum for the whole world to learn of our
efforts to preserve this territory, its biodiversity and the
integrity of its rightful inhabitants.
Mr. Dinesh SINGH (India): Mr. President, your
unanimous election as President augurs well for the forty-
eighth session of the General Assembly.
I extend my
heartiest congratulations to you and best wishes for success.
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, has
given a new vision and a new impetus to the United Nations
at a crucial time in its history. We wish him well in his
efforts.
My Government is deeply touched by the sympathy and
compassion expressed by the leaders of several delegations
on
on
India
30 September 1993,
permission,
Mr. President, I shall have to go back to India immediately.
devastating
and, with
earthquake
in
your
the
The United Nations will soon be 50 years old.
It has
had many achievements to its credit: decolonization; efforts
to alleviate poverty; peace-keeping; disarmament; devising
an accepted code of international law; respect for human
rights and concern for the environment.
I would like to
reiterate India’s faith in and consistent support for the United
Nations and its efforts to establish peace and the well-being
of peoples. We take note that the United Nations is trying
to evolve so as to better serve the principles and purposes of
the Charter. We support the Secretary-General’s efforts to
make what he has called a transition from the old to the new
United Nations, which would be particularly useful and
fruitful for the less developed and less fortunate States.
The euphoria generated by the end of the cold war has
in the past two years given way to concerns about the
difficulties of achieving a new global equilibrium and
stability. Essentially, we can see these difficulties arising
from the contradictory pulls and pressures exerted by the
forces of positive integration and harmony on the one hand
and fragmentation and discord on the other.
The end of the divisions of the cold war and the efforts
to halt and reverse the arms race have generated some of the
integrative forces. Some forces of integration have also been
at work in the global economy, which has been characterized
by the globalization and interdependence of countries’
factors of production and of issues of trade, money, finance,
technology, environment, population and development. The
desire of
the developing countries to participate more
actively in the growth of the world economy and the
and
concern
free-market,
liberalized economies
for
building-up of
Issues of
themselves adds another positive dimension.
common
economic
survival -
development and regeneration, environmental sustainability,
demographic management,
technological dynamism and
health for all - have provided a sense of common destiny.
The communications revolution has resulted in greater
cultural intermingling and openness around the world.
global
These forces of integration are, unfortunately, opposed
by those of fragmentation. Represented by sectarian and
subnational aggression, racism, religious fundamentalism,
bigotry, terrorism, drug trafficking and arms smuggling, they
pose a threat to peace, global security, democracy, human
rights and economic and social development. We are also
witnessing strife, conflicts and cruel, unceasing and irrational
civil wars in many parts of
Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Somalia and Afghanistan cause us anxiety and
concern. The proliferation of such local conflicts and the
ever-increasing flow of refugees across national frontiers re-
affirm the truism that peace, like freedom, is indivisible and
that the disruption of peace anywhere is a danger to peace
everywhere.
the world.
exclusivist
These divisive forces have caused not only political
instability but also economic collapse in several instances.
Conversely, economic sluggishness and lack of development
in several cases have led to political upheavals.
Inward-
looking,
and narrowly self-centred global
economic policy-making has been in evidence at a time
when the global economy is overshadowed by recession and
lack of dynamism. Macroeconomic coordination is at its
weakest. Protectionist tendencies are strong. The potential
of developing countries to act as vigorous engines of growth
for revitalizing the world economy stands largely ignored.
In developing countries, absolute and deepening poverty,
hunger and malnutrition, disease, illiteracy and the lack of
shelter and sanitation for a large portion of the population
have caused political and social tensions. The structural
the post-Second-World-War
imbalances and flaws of
international economic order persist and prevent
the
maximization of
interdependence and
globalization.
the benefits of
forces
integrative
Against this backdrop, the task of the United Nations
should be to construct a new global equilibrium by fostering
positive
if not
counteracting, the forces of fragmentation and discord. For
this,
the new United Nations will have to reiterate the
fundamental and immutable principles on which it was built:
respect for the national sovereignty, territorial integrity and
I am glad that the
sovereign equality of nation States.
and discouraging,
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Secretary-General stated in his report to the forty-eighth
session:
us, instead of trying to go around the world accentuating
differences that will be difficult to resolve later.
"National sovereignty is the art of
rendering
unequal power equal. Without State sovereignty, the
very instrument of international cooperation might be
destroyed and international organization might itself
become impossible." (A/48/1, para. 16)
The United Nations will have to set an example for the
conduct of relations amongst nation States on the basis of
respect for the rule of law, democracy and pluralism. Any
international framework, whether it be associated with peace
or development, must be transparent and must deal with
issues of global concerns on a non-selective and non--
discriminatory basis.
In the final analysis,
the institutions, concepts and
agencies that represent the new world order will be judged
by their ability to harness and channel the beneficial and
creative forces of integration for the benefit of peace and
development for all and by the ability of the United Nations
to ensure that the interests of its weaker Member States are
fully reflected therein.
In these still perilous times, they
would have to promote development cooperation and
effectively arrest the plunge into insecurity, strife and chaos,
particularly when these threaten the very foundation of
Member States, where ultimately the United Nations is
rooted.
There have been references in this Assembly to all
these conflicts, big or small, local or with international
dimensions, describing them in the generic terms of ethnic,
religious and civil wars. The plurality and complexity of our
post-cold-war world do not permit such generic labelling.
Nor are these conflicts amenable to generic and instant
remedies. A number of instances of strife or aberrations are
part of the historical legacies inherited by Member States.
Each is posited in a different socio-economic and cultural
matrix of causation; each is caught up in a different cycle of
circumstance and violence. The imposition of peace through
unilateral external intervention will only perpetuate situations
embodying the Orwellian logic of "peace is war" that we see
in many parts of the world today.
Wisdom lies in overcoming conflict situations with a
positive vision animated by peace and amity and in creating
the necessary confidence and will for peace among countries
and peoples. It is in this spirit that India is ready to initiate
a dialogue with Pakistan to build mutual confidence and to
promote a climate of stability in our region. I can only hope
that Pakistan will respond to this, and have a dialogue with
We welcome the recently concluded peace accord
between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization
(PLO), and earnestly hope that this will be a true harbinger
of further positive developments aimed at establishing lasting
peace and prosperity in West Asia. We also welcome the
announcement by Mr. Nelson Mandela that
irreversible
progress towards a non-racial, democratic South Africa has
been made. In response to his suggestion, India, which had
imposed trade sanctions against South Africa as early as
1946, has initiated action to lift those sanctions and to
normalize relations with South Africa.
We trust that the recognition by the Security Council of
the international boundary between Iraq and Kuwait will
contribute to the stabilization of the situation in the Gulf
region. We hope that the faithful implementation of the
relevant Security Council
lead to the
alleviation of the present difficulties of the peoples of the
region.
resolutions will
imperative for
In Somalia, a whole population has gone through a
protracted civil war
and famine with hardly any
governmental machinery to tackle the situation. This made
it
the United Nations to act. As an
unprecedented humanitarian mission, the multilateral action
in Somalia enjoyed the support of the entire world, including
the factional Somali leaders themselves.
India, for its part,
has contributed one of the largest contingents to this mission.
Now that the situation has improved and starvation has been
averted, the United Nations operation faces new problems.
It is necessary for the United Nations to reassure all sectors
of the people of Somalia about its role in the country,
intensify the process of political reconciliation and adhere
strictly to the original objectives of the mission.
The phenomenal increase in peace-keeping operations
in the post-cold-war period and their inclusion as an element
of the new agenda for peace is at once a matter of comfort
and concern.
It is a matter of comfort because the United
Nations at long last has started playing its Charter role in the
area of peace and security.
In the altered international
political environment, we would like the United Nations to
realize its full potential. At the same time, the involvement
of the United Nations on an unprecedented scale with peace-
keeping operations causes us concern because operationally
the United Nations is not fully prepared and equipped to
discharge
legally and
conceptually,
the
involvement of the United Nations are not clearly defined.
the limits, procedures and rules of
And,
this
role
effectively.
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
13
For peace-keeping operations to be successful, it is
necessary to follow certain guidelines and criteria. All
avenues of pacific settlement of disputes, as laid down in
Chapter VI of the Charter, should be fully explored and
exhausted before resorting to peace-keeping operations under
Chapter VII. Decisions on such operations should be taken
in a democratic and broad-based manner, and after thorough
consideration of all aspects.
To command universal
endorsement and maintain their non-partisan character,
United Nations peace-keeping operations must be based on
the consent of all the States parties to a dispute. They
should be undertaken with a specific mandate and a clear
time-frame. Greater efficiency should be achieved in both
planning and execution of peace-keeping operations. The
Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation, in his address to
the General Assembly a few days ago, put forward a few
proposals in this respect which merit consideration by the
General Assembly. The concept of invoking humanitarian
relief as a basis for peace-keeping operations may have to be
approached with a great deal of caution and circumspection.
Any
providing
humanitarian relief must be completely non-partisan - in fact
and in the perception of the parties involved.
new United Nations
operation
for
That consideration must also guide any discussion or
decision on preventive deployment. The United Nations
must not allow itself to be burdened indefinitely with
obsolete and ineffective peace-keeping operations. Every
possible measure should be taken to ensure the safety of
peace-keeping personnel.
Another aspect of the agenda for peace which we
would like to underline is the particular importance we
attach to Article 50, which enjoins the Security Council to
find solutions to the special economic problems faced by
third States on account of the implementation of sanctions
imposed by the Security Council. We call for an automatic
mechanism that would put
remedial action in place
simultaneously with the imposition of sanctions.
An integral element of any agenda for peace in our
time is the achievement of disarmament, particularly nuclear
disarmament. Having endorsed the Chemical Weapons
Convention, the United Nations should move on to consider
similar steps in other areas of disarmament.
We welcome the unilateral decision of the United States
to extend its moratorium on nuclear testing until the end
of 1994. The focus of the nuclear-weapon Powers should
now be on the early conclusion of a universal, verifiable and
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty leading to the
elimination of all nuclear weapons.
India’s commitment to non-proliferation is complete
and unequivocal.
India has an unblemished track record.
India’s proposal made in 1988 for an action plan for nuclear
disarmament within a specific time-frame is of continuing
relevance in our bid to rid the world of the global scourge
of nuclear weapons. We believe that a new,
just and
uniformly applicable regime for non-proliferation which does
not discriminate between the nuclear-weapon and the
non-nuclear-weapon States should be considered at an early
date. Such a treaty should place equal obligations on all
For a non-proliferation regime to be truly
States.
meaningful,
it must also address the questions of a
convention on the non-use of nuclear weapons, a verifiable
freeze on the production of fissionable material, a total ban
on nuclear-weapon tests and negotiations on general and
complete disarmament. The global spread and reach of
nuclear weapons reduce to a travesty the objective of
achieving genuine peace and security within a narrow
regional framework. It is our hope that the United Nations
will take firm action in this direction to achieve this in the
sense I have mentioned.
One area of concern for developing countries is the
question of ad hoc and unilateral export controls and other
restrictions being placed on the transfer of dual-use and high
technology with the ostensible purpose of
curbing
proliferation. Non-proliferation concerns must not be made
for denying developing countries access to
a pretext
technologies critical
There is,
therefore, need to evolve multilateral, non-discriminatory and
transparent arrangements to regulate the transfer of such
technologies so that peaceful uses and dissemination of some
key technologies are not denied to the developing world.
their development.
for
to examine
There is perhaps merit in convening a special session
on disarmament
the whole gamut of
disarmament-related issues that arise in the new context of
today. The question of a peace dividend arising from
disarmament in the form of financial and technical resources
for
development
cooperation in the context of the United Nations could be
one of the issues that special session could address.
enhancement
the
of
international
It is obvious that there can be no global security unless
development is ensured, and we therefore attach as much
importance to an agenda for development as to the "Agenda
for Peace". Agenda 21 of the Rio Declaration, outlining the
plan and programme for global cooperation in ensuring
sustainable development; the outcome of the Final Act of the
eighth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development (UNCTAD VIII), on the partnership for
development between the North and the South; and the
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
forthcoming Conference on Population and Development, as
well as the World Summit on Social Development, provide
the international community enough opportunity to promote
economic and social development and environmental
sustainability, particularly in developing countries. The work
on an agenda for development should build on all these
development-related action programmes and provide a new
impetus to development cooperation, both under United
Nations auspices and in bilateral and other multilateral
contexts.
resources and
the organs and agencies dealing with
capabilities of
development
in the United Nations system should be
stressed. The United Nations should also be enabled to have
a more interactive relationship with the Bretton Woods
institutions in a spirit of finding considered and innovative
solutions to global economic problems and pooling all
available resources for that purpose.
Enhancement of
the role,
Comprehensive and constructive dialogue between the
North and the South and the strengthening of a global
partnership for development are the needs of our times if we
are to avoid the replacement of the East-West divide by a
North-South one.
India has always participated in the
ongoing North-South dialogue through the Group of 77 and
the Non-Aligned Movement and in keeping with the
requirements of a more focused dialogue. India has become
part of the new group of 15 developing countries for
South-South consultation and cooperation, the G-15. We are
acting as host to the fourth summit meeting of that group at
New Delhi
in December. Representing the developing
countries, we have had a promising start through an informal
dialogue with the G-7 and we hope to build on those
beginnings in a spirit of "global partnership for global
benefit",
Prime Minister,
Mr. P. V. Narasimha Rao
the
G-7 Chairman.
his message
as was
by my
stated
in
to
in global macroeconomic
Some key issues where there is an ongoing dialogue but
which none the less need further consideration and
participation of developing
implementation include:
countries
coordination and
decision-making; reciprocation by the North of the efforts of
the South at
restructuring and economic liberalization
through the pursuit of expansionist policies conducive to
long-term growth and opening them up to global competition
in goods, services and manpower through reduction and
elimination of protectionist barriers; increased capital flows,
both official and private, bilateral and multilateral,
to
developing countries to offset the crippling effects of the
debt burden and to accelerate growth and development; and
a balanced, successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round,
which should ensure substantial enhancement of market
access for developing-country exports and of their access to
the tool of competitiveness.
The profoundly humanistic traditions of the Indian
civilization, with its emphasis on tolerance, harmony,
non-violence and the inviolability of the individual, have
found their modern expression in the setting up of a
democratic, secular and egalitarian polity and society in free
India.
Being the largest practising democracy and effecting a
synthesis between a multiplicity of ethnic, religious and
linguistic groups and peoples has been no easy task, as some
in the West are themselves realizing even in the context of
their relatively lesser diversities. The Constitution of free
India consolidated this humanistic tradition and is indeed a
veritable bill of human rights. A strong and independent
judiciary and a totally free press have also been watchdogs
of democracy and human rights in India.
India’s commitment
to the effective protection of
human rights has now received another institutional impetus
with the establishment of a National Human Rights
Commission comprised of a retired Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of India, a retired judge of the Supreme
Court of India, a former Chief Justice of the State High
Court and other eminent persons as well as the chairmen of
the three separate national commissions which already exist
to protect the interests of scheduled castes and scheduled
tribes, women and minorities. The Commission has been
mandated to inquire into allegations of violations of human
rights and has been invested with wide-ranging powers,
including the power to establish special investigation teams
to carry out effective investigations. The findings of the
Commission are to be published from time to time besides
being reflected in its annual report, which will also be laid
before Parliament.
the
establishment of human rights commissions by the State
Governments, on the pattern of the national Commission, as
also special courts for the speedy trial of cases involving
human rights violations.
The law also provides
for
I am confident that members of the Assembly will
accept that India has established the most appropriate human
rights commission to ensure that there will be full human
rights protection in the country.
to
Our
universally
commitment
acceptable
non-discriminatory norms of human rights and their
protection and promotion cannot be questioned.
It was in
that spirit
that we participated actively in the World
Conference on Human Rights, which recognized the
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
15
importance of this issue. We are however pained that not
enough emphasis is put on a major threat and impediment to
the realization of human rights, namely, terrorism, especially
the kind that is aided and abetted by one State against
another. Why is it
that a few so-called human rights
advocates and Member States of the United Nations choose
to focus on the human rights of terrorists - those who
indulge in senseless murder, destruction, pillage,
the
disruption of civilized existence and the undermining of
democratic institutions? Why do they virtually turn a blind
eye to the violation of the human rights of the victims of
such terrorism - innocent civilians or those upholding law
and order and the territorial integrity of States? Can they in
true conscience allow terrorists and their supporters to usurp
the moral high ground on human rights?
The United Nations will have to take strong action
against terrorists because terrorists engage in all kinds of
violence. They try to upset democratically taken decisions
in a country by using force and killing people. This must be
totally condemned by the United Nations and stopped
completely so that people can live in peace and in
democracy and express their views in accordance with the
constitution of their country.
In sum, we believe that international cooperation in the
protection of human rights can succeed only if it is within
the framework of respect for the sovereignty and integrity of
States and of a vigorous global programme for anti-terrorist
action. We would, however, like to point out that any
unilateral use of human rights as an instrument of political
pressure or intervention, or as an obstacle to trade or a
condition for development cooperation and aid, in fact serves
the opposite purpose and impedes the full realization of the
human rights of people of affected countries.
The
enhanced role of
in
international affairs calls for the restructuring and redefining
of the functions of its principal organs.
the United Nations
The responsibilities of the Security Council have grown
dramatically in the past few years, requiring a greater degree
of participation by the overall membership of the United
Nations in the Council’s decision-making process. We must
recognize that the membership of the United Nations has
grown enormously over the years. A more balanced and
expanded representation for Member States in the Council is
therefore inevitable. Unity of purpose among its members
rather
any
organization. The expansion should not be done selectively
or in a piecemeal manner. The principles or criteria of
expansion of the permanent and non-permanent membership
than size determines
efficiency of
the
should be agreed upon by consensus. For the selection of
additional States in an expanded Council, the population -
which represents the principle of democracy and an element
of power - the size of the economy and the future potential
of the countries concerned should be taken into account,
along with equitable geographical distribution and the
contribution to the maintenance of international peace and
security. There is virtual unanimity among those who have
responded to the Secretary-General that an expansion of the
Council is imperative. Interesting suggestions have been put
forward by several countries. The logical next step would
be to start a process of consultations to arrive at a suitable
and fair formula that commands universal support.
The permanent members should be responsive to the
aspirations of developing countries represented in the
General Assembly on the basis of equality.
It is therefore
essential also to revive the role of the General Assembly, as
was originally envisaged in the Charter.
We stand on a decisive threshold incomparable to any
in history, a moment in time when we must bring to bear a
larger vision and foster the forces of positive integration,
democracy and cooperation at national and international
levels.
My Prime Minister has, in characterizing the 1990s as
watershed years in global affairs in the realm of political,
economic and environmental challenges and changes,
conveyed an unequivocal message:
"We cannot go wrong if we make coexistence
and peace our watchword, and common universal
good our objective".
It is my Government’s belief that this quest for the common
good, jointly undertaken, will be central to the success of
our endeavour and for the achievement of the Charter’s
objective of harmonizing the actions of nations in the
attainment of these common ends.
the outset
Mr. PAPACONSTANTINOU (Greece): Mr. President,
allow me at
to extend to you the warmest
congratulations of the Greek Government on your election
to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly.
Your distinguished personal qualities and
diplomatic skills augur well for the progress of work of the
current session.
I should be remiss if I did not express the deep
the
t h e U n i t e d N a t i o n s ,
appreciation
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l
the Greek Government
o f
of
to
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
energy,
perseverance,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the most distinguished way
in which he has been discharging his high duties. His
dynamism,
and
leadership, together with a determined vision of the new
world structure, constitute invaluable and solid foundations
for a more efficient and creative United Nations response to
the challenges of the close of the twentieth century. He has
our full support.
political will
Let me also join previous speakers in welcoming, from
this rostrum, the new Members that have been admitted to
the United Nations this year.
We were deeply shocked by the tragic news of the
devastating earthquake in India, which has resulted in the
loss of tens of thousands of lives.
I express, on behalf of
the Greek Government and of the Greek people, our sincere
sympathy for the families of victims and for the friendly
people of India.
Earlier this week, the Foreign Minister of Belgium, in
his capacity as President of the Council of the European
Community, delivered a statement on behalf of the European
Community and its 12 member States. My Government
fully subscribes to its content.
Greece,
An unprecedented and historic event has enhanced
hopes for the peoples living in the Middle East. Israelis and
Palestinians have made a courageous step, in Washington,
towards peace.
together with its European
Community partners, offers its full support for keeping the
present momentum so that the parties involved may soon
reach comprehensive and lasting agreements. We have
always taken the stand that peace in the Middle East could
be achieved through direct dialogue between all the parties.
The Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Mitsotakis, addressing
the General Assembly in 1981 in his capacity as Foreign
Minister stressed, inter alia, that:
"The prolongation of the Arab-Israeli conflict and
the failure of all unilateral attempts to resolve it
demonstrate that only dialogue among the parties,
including the Palestine Liberation Organization, can
lead to a just and lasting solution." (A/36/PV.16, p. 17)
We are extremely satisfied that these historic, direct talks
have paved the way to peace.
In today’s global political landscape, the international
community must address many challenges that are neither
familiar nor simple. Troubling developments in areas with
varying political and economic conditions are affecting
millions of people who are caught in a circle of violence and
suffering. Millions face starvation. We must take heart,
however, from the determination of peoples in all parts of
the world to sustain freedom and human rights, and to
choose their futures even in the face of declining output,
rising unemployment and inflation. In the quest for a better
world, for a better future, man is striving to improve his
social, economic and political institutions.
The future of mankind is inextricably linked to the way
in which we have lived and acted during the twentieth
century and,
in particular, during the last four decades.
During this period the international community had rested its
hopes on the United Nations system in order to address the
challenges of modern society. Our Organization has stood
the test of time.
It has offered us a valuable service in the
fields of peace and security. It has also helped us, to a great
extent,
in our common endeavours towards eliminating
injustice, economic imbalances and social disparities, and in
safeguarding the environment.
We firmly believe that all Members of the United
Nations, together, have a moral obligation to act in order to
ensure a better future for mankind. Previous speakers have
duly stressed the need to react jointly to the challenges.
In this respect, allow me to announce that
the
Government of Greece, eager to contribute towards this end,
has the honour to propose the convening in Greece, in
January of the year 2000, of an international United Nations
summit aimed at adopting a global agenda for the twenty-
first century. The general topic of this summit conference
could be "Partners for a Better World: on the Threshold of
the Twenty-first Century". An ad hoc preparatory committee
or an open-ended working group of the whole could be
established by this body to cope with the substance and the
organizational aspects of the summit. Greece expresses its
willingness and readiness to work bilaterally and collectively
towards the realization of this United Nations summit
conference.
I might add that, after all, Greece was the
cradle of the democracy that humanity as a whole now
enjoys. It is the right place to hold the summit proposed by
the Greek Government.
We are living through a period of radical changes,
Former adversaries are now
especially in Europe.
cooperating on the basis of common values and principles.
Historical agreements have been reached in arms control and
arms reduction, both regionally and globally.
These changes have also brought new risks and
the
new States;
proliferation
of
uncertainties:
the
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
17
reappearance of claims of numerous national minorities
suppressed under communism, and with them the danger of
disputed borders; and, on top of these, the economic collapse
and heavy transition costs
in the former communist
countries, as well as the re-emergence of nationalism,
national antagonisms,
religious fanaticism and populist
tendencies. All of these issues have set the stage for a new
approach to the question of security and stability in Europe,
which has emerged as the major issue of political importance
in the old continent. Let me also emphasize that security in
Europe is linked to the economic development and maturity
of the democratic process and institutions in Eastern Europe,
the Balkan peninsula and the Maghreb. Uncontrolled and
unlimited migration resulting from political
turmoil and
economic hardship in these countries could cause social and
economic problems affecting even the more prosperous
countries in Western Europe.
The significance of the United Nations in maintaining
peace has grown dramatically. It is enough to compare the
13 peace-keeping operations undertaken during the first
42 years of its existence with the same number of operations
established between 1991 and 1992. Only last week the
Security Council decided to establish two new peace-keeping
operations in Haiti and in Liberia.
The prestige, credibility and power of the United
Nations have been enhanced by the positive outcome of the
peace-keeping operations. However, the United Nations
system was not ready to cope with such an extended
challenge, and there seems to be a consensus that United
Nations methods and capabilities need to be adjusted and
improved. More effective ways to prevent and contain
conflicts have been considered by the United Nations, world
leaders and respected think-tanks. The Secretary-General’s
"An Agenda for Peace" has
stimulated the ongoing
discussions and has already resulted in the adoption of a
series of measures.
Greece
strongly
supports
the United Nations
peace-keeping operations, as well as peace-building and
peacemaking activities. Our presence in Somalia, Iraq,
Kuwait and Western Sahara indicates our
increasing
involvement in peace-keeping. In this context, I should also
mention our contribution to the United Nations polling
officers unit in Cambodia and in other parts of the world.
Cyprus, a member of the United Nations, still remains
occupied and divided.
Thirty thousand Turkish troops
occupy 38 per cent of
is more,
the Republic. What
thousands of settlers from the mainland have upset
the
demographic balance of the population. We note with deep
concern a complete lack of progress towards a solution of
the Cyprus problem during this year. In spite of the efforts
of the Secretary-General and his representatives, talks in
New York and in Cyprus came to a standstill because of the
unwillingness of the Turkish Cypriot leadership to engage in
meaningful negotiations either on the overall agreement or
on
the
Secretary-General’s call
to Turkey to fully assume its
responsibilities and exercise its decisive influence with the
Turkish-Cypriot leaders in order to achieve progress.
confidence-building measures. We
join
The recent breakthrough in the Middle East has proved
that there are no intractable problems, if there is a political
will. This genuine will is required from Ankara in order to
re-establish the sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity of
Cyprus, while guaranteeing and protecting the rights of all
its citizens. Here, I would remind the Assembly that the
question of the missing persons has not been resolved.
Greece will maintain its constructive attitude in the hope that
it will be reciprocated. My Government this year increased
its contribution to the United Nations Peace-keeping Force
in Cyprus to $6.5 million, as evidence of our strong
commitment
to achieving a political settlement while
safeguarding peace in Cyprus.
We follow with particular attention the tireless efforts
of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to achieve
decisive reforms to consolidate the democratic institutions
and establish an open market economy. We sympathize with
their calls for assistance. We participate in all initiatives to
promote a smooth integration of the newly established States
into international
The consolidation of
democratic institutions and processes in Russia is of the
utmost
importance for Europe and for my country in
particular.
institutions.
An eloquent example of the upheaval brought about by
the dramatic changes in Europe is the situation in the former
Yugoslavia. Here, and especially in Bosnia, the upheaval
has turned into a tragedy of unprecedented proportions. No
matter how much we contribute to prevent and ease the
suffering of the people, there is no remedy unless and until
a political solution has been agreed upon by all parties.
Their leaders should understand that continued fighting
increases hatred and decreases the chances of a compromise,
and should seize any acceptable opportunity for peace for
the sake of
the
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia have
exercised all their ingenuity to convince those leaders of
these simple truths. They have consistently tried to guide
negotiations
the London
Cyrus Vance, Thorvald Stoltenberg and
Conference.
The Co-Chairmen of
the principles of
their people.
towards
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Lord Owen deserve our gratitude for
efforts.
their
tremendous
Greece, along with its European Community partners,
plays a constructive role in the search for a negotiated
overall settlement. We were close to an agreement last May
after the Athens meeting, for which the Greek Government
and particularly the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, worked
hard. Let us hope that the present chance will not be
missed.
When an agreement is reached in Bosnia, we must take
an active part in the huge task of the reconstruction of the
former Yugoslavia. We propose to start planning for this
task right now. The main responsibility lies with the
European Community. Greece expresses its readiness to
host an international meeting for the rehabilitation and
reconstruction
former Yugoslavia, with the
participation of donors, as well as of neighbouring countries.
Substantial economic and financial assistance is
the
prerequisite for achieving social harmony and consolidating
democracy. Let us hope that peace will be achieved sooner
rather than later. Serious consideration should be given now
to planning for the day after peace is achieved.
the
of
the
May I remind the Assembly that the agreement between
the Israelis and the Palestinians came very suddenly. Only
now is the international community thinking of ways to
assist
region to recover and achieve economic
reconstruction and rehabilitation. Let us not be late in the
case of the former Yugoslavia. If we act right now, we act
on time.
The day after should be taken into serious
consideration by all concerned, and especially by the
European Community and the neighbouring States.
resolution 817 (1993). We
My Government deeply appreciates the efforts of the
Co-Chairmen of the Steering Committee of the International
Conference on the Former Yugoslavia in accordance with
thank
Security Council
Mr. Vance for agreeing to continue these efforts
in
accordance with Security Council resolution 845 (1993).
The resolution of this problem will enhance stability in the
Balkan region. Greece’s position is clear: we are striving
to eradicate a potential point of friction in the Balkans,
friction which may lead to tension with unpredictable and
perhaps grave consequences.
On this occasion I reiterate our earnest desire to
strengthen, as far as possible, our relations with all our
neighbours. We have pursued this policy consistently. To
this purpose, we will continue our efforts to enable our
northern neighbours to accomplish the difficult
task of
reconstructing their economies. The Balkan economies are
inextricably interdependent; we need the cooperation of our
northern neighbours in order to link further our economies
with those of the Central, Northern and Western European
States. So our neighbours need the cooperation of Greece in
order
to integrate their economies with the European
Community as well as to have access to the trade routes of
the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
Greece is fully aware of the need to assist, and has
already enormously assisted, Albania in overcoming its
considerable economic difficulties and consolidating its
democratic institutions. At the same time, we again urge the
Albanian Government to grant in practice the fundamental
minority rights established within the process of
the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe,
particularly in the fields of education and religion. Religious
freedom and the right to education should not be denied to
the Greek minority nor to any minority anywhere in the
globe. Albania cannot deny to the minorities within its
borders what it itself asks for its minorities abroad.
The elimination of weapons of mass destruction,
including in particular nuclear, chemical and biological
weapons, is a goal towards which, despite progress achieved,
we must persevere. The signing of the chemical-weapons
Convention on 12 January 1993 was an important step. We
look forward to the Conference of 1995 for an unconditional
and indefinite renewal of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We
also note with satisfaction the progress made towards the
negotiation of a comprehensive test-ban treaty.
The World Conference on Human Rights, held in
Vienna last June, has led to the emergence of common views
and strategies involving large sectors of our societies and to
prospects for better cooperation between the institutions and
organizations active in this area.
We hope that the vicious circle of violence in South
Africa will end soon, with the cooperation of all South
African leaders, and that a new political system will be born.
Greece, along with its European Community partners,
intends to play a constructive role in assisting that country
in its transition to majority rule.
In Somalia, the United Nations embarked upon the first
peace enforcement operation to secure a safe environment
for humanitarian operations, disarm militia and pursue the
difficult task of political recovery. Pacification has been
accomplished to a large extent
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993
19
though serious problems remain. As a troop contributor to
the United Nations Operation in Somalia, Greece firmly
believes that this operation should not be allowed to fail.
Greece and its European Community partners maintain
a
fruitful dialogue in both political and economic matters
with the countries of Latin America. This dialogue will be
continued with great
the San Jose and Rio
ministerial meetings, which will take place next year under
the Greek presidency of the European Community and in
Greece.
interest at
In many of the poorest developing countries, standards
of living continue to decline, while in other developing
countries the results of economic performance are, to say the
least, mixed. Thus, some economies in Asia are vibrant.
Latin America, with the debt crisis behind it, has pursued
successful structural adjustment programmes. On the other
hand, in half of the developing world the picture remains
bleak.
It
is particularly so in Africa. The needs are
compelling.
We share the view that growth should be sustainable in
that it creates more employment, less poverty and greater
equality of opportunity, and also in that it promotes human
freedom and the preservation of the environment. Successful
national policies are necessary to bring about greater
participation by the people in economic, social and political
life.
In concluding my statement, I appeal to every Member,
not only in my capacity as Foreign Minister of Greece, but
also as a man who wants to see his grandchildren live in a
different, better world - a world of tolerance, peace and
solidarity. Let us join our efforts and share our experience
for a better tomorrow. Let us be tolerant of each other in
order to ensure a better life for our children and for their
children. Let us ensure that solidarity and partnership
prevail over
sterile antagonism, micronationalism and
totalitarian ideologies and regimes. Let us work together to
eliminate war,
"ethnic
cleansing",
holocaust, xenophobia, racism and aggression.
famine, genocide,
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
