United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
20th
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 7 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
President: INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
ADDRESS
BY MR. ALIJA IZETBEGOVIC,
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA AND
HERZEGOVINA
carry out their mission of peace and humanity. Indeed, our
sympathies go out
families of United Nations
personnel in all peace-keeping missions throughout the globe
who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the name of the
United Nations Charter.
to all
We should also like to congratulate the Palestinian and
Israeli people on their recent efforts towards peace. We are
likewise happy to see the great strides towards democracy
being made in South Africa.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will hear an address
by the President of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr. Alija Izetbegovic, President of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
Mr. President, it is my pleasure and privilege to extend
to you our sincerest congratulations on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth
session. Your election to this high office reaffirms the
importance of the role that small States play in the family of
nations.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of
the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, His Excellency Mr. Alija Izetbegovic, and to
invite him to address the Assembly.
President
IZETBEGOVIC:
Let me begin by
extending, on behalf of the people and Government of the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, our most heartfelt
condolences to the peoples and Governments of both
Venezuela and India, which have recently been hit severely
by the tragedy of disaster. It is our hope that both countries,
through the will and spirit of their peoples, will recover
quickly.
May we also extend our sympathies to those countries
and families that have lost loved ones under the United
Nations flag in Bosnia and Herzegovina in attempting to
We should also like to extend our appreciation to your
distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stojan Ganev,
our Balkan colleague, for conducting the deliberations of this
body with great expertise and commitment.
The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is pleased to
welcome the Organization’s newest Members: Andorra, the
Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco,
the Republic of
Macedonia and the Slovak Republic. We are confident that
these Members will uphold the principles of the United
Nations Charter.
The international community has neither a definite
policy nor a clear plan of political action that would
facilitate a transition from the Communist structures that
have been in power for 50 years to concepts based on
freedom and democracy. We believe that it is impossible to
find solutions for either global or local conflicts unless a
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86788 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.20
26 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
clear stand is taken on the overall question of what the
post-Communist heritage is to be.
The negative aspects of this problem have been fully
illustrated in the case of my country. It is obvious that the
remaining forces of the Communist potential for aggression
have been exercised against us and that an extirpation of
chances for democratic development has been perpetrated
before the eyes of Europe, America and the whole world.
This act is being carried out entirely by force, in forms
ranging from aggression and mass murder of civilians to
destruction of all traces of civilization and culture and the
extermination of whole nations by the barbaric tactics of
burned and destroyed land.
It
Simultaneously with this unprecedented violence, an
experiment
in political vivisection is being carried out
against our country.
is being carried out by an
international community that, in the case of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, has obviously been testing various models for
the post-Communist State. The experiment, unfortunately,
is being performed in vivo by testing various hypotheses on
our living national and governmental organism.
In this
experiment, our people are dying, and so is our country and
our State.
This concept, which sought
The first experiment was performed by the London
to stop the
Conference.
aggression, was abandoned without a single attempt
to
implement it; and this only intensified the war on our soil.
This was followed by an attempt to find a solution by means
of constitutional, legal and political reform to a crisis that
was becoming ever deeper. This project, known as the
Vance-Owen plan, no one even attempted to implement. It
was abandoned only to be replaced by a new one, which is
based on the false thesis that what we have in Bosnia and
Herzegovina is a civil war between the three peoples and
that territorial partition is therefore the only solution.
But this plan is being fulfilled neither with respect to
the idea that the partition of the land should be carried out
in accordance with the criterion of ethnic majority, nor with
respect to the basic intention of bringing about peace. As a
result, the uncontrollable unfolding of events will continue,
and will cause nothing but new suffering for our people.
Now the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina are being
asked to choose between a just, defensive war and an unjust
peace. The war, if continued, is likely to cause further
suffering for our people and the further destruction of our
nation.
It could mean the death of thousands more.
The unjust peace plan is flawed because it is based
upon the repugnant and historically failed concept of ethnic
partition and apartheid. The flaw is compounded by the fact
that even the partition is unfair, since it seeks to satisfy the
aggressor’s appetite for an inequitably large share at the
expense of the victim.
However, the flaws in the so-called peace plan being
forced upon us are not merely philosophical. First, any plan
that legitimizes genocide and promotes ethnic partition will
most likely sow the seeds for new aggression and fuel the
fires of retribution. Secondly, any peace that does not
address the true causes of war will, at best, offer only
temporary, remedial relief rather than promoting the healing
that is essential. Finally, any peace plan that makes no
provision for a viable Bosnian State, that does not address
even the most basic needs of the victim and that does not
provide the necessary measures for real implementation and
durability is, in the end, not a plan for real peace.
Last week’s provisional acceptance by the Bosnian
Parliament of the peace proposals is dependent on the same
minimal adjustments that we have consistently held to be
necessary for a durable peace. These adjustments are the
following:
First, the Bosnian Republic within the proposed Union
of the Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be viable
geographically, economically, politically and defensively.
Secondly, the aggressor forces must surrender control
of the territories where they have slaughtered and expelled
civilian populations so that the Bosnians can return to their
homes. Well over half a million refugees would find it
impossible to return to villages, towns and cities from which
they were expelled if Serbian forces that committed murder,
rape and torture were to continue to control those territories.
There is the option that some of those territories could be
temporarily administered by international peace-keeping
forces.
the
from those
nations
and
final
Thirdly,
agreement must
contain
comprehensive and specific guarantees concerning its
implementation
regional
organizations that will actually be enforcing the peace. Such
guarantees must be an integral part of the peace accords and
cannot be delayed until a later date. Otherwise, we risk
adopting another agreement or commitment that will, like so
many others previously, become worthless for peace and of
value only to further legitimize the aggressor.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
3
Fourthly, in the event that the international community
is not successful in implementing the peace plan, then we
must be allowed to arm and defend ourselves.
its
authority
Consistent with
unavoidable
responsibility, the Security Council should evaluate the plan
prepared by Lord Owen and Mr. Stoltenberg to determine its
consistency or inconsistency with the United Nations Charter
and numerous resolutions previously adopted by the Council.
and
The Council cannot escape its responsibilities and the
inherent
inconsistencies by hiding behind the frequently
repeated excuse that it will accept whatever all the parties
agree to, when one party, the victim, is under the pressure
of the very real threat of genocide.
team should
As further negotiations on these matters continue, the
mediation
a
representative of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO), which will most
agent of
enforcement. This would add a degree of clarity, direction
and credibility to the talks that has been lacking so far.
likely be
enlarged
the
be
to
include
ostensibly been protecting the rights of ethnic Serbs in
Croatia, it has not been willing to recognize those same
rights for minorities in Serbia. We demand the same rights
for
the Muslims of Sandzak as those that Serbs are
demanding for themselves in Croatia. Future negotiations
cannot neglect this very important political and human-rights
issue.
As United States President Clinton recently stated
before this body, the United Nations cannot become involved
in every world conflict. United Nations involvement should
only be undertaken with a clear political and military
strategy in place. Tragically, United Nations involvement in
Bosnia and Herzegovina has so far shown the very antithesis
of any clarity of objective and firmness of resolve. The
moral void created by this confusion has naturally been
filled with a determination to defer to the aggressor’s wishes
at
The United Nations
intervention,
in its half-heartedness and equivocation,
combined with its proud insistence that it is getting the job
done and that
therefore we cannot be allowed to arm
ourselves, may well go down in history as the principal
instrument of my country’s destruction.
the expense of
the victim.
In this regard, a few unavoidable questions arise. Why
has there been no implementation of Security Council
resolutions 824 (1993) and 836 (1993) calling for the lifting
of the siege of our cities? What has happened to the
Security Council’s demands in resolution 752 (1992) for the
withdrawal of all Serbian military and paramilitary units
from our country along with their heavy weapons? Why has
there been no implementation of Security Council resolutions
787 (1992) and 838 (1993), which were to monitor the
border between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and
prevent the continuing massive flow of arms and material
going to the aggressors in Bosnia?
It is no longer possible to speak of non-intervention.
The international community’s involvement in Bosnia began
with the imposition of the arms embargo and has continued
through this whole series of unfulfilled commitments. The
United Nations must either follow
Now, let me bring to the Assembly’s attention the
impending humanitarian tragedy unfolding in my country.
On behalf of all Bosnians, I must first thank the United
Nations and all the friendly Governments, private institutions
and heroic individuals that have helped provide humanitarian
assistance in Bosnia. We profoundly appreciate the efforts
that have so far saved many lives. But with the coming of
winter, more help will be needed if our wounded and
malnourished population is to avoid finally succumbing to
starvation, disease and exposure. In this effort it is essential
that
the international community and its most capable
members and relevant
regional organizations do the
following:
first, take steps to encourage and enforce the
maintenance of the cease-fires recently agreed to by all the
relevant forces; secondly, take steps, as envisioned in several
Security Council
to stop the blockage of
humanitarian relief and other essential supplies such as
water, electricity and gas; thirdly, reopen Tuzla Airport,
making possible the delivery of humanitarian relief to over
a million people; and, fourthly, establish clear demands for
the lifting of the siege of Sarajevo as a first step towards the
lifting of all sieges of Bosnian towns, including the safe
areas designated by Security Council resolutions 824 (1993)
and 836 (1993).
resolutions,
Our Bosnian minority in Serbia,
the Muslims of
Sandzak, have been deprived of their rights. Many people
who have defended the rights of their countrymen have been
imprisoned or expelled. While the Serbian regime has
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
through with its intervention or decide to rescind that
intervention. One way or another, it cannot continue with
the present policy, which makes it an accomplice in the
destruction of the Bosnian people.
My Government remains committed to peace and to the
ideals of a pluralistic, democratic and multi-religious society.
Unfortunately, some of the very nations that espouse these
ideals world wide have betrayed them by inaction, and in
their own backyards. We cannot indefinitely continue a
struggle on principle without adequate help from outside or
without at least being afforded the full opportunity to defend
ourselves.
The action of our Parliament is clear in its commitment
to peace, its demands for a viable State and a durable peace.
Principles have been shamelessly abandoned by those who
had the greatest duty and reason to uphold them in our
country. We cannot and will not accommodate the anxieties
of those same Governments and allow them to pressure us
to abandon our last hope for self-preservation and a real and
durable peace.
Although there has been a process through which many
witnesses to this crime have become anaesthetized to its
horror, the horror itself will never go away, and future
generations of the righteous and the just in every nation will
neither forgive nor trust the countries which allowed it to
happen. At least a billion people are waiting for this body
to act. Are Members really ready to surrender Bosnia and
its people to annihilation? Those billion people I have
mentioned, and not only they, will never forgive you.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Alija Izetbegovic´, President of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
The PRESIDENT: May I remind delegates once again
that any congratulations to be expressed to speakers should
be done through the delegations in the aisles adjoining the plenary.
Mr. AL-MUNTASSER (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)
(interpretation from Arabic): On behalf of my delegation,
may I condole through the delegation of India, with the
Government and people of India over the natural calamity
which has befallen that great people. Allow me, at the
outset, to congratulate you sincerely on your election to the
presidency of the forty-eighth session of the United Nations
General Assembly.
I should also like to express my
country’s appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan
Ganev, for his constructive efforts. We hope that
in
continuing to play a constructive role in the new
international environment the General Assembly will benefit
from your diplomatic skills and broad experience.
to
May I also take this opportunity to express our
appreciation
the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication to the United Nations and
for his efforts aimed at reforming the Organization at this
critical juncture.
I should like also to welcome the new countries that
have joined the United Nations. We are confident that their
membership will enhance the role of the Organization and
further universal acceptance of its principles and purposes,
which aim at establishing and strengthening international
peace and security and ensuring that justice is done.
Today,
the people of the Jamahiriya celebrate the
anniversary of the departure of the last remnants of Fascism
from Libyan soil, thus putting an end to a period in its
history that was characterized by the domination of settler-
colonialism, a period during which injustice and persecution
prevailed. As our people celebrate this anniversary today,
they reaffirm that relations between Libya and the State from
which those settlers came are now relations of good-
neighbourliness, based on understanding and cooperation in
every field.
During the forty-seventh session of
the General
there were numerous developments in the
Assembly,
international situation. However, before I speak of my
country’s position on those developments, allow me to start
with a question which is of great importance to us and
which is not unrelated to those recent
international
developments. Rather, it is one of their by-products. It has
to do with the tendency of certain countries to impose
solutions to their differences with other countries in a
manner that is not consonant with the Charter of the United
Nations or with international norms and conventions. In so
doing, those countries tend to deliberately apply double
standards, especially when the dispute is with a country that
pursues independent policies and adopts unsubmissive
positions. This is the case with regard to the dispute that
arose between the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and France,
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
5
that
Notwithstanding the fact
Britain and the United States of America, when the three
countries declared that they suspected the involvement of
Libyan nationals in the Pan American and UTA plane
incidents and demanded that two Libyan citizens be handed
over to stand trial
in Scotland or the United States of
America.
the Libyan
authorities, once notified, took the appropriate legal steps,
the other parties refused to cooperate with the Libyan
authorities or
their ongoing
investigations. Instead, they resorted to the Security Council
and directed it to deal with this matter under Chapter VII of
the Charter, which has nothing to do with the issue in
question. Libya has not
threatened anyone, nor has it
endangered international peace and security. The whole
thing is a question of suspicions and allegations that have to
be investigated through judicial channels.
the results of
to await
Although my country realizes that this matter has been
addressed, intentionally, within a framework that is totally
incompatible with its legal character, it has continued to
investigate the whole issue, as it has done since it was
notified of the matter, because it is determined to uncover
the circumstances and facts surrounding the case. Libya has
also declared its readiness to cooperate by responding to the
requirements of Security Council resolution 731 (1992),
which include cooperation with the Secretary-General of the
United Nations to ensure the success of
the mission
entrusted to him by that resolution.
In this
respect, my country has
reiterated its
condemnation of international terrorism in every shape and
form.
It has severed relations with all organizations and
entities suspected of being involved in terrorist acts and has
affirmed that it will not allow its territory, institutions or
citizens to be used, directly or indirectly, for the carrying out
of such acts. It has declared its readiness to punish severely
those proven guilty of involvement in terrorist activities. My
country has also declared that there are no terrorist training
camps on its soil and has invited the Security Council, or
any other international body the Council may choose, to
investigate and verify this.
In addition, my country has cooperated with the
Government of the United Kingdom in trying to find
individuals whom the British Government has accused of
involvement in terrorist acts. More than one meeting has
been held in this respect, and British officials have
confirmed the Jamahiriya’s positive cooperation with them
in this matter. Moreover,
to determine the
responsibility for the bombing of the French UTA plane,
more than one meeting has been held between the Libyan
investigative judge and his French counterpart. Contacts are
in order
ongoing with the French authorities to arrange the French
judge’s visit, and his mission will be facilitated, provided he
arrives in a peaceful and civilized manner and not in the
manner of sixteenth-century gunboat diplomacy.
I have spoken briefly of the measures taken by Libya
in response to the stipulations of Security Council
resolution 731 (1992). As regards the determination of
responsibility for these terrorist acts to which the American
and French planes were subjected, my country took legal and
investigative measures and has called on the British and
American authorities
to cooperate in completing the
investigation.
It has also called on neutral bodies and
international and humanitarian organizations to verify the
fairness of the investigations.
the
terrorism,
aforementioned
Concerning its contribution to the eradication of
international
practical
measures prove my country’s seriousness in stamping out
this
to eliminate
international terrorism was embodied in our call for the
convening of a special session of the General Assembly to
study the causes and dimensions of the problem.
phenomenon.
Libya’s
eagerness
The matter that has not yet been resolved is that
relating to the request by the British and American
authorities to turn over the two suspects to stand trial in the
courts of one of those countries. My country has spared no
effort in seeking to resolve this problem in accordance with
the conventions of legality. We offered to go to the
International Court of Justice and we proposed surrendering
the two suspects to the United Nations office in Libya for
investigation. We also proposed that the Secretary-General
of
fact-finding
committee to examine the verisimilitude of the accusations
and carry out a comprehensive investigation.
the United Nations establish a legal
this
The competent authorities in my country put
problem before the Basic People’s Congresses -
the
legislative authority - in Libya, which adopted a decision
wherein they stated they would not object to the suspects
being tried before an unbiased and fair court agreed upon by
all concerned. On this basis, my country announced its
readiness to enter
into negotiations with the countries
concerned, under the auspices of the Secretary-General, on
a venue for the trial that could be agreed upon by all parties
to the dispute and that would guarantee an environment
conducive to revealing the truth. To our minds, this is the
substance of Security Council resolution 731 (1992). The
Secretary-General was notified of this step in December
1992 and again last July, when he was informed that Libya
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
was prepared to discuss the proceedings and arrangements
relating to the trial.
(see
the
Jakarta Message, A/47/675);
The position taken by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
concerning these disputes met with widespread approval
from various States and regional organizations, including the
Non-Aligned Movement, which is made up of some 110
States
the
Organization of the Islamic Conference, with its 54 members
(resolutions 6/20 and 21/14); the League of Arab States,
which has 22 members (resolutions 5156, 5158, 5161, 5224
and 5281); and,
the Organization of
African Unity (OAU), which consists of more than 50
States. The OAU, in resolution 1457, expressed appreciation
for Libya’s initiatives towards the resolution of this dispute
and commended Libya’s readiness to cooperate with the
legal and judicial authorities and called upon the Security
Council to review resolution 748 (1992) with a view to
lifting the embargo imposed on Libya.
last but not
least,
The positions taken by these organizations show that
they see the justice of the Libyan viewpoint, and also
highlight their interest in playing their roles in resolving the
dispute by peaceful means according to Chapter VIII of the
Charter. It was hoped that the three States concerned would
take these positions into consideration and respond to the
Libyan initiatives, but our efforts have been rejected.
Moreover, the States concerned have discredited both the
flexibility and responsiveness of the Libyan position and
have insisted, in contravention of international laws and
practices, on the extradition of the suspects to the United
States or Britain to stand trial before the courts of one of
those countries.
that go with it.
Libya has not, in principle, rejected the trial of the
suspects, as it has confirmed from the very start. All Libya
has asked for, and is still determined to obtain,
is a
the legal and
legitimate and unbiased trial with all
psychological guarantees
Intensive
consultations and contacts in this regard were recently
conducted, and their results were communicated to the
Secretary-General on 24 September 1993. Libya considers
the content of the Secretary-General’s reply sufficient and
acceptable, and, therefore, the only step left in the resolution
of this problem is that of convincing the suspects to submit
themselves to the Scottish judiciary. The Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya is encouraging them to do so.
This was
communicated to the Secretary-General
in two letters
contained in document S/26523, dated 1 October 1993.
The Libyan Arab
responded
pragmatically to the stipulations of Security Council
Jamahiriya
has
resolution 731 (1992). Now it becomes necessary not only
to abandon the efforts aimed at tightening the sanctions
imposed by resolution 748 (1992), but to lift those sanctions
immediately. This is why we appeal to this Assembly,
which represents the conscience of the world, to support the
measures that have been called for by the international and
regional organizations I have mentioned.
The sanctions have caused the Libyan people much
misery and have cost them billions of dollars in material
losses, to which must be added the deaths of hundreds of
children, women and elderly people.
I do not want to go
into detail, for we have elaborated on this in 14 documents,
the latest of which is document S/26139. However, in brief,
let me say that the embargo has prevented about 8,525
patients with severe illnesses from travelling abroad for
treatment.
It has prevented college professors from
travelling to Libya and has led to the suspension of contracts
with hundreds of physicians. The embargo has caused the
number of fatal road accidents to double because of the
difficulty in transporting the injured to specialized hospitals
in neighbouring countries. Also, the death rate among cattle
has been high because of lack of immunization and a
shortage of preventive medications.
It has cut the revenue
from economic activities by more than $2,400,000,000.
Furthermore, there is a severe lack of spare parts for aircraft,
which has led to a plane crash with 157 fatalities among
passengers of various nationalities.
The easing of tensions in international relations has
enabled the international community to achieve progress in
the areas of disarmament and the protection of human rights.
It has also enhanced international efforts aimed at solving
disputes which, until recently, have been a source of great
concern. This has included the reconciliation in Cambodia
and the maintenance of stability in Central America. There
are also positive signs regarding the attainment of lasting
peace in Mozambique.
Important steps have been taken
towards full national reconciliation in Liberia, and the
dispute in Rwanda is on its way to a final solution.
However, these hopeful developments should not mask the
fact that the world now is in the grip of unprecedented
tensions and conflicts, which necessitate further efforts by
the United Nations and regional organizations not only to
resolve them but also to prevent certain countries from
monopolizing the resolution of such conflicts. The problem
of Cyprus remains unsolved. The situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina and the Balkans in general has deteriorated and
continues to cause much human misery. Afghanistan has not
achieved total stability yet, and fighting in Angola has
intensified. The national peace accords there have not been
genuinely observed, regardless of the international and
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
7
regional efforts deployed. The situation in South Africa has
witnessed some positive developments, but an immediate
stop must be put to the acts of violence which negatively
affect the transformation of South Africa into a unified,
democratic and non-racial State.
well as the resolutions adopted on the subject by other
organizations, such as the Non-Aligned Movement. Once
again, we declare that we welcome any and all initiatives
aimed at removing the causes of tension, enhancing stability
and expanding cooperation in the region.
For more than four decades, the United Nations has
continued to adopt numerous resolutions on the question of
Palestine. Regardless, the Israelis have refused to comply
with any of those resolutions, all of which recognize the
inalienable and legitimate right of the Palestinian people to
self-determination and their right to return to their homeland.
The provisions of General Assembly resolution 194 (III) on
the right of return for refugees, of resolution 478 (1980) on
Jerusalem, of resolution 3375 (XXX) on the right to self-
determination and of resolution 799 (1992) on deportees are
only a few dead letter examples. Despite the recent
developments concerning the question of Palestine,
the
position of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya regarding this issue
and the conflict in the Middle East remains as we have
previously explained it, and let me now reiterate it:
all
occupied Arab territories should be liberated, and the
Palestinian people should be supported until
they have
regained all their rights - the foremost of which being their
right to self-determination, their right to return to their land
and their right to establish in Palestine their own State,
where both Arabs and Jews can live on an equal footing.
In another part of the Arab homeland, namely Somalia,
the situation is still a source of grave concern. Although
earlier efforts were successful in creating a safe environment
for the distribution of humanitarian relief assistance to those
suffering from the widespread famine, the recent events,
which indicate that the circumstances have changed, show
how sensitive the situation is in that region. My country,
which has closely followed the developments in Somalia,
remains convinced that solutions to problems cannot be
imposed by force regardless of the enforcer. Solutions can
be found only through dialogue and understanding.
First and foremost,
the Somalis themselves should
abandon their differences and work together to implement
the agreements they have reached so that Somalia and its
people may regain peace, security and stability.
Given our conviction that peace and security in the
Mediterranean region is closely related, not only to security
and cooperation with Africa and Europe, but also to world
peace and security,
the strengthening of security and
cooperation in the region is a high priority for the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya. That
is the reason why my country
welcomed General Assembly resolutions in this regard as
of
and
that
in
security
My country is fully cognizant of the fact
cooperation
the
strengthening
the
Mediterranean region is a multidimensional issue. However,
we continue to believe that withdrawal of foreign fleets and
the closing down of foreign bases in this region constitute
Such a step would enhance
the essential elements.
confidence-building in the area and channel
resources
towards economic and social development. At the same
time, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya believes that the use of
dialogue and understanding - on the basis of mutual respect
for sovereignty and in accordance with international norms
and conventions - to settle differences would also constitute
a basic element in restoring security and stability to the
Mediterranean region. Moreover, intensified collaboration
and coordination of efforts in areas of common interest
would further enhance cooperation. For this reason, the
Jamahiriya welcomes
taken within regional
groupings such as the Arab Maghreb Union and the Western
Mediterranean Grouping (5 + 5), as such steps constitute an
important breakthrough towards the realization of peoples’
aspirations after peace, security and cooperation.
the steps
Concrete progress has been made over the past few
years in the area of disarmament, especially with regard to
the reduction of nuclear-weapon stockpiles and accession by
more countries to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. While it
welcomes those developments, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
does not consider them to be sufficient and believes that the
danger of nuclear proliferation requires further international
efforts that would lead to the complete elimination of all
weapons of mass destruction in the case of every State that
possesses, produces or stockpiles them. Consequently, my
country supports all initiatives aimed at achieving this end,
including
the United Nations
disarmament mechanisms and especially the Conference on
Disarmament, whose work has been crowned by the
Chemical Weapons Convention.
This is an ambitious
document on the road to general and complete disarmament.
However, my country has so far abstained from signing this
Convention because of the existence in the region we live in
of weapons of mass destruction that are not subject
to
such
international
circumstances,
the Chemical
Weapons Convention without considering other weapons of
mass destruction in the Middle East, mainly nuclear
weapons.
safeguards and inspection.
to consider
enhancement
is difficult
Under
the
of
it
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
My country has supported the call for the establishment
of nuclear-weapon-free zones, including the proposal by the
Arab Republic of Egypt which calls for making the Middle
East an area free of weapons of mass destruction. Based on
my country’s eagerness to stamp out the dangers of such
weapons and in order to get rid of them, it has called on the
United Nations to adopt the necessary measures to destroy
nuclear, bacteriological, chemical and other weapons of mass
destruction, such as ballistic missiles, and to prohibit and
criminalize the development, possession and use of all such
weapons.
The international family’s current efforts to establish
security and stability in the world, mainly through the
redoubling of efforts to contain political crises and end
regional disputes, should be expanded to embrace economic
problems as well. The impact of economic problems on
international peace and security is not less dangerous than
that of armed conflicts. According to the 1993 World
Economic Survey, the world economy continues to stagnate.
Its revitalization requires urgent
international measures
which would give special attention to the developing
countries, which suffer from economic difficulties that arise
from trade protectionism, large external debts, restrictions on
the transfer of technology, the reverse flow of resources and
low commodity prices.
In the context of the international community’s efforts
to promote economic and social development, my country
wishes to draw attention to the danger of the coercive
to which some developing
measures of various forms,
Such
countries,
measures
to
development and run counter to the Charter, the rules of
international
law and to all relevant General Assembly
resolutions.
including mine, are being subjected.
constitute one of
the main obstacles
Support
for development efforts also requires the
international community to honour its commitments to
certain development programmes, such as the United Nations
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
Africa attaches great hope to this programme because it
would help promote developmental efforts that began with
the establishment of Africa’s economic community and have
been enhanced by the establishment of a number of
subregional groupings such as the Arab Maghreb Union,
which has taken important steps towards improving the use
of the region’s resources and towards strengthening the
regional ties that would enhance the adoption of common
policies by its member countries in the political, economic
and social spheres.
Last year’s Earth Summit yielded important results.
We are satisfied with the measures adopted towards the
realization of the Conference’s objectives, especially the
beginnings of a convention to combat drought and
desertification. This is an extremely important issue for my
country and for the whole North Africa region, which suffers
from a shortage of water and is threatened by drought and
creeping desertification. Furthermore, we believe that true
determination to protect the environment lies in international
cooperation and in honouring the commitments made at the
Rio Conference. Protection of the environment is one of my
country’s top priorities. Our first step in combating drought
and desertification is the great man-made river. Our national
plans include the reclamation of thousands of hectares of
desert for the purpose of agriculture and settlement.
In this respect, I must inform the Assembly that our
efforts to expand environmental protection and maintenance
are being hampered by the widespread presence of remnants
of war, and of mines that were laid in Libya’s soil during
World War II. International and regional organizations have
adopted numerous resolutions in this connection, and the
General Assembly has also adopted similar resolutions, the
latest of which was resolution 40/197. All those resolutions
have called upon the countries responsible to provide the
information and technical assistance required for the removal
of those mines and other remnants of war, and to pay
compensation for the damage caused. Today, we call once
again upon those countries to shoulder their responsibility
and to respond to the calls of the international community
and the United Nations resolutions on the remnants and
debris of war.
The adoption of international policies and programmes
aimed at ensuring mankind’s well-being and attaining the
best possible standard of living is one of our objectives. On
this basis, my country welcomes the convening of the
International Conference on Population and Development
next year, and of the World Conference on Women and the
World Summit for Social Development in 1995. To our
mind, these conferences will give a strong political impetus
to international efforts and activities aimed at stamping out
underdevelopment, poverty and hunger. In welcoming these
conferences, we are encouraged by the important results
from the International Conference on Human Rights. They
are a great achievement in the promotion of respect for
human rights and basic freedoms.
My country which belongs to one of the great cultures
of the world, namely the Arab-Islamic culture that has
contributed greatly to the promotion of human rights, is
international
determined to continue
to support
the
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
9
community’s efforts, deployed through the United Nations
and its organs, in the area of human rights, so that we may
realize the goals of the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action.
Given its interest in human rights which it considers to
be the basis for development and prosperity, my country has
worked to achieve and strengthen equality for all its citizens
and to guarantee their rights. This has been stressed in the
great green document on human rights and basic freedoms.
The freedom enhancement act was promulgated in 1991, and
a large number of international agreements in the area of
human rights have also been ratified.
the
International Committee on the Qaddafi Award for Human
Rights has been established.
In addition,
The restructuring and reform of the United Nations and
the democratization of the composition of its organs have
become a necessity if the United Nations is to be enabled to
meet international demands, become more responsive to the
needs of Member States and more effective in its work, in
consonance with the goals of the Charter.
My country has been following with interest the current
attempts at reforming the United Nations in the economic
and social
fields. We welcome the decision on the
revitalization of the General Assembly and the streamlining
of its agenda. We hope that the ad hoc working group
established for this purpose will reach a conclusion that
strikes a balance between, and safeguards the interests of, all
Member States.
The Secretary-General’s proposals in his report entitled
"An Agenda for Peace" are a valuable contribution towards
enhancing the Organization’s ability to meet the challenges
of
the coming period. My country welcomed those
proposals, and has taken note of the two resolutions adopted
by the General Assembly in this respect.
of the Charter and with international laws and norms. The
Council should also improve its methods of work and adopt
an objective course of action.
It should not apply double
standards when dealing with issues of world peace and
security. The present facts on the ground necessitate an
enlargement of the membership of the Security Council not
through partial measures but through radical solutions that
reflect the increase in the membership of the United Nations
and take into consideration equal geographical distribution in
accordance with the provisions of Article 23 of the Charter
and the objectives of General Assembly resolution 47/62.
Within the context of the reform process, it is highly
important to review some of the provisions of the Charter
that are no longer in keeping with the great changes that
have taken place in the international arena. The world
situation in 1945 and the situation now are different. This
requires the adoption of bold measures in relation to certain
provisions of
the Charter whose continued existence
constitutes a major impediment to the most important role of
the United Nations, namely, the maintenance of international
peace and security. Here, we refer to the veto power in the
United Nations Security Council, which is held by a very
few countries. The abolition of this privilege is something
that has long been called for; calls for abolition have grown
over the last few years. The position expressed by many
countries, including my country, during the last session of
the General Assembly and in other forums, confirms the
widespread desire to abolish this privilege and highlights the
fact that any collective security system that is subject to the
veto power of some countries cannot be depended upon to
maintain international peace and security.
In conclusion, as we prepare to celebrate the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, and as we look forward
for
the Charter and especially by its respect
In carrying out the recommendations of the Agenda for
Peace, the United Nations should be guided by the principles
of
the
sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of
States, as stipulated in resolution 47/120, and confirmed by
resolution 47/233 adopted by the General Assembly just last
month. The strengthening of the General Assembly so that
it may perform the role entrusted to it by the Charter should
be one of the main objectives in reforming the United
Nations. The Security Council, which Member States have
entrusted with the maintenance of international peace and
security on their behalf, should carry out its duties in a
manner that fully conforms with the principles and purposes
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to the next 50 years, we are duty bound, both as States and
as peoples, to lay down a strong and just foundation for the
world of tomorrow. The world we aspire to is a world free
from conflicts, disputes and wars; a world where the means
of annihilation and destruction do not exist and where the
manifestations of poverty and suffering have
long
disappeared; a world of security and stability built by people
on the basis of virtue, justice and equality, where democracy
and human rights are reinforced by the absence of violence,
injustice and arbitrary acts; a world where all people have a
genuine opportunity to look to the future with optimism and
to enjoy peace, security and happiness by truly applying the
principles of
In
contributing to the achievement of these goals, the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya put forward a proposal designed to deal
with and solve many of the problems and issues with which
mankind is preoccupied. That proposal was circulated in
document A/46/840 which I shall not address but which is
available to representatives as an addendum to this
statement.
the United Nations.
the Charter of
Mr. GOMBOSUREN (Mongolia): At
the outset,
permit me to offer to you, Sir, my delegation’s sincere
congratulations on your unanimous election to the presidency
of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Your
professional experience as your country’s Permanent
Representative to the United Nations will undoubtedly be an
asset in our important deliberations.
We pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev,
for his dedicated service. We applaud the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his bold and tireless efforts
to strengthen the world Organization. We warmly welcome
the new Members and wish them well.
A retrospective look at developments since the end of
the cold war reveals the complexity of advancing towards a
new fabric of international relations. On the one hand, the
spirit of cooperation and interaction is becoming prevalent.
The new democracies are making headway in the face of the
formidable difficulties of transition. Recent events in Russia
are ample evidence of this. We are confident that the
democratic forces, led by President Yeltsin, will overcome
the present ordeal and succeed in their endeavours. The
significance for the region and the entire world of the
success of Russia’s reforms can hardly be overemphasized.
Mr. Ouedraogo (Burkina Faso), Vice-Chairman, took
the Chair.
Furthermore, solutions are being found even to the most
protracted regional conflicts. The recent historic act of
recognition between Israel and the Palestine
mutual
Liberation Organization (PLO) and the interim peace
agreement are a case in point. We hope that this will lead
to a just and comprehensive solution to the Arab-Israeli
conflict.
An important breakthrough towards democracy and a
multiracial society in South Africa has been made. Peace
and the national reconciliation that had eluded Cambodia for
so long has been restored to this land of ancient civilization.
Landmark agreements on the prohibition of chemical
weapons and on the reduction of nuclear armaments have
been concluded.
In the meantime,
is clear that old, deep-seated
problems still await solutions and new ones, once held in
check by the circumstances of the time, are emerging.
it
Indeed, no tangible progress has been registered in
addressing the issues of poverty, external debt, drugs,
organized crime, the widening gap between the affluent and
the poor, and environmental crises. Though the cold war is
over, the "hot wars" have multiplied. Suffice it to mention
the continuing tragedies of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Somalia, Nagorny-Karabakh and Abkhazia.
It
is widely recognized today that
the concept of
development has acquired a multidimensional character
encompassing not only economic growth, but also political,
social and environmental aspects. Moreover, greater
emphasis is being placed on the human dimension of
development, as in the final analysis the well-being of
people stands as a true measurement of development. We
believe that the United Nations is the only, and irreplaceable,
mechanism to translate this concept into reality.
In this respect, the United Nations-sponsored world
conferences on population and on women and the World
Summit for Social Development are called upon to open up
better prospects to that end. No lasting solution to today’s
various problems can be sought unless the developmental
challenges are adequately addressed.
The concept of
development and its practical aspects will certainly be
enriched by the Secretary-General’s interim report on an
agenda for development and its upcoming discussion during
this session.
Now is the time resolutely to address the long-standing
agenda relating to economic disparities between the North
and the South, including eradication of poverty, debt relief,
elimination of
trade protectionism and an early and
successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round. In this regard,
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
11
Mongolia welcomes the meeting of the Chairman of the
Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of Seven last July in
Tokyo, which represents a first step towards re-launching the
North-South dialogue. My delegation believes it important
that following serious consideration by the Assembly, at this
session, of the Non-Aligned Movement initiative on the
reactivation of
the North-South dialogue to strengthen
international cooperation for development a positive decision
be taken in this regard.
It
is of signal
importance that we maintain the
momentum gained at the Rio Conference on Environment
and Development through effective follow-up, at both the
international and the national
level. We commend the
dynamic
on Sustainable
Development as a central political forum for the monitoring
and review of the implementation of Agenda 21. Mongolia
recently ratified the Convention on Climate Change and the
Convention on Biodiversity; our national plan of action to
implement Agenda 21 is being formulated.
the Commission
role
of
As a country where desertification is a major challenge,
Mongolia deems it necessary that a convention on that
subject be concluded by 1995.
Mongolia believes that the observance of human rights
in accordance with universally accepted norms is essential in
promoting equitable cooperation among States. Respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms can in no way be
reconciled with biased criteria which divide countries into
big and small, developed and underdeveloped, majority and
minority groups, or along ethnic, racial and religious lines.
Furthermore, Mongolia proceeds from the premise that
human rights and fundamental freedoms, as universal values,
do not recognize borders.
It
is of
the utmost
importance that
the Vienna
Conference on Human Rights, held last June, was able to
reach an agreement on the indivisibility of economic, social,
cultural, political and civil rights, and on the need to respect
and implement them on an equal footing.
It is gratifying to note that with the demise of the cold
war, propaganda on disarmament issues has faded away and
a businesslike atmosphere of cooperation has taken shape.
Earlier this year the Treaty on substantive reductions of
strategic offensive armaments was concluded between the
Russian Federation and the United States.
Also, a
commendable initiative with respect to a moratorium on
nuclear testing took shape. The Geneva Conference on
Disarmament has decided to commence negotiations on a
comprehensive test-ban treaty.
As a country uniquely positioned between the two
nuclear-weapon Powers, Mongolia attaches exceptional
importance to this issue. That is precisely why my country
last year declared its territory a nuclear-weapon-free zone.
In this context Mongolia welcomes the idea of turning
Central Asia into such a zone.
The issue of the timely and full implementation of
agreements on the reduction of nuclear weapons and the
complete prohibition and elimination of nuclear weapons
should not escape the priority attention of
the world
community. The cessation of nuclear-weapon tests and the
strict observance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is acquiring special importance.
We support the indefinite extension of the NPT at the review
Conference in 1995.
It is of great importance that the
parties to the Treaty, especially the nuclear-weapon States,
honour their commitments and refrain from any action that
might undermine it.
Mongolia is entering its fourth year of democratic
reforms. We, like many others in our position, are facing
formidable challenges. As an underdeveloped, land-locked
country inadequately integrated into the world transportation
network, with a high vulnerability to natural calamities,
Mongolia is experiencing added difficulties in its transition.
In addition to the political and economic reforms there
is the onerous task of dealing with spiritual renewal. During
the years of the socialist experiment, we Mongols were
forced to abandon our centuries-old traditions and cultural
heritage. Suffice it to say that virtually all the houses of
worship - sanctuaries of spiritual life - over 700 in all, were
destroyed, and the traditional script of the Mongols, an
important cultural heritage of mankind, was buried in
oblivion. The task is now to rectify this wrong. This is a
nation-wide task requiring enormous efforts and resources;
we cannot leave it to take care of itself.
For all the problems, Mongolia’s democratic reforms
are steadily gaining ground. The new democratic system of
governance proclaimed in the 1992 democratic Constitution
is being consolidated. The first-ever direct presidential
elections, held last June, culminated in the choice of a
President put forward by the new political parties. The legal
foundation of the ongoing reforms is being strengthened. It
has come to embrace all the key aspects of societal life.
The present Government has set
itself the task of
checking the economic decline within a two-year period.
And the target seems to be within the realm of the possible.
We associate these gains primarily with the understanding
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
and support of the international community. In recent years
a donor community in support of Mongolia has emerged. A
donor meeting sponsored recently by the World Bank held
its third round in Tokyo,
in which 23 countries and 6
international organizations took part. Grants and soft loans
by donor Governments significantly help in alleviating the
present difficulties, and lay a new basis
future
development.
In addition, we are keenly interested in
attracting private-sector investment in Mongolia. This would
not only contribute to economic recovery but would also
help make future cooperation with our partners mutually
advantageous. The revised Foreign Investment Law creates
favourable conditions for such investment opportunities.
for
Furthermore, we consider that active involvement in
regional economic cooperation is an essential factor in
fulfilling the tasks of transition. With this in mind, we are
interested, for instance, in becoming a member of the Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC). We hope
that the States members of that organization will find it
possible to understand and support our position.
The United Nations has emerged as an important focal
point of
international efforts and has assumed greatly
increased responsibilities in the areas of peacemaking,
peace-keeping and peace-building. The detailed report of the
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization is a lucid
illustration of that point.
Mongolia fully supports the efforts designed to reform
the United Nations, especially to restructure and revitalize
the activities of the General Assembly and to ensure that the
composition of the Security Council reflects the changing
realities of
the day and the dramatically increased
membership of the world Organization.
Today,
the United Nations is wrestling with many
problems and trying hard to ensure that it is able to meet the
many challenges of a rapidly changing world.
It goes
without saying that the success of this undertaking will
depend on painstaking efforts and, above all, on the political
will and greater realism of Member States.
Mr. ROMULO (Philippines):
I am most pleased to
convey to Ambassador Insanally my congratulations and
those of my delegation on his election as President of
General Assembly at this session. At the same time, I wish
to express our sincere appreciation to Mr. Stoyan Ganev of
Bulgaria for guiding with skill and dedication the work of
the Assembly at its previous session.
Let me pay a tribute to our Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the vision and the energy he
has devoted to the leadership of our Organization at a
difficult but exhilarating moment in history.
Allow me to express at this point the deep sympathies
of my delegation for the people of India in connection with
the tragedy visited upon them by the earthquake that
devastated parts of the state of Maharashtra.
the work of
The President
is presiding over
the
Assembly in a world that continues its amazing political
transformation. Since we met in this same Hall last year, a
period that is but the twinkling of an eye in the long history
of mankind, the world’s political landscape has been further
and radically transformed. That transformation is, above all,
reflected in and exemplified by two of
the major
preoccupations that have exercised the Assembly and the
international community for decades - namely, the situation
in South Africa and the problem of Palestine.
The abhorrent system of apartheid,
long the evil
foundation of the South African State, has finally crumbled
because of the unremitting efforts of the people of South
Africa and of the international community, not least of the
United Nations.
In its place, multiracial negotiations - in
themselves an amazing phenomenon in that country - have
led to a specific programme with a precise timetable for the
conversion of South Africa, in the words recently uttered in
this Hall by that authentic leader of the South African
people, Nelson Mandela,
"into a united, democratic,
non-racial and non-sexist country".
combinations
of
The whole situation in the Middle East, too, has been
transformed, a transformation symbolized by a single
handshake in Washington. That historic gesture resulted
from complex
and
developments and presages further arduous negotiations and
determined efforts by the Israeli and Palestinian peoples and
their neighbours. But there is now, more than ever before,
reason to trust that in that long-afflicted part of the world the
politics of intolerance, hatred and despair is being replaced
by
enlightenment,
of
pragmatism and hope.
accommodation,
circumstances
politics
the
Thus, the international community’s political agenda,
and the substance and content, if not the item-titles, of the
Assembly’s agenda, have radically changed.
The global economy is being transformed no less
radically.
Everywhere, obsolete obstacles to trade are
coming down, if not yet globally, then within the various
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
13
To be sure, economic barriers
regions of the world.
continue to be propped up by atavistic hands that seek to
reverse the tide and hold back the march of global economic
progress. The most obvious victim of these rearguard
actions is the Uruguay Round, which, after years of
frustrating negotiations and painstaking bargaining, has yet
to come to a conclusion. The ultimate victims are the global
economy and the livelihoods and standards of living of the
world’s peoples. Here, the accusing finger of history points
at certain developed countries, with their short-sighted
subsidies and protectionist devices. Nevertheless, the trend
towards
gathers
momentum. More and more nations recognize that that
trend can be reversed only at the peril of the well-being of
the world’s peoples.
liberalization
economic
trade
and
Our region of South-East Asia has been a vital part of
the global political and economic transformation.
The conflict
in Cambodia and the agony of
the
Cambodian people long preoccupied this Assembly as well
as the Security Council. Going beyond the expectations of
so many, the Cambodian people have made their historic
decision for peace and reconciliation. We now call upon the
international community to extend its support
to the
Cambodian people and their new Government so that they
will find surcease not only from war, but also from poverty
and want, and so that they will find not only peace, but a
life of dignity and freedom.
The Declaration by the Association of South-East Asian
Nations (ASEAN) on the South China Sea, which was issued
in Manila last year, has received the strong endorsement of
the United Nations and of individual Governments, and we
in South-East Asia have continued our measured effort to
build a regime of peace, cooperation and mutual confidence
in that disputed area.
Earlier this year we in ASEAN, joined by the other
nations of East Asia, including Viet Nam and Laos, and by
others with interests in the region, agreed upon an ASEAN
Regional Forum in which questions of regional security can
be periodically examined and discussed together.
the
In East Asia,
rapid advance of
economic
liberalization has propelled the economies of the region to
achieve some of the highest growth rates in the world. The
commitment to the free market has found its most forceful
expression in the decision of ASEAN’s leaders to establish
an ASEAN Free Trade Area through the steady reduction
and eventual elimination of trade barriers within ASEAN.
Happily, the dawning of a new era of peace and the
promise of prosperity in our region have found a bright
reflection in my country.
President Ramos’ policy of
national unity and reconciliation has replaced the politics of
division. Dissident elements have been drawn back into the
fold of society. Peace talks with the remaining disaffected
groups are being held. Amnesty has been offered to all.
The economics of selfishness and greed is being
replaced with reforms to secure economic fairness and social
justice. The Philippine economy is ruled no longer by the
tyranny of excessive regulation or of corporate monopoly but
forces and free
by the invigorating regime of market
competition.Global competitiveness,
in place of political
contention, is now the watchword throughout the land.
All this is being carried out with the most meticulous
respect for human rights in accordance with the national
consensus and the deepest convictions of our people.
It is
being achieved within the framework of our democratic
institutions. For we are convinced that there is no substitute
for
for human rights and democracy in the
achievement of long-term stability and progress, as well as
in the assurance of human dignity and the fulfilment of
human aspirations.
respect
The new situation in the world gives us new hope and
a brighter promise. But grave dangers and tragic situations
remain. Old scourges continue to torment the human family;
new agonies confront it.
Religious
intolerance and the rise of nationalist
ambitions have supplanted ideological fanaticism as the fuel
for the fires of conflict that now burn in too many places in
the world. The collapse of empires has let loose the savage
impulse to settle historical scores, redress ancient ethnic
grievances, and set right real or imagined injustices over
national borders, the treatment of minorities, or the control
of resources.
The tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the
worst and most dangerous of these barbarities.
Despite - in certain cases, because of - the onset of a
trafficking in the weapons of war
climate of peace,
continues unabated, dissipating resources,
sometimes
endangering people, imperilling the peace. The Philippines
steadfastly
greater
transparency in arms transfers and military expenditures,
including the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms.
supports measures
promote
to
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
that
testing, and hopes
The Philippines urges the nuclear-weapon States, in the
strongest terms, to restore the recently broken moratorium on
all nuclear
the international
community will decide, through a comprehensive test-ban
treaty, to cease for ever the testing of nuclear devices, which
so gravely threaten the very existence of the human family.
The Philippines favours the extension of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and calls upon all to
abide strictly by its provisions, including the safeguards
agreements with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
At the same time, we urge the nuclear-weapon States to
fulfil their own obligations under the Treaty and further
reduce their stocks of such weapons until they are no more.
Amid the rising tide of economic liberalization, the
siren song of protectionism continues to entice nations with
its fraudulent promise. Legitimate concerns over health,
food safety, the environment, workers’ welfare, and even
human rights, including the rights of indigenous peoples -
and now "social dumping" - are being invoked to clothe in
various guises policies of naked protectionism.
Decisions on global finance continue to be made by a
few, with the rest of the world standing by even though it is
vitally affected. The burden of foreign debt continues to be
a millstone round the necks of many developing countries,
and the problem is often aggravated by decisions on interest
rates and exchange rates in which those countries have no
voice.
The Philippines continues faithfully to fulfil its external
financial obligations, regardless of the extent to which that
policy holds back our economic growth, constitutes a burden
on our people, and imposes a heavy domestic political cost
on our leaders. But we wonder whether the world has tried
hard enough to devise creative solutions to this economic
plague upon the developing countries. After all, some
nations have been favoured with decisive - even radical -
measures to alleviate their foreign debt, such measures
having become politically useful to the creditor countries.
The ravages that the profligacy of man has wrought
upon the Earth’s delicate environment continue to endanger
our fragile planet and many nations. The Philippines has
kept faith with the commitments made by us all at the
United Nations Conference
and
Development because of its conviction that development
cannot be sustained if the world’s - and the
country’s - natural riches and the balance between them are
destroyed.
Environment
on
No less destructive is the accelerating increase in the
illicit trafficking in drugs, which destroys the lives of our
people in the vigour of their youth.
It gives rise to
It knows no national boundaries.
lawlessness and crime.
We
appeal
effective
implementation of the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme and the Global Programme of Action.
therefore
and
for
the
full
In situations of conflict, women, as well as children,
become the most tragic victims by virtue of their inherent
vulnerability. The systematic rape and murder of women
and girls in Bosnia and Herzegovina is only the most
outrageous instance of this abhorrent reality.
Similarly, in situations of extreme poverty, women -
particularly migrant workers - are the most vulnerable to
abuse.
Detached from the family, away from their
homeland, often living in their employer’s home, unprotected
by the country where they work, women migrant workers are
especially susceptible to maltreatment. The abuses to which
they are exposed, and often subjected, are a veritable litany
of woe - denial of their rightful wages, excessive deductions
by their employment agencies, intolerably long working
hours, insufficient food, lack of medical care, the absence of
any avenue for the redress of their grievances, physical
attack, rape and other forms of sexual abuse.
We call upon the Assembly to keep among the areas of
its concern the condition of women, who make up half of
the world - in particular, the migrant workers among them.
And we call upon the Governments concerned to enact laws
and other measures for the protection of these migrant
workers. We ask these Governments to cease the callous
treatment of migrant workers as commodities that are subject
only to the law of supply and demand.
These scourges of mankind - mass poverty, external
debt, environmental damage, illicit drugs, abuses against
women, the mistreatment of migrant workers - would be
more effectively addressed if Governments, societies and the
international community were to place people at the centre
of development and international cooperation. This is what
the World Summit for Social Development is intended to do.
We urge the world’s leaders and their Governments to
ensure maximum participation in this milestone event in
Copenhagen in 1995.
The world has changed radically, largely for the better.
But old problems remain, and new challenges confront us.
To respond to these problems under the new circumstances,
and to deal with these new challenges, our Organization, the
United Nations, must renew itself.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
15
In few aspects of the work of the United Nations is this
need for renewal more evident than in the Security Council.
The structure of the Security Council was formulated at the
very birth of the United Nations, at the end of the Second
World War and the beginning of the cold war. Forty-eight
years have passed. Massive changes have occurred in the
world, particularly in recent years. Empires have crumbled.
The ideological division of the world has melted away. The
cold war has ended. The membership of the United Nations
has multiplied from 51 at the time of its founding to 184
today.
It has
And yet, apart from the enlargement of its membership
30 years ago from 9 nine to 15, the Security Council has not
changed.
remained small, unrepresentative,
undemocratic, opaque. We recognize the reality of
continuing imbalances in world power and the necessity for
the Security Council to reflect this reality. But, surely, we
must also recognize the reality of the worldwide trend
towards, and the people’s desire for, democratization and
transparency in political affairs.
the Security
Council, the United Nations body with the greatest impact
on international peace and security, must also reflect this
reality in its size, in its structure, in its procedures, in its
relations with other United Nations bodies, including the
General Assembly.
Surely,
We are, therefore, in favour of a searching reassessment
of the structure, role and procedures of the Security Council
with a view to its reform. And we urge that, in view of the
repercussions that such a reform would have on other United
Nations bodies and activities, this reassessment be carried
out within the context of a thorough review of the Charter.
The sober, rational and
realistic proposals propounded yesterday by the Foreign
Minister of Singapore might serve as a useful starting-point
for our consideration of this important matter.
The entire United Nations is, in fact, in need of reform.
In the new international situation, the enlarged demands
upon the United Nations and the constraints on the available
means require that the resources of the United Nations be
carefully husbanded for their most efficient use.
The
concept and substance of management - and by that I mean
the science of management - must be imposed upon the
United Nations bureaucracy. Funds and other assets must be
most meticulously safeguarded and effectively utilized.
Duplication must be avoided, costs drastically cut, waste
radically reduced, and corruption abolished.
I am sure that many developing countries share our
desire that the United Nations should impose upon itself the
austerity and discipline that are required of many of us by
the international financial institutions.
We pay a tribute to the Secretary-General’s attention to
this aspect of his work. We welcome in particular the
creation of the new post of Assistant Secretary-General for
Inspections and Investigations as an indication of his
determination to address this problem.
The Philippines is up to date in its contribution to the
finances of the United Nations.
It may be a small amount
in the totality of the Organization’s resources, but it is
substantial
in proportion to our financial capacity. We
would not want to see it squandered. We cannot afford it.
Neither can the United Nations.
to the
exposure
and extensive
May I propose, then, that a group of men and women
with both extensive experience and skill
in corporate
management
special
requirements and problems of
the United Nations be
commissioned to study this question in greater depth and
detail and with greater objectivity, and to make the
appropriate recommendations. There are many in this Hall
right now who would be eminently qualified to perform this
task. The Philippines will explore the possibility of a draft
resolution to this effect at a suitable time.
This is a matter of great and urgent necessity. For
reforms in the United Nations will place the Organization in
a better position to deal with the demands upon it in the
second half-century of its existence and to fulfil in the next
millennium the vision that its founding fathers had for this
great and indispensable Organization.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. KARABAYEV (Kyrgyzstan) (interpretation from
Russian):
I wish to begin by congratulating the President
and the other officers of the Assembly on their election to
their high, responsible posts and by wishing them every
success in their work, which will certainly yield positive
results for us all.
The end of the twentieth century will go down in
history as the period in which the cold war came to an end
and which saw the dawn of a new world, a period of new
opportunities to do things that only yesterday would have
taken a miracle to achieve. It is enough to recall the historic
agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization (PLO), the reductions in nuclear and other
for my country,
weapons of mass destruction, and,
something that seemed impossible only very recently:
the
achievement of the high degree of sovereignty that permits
us to speak from the rostrum of the General Assembly Hall.
in the economic sphere,
I represent a small country that can be viewed as an
oasis of democracy. But that is not strictly accurate: we are
hardly surrounded by an empty wasteland. We are trying to
In that quest we
find our place in a new, complex world.
are guided by the following definitions:
In the political
sphere, our quest means pluralism, allowing the existence of
varied ideologies and parties that do not espouse violence or
extremism;
it means a policy
designed to achieve a multi-faceted social market economy,
with equal rights and freedoms for all economic entities; in
the social sphere,
it means a policy of self-reliance
protecting the most vulnerable sectors of our population; in
the legal sphere, it means legal safeguards for the interests
of all citizens, economic entities, parties and movements, as
well as for the State;
it means
tolerance and the application of ethical principles; in the
sphere of building the structures of State authority, it means
forming coalition groups with broad participation by officials
from many parties and movements.
in the area of religion,
The linchpin of our policy is acknowledgement of the
priority of humanitarian values and of the natural right of the
individual
The new Constitution of
Kyrgyzstan clearly lays down these basic principles, through
which we are attempting, in spite of difficulties, to establish
our chosen State model.
to happiness.
My purpose in this statement is not just to give an idea
of our Republic’s political prospects.
I shall try to take a
broader approach to issues; perhaps to some extent this is a
prerequisite for our acknowledgement by the world
community. The process of the victory of democracy in
Kyrgyzstan, and in the other Republics of the former Soviet
and
seems
almost
paradoxical
irrational.
Union,
Revolutionary changes have taken place at the top levels of
the political elite. These changes were welcomed, as I see
it, primarily because by that time we had already achieved
the democratic victory of glasnost. What happened could be
expressed as follows:
the storming of the Bastille was
preceded by The Marriage of Figaro. Our reforms began
not with the economy but with politics. How could it be
otherwise, since Kyrgyzstan had no elements of a market
economy,
distorted?
Kyrgyzstan today is one of the few independent States of the
former Soviet Union to have adopted and be carrying out a
programme of economic reforms for transition to a market
economy, as approved by the International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank.
ownership was
property
and
as
oil
and
gas,
such
implementation
For a number of objective reasons pertaining to the
structure of production and current shortages of energy
sources,
of
recommendations for our Republic has caused us social and
economic difficulties. Our country has a dire need for
medicines, and a balanced diet is lacking. Thousands and
thousands of young people are coming into the cities from
the villages without any real professional training or any
chance of prospering. Furthermore, we cannot yet give our
economy the necessary impetus to enable us quickly to solve
these and other major social problems. We need investment.
Like other relatively small countries, we need a kind of
Marshall Plan. The experience of many States has shown
that this would be profitable for the wealthy countries and
donors in many ways.
I would not venture to say that, but for my firm
conviction that the ability to empathize with the suffering of
others has always been a strong point of the United Nations;
in fact, it is what has given it its high standing in the eyes
of the world. This is not a case of political parasitism. We
firmly intend to pay off all of our debts, and we fully
recognize that
the usefulness of these policies can be
measured only by mutual advantage, and that the results of
any foreign policy activity, including the economic aspects,
depend on the participation of others and the ability to pay,
in the broad sense of the words.
For the world community, for large and small countries,
one thing is becoming more evident:
there exists not only
economic power, the power of gold and production, not only
brute military power, but also spiritual power. I am talking
not about the cruel, soulless and heartless fanaticism of some
people, not about trends and faiths whose history is written
in blood, but about lofty and pure ethical values which bind
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
17
together people who espouse them. These values and ideals
are the moral postulates of religion.
The President returned to the Chair.
I wish to draw attention to what I regard as a special
topic. We have been witnessing tragic conflicts with
religious roots. One possible solution to this problem would
be to adopt a universal convention on freedom of religion,
which would call upon people of different faiths to apply
ethical and moral principles for the sake of peace and
harmony.
The United Nations is recognized to be a universal
Organization, and as such not to be at variance with other
institutions of the world community. No, it is in those
institutions,
in the specialized agencies and regional
organizations, that we find the embodiment of the ideals and
principles of the United Nations. With this in view, I would
like to draw attention to the problem of establishing a
collective security system in Asia.
the
delegation of Kyrgyzstan agrees with what previous speakers
have said in this regard. On the other hand, a collective
security system in Asia cannot be established quickly, or as
quickly as might be hoped. In this connection, no doubt the
best we can do is to ask the Secretary-General to conduct a
study, which could give us useful guidelines for future work
on such an important problem.
In principle,
Naturally, I have covered only a few issues, against the
backdrop of upheavals in the political and social life of the
world today. But I still hope that I have drawn attention to
major issues of interest to us all.
Every State whose representative has addressed the
Assembly has made recommendations, and further valuable
recommendations and proposals will be made, based on the
high ideals of our Organization, whose focal point should be
the individual and his or her prosperity and happiness. We
fully agree with these proposals and hope that the creative
energy involved will not be self-destructive.
ORGANIZATION OF WORK
Three of the agenda items scheduled for consideration
in October are agenda item 10, "Report of the Secretary-
General on the work of the Organization"; agenda item 11,
"Report of the Security Council"; and agenda item 13,
"Report of the International Court of Justice".
In connection with those items, I should like to remind
members that the General Assembly, in paragraph 5 of
resolution 47/233 of 17 August 1993 on the revitalization of
the work of the General Assembly, encouraged Member
States to participate actively in a substantive and in-depth
discussion on, and consideration of,
the reports of the
Security Council and other principal organs of the United
Nations, in order to fulfil the relevant provisions of the
Charter of the United Nations.
I should also like to inform members that a draft
resolution on the lifting of sanctions against South Africa,
issued as document A/48/L.2,
the
documents distribution centre in the General Assembly Hall.
is now available at
Finally, may I say that in response to the concerns
expressed earlier in the Assembly regarding documentation
and services for the future work not only of the Assembly,
but of our Committees, I addressed a letter to the Secretary-
General on this matter, and following that we had
discussions with Secretariat officials.
I am led to believe
that there will be a review of the limit set for documents.
Consultations are now going on between the Secretariat and
Missions to determine each Mission’s needs. In this process
of cooperation we may be able to respect the need for
efficiency but at the same time ensure that Missions receive
the necessary documents to guarantee the continuation of our
work.
An effort will also be made to increase the number of
meetings from the 53 slated, to cater for needs as they arise,
and special consideration will be given to meetings of the
Fifth Committee
on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, which are essential
to the formulation of a budget for the Assembly. At the
same time we will do everything possible to see that our
working hours do not extend beyond 6 p.m., and certainly
not to weekends, unless absolutely necessary.
the Advisory Committee
and
The PRESIDENT: Members will recall that at the
14th plenary meeting, on 4 October, I drew their attention to
document A/INF/48/6, which contains a tentative programme
of work and schedule of plenary meetings for the month of
October.
I also announced that the lists of speakers for all
the items listed in document A/INF/48/6 were open.
Every effort will be made to ensure that documents are
circulated in all languages, although it will not be possible
to guarantee that they are distributed simultaneously. In any
case, documents will be distributed in the working
languages, French and English, to meet our needs.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Finally, in order to ensure that we can monitor the
situation so that our work is adequately prepared for, we will
arrange for coordination between me, the Chairmen of the
Committees and the Secretariat on a weekly basis to ensure
that the situation is kept under constant review.
I thought I would mention this in response to the
concerns expressed last week and to calm the fears that may
still exist in the Hall with regard to our future meetings.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
On behalf of
Mr. MUNGRA (Suriname):
the
Government and people of the Republic of Suriname, I take
great pleasure in welcoming you, Sir, to the presidency of
the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. You bring
to your high office great experience as a skilled diplomat,
experience which will be useful in this epoch-making period
for the Organization.
Indeed, your election is a fitting
tribute to you personally and an honour to your country. We
are therefore most gratified to see a skilled and a
distinguished son of our good neighbour, Guyana, presiding
over our deliberations.
We thank your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of
Bulgaria, for the excellent manner in which he conducted the
affairs of the last session of the General Assembly.
We also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the
the United Nations, Mr. Boutros
for his tireless efforts in consolidating
Secretary-General of
Boutros-Ghali,
international peace and security.
Before proceeding, I should like to express the feelings
of sincere sympathy of the Government and people of the
Republic of Suriname to the Government and people of the
the tragic
Republic of
I
earthquake disaster in which so many lives were lost.
appeal
the
necessary effective support to India to alleviate the sorrow
and suffering of the people involved.
to the international community to render
India on the sad occasion of
I should like to take this opportunity to add to what
numerous previous speakers have already said on behalf of
the many people living in areas whose development
difficulties, and their consequences, do not receive enough
attention, because of the high priority given to issues of
international peace and security.
I am referring to
developing areas that risk being forgotten, though they are
inhabited by people who truly pursue welfare, well-being
and prosperity, and seek true participation in the world
community, where the principle of power will ultimately
make way for the principle of interdependence within the
international system.
Countries in the developed North usually succeed in
strengthening their mutual relations in political and economic
areas, and they are becoming increasingly interdependent.
Thanks to a greater environmental awareness, we are
becoming increasingly conscious that North and South
depend strongly on one another. This interdependence,
unfortunately, has not yet evolved sufficiently with regard to
political and economic questions, and the views held by the
North and the South on many essential issues, such as the
alleviation of poverty and economic development, are still
strongly divergent. Moreover, the interests of the North in
many ways still prevail over those of the South.
In particular, the financial and technological dependence
of the South on the North causes serious divergences. The
discriminatory regulations that make it difficult for the South
to gain access to international markets and the ever-changing
conditions that make the flow of funds to the South almost
impossible are, inter alia, factors that make the gap with the
North almost unbridgeable.
In the past, agreements on multilateral and international
cooperation, such as the International Development Strategy
for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade, the
Cartagena Commitment, Agenda 21 and the United Nations
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s,
have been approved by the international community. Those
commitments constitute a solid basis for strengthening global
partnership for development. However, various programmes
could not be implemented, and much still remains to be done
to enhance multilateral cooperation.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
19
Like many developing countries, Suriname has a serious
shortage of external funds for its development process,
despite its relative wealth of mineralogical and biological
resources.
through maximum
Certainly, we have succeeded,
mobilization of our national forces,
in coping with the
political crisis that dominated the country in the 1980s, and
Suriname has been able to join the countries of Latin
America and the Caribbean that have managed to give
meaning to the process of democratization.
It is our joint
responsibility to see that this momentum is preserved and
that
the victory of democracy over
dictatorship, particularly in our region, does not have adverse
effects.
the euphoria of
the democratic ideal
Without broad-based development in our countries we
shall not be able to provide democracy with a sound basis.
For
is not an isolated political
phenomenon, but one that is closely interwoven with the
whole of the social and economic reality in our part of the
world.
for
credit
facilities
an expansion of
Without alleviation of the pressing debt burden, without
an appropriate recompense for our most important export
products, without
the necessary
production inputs, without
export
possibilities and without the financial support of the richer
countries, endeavours
to realize a stable democratic
constitutional State will prove to be in vain. We have
noticed - not without concern - that in their attitudes towards
developing countries some developed countries ignore the
specific circumstances of those countries, which have fallen
seriously behind in their development.
caused a
The political crisis which Suriname went through in the
1980s, and Suriname’s related isolation from the important
donors,
economic
development of the country, which was further aggravated
by the drastic reduction of the country’s income from its
main export products - more specifically, alumina and
aluminium.
serious decline
in the
In order to meet the resulting financial, economic and
monetary crisis, we drafted a
adjustment
programme, which is now being implemented. We are
aware that, despite the many theories and analyses in this
field, there exists no blueprint for the resolution of economic
crises that can be applied smoothly inasmuch as the object
of adjustment is a very complex reality.
structural
My Government is also aware that achieving economic
recovery and furthering development while at the same time
safeguarding political stability is no easy task and must be
approached quite prudently. It is a process which will entail
increased poverty, and can lead to a serious disruption of
social life in the short term. Unfortunately, the divergent
views held by Suriname’s authorities and by the donors on
the proper way to implement the adjustment programme puts
great pressure on the space necessary for a policy which
focuses primarily on the well-being of the nation as a whole.
the present
The failure, in many countries, of stringent adjustment
programmes undoubtedly relates to a perspective which fails
to recognize sufficiently the reality of developing countries
time and ignores the real aspirations of
at
humankind.
In such a state of affairs, dialogue between
North and South is difficult and strained. The North itself
has succeeded in developing a number of mechanisms to
solve differences, in which the consistent application of the
principles of equality and mutual respect commands our
attention. Such consistent use of these principles could also,
perhaps, open the way to fruitful dialogue with the South.
from the Kingdom of
In 1992 Suriname and the Kingdom of the Netherlands
signed a Framework Treaty. This Treaty, together with the
1975 Treaty, provides a basic framework for substantial
the Netherlands to the
support
developmental aspirations of the Republic of Suriname.
It
is with pleasure that we can announce here that, within the
framework of
these treaties, positive cooperation was
realized last year, which contributed substantially to the
in consolidating the restored democracy in
successes
Suriname,
strengthening the constitutional State and
protecting human rights, as well as in establishing and
maintaining peace after the end of the armed struggle in the
interior of the country.
However, some questions have been raised as to the
motives for this cooperation in the light of the recent attitude
of the Treaty partner regarding support for the recovery of
our country’s economy.
Despite many efforts on the part of the international
community, the Uruguay Round negotiations of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which could
provide the framework for a comprehensive and sound basis
for future trade relations, are still ongoing. The Government
of Suriname looks forward to an early and balanced
conclusion of the Uruguay Round with a view to promoting
the establishment of a just and equitable multilateral trading
system.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Concurrently, new claims on external
Recession in the world economy, stringent budgetary
policies in donor countries, trade problems and domestic
factors in a number of countries have dampened the hope in
many developing countries for a steady flow of development
aid.
financial
resources are being made, so that allocations for future aid
can further cloud the outlook for multilateral aid. The
general trend at present is a marked increase in contributions
to peace-keeping operations and a clear decline in funds for
operational activities.
The annual peace-keeping budget has
increased
fivefold, and is expected to be $3,673,000,000 for 1993,
while voluntary contributions
to the United Nations
Development Programme,
the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities and the United Nations Children’s
Fund have declined by about 10 per cent.
In one of his
reports,
the Secretary-General noted that very serious
problems caused by civil unrest and other sources of strife
affect an increasing number of people who are often among
the most vulnerable groups of the population, placing
particularly difficult demands on United Nations operational
activities.
social
disintegration
Failure to address issues such as the alleviation of
poverty, underdevelopment, unemployment, illiteracy and the
threat to the environment because of a lack of financial
in turn, can
resources can cause social tensions. This,
generate
the
destabilization of the political system. Hence, an agenda that
tends to reflect mainly international peace and security
problems is not constructive. More and more it
is
recognized that favourable economic and social conditions
can help strengthen peace and security. Therefore, we
favour a programme based on a combination of political,
economic and social factors together with global security.
eventually,
and,
The social crisis of the 1990s may be considered a
result of, inter alia, world-wide growing poverty, particularly
in the developing countries, unemployment and social
upheavals. It is therefore gratifying to note that preparations
are being made for a World Summit for Social Development
in 1995.
It is our hope that the core issues of the Summit
directed towards the strengthening of the process of overall
social development will be addressed during the preparatory
process and that agreement can be reached, in a spirit of
consensus, on matters of such vital human importance.
Agenda 21, adopted during the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de
Janeiro, and the subsequent establishment of the Commission
on Sustainable Development, are important guides for the
in
achieving
community
sustainable
international
development. UNCED also underscored the need to provide
developing countries with adequate resources and to
acknowledge the urgency of making technology, especially
environmentally sound technology, available to that end.
However, the progress achieved to date in obtaining new and
additional financial resources is disappointing. Hence, we
welcome the Commission’s decision to establish two
working groups to tackle the two issues.
a
and
timely
supports
My Government
strict
implementation of
the Agreement signed by President
Aristide and General Raoul Cedras, containing arrangements
made with a view to reaching a political solution to the
Haitian crisis. The United Nations and the Organization of
American States are playing a major role in implementing
the Agreement reached at Governors Island in New York.
We are deeply distressed by the recent developments in
Haiti, which could jeopardize the return of President
Aristide. We strongly appeal to the military leaders in Haiti
to uphold their promises and to create the atmosphere of
calm required for the full application of the Agreement.
My delegation has always stated that the principles of
the United Nations Charter and the relevant United Nations
resolutions, particularly those of
the Security Council,
provide the best concrete basis for the achievement of a
comprehensive, just and durable peace in the Middle East.
We are therefore moved that the State of Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) have finally started
a negotiating process which could create the conditions for
peace. The Agreement that was mutually recognized and
signed is a courageous step in that direction. We
congratulate both Israel and the PLO on this historic deed
and we appeal to the international community to use this
momentum to bring peace and prosperity to the whole
region.
My delegation welcomes the progress made so far by
the multilateral party negotiating process to a negotiated
settlement and national elections in South Africa. A political
settlement will lead to the end of apartheid and establish a
new, united, non-racial and democratic South Africa. The
destructive character of apartheid has caused so much harm
to the people that it is only fair that in this new era, every
effort must be made to overcome social and economic
disparities so that peace and stability can be established. We
therefore expect the international community to fully and
generously support the new South African Government with
assistance for the reconstruction and development of the
nation.
Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993
21
Like many others in the world, my country is troubled
by the continuing horrifying events taking place in Angola
and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We cannot let the suffering
and degradation
continue. The bloodshed, hatred and
hostilities must end now, for the people concerned have the
right to live in peace.
World-wide drug abuse and trafficking remain a matter
of deep concern, not only in our region but in the world as
a whole. Despite measures and strategies geared towards
the elimination of drugs, it is sad to note that drugs can be
obtained for illicit purposes virtually everywhere in the
world. This is, indeed, an unfortunate development, since it
was expected that after the Global Programme of Action was
adopted, together with the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary
Outline of Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control, the
situation would improve substantially. We thus support the
view that efforts against drug abuse and trafficking must
continue in a balanced and concerted manner.
The end of the East-West confrontation has resulted in
a slowdown of the arms race and reduced the threat of
armed conflict. We regret to observe, however, that the
spread of conventional arms continues to take on a
dangerous magnitude, while at
armed
conflicts are increasing, causing the tragic loss of numerous
innocent human lives. Ongoing conflicts have already
resulted in more than 100 million refugees world wide, 30
million displaced persons and hundreds of millions of
unexploded mines.
It is time to recognize that trade in
conventional arms should be drastically curbed.
the same time
In the context of global security, the question of the
non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continues
to be an important one. My delegation is in favour of a
universally
verifiable
comprehensive test-ban treaty.
Such a treaty would
strengthen international security and would represent a
further step towards nuclear disarmament.
internationally
applicable
and
The set of principles contained in the report of the
Secretary-General "An Agenda for Peace" provides a
comprehensive framework for the maintenance of interna-
tional peace and security. My delegation follows with keen
interest the activities of the United Nations in the fields of
preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and post-conflict
peace-building. We are aware that at present some 70 areas
of conflict or potential conflict exist throughout the world.
In this respect, we welcome the involvement of regional
organizations that can render valuable assistance in the
maintenance of international peace and security, including
the peaceful settlement of disputes.
in
has
drastically
today’s world
According to the Charter of
the United Nations,
Member States have entrusted to the Security Council the
primary responsibility for the maintenance of international
peace and security. The balance of political and economic
power
changed.
Consequently, the premise that brought about the structure
of the Security Council is no longer valid. The general
debate last year on the issue of equitable representation and
an increase in membership of the Security Council, which
led to the adoption of resolution 47/62, can, it is hoped,
contribute to a more equitable geographical representation
in the Council and to enhancing the democratization process
of the work of the Council by making its deliberations more
transparent.
create
era would
The expectations in the developing world that
the
new development
post-cold-war
perspectives have not yet materialized. However,
the
increasing pauperization of large parts of the world demands
the taking of urgent and decisive action to offer those people
prospects for change and improvement in their daily living
conditions. To this end, our Organization will have to
strengthen its prominent role as a factor for development and
will have to make the appropriate mechanisms effectively
operational.
It is important for all Member States to provide the
United Nations with legitimate room for that purpose.
Suriname will, to the extent possible, make its contribution.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
