United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
48th
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 3 November 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
AGENDA ITEM 30
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 127 (continued)
S C A L E O F A S S E S S M E N T S
F O R T H E
APPORTIONMENT OF THE EXPENSES OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (A/48/414/Add.8)
The PRESIDENT:
the Secretary-General
In a letter contained in document
A/48/414/Add.8,
informs me that,
since the issuance of his communications dated 21, 24,
27 and 29 September and 4, 6, 11 and 14 October 1993, the
Comoros has made the necessary payment to reduce its
arrears below the amount specified in Article 19 of the
Charter.
May I take it that the Assembly duly takes note of this
information?
It was so decided.
NECESSITY OF ENDING THE ECONOMIC,
COMMERCIAL AND FINANCIAL EMBARGO
IMPOSED BY THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AGAINST CUBA
(a) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
(A/48/448 and Add.1)
(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/48/L.14/Rev.1)
The PRESIDENT: I call on the representative of Cuba
to introduce draft resolution A/48/L.14/Rev.1.
Mr. REMÍREZ DE ESTENOZ BARCIELA (Cuba)
(interpretation from Spanish): Once again, Cuba had hoped
that the reasons for the discussion and consideration of this
item would have disappeared. But this is not so. Today,
one of the longest-lasting injustices of modern history
continues to be committed against Cuba. This is something
which, without any doubt, deserves attention here in the
United Nations.
the General Assembly,
Less than a year ago,
the extraterritorial effects of
in
resolution 47/19, stated the need to put an end to the
economic,
trade and financial embargo which has been
imposed by the Government of the United States against
Cuba for more than 30 years.
In so doing, it took account
of
laws and regulations
promulgated and applied by the United States. It considered
the matter an act of aggression by an economic, military and
technological Power against a small country - an act contrary
to the rules of international
law and to the principles
enshrined in the Charter of the Organization.
It also noted
the severe impact of these actions on the Cuban people.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87062 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.48
23 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Despite the explicit will of the international community,
the Government of that major Power has nevertheless moved
to promulgate, apply and strengthen laws and measures
relating to the embargo that had been rejected by the
General Assembly.
In the last 11 months, we have witnessed legislative,
regulatory, covert and defamatory actions - even acts of
coercion and blackmail - against third countries, as part and
parcel of a broad plan of aggressive actions by the United
States against Cuba.
The so-called Torricelli Act, strongly condemned by
delegations that participated in the debate last year and
rejected in official statements by many countries and groups
of countries, still remains in force in the United States legal
system;
is already being applied in accordance with
regulatory provisions.
it
It
is common knowledge that on 4 July,
the
Government of the United States instructed federal agencies
to adopt all measures on extraterritoriality, in keeping with
the so-called Torricelli Act.
Official documents of the General Assembly describe
the promulgation of new legislation by the United States
Congress to make a country’s eligibility to receive assistance
from the United States predicated upon its economic
relations with Cuba, in spite of the legitimate and sovereign
rights of countries, as established by international norms.
Such an extension of the extraterritorial application of the
embargo can be seen in the clauses adopted on 16 June by
the House of Representatives
in the Foreign Aid
Authorization Act of 1993.
With these procedures, the Washington Administration
has further expanded the extraterritorial character of its
economic measures against Cuba which infringes upon the
sovereignty of third countries and the right to enjoy freedom
of trade and navigation guaranteed under international law.
The Cuban delegation has reported on a number of
specific actions demonstrating that, because of the embargo,
important economic transactions between Cuba and third
countries have been hindered. The need for discretion has
prevented us from divulging all available information.
Nevertheless,
unofficially
circulated confirms that there are many actions of this kind
violating the established principles of sovereignty, freedom
of
other
internationally recognized legal regulations.
transgressing
information
navigation,
officially
and
and
trade
and
It is not only the essence and the extraterritoriality of
this policy but also its impact on the life of the Cuban
people that should be rejected and condemned by the
It is difficult to understand that
international community.
there could be a passive attitude to this policy when what is
involved is the very survival and future of millions of
people, including children, whose only crime is to have been
born in a country determined to be free, independent and
master of its own fate.
The United States Government has tried to create the
impression that the so-called Torricelli Act is easing the
embargo and its impact on the Cuban population.
It has
publicly lied about alleged attributes of the Act facilitating
humanitarian assistance and mitigating other aspects of the
embargo. But we have provided delegations with sufficient
examples of the economic and social impact of the Torricelli
Act that prove the contrary.
There are documents demonstrating persistent attempts
by the United States to prevent Cuba from buying medicines
that are scarce in the country. The restrictions impeding the
sale of medicines to Cuba by United States companies are
being maintained. Similarly, the obstacle preventing any
company from any part of the world from selling to Cuba
either medicine, equipment or medical supplies having
components or using technology of United States origin
remains in place.
This past June, representatives of the United States
Government recognized that applying this legal instrument
has resulted in a 15 per cent increase in the cost of Cuba’s
foreign economic relations.
It is paradoxical that the stronger the rejection of this
embargo on the part of Governments, men and women,
official and non-governmental organizations reflecting the
most diverse strata of human thought, including wide sectors
of United States society, the more persistent the United
States Government is in its resolve to maintain, in absolute
isolation, this anachronistic policy against my people.
that
(A/48/448)
The Secretary-General himself has pointed out in his
report
non-governmental
organizations have written to the Secretary-General urging
an end to the embargo. This does not include the tens of
thousands of letters sent by people from all over the world
also calling for an end to the embargo.
over
120
Clearly, the fact that the cornerstone of United States
foreign policy on Cuba is an economic embargo causing
suffering for almost 11 million human beings is something
that people reject. There are no pretexts, there can be no
reasons justifying this crime or exonerating those responsible
for it. One wonders why common sense,
initiative or
pragmatism have not prevailed here.
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
3
Over the years, many different arguments have been
used to try to justify the embargo, some of them completely
in contradiction to the principles which gave birth to this
Organization and many of them contradicting each other.
Each and every one of those arguments has been refuted or
disproved time and again, and the international community
has enough information available to it on this issue to draw
its own conclusions.
A year ago, the United States Government, attempting
to defend its position here in the Assembly, used four
pretexts.
First, it alleged that the embargo is a response the
nationalizations carried out by Cuba 33 years ago.
Nationalization was also carried out by many other third-
world countries in their endeavour to achieve economic
independence. The truth is that the United States, unlike the
other countries affected by nationalization, refused to accept
or even to negotiate the compensation terms offered by the
Cuban Government since 1960.
Secondly, the United States claimed this was a matter
to be dealt with in bilateral relations between the United
States and Cuba. Nothing is further from the truth. What
this is all about is unilateral aggression by the United States
affecting relations between Cuba and third countries, thus
hindering the natural development of international relations,
curtailing the legitimate rights of
third countries and
threatening the peace and security of a sovereign State
Member of this Organization.
will of another Government whose declared objective is to
harm us, and the only one that could be made to disappear
by a political act, is the economic blockade.
If the United States authorities are so sure that our
problems are internally created and inherent to our country,
then why do they continue and even strengthen the
blockade? Let
the will of the international community
prevail; let the blockade be lifted; let Cuba evolve by itself,
in peace, under the same rules and with the same freedom
of action as any other State.
Cuba has taken the sovereign decision to carry out
broad and profound transformations that will open up our
economy, with a view to its full
reinsertion into the
international market and international economic relations.
That process has preserved and always will preserve the
independence of our country and the enormous social
achievements attained since 1959.
My people hopes to achieve its aspirations without
pressure or blackmail, to ensure the future of our country,
including normal relations with all States without exception.
It is therefore critically important to eliminate the major
obstacle to this process.
We hope that a new United Nations decision on this
matter will lead to increased awareness of the current unjust
policy against Cuba and help put an end to it.
For,
tomorrow, such a policy could become an instrument of
coercion against any other small and underdeveloped State.
Thirdly,
it was asserted that
the blockade is being
applied with the aim of bringing about in Cuba political and
economic reforms to the liking of the United States, as if
that were a legitimate reason to use hunger and misery in an
attempt to suffocate our people. Obviously, there is no legal
principle or political standard that can justify that purpose.
draft
resolution
Hence, we have submitted a draft resolution promoting
principles recognized by almost all States represented here.
The
document
A/48/L.14/Rev.1, which we are honoured to introduce, and
which has been duly issued in all the official languages of
the Organization. We are confident that it will be adopted
by this Assembly.
is
contained
in
Finally, the United States delegation stated that the
problems facing Cuba today derive from internal causes that
have nothing to do with the blockade. But all delegations
have sufficient information to understand what the blockade
costs the Cuban economy and Cuban society.
It has been
shown that not a single economic or social aspect of our
situation escapes the consequences of the blockade; that is,
after all, the declared objective.
In addition to the blockade, Cuba is facing other
challenges in its development struggle. The dramatic and
unexpected rupture of its traditional foreign economic links,
the need to make changes to insert Cuba into a changing and
inequitable world economy, and underdevelopment itself, all
add to the difficulties my country is facing. But of all those
factors the only one that continues to exist because of the
Everyone is well aware of the special nature of our
consideration of this item.
It is no secret that pressure has
been exerted on sovereign Governments not to commit their
vote in favour of a cause that is so clearly a just one.
The decision to be taken today by the General
Assembly is fundamental to the very essence of the United
Nations, as it pertains to the principles that constitute the
foundation of the Organization. This decision is of vital
importance for mankind, since it is inextricably linked to a
nation’s right to life, independence and existence itself.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. SARDENBERG (Brazil)
(interpretation from
I have the honour of addressing the General
Spanish):
Assembly in my capacity as Secretary Pro Tempore of the
Ibero-American countries.
for
respect
The 21 Ibero-American countries have a long-standing
tradition of
the principles and rules of
international law and for the sovereignty of States. Those
are the principles that guide the Ibero-American countries in
their consideration of the draft resolution that has been
submitted under agenda item 30. Extraterritorial elements of
recent national
legislation have given rise to serious
concerns; these concerns stem primarily from the restrictions
imposed on the basic principles of freedom of trade and
navigation, principles
articulated in many
international legal instruments.
that
are
The text of the Final Document of the third Ibero-
American Summit of Heads of State and Government, held
at Salvador, Brazil, on 15 and 16 July 1993, has been
annexed to document A/48/291.
reflects the full
commitment of the Ibero-American countries to building an
international community in which cooperation will prevail
over confrontation.
In that document, the Ibero-American
Heads of State and Government noted
It
"the resolutions recently adopted in international forums
on the need to eliminate the unilateral application of
economic and trade measures by one State against
another for political purposes." (A/48/291, annex, para.
68)
The
have
countries
Ibero-American
is our sincere hope that
consistently
favoured the creation of a climate conducive to overcoming
It
differences.
the current
international
trends towards dialogue, understanding and
cooperation will prevail over long-standing differences. To
that end, a climate of mutual respect and full compliance
with the rules of international law would certainly contribute
to strengthening peace and harmony between nations.
Mr. TELLO (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
The criteria guiding Mexico’s international activities and the
value we attach to them can be understood only in the
context of our historical experience as a nation.
The
struggle to achieve, consolidate and defend our independence
has led us to attach key significance to sovereignty.
ties of
We have been and remain a nation dedicated to
broadening and deepening our
friendship and
cooperation with all the peoples of the world. We are
convinced that dialogue, concerted action and negotiated
political settlement are the best possible means of achieving
understanding.
the self-
determination of peoples, non-intervention in internal affairs,
The legal equality of States,
and respect for sovereign rights are the basic principles of
international coexistence and remain fully valid.
international
the Charter of
The principles of
law are also the
the United Nations, an
mainstays of
organization born of a legitimate collective desire to place
international relations within a framework of rationality,
order and legality. The rule of law is the basis on which the
coexistence of nations is governed.
As is true for all nations, it is solely up to Cuba and its
people to define their own paths towards higher and better
states of development. We recognize the efforts that have
been made to modernize their methods of work and
structures with a view to their integration into the new trends
in the world economy. At the same time, we are neither
unaware of nor insensitive to the Cuban people’s increasing
difficulties as regards health and nutrition.
Even amid countless contradictions and uncertainties, a
new atmosphere of understanding is struggling to emerge
following the end of the cold war. Agreements that were
once unimaginable are now sealed with a handshake. This
is the path to which we must pledge ourselves.
Adherence to international
law is the only way to
guarantee peaceful coexistence among countries.
The
observance of multilaterally accepted norms gives certainty
to relations between States,
just as it gives peace and
coexistence their best possible framework for development.
For these reasons, my Government will vote in favour
the
document
resolution
contained
in
of
draft
A/48/L.14/Rev.1.
(interpretation
from French):
Mr. KITTIKHOUN (Lao
People’s Democratic
Republic)
On
24 November 1992 this Assembly adopted resolution 47/19,
on the necessity of lifting the economic, commercial and
financial embargo imposed against the Republic of Cuba.
Following the adoption of that resolution, more than 30
sovereign States solemnly declared that they had taken no
legislative or normative measures of the type mentioned in
the resolution. The legitimacy of the cause stirred great
hopes that the resolution would be fully implemented by all
the States Members of our Organization. However, to my
delegation’s great regret, the embargo against the Republic
of Cuba has been reinforced this year.
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic considers that
the embargo has a great impact on the standard of living of
the vast majority of the Cuban population and, above all,
that
to the Cuban
people’s efforts to integrate their country more fully into
international economic structures. In view of its obligations
it would not contribute in the least
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
5
under the United Nations Charter and international law, my
country, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, has never
promulgated or applied laws or measures of the type
mentioned in draft resolution A/48/L.14. In our view, such
measures constitute an attack on the sovereignty of other
States and on freedom of commerce and navigation.
In this new era, when the spirit of cooperation between
States holds sway, it would be more than prudent for the two
countries concerned to enter into negotiations based on the
principles of equality and mutual respect in order to resolve
peacefully their differences, which date back more than 30
years. That dialogue, for which we earnestly appeal, would
not only be in line with the trend prevailing in the world
today but would also respond to the wishes of their two
peoples.
The delegation of
the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic sincerely hopes that this question will be resolved
swiftly, fairly and honourably, with due account taken of the
legitimate interests of the two peoples and in the interest of
regional and world peace.
The PRESIDENT: I should like to propose, if there is
no objection, that the list of speakers in the debate on this
agenda item now be closed.
It was so decided.
Mr. NGO QUANG XUAN (Viet Nam) (interpretation
from French): First of all, on behalf of my delegation,
I
should like to thank the Secretary-General for the report
(A/48/448 and Add.1) that he has submitted in accordance
with resolution 47/19, adopted by the General Assembly at
its forty-seventh session,
in respect of the agenda item
entitled "Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and
financial embargo imposed by the United States of America
against Cuba".
In the debate on this agenda item, the delegation of Viet
Nam would like first to reaffirm that Viet Nam’s foreign
policy has always been guided by the fundamental principles
of relations between States, in accordance with international
law and the United Nations Charter, to wit:
respect for
national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity;
respect for the right to self-determination, including the right
to choose one’s own path of development; non-interference
in the internal affairs of other States; and the political will
to settle disputes through peaceful negotiations.
Secondly, we wish to express our deep concern on
seeing one country impose its will on another. In the view
of our delegation, such an imposition not only jeopardizes
relations between nations but also runs counter to the spirit
of the world’s new era, in which development, equality,
justice, peace and democracy should prevail.
The end of the cold war, the passing of the East-West
confrontation and the strong trend towards democratization
of relations in and among States have opened the way to
new hopes for living in peace, for mutual understanding and
for cooperation between nations.
This new international political climate has strengthened
the determination to use peaceful negotiations to find
solutions to persistent military conflicts as well as to the
differences and disputes inherited from the past. Significant
success has been achieved in certain regions.
In our view
the same approach could be applied in the quest for a
reasonable and fair solution to the question of relations
between Cuba and the United States. The resumption of
dialogue between those two countries could make it easier
to solve the outstanding problems in conformity with the
principles of international
law and the United Nations
Charter.
The delegation of Viet Nam believes that it is not right
that relations between Cuba and the United States have not
yet been normalized, after more than 30 years.
It is even
more regrettable that at present these relations are subjected
to new trade restrictions. These restrictions are affecting not
only the interests of Cuba but also the interests of a number
of other countries, as is indicated in the Secretary-General’s
report. Many countries have, in different ways, expressed
their concern about
the Cuban
Democracy Act of the United States on their trade interests.
the adverse effects of
in this
regard.
In this spirit, the international community has made
repeated appeals
The Non-Aligned
Movement, of which Viet Nam is a member, has at many
meetings repeatedly asserted that
force in
inter-State relations and the application of laws and measures
which have extraterritorial effects are inadmissible. The
Tenth Summit of the Movement, held in Jakarta in 1992,
also addressed an appeal to the United States to end the
economic, commercial and financial blockade of Cuba, and
urged the two countries to enter into negotiations in order to
resolve their dispute.
the use of
In conclusion, I wish to express our firm conviction that
this discussion today and the draft resolution presented by
Cuba for the consideration of the Assembly reflect
the
interests of all States Members of the Organization.
Mr. WISNUMURTI (Indonesia): I deem it an honour
to deliver this statement on behalf of the non-aligned
countries.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
It is with deepening concern that we have noted the
differences between Cuba and the United States which have
persisted for over three decades.
Since last year the
relationship has further deteriorated due to the promulgation
of national
legislation with extraterritorial dimensions.
Consequently, Cuba is
facing an economic crisis of
unprecedented proportions.
With the Cuban economy already reeling from the
fundamental changes that have swept Eastern Europe and a
drastic cut-off in aid, the unrelenting hostility has heightened
tension in the region. Further aggravating the situation is the
imposition of an embargo on trade which seeks unilaterally
to restrict economic and commercial
relations to the
detriment of the interests of many Member States. Punitive
economic measures have profoundly affected the living
conditions of the people of Cuba and severely impeded their
development efforts. We are concerned that the continuing
pressure and isolation is fraught with potentially disastrous
consequences.
In the context of the interdependence of nations and
interlinkage of issues,
the strengthening of international
cooperation for development has now become an imperative.
We share the widely expressed view that in the post-cold-
war era, no nation should be deprived of the opportunity to
participate freely and without hindrance in economic,
commercial and financial relations between nations. To
erect barriers in this regard is incompatible with the
objective of establishing a new and equitable international
order
for stable peace and common security and for
economic and social justice.
We are gratified to learn from the report of the
Secretary-General in document A/48/448 and Add.1 that
many Member States have refrained from adopting laws or
measures to strengthen or extend the embargo in question.
the strengthening of
Cuban-American relations call for a new and fresh
approach taking into account the profound transformation
that has taken place on the global scene, including the Latin
American region, where we have witnessed an end to
conflict,
security, and political,
economic and social development. In this context, the repeal
of the law adopted last year would facilitate the reintegration
of Cuba into regional and international economic life,
leading ultimately to the stability of the region.
It would
also be in conformity with the United Nations Charter, the
principles of international law and the sovereignty of nations.
At this juncture, we cannot turn away from those precepts
and norms.
We hope that renewed consideration of this item and
broad support for the draft resolution during this session will
spur the parties concerned to resolve this issue through
dialogue and negotiation which will promote economic and
social advancement
in an atmosphere of peace and
tranquillity.
Mr. ELHOUDERI
(Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya)
(interpretation from Arabic): Economic blockades and
similar coercive measures which some States see fit
to
impose on other States are among the causes of tension in
international
to the
principles of international
law and the relevant United
Nations resolutions, including General Assembly resolutions
38/197, 39/210, 40/185, 44/215 and 46/210.
They also run counter
relations.
In those resolutions the General Assembly called upon
all Member States to refrain from threatening to impose or
imposing trade restrictions, blockades, embargoes or any
other economic sanctions against developing nations, as such
measures run counter to the provisions of the United Nations
Charter and breach multilateral and bilateral undertakings.
Article 32 of the Charter of Economic Rights and
Duties of States, which was adopted by the General
Assembly at its twenty-ninth session, states that no State
may use or encourage the use of economic, political or any
other type of measures to coerce another State in order to
obtain from it
the subordination of the exercise of its
sovereign rights.
the seventeenth
Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77 held here in New
York last month called upon States to refrain from taking
economic measures against developing countries and from
employing such means to coerce other States.
In that connection,
General Assembly resolution 47/19, adopted by the
Assembly at
its last session, was based on that global
consensus, which clearly demonstrates the international
community’s clear rejection of the coercive approach in
international relations. Resolution 47/19 clearly reflects the
international will
that States resolve their disputes in
compliance with the purposes and principles enshrined in the
Charter and the norms of international law. The resolution
urges States that have such laws and measures to take the
necessary steps to repeal or invalidate them.
The adoption of resolution 47/19 gave rise to new hope
for new prospects of ending the economic, commercial and
financial embargo against Cuba. Nearly a year has passed
since the resolution was adopted, and yet all available
indications give the impression that no steps have been taken
to respond to its provisions.
To the contrary, such
indications show conclusively that the policy of pressure,
embargo and boycott continues to be pursued and that there
is renewed determination not only to keep it in place but
also to enforce it more vigorously. This was highlighted by
the Foreign Minister of Cuba in his statement to the General
Assembly on 4 October 1993, wherein he indicated that his
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
7
country was facing yet more pressures and that the past few
months have witnessed a tendency to keep the existing
blockade in place and to step it up.
The economic, commercial and financial embargo that
has been in place against Cuba for more than 30 years now
has had dire consequences for the Cuban people. As
indicated in document A/48/463, the embargo has had an
extremely negative impact on Cuba’s economic and social
development, and especially on the population’s standard of
living.
My delegation well understands the consequences of
such embargoes, for we in Libya continue to suffer under
similar measures which have been imposed upon us for more
than a decade and which continue to be in place. The
serious
those measures have been
exacerbated by the sanctions imposed on the Libyan people
by Security Council resolution 748 (1992), for reasons that
are not commensurate with the legal dispute between the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and the other three States.
consequences of
the promotion of dialogue,
Respect for the sovereignty States and non-interference
in their internal affairs,
the
avoidance of confrontation and the resolution of disputes by
peaceful means in conformity with the norms of international
law and international conventions are the fundamental
principles upon which we may hope to build an international
community wherein justice, equality and fairness would
prevail. My delegation feels that such positive tendencies
which should have been strengthened as a result of the
changes that have taken place in international relations
should become all-embracing and should induce countries to
refrain from resorting to the sort of political and economic
measures of coercion that are being used against Cuba and
other States in pursuance of political designs. Should the
countries concerned respond positively to this call, they will
not only help promote global economic growth but will also
strengthen the underpinnings of constructive international
cooperation and thereby usher in an era of friendly relations
that would promote peace, security, confidence-building,
tranquillity and cooperation amongst all peoples of the
world.
the outset
Mr. NYAKYI (United Republic of Tanzania): Allow
me at
to associate my delegation with the
statement made a short time ago by the representative of
Indonesia speaking on behalf of the States members of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
In my own additional remarks I should like to begin by
expressing my delegation’s appreciation of the Secretary-
General’s
of
28 September 1993, which contains the replies of Member
States concerning the implementation of General Assembly
and Add.1)
report
(A/48/448
The report
is both reassuring and
resolution 47/19.
disheartening. Of the 33 replies reproduced in the report
there is not one that
reports compliance with the
controversial law that imposes an unjust embargo on Cuba
and seeks to extend the application of United States national
laws to third countries. This is reassuring, and the General
Assembly should welcome this positive outcome of the
Secretary-General’s efforts to implement the resolution.
However, the report also contains disappointing news.
Not only has the call upon Member States to refrain from
promulgating and applying laws and measures of the kind
imposed on Cuba been totally ignored, but new laws and
measures have been introduced. Since the adoption of the
resolution the scope of the embargo has been extended to
cover shipping. Other measures to strengthen the embargo
have also been taken at the national, as well as at the local,
level.
In other words, the embargo has been widened,
tightened and intensified at every level.
The report also reveals attempts to influence countries
and international institutions in various ways - including
persuasion and intimidation - to violate the terms of General
Assembly resolution 47/19. In short, every effort appears to
have been made to raise the cost
to third countries of
economic and commercial cooperation with Cuba.
The inclusion in the embargo of medicines and medical
supplies and humanitarian aid is particularly hard to
understand.
If there is no justification for the entire
embargo, what can we say about the inclusion on its list of
items that even a Chapter VII action against
the most
dangerous and recalcitrant regime would exempt?
The overwhelming support given General Assembly
resolution 47/19 was a loud and clear rejection by the
international community of the embargo against Cuba and of
the pressures exerted on third countries
to withhold
cooperation from Cuba. As my delegation made clear in its
statement on this agenda item last year, the embargo is a
violation of the provisions of Article 1 of the United Nations
Charter, paragraph 2 of which stipulates that the fundamental
purpose of the United Nations is the development of friendly
relations among nations based on respect for the principles
of equal rights and self-determination of peoples.
To the list of General Assembly resolutions that the
embargo violates, which my delegation cited in its statement
last year, must now be added resolution 47/19. A State may
choose which countries to trade with or not to trade with.
This is its right, and it is not in dispute. But no country has
a right to prevent others from engaging in lawful economic
and commercial relations with countries that it does not like.
Action to the contrary is a violation of international law
governing the conduct of relations between States.
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
As many delegations emphasized in the debate on this
item last year, and as many have repeated in this debate,
negotiations are the only sensible way to resolve the
differences between the United States and Cuba.
It is the
understanding of my delegation that Cuba has always
expressed its readiness to meet with the United States over
these differences.
In this connection, I should like to use
this occasion to echo the appeal to the United States - made
in the general debate by, among others, the delegations of
Namibia, Barbados and Guyana - to summon the necessary
political will to initiate, or agree to, negotiations with Cuba.
It needed Norway to do the seemingly impossible - to bring
the Palestinians and the Israelis to the conference table. We
need a Norway to bring the United States and Cuba to the
conference table.
In the post-cold-war era the United States has been at
the forefront of the international campaign for the peaceful
resolution of disputes through dialogue and negotiations. It
is now our duty at the United Nations to hold up a mirror in
front of the United States. My delegation views this debate
and the draft resolution that we are about
to adopt -
A/48/L.14/Rev.1, which we fully support - as the mirror that
will enable the United States to take a hard look at a policy
that only antagonizes friend and foe alike, and to take the
only sensible route out of the dilemma - that of negotiations.
Mr. PAK (Democratic People’s Republic of Korea): A
year ago we discussed the same item as we are considering
now, and adopted a resolution, in the hope that this issue
would be resolved in accordance with the expectations of the
international community. To date, however, the United
States has not taken the necessary measures to implement
the resolution - a point that has been made today by several
representatives.
constraints on Cuba’s
The continuous embargo against the Cuban people is
creating enormous economic difficulties and is putting
serious
and economic
development. The international community cannot simply
ignore the economic difficulties and material loss forced
upon Cuba, a Member State of the United Nations, by the
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the
United States, another Member State.
social
As is well known, for the past 30 years the United
States has put pressure on Cuba with a view to foisting its
own political and economic system on that country through
the imposition of an economic, commercial and financial
embargo. As history shows, nobody can justify the
imposition of economic embargoes by big Powers against
small countries irrespective of their scale or modality.
The Torricelli Act, enacted by the United States two
years ago in its effort further to strengthen the economic
embargo against Cuba, is aimed at forcing the will of the
United States on other countries.
Its adoption is a flagrant
violation of the Charter of the United Nations, which
stipulates the development of friendly relations between
States, based on respect for the principles of equality and
sovereignty, and of
law, which requires
freedom of trade and of navigation. The delegation of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea considers that the
United Nations should give the Act due attention and take
the necessary steps.
international
All countries should carry out their duties under the
Charter and international law, respect the right of Member
States to choose their own political and economic systems
and refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of other
countries.
the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea reiterates its support
for the final document of the Tenth Summit Meeting of
non-aligned countries, which calls for the ending of the
economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba.
In this connection,
the delegation of
The cold war has given way to a new era in which
humankind is developing economic cooperation to create a
free and peaceful new world community transcending
differences of ideas and systems.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea calls upon the United States, as a member of the
international community,
to end the economic embargo
against Cuba, imposed with a view to isolating that country
politically and stifling it economically. We also call upon the
United States to implement resolution 47/19, in keeping with
the trend of the era.
Mr. RAHMAN (Malaysia): Malaysia fully endorses the
statement of the representative of Indonesia, who spoke in
his capacity as representative of the Chairman of the
Non-Aligned Movement. That statement duly reflects the
position taken on this
the
Non-Aligned Movement at their Jakarta Summit last year.
issue by the leaders of
As was stated in the debate on this subject last year,
Malaysia believes that the matter can best be settled between
the two countries involved. At the same time, Malaysia
recognizes Cuba’s right to appeal to the United Nations,
particularly on an issue involving extraterritoriality that
impinges on the fundamental principles of international law
and runs counter
to a number of General Assembly
resolutions adopted over the years. Malaysia believes that
making international law prevail must be a fundamental
commitment of
size or
development status. As Members of the United Nations, we
are all obliged to support the fundamental principles of
international law.
irrespective of
all nations,
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
9
The sharp edges of confrontation epitomized by two
ideologically opposed blocs have given way, with the end of
the cold war, to increased dialogue and cooperation in the
conduct of inter-State relations as well as in multilateral
diplomacy. This is evident within the Assembly itself,
where more and more resolutions are being adopted by
consensus. Seemingly intractable age-old problems have
witnessed dramatic developments, giving rise to hope for
peace, stability and development. All these have boosted
international
relations increasingly in the direction of
cooperation and away from confrontation.
It
is in the interest of upholding the principles of
international
law and promoting peaceful and friendly
relations between nations during this important period of
change in the affairs of the world that Malaysia will vote in
favour of the draft resolution before us.
It is our sincere hope that the adoption of this draft
resolution by the General Assembly will
lead to
developments that will positively influence the issue at hand
and bring in its wake significant benefits to the region as a
whole.
Mr. PONCE (Ecuador) (interpretation from Spanish):
My delegation agrees with and endorses what was said by
the representative of Brazil, Ambassador Sardenberg,
speaking on behalf of the Ibero-American Group on the
agenda item under consideration.
My country bases its international policy on the
promotion of strict respect for international
law. We
jealously defend the principles on which it is based, those
that promote friendly and progressive relations among
peoples. Accordingly, we restate our support for the non-use
of coercive measures in relations among States and our
approval of the draft resolution before us.
Further, Ecuador wishes to place on record its explicit
support for the fundamental principle of promotion and
observance of human rights, as enshrined in the Charter of
the Organization, and for the regional commitment to affirm
democracy. We express our hope that
this system of
Government will soon be broadly applied throughout our
continent.
Mr. MUMBENGEGWI (Zimbabwe): Zimbabwe would
like to associate itself fully with the statement made by the
Permanent Representative of Indonesia in his capacity as
Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The end of the cold war brought with it the end of
ideological confrontation which had characterized conflicts
around the world. We have witnessed the resultant easing
of
the Middle East and
tensions in southern Africa,
elsewhere around the world, where the current efforts
towards the peaceful resolution of disputes were virtually
unthinkable only a few years ago.
Since the present relationship between Cuba and the
United States has its origins in the cold war confrontation,
the international community would have hoped that
the
demise of the cold war would have had a more positive
influence on that relationship.
Universal economic measures against any State can be
imposed only by collective international enforcement action
through the United Nations.
In the absence of any such
enforcement action, all countries should be free to carry out
their economic, commercial and financial transactions freely.
Apart from these important provisions of international
law, Zimbabwe is particularly concerned at the devastating
effect that the economic embargo against Cuba is having on
the humanitarian situation in that country. As is always the
case in such situations, the principal sufferers are the most
vulnerable groups, such as children, women and the elderly.
It is our hope that in the new post-cold-war climate,
where confrontation is increasingly giving way to dialogue,
some way will soon be found to resolve the present issue
through negotiation and dialogue.
Mr. ABOLHASSANI
(Islamic Republic of
Iran):
Today inter-State relations and interdependency among
States are bound not only by freely accepted obligations but
also by the generally accepted principles of international law.
The principles of sovereign equality of States and of
non-intervention and non-interference in internal affairs of
other States are fundamental principles of international law
that form the cornerstones of contemporary international
relations. Numerous international instruments, such as the
Charter of the United Nations, the Manila Declaration on the
Peaceful Settlement of
International Disputes, and the
Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning
Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States
in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, have
emphasized respect for these principles.
imposed
by
embargo
The continuation of the economic, commercial and
financial
the United States
Administration against Cuba, which has inflicted enormous
material
losses and economic damage upon the Cuban
people and Government, runs contrary to the purposes and
principles of
law. We
regretfully note that, since the adoption of resolution 47/19,
further measures aimed at strengthening and extending the
economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba
have been promulgated and applied.
the Charter and international
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Just a few weeks ago, this body unanimously adopted
its second resolution on the Secretary-General’s report
entitled "An Agenda for Peace",
in which the General
Assembly
"Recalls that each State has the right freely to
choose and develop its political, social, economic and
cultural systems". (resolution 47/120 B, section V, para.
3)
My delegation, while reaffirming this legitimate right of all
people, would like to urge all States once more to abide by
their obligations under United Nations resolutions and more
generally by international law.
It is incumbent upon the
United Nations, as the largest world Organization, to do
whatever it can to end the economic, commercial and
financial embargo against Cuba in conformity with its
Charter and resolutions in order to foster the rule of law in
international relations.
Finally,
it
should be recalled that
the peaceful
settlement of international disputes has been emphasized
ever since the United Nations came into existence.
In
meeting these expectations, all countries should refrain from
acting to contravene in any way the provisions of the United
Nations Charter.
Cognizant of the difficulties the Cuban nation is facing
as a result of the embargo, my delegation at this juncture
would like to extend its support for any step the General
Assembly may wish to take regarding the issue under
consideration. The international community should not
remain silent in situations in which any State intends to
undermine the economic or political stability of another State
or to impose specific political or economic structures on it.
International peace and security certainly cannot be achieved
by giving legitimacy to the notion that might is right.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution
A/48/L.14/Rev.1. Before calling on the first speaker in
explanation of vote before the voting, may I
remind
delegations
that explanations of vote are limited to
10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
Mr. NOTERDAEME (Belgium) (interpretation from
French): The opposition of the European Community and
its member States to any extraterritorial application of
national legislation is beyond question. That is why we have
always rejected the United States actions aimed at involving
third States in the application of commercial measures that
fall exclusively within the foreign or security policy of the
United States. We are therefore opposed to United States
legislative initiatives, including the "Cuban Democracy Act",
designed to strengthen the trade embargo against Cuba by
means of extraterritorial application of United States laws.
We believe that such measures violate the general principles
of international
law and the sovereignty of independent
States.
Although we strongly favour a peaceful transition to
democracy in Cuba, we cannot accept that the United States
should unilaterally undermine our economic and trading
relations with any country whatsoever.
The European
Community and its member States are of the opinion that the
United States embargo against Cuba should be first and
foremost a bilateral problem between the United States and
Cuban Governments. The European Community and its
member States will bear these concerns in mind when
making their decision on the draft resolution before us.
Mr. STRAUSS (Canada): We supported resolution
47/19 last year, as it focused solely on the extraterritorial
aspects of the United States embargo and thus embodied
legal principles that Canada believes must be respected.
However, while the draft resolution on which we will
there are
soon vote again addresses those principles,
additional elements that object to the primary embargo of
Cuba by the United States, something upon which Canada
has never commented. For that reason, Canada will abstain.
Our abstention does not signal a weakening of our
opposition to inappropriate attempts to assert extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
Mr. VAN DUNEM "MBINDA" (Angola): On behalf
of my Government, my delegation would like to join
previous speakers to speak on the item under discussion
concerning the three decades of United States embargo
against Cuba.
The end of the cold war constituted for all peoples a
reason for hope in the new climate in international relations
characterized by détente, cooperation, development and
respect for the right of peoples freely to choose their own
destiny. This hope has been consistently disappointed by
factors contrary to the norms of coexistence among peoples,
such as the United States imposition of an economic and
financial embargo against Cuba. The imposition of this
embargo is contrary to international law and the principles
enshrined in the United Nations Charter, which emphasize
the need for Members to refrain from adopting measures that
would impair trade relations between States.
It is within this framework that my country, at the
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, supported the
adoption of resolution 47/19 on the necessity of ending the
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
11
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed
against Cuba, which clearly indicates the rejection of that
embargo by the international community. The passage of
the so-called Torricelli Act, aimed at stiffening the embargo
and making other countries enforce it, not only interferes
with the sovereignty of other countries but also with the
freedom of navigation and international free trade.
My Government learned with great concern that, during
1993,
further measures were adopted to reinforce the
embargo in its extraterritorial character. This embargo,
which has lasted for more than 30 years, has caused losses
in excess of $40 billion, had negative consequences for the
economic and social development of Cuba, and increasingly
eroded the living conditions of its people, which is being
gradually deprived of the most basic means of subsistence.
The repercussions of this embargo in the life of the
population of Cuba are enormous. The embargo has forced
Cuba to seek trading partners elsewhere and new markets for
export products, incurring greater promotional and sales
expenses of billions of United States dollars. Another
example of how the increase of imports from abroad has led
to the suffering of Cuba regards foreign vessels and sporting
goods to or from Cuba. The increase in transport, freight
and insurance costs amount to $6,207 million. According to
the estimate given us, as a result of this chaotic situation the
Cuban external debt
In
telecommunications alone, Cuba pays $112 million.
is calculated at $70 billion.
These are just some examples of the difficult situation
being experienced by the people of Cuba.
It goes without
saying that this financial situation as a whole has had severe
repercussions on the development of Cuba’s economy, and
particularly on Cubans and their standard of living. We
shall not
touch upon the scarcities, resulting from the
embargo, that affect the most important domains of health
care, medicines, food, medical and non-medical equipment,
the transfer of technology and supplies of other essential
resources and commodities.
I should like to recall the words of Mr. Ben Gurirab,
Foreign Minister of the Republic of Namibia, when he told
the Assembly during this session that it was time for the
conflict opposing the United States and Cuba to be resolved,
and for the embargo to be brought to an end.
My delegation therefore favours a draft resolution
calling for the lifting of the embargo, and hopes that,
through frank and open dialogue, based on mutual respect
and sovereign equality, it will be possible to reach a solution
to this long conflict between the two States.
Mr. CHEN Jian (China) (interpretation from Chinese):
The end of the cold war has further increased the ardent
aspirations of the world’s people for world peace and has
heightened their urgent demand for the establishment of a
new international order. But at the same time there are
the use of power politics
repeated instances of
in
international
relations.
The economic oppression and
intervention against Cuba is one example, which we deplore.
We have always believed that
is a country’s
sovereign right to choose its own social system and path of
development in line with its own national conditions; this is
a right which no other country may infringe.
it
Countries around the world should treat each other on
the basis of equality and mutual respect, and any problems
that arise in inter-State relations should be settled through
dialogue and negotiation, in accordance with the United
Nations Charter and the norms of
law.
Hegemonistic attempts to impose one’s own views on others,
intervene in matters which lie purely within the domestic
jurisdiction of other countries and even wilfully to exert
pressure on and impose economic embargoes and sanctions
against other sovereign States under one’s own domestic law
serve nobody’s interests.
Instead of helping achieve a set-
tlement of the problem concerned, they further complicate
the matter.
international
of
States,
equality
Resolution 47/19 reiterated principles such as the
and
sovereign
non-interference in other countries’ internal affairs, and
freedom of trade and international navigation, and called on
all countries to fulfil their commitments and obligations and
observe these principles and international law. This reflected
the just aspiration of the international community.
non-intervention
Like many other Member States, we hope that countries
that have implemented laws and adopted measures that run
counter to those principles will take the necessary action to
repeal them and instead engage in normal economic and
trade activities between States.
In view of these considerations, the Chinese delegation
will vote in favour of draft resolution A/48/L.14/Rev.1.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.14/Rev.1.
A recorded vote has been requested.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
A recorded vote was taken.
Cameroon,
Cape Verde,
In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia,
Central African
Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lesotho,
Liechtenstein,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco,
Myanmar, Namibia, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Saint Kitts
and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
San Marino, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Togo,
Tunisia, Uganda,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya,
Trinidad
Tobago,
and
democratic and pluralistic changes although those values are
recognized throughout the American continent. Through its
economic policies, Cuba is to a great extent responsible for
the gravely deteriorating situation in the country, which
causes great suffering to its population.
Like its partners in the European Community, France
believes that Cuba should, as soon as possible, go through
a peaceful transition towards democracy so that the Cuban
people can decide on their own Government
in all
sovereignty. However, France voted in favour of the draft
resolution because we believe there should be respect by all
for the general principles of international law, the freedom
of international trade and navigation, and the sovereignty of
States. In applying national legislation in an extraterritorial
manner, the United States of America is violating these
principles.
international
community’s having to accept the consequences of unilateral
decisions by the United States relating to bilateral relations
between Cuba and the United States.
Nothing
justify
can
the
Against: Albania, Israel, Paraguay, United States of
America.
Ireland,
Iceland,
Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Germany, Hungary,
Japan,
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malawi,
Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua,
Panama, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.
Italy,
Draft resolution A/48/L.14/Rev.1 was adopted by
88 votes to 4, with 57 abstentions (resolution 48/16).
I
The PRESIDENT:
shall now call on those
I remind
representatives who wish to explain their votes.
delegations
that explanations of vote are limited to
10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
Mr. LADSOUS (France) (interpretation from French):
The delegation of France voted in favour of the draft
resolution just adopted by the General Assembly. That vote
should in no way be regarded as support for the political
regime in Havana. France condemns the frequent violations
of human rights in Cuba, where the authorities reject
Mr. OSVALD (Sweden): Sweden voted in favour of
the draft resolution just adopted. The decision to do so was
motivated by the Swedish Government’s position on the
specific instance of legislation applying trade sanctions to
Cuba. The Swedish Government is of the view that this
kind of legislation with extraterritorial effects is not
in
conformity with the basic principles of international law.
Our affirmative vote on this resolution should not be
construed as condoning the human-rights situation in Cuba,
but we are not convinced that a policy of embargo against
Cuba is conducive to achieving improvements in that
situation. Sweden remains seriously concerned at the Cuban
Government’s systematic violations of certain basic human
rights. We strongly urge the Government of Cuba to respect
its international commitments in this regard and to cooperate
with the Special Rapporteur appointed by the United Nations
Commission on Human Rights. Sweden intends to revert to
this issue under the appropriate item on the agenda.
Mr. MARRERO (United States of America): The
United States could not vote in favour of the draft resolution
introduced under agenda item 30. There is nothing the
United States would like more than to see Cuba’s doors
opened fully to economic and political freedom, to see its
prison gates swung wide to free political dissidents and to
see all Cuban citizens free to speak their minds without fear
of reprisal. That is our hope and our goal, and that is the
goal of our embargo. Our embargo policy has not changed
in more than 30 years because repression in Cuba has not
changed. And it is because Cuba’s repressive regime has
not changed that the United States had to oppose this draft
resolution.
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
13
Last year, the Castro regime cited its victory before this
body as a triumph for the revolution. Members who voted
for the Cuban draft resolution then probably did not intend
for their votes to be distorted and construed as support for
a repressive dictatorship, but that is exactly how the regime
portrayed it. Unhappily, the Cuban claim of victory gave
the regime an excuse not to move any closer to democracy.
Assembly can actually be conducive to resolving in a
constructive manner
the question of the United States
embargo against Cuba. This question is very complex in
nature, and Japan wonders if the resolution which has just
been adopted can, in fact, properly address such complexity.
If not, the question will remain unresolved until a better way
is found to arrive at an appropriate solution.
We maintain our comprehensive economic embargo
against Cuba in order to maintain pressure on the regime to
restore freedom and democracy.
If we were to alter our
policy now, what then? Could we expect any corresponding
changes in Cuba’s political outlook? The Castro regime has
frequently stated that it does not intend to change, and that
this is the will of the Cuban people. But how can the will
of the people be known in a country where freedom of
speech is not permitted, where dissidents and other
"counter-revolutionaries" are jailed, and where there are no
free elections and no free press?
The United States continues the embargo because we
believe we have a political and economic right to exclude as
trading partners those who violate fundamental human rights
and who demonstrate little respect for human dignity and the
worth of the individual.
Our citizens oppose repression. Ours is a nation
composed of many immigrants who fled the countries of
their birth in search of freedom and democracy. These
citizens are the backbone of our country. They give our
nation diversity, and they give our nation strength. We have
a duty to uphold the principles that led these people to our
shores.
Many of our citizens have relatives still in Cuba. We
learn from them of the deplorable conditions resulting from
the bankrupt Government policies. These are the people we
want to help. We keep pressure on the Government so that
some day they may be free. At the same time, we encourage
our citizens to assist them through licensed humanitarian
donations and gifts of food, medicine and other necessities.
We encourage our people to communicate with the people
of Cuba, and, with that goal
in mind, we are seeking
improved telecommunications with the island.
For those reasons, the United States was unable to vote
for the draft resolution.
Mr. FUKUSHIMA (Japan):
I have asked to speak in
order to place on record Japan’s position in abstaining in the
vote on the draft
resolution contained in document
A/48/L.14/Rev.1.
As it indicated last year, Japan has some doubts as to
the United Nations General
whether a discussion at
(interpretation
Mr. RICARDES (Argentina)
from
Spanish): My delegation abstained in the vote on the draft
resolution contained in document A/48/L.14/Rev.1 because,
although it shares the principles embodied in the draft
resolution, it cannot agree that the draft resolution’s title
should single out a particular Member State or that the
measures unilaterally adopted can be described as a
blockade.
At the same time, my delegation reaffirms its position
of principle, and, in connection with the item before us, it
concurs with the statement in the Final Document of the
third Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and
Government, held in Salvador, Brazil, on 15 and 16 July this
year, that:
"We note the resolutions recently adopted in
international forums on the need to eliminate the
unilateral application of economic and trade measures
by one State against another for political purposes".
(A/48/291, annex, para. 68)
Mr. KEATING (New Zealand): New Zealand has
voted for this resolution, but we have taken this position
with some reservations.
We are not attracted to the modifications which have
been made to the text from last year. We gave our support
to the resolution because we do think that
there is an
important underlying principle
stake with direct
implications
In
particular, we think that all countries must be able to go
about their ordinary trade and commercial business free from
the extraterritorial reach of legislation imposed unilaterally
by third countries.
for economic and trading interests.
at
We have to emphasize, however, that our vote is not to
be interpreted in any way as support for the policies and
practices of Cuba. Our action in casting an affirmative vote
for this resolution is due solely to our concern over the
principle at stake.
Mr. MATIN (Pakistan): Pakistan has voted in favour
of the resolution just adopted by the General Assembly.
However, we have reservations on the sixth preambular
paragraph.
If it had been put to the vote separately, we
would have abstained on this paragraph.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the draft resolution.
Mr. SANDOVAL (Paraguay)
(interpretation from
Spanish): On explicit instructions from my capital, my
delegation voted against
Paraguay
remains faithful to its international principles and wishes to
place on record its total humanitarian support for the people
of the fraternal country of Cuba. We also express our
unswerving solidarity with the children, women and the
elderly, and with the people of Cuba in general, who are
suffering from the present terrible situation.
Mr. HUSLID (Norway): Norway to a large extent
shares the same objectives the United States is seeking to
advance in relation to Cuba. However, we believe that those
objectives should now be pursued by other means. The
Norwegian Government distinguishes as a matter of principle
between sanctions authorized by the international community
and sanctions adopted by individual States. Only those
sanctions that have been duly enacted by the international
community through United Nations decisions are fully
legitimate and have a right to international endorsement. For
its part, Norway has traditionally disagreed with the
application of national jurisdiction outside the territory of
individual States.
At the same time, the Norwegian Government strongly
deplores the violations of human rights and the lack of
democratic rights that still characterize the situation in Cuba.
The experience we have gained in Europe, however,
indicates that it would not be appropriate to isolate Cuba.
Emphasis should instead be placed on involving Cuba in
greater cooperation with a view to bringing about changes in
the internal situation that could contribute to respect for
human rights and democratic processes.
In voting in favour of the draft resolution, our intention
was to seek change through contact. This should not be
interpreted as support for the policies the Government of
Cuba has pursued to date.
Mr. CASSAR (Malta): Malta abstained in the vote on
draft resolution A/48/L.14/Rev.1.
It is the sincere hope of
my country that a solution to this issue will be found in the
spirit of the Charter of the United Nations, and through the
settlement process envisaged in that document.
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
30?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 170 (continued)
THE SITUATION IN BURUNDI (A/48/L.16)
Mr. NYAKYI (United Republic of Tanzania): The
Tanzania delegation welcomes the addition of the item "The
situation in Burundi" to the agenda of the General Assembly,
for two reasons.
First, as a neighbouring State my country has a direct
interest in what happens in Burundi, just as Burundi has a
direct interest in what happens in Tanzania. A coup in
Burundi inevitably leads to the exodus of refugees across our
common border of approximately 400 kilometres.
Secondly,
the coup that
took place in Burundi on
21 October 1993 is so out of step with the democratic
process on the march everywhere on the continent
that
Africa must use every opportunity to condemn it and its
attendant murder and violence in order to deter other selfish
and unscrupulous people on the continent who may be
tempted to embark on a similar criminal adventure.
is
a
and
The
also
debate
recognition
an
acknowledgement by the international community of the
gravity of the situation in Burundi. Few if any coups d’état
in Africa have been greeted with the almost universal
rejection and condemnation that have greeted the violent
overthrow of the democratically elected Government of
Burundi on 21 October. This international act of solidarity
with the people of Burundi
is very reassuring as they
struggle to pull their country back from the brink of the
devastating ethnic conflict that is now threatening to engulf
the country.
Like Latin America, the continent of Africa has been
notorious for its acceptance of or acquiescence in the violent
overthrow of democratically elected Governments on the
continent. We have almost lost count of the number of
coups that have taken place on the continent since the early
1960s, when most African
their
independence. Until now, few African countries could bring
themselves to condemn these assaults on the will of the
African people. The majority seemed to be more content
with
cherish - of
non-interference in the internal affairs of States - than with
upholding the will of the people.
principle we
preserving
countries
gained
the
all
The nearly universal condemnation of the coup in
Burundi by virtually all African countries is a refreshing
recognition by Africa that supporting and upholding the will
of the African people and vigorously defending the principle
of non-interference in the internal affairs of States are not
irreconcilable.
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
15
The Organization of African Unity (OAU) is to be
commended for taking the lead.
Its central organ of the
mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution
of conflict lost no time in swiftly condemning the coup,
calling on those responsible to put an end to their illegal act,
to respect
to restore the democratically elected
Government and to return to barracks.
life,
Here
at
the whole
the United Nations,
of
Africa - whether at
the level of the African Group, of
Burundi’s neighbours in the subregion or of Africa’s
representatives on the Security Council - acted in concert to
secure the international community’s condemnation of the
heinous crime committed against the Government and the
people of Burundi by what has now turned out to be a group
of power-hungry self-seekers who were prepared to murder
in cold blood the President and other national leaders in
order to stop the democratic process. Africa’s unprecedented
revulsion at this crime helped forge a consensus that enabled
the Security Council to move swiftly to issue a presidential
statement reaffirming Africa’s condemnation of the crime.
Today’s debate in the General Assembly enables the
wider international community to follow up the action of the
Security Council. The international community now has to
follow up the Council’s condemnation with concrete
measures to assist in the efforts to return the situation to
normalcy and to provide emergency assistance to the
internally displaced population and to the population that has
been compelled by the uncontrolled campaign of violence
and murder to seek refuge in neighbouring countries.
Urgent action is required in two important areas, the
first of which is that of security. Although the coup has
collapsed, thanks to universal rejection, total condemnation
and the heroic resistance of the population, the violence it
unleashed continues to plague the country.
There are
disturbing stories of uncontrolled violence in several parts of
the country, particularly in the rural areas, which has
resulted in the massacre of many people, including innocent
civilians. Unless the violence is stopped forthwith, there is
a real danger of a full-scale civil war breaking out between
the two major ethnic groups that make up the great majority
of Burundi’s population.
There is also the urgent need to create an atmosphere
of security in the country, particularly in the capital,
Bujumbura, in order to enable the remaining members of the
legitimate Government to reassert their authority over the
country. Only a neutral external force will be able to inspire
the kind of confidence and trust that are necessary for the
return of peace and normalcy to the country.
At their recent Summit Meeting in Kigali, Rwanda, the
leaders of Rwanda, Tanzania and Zaire and the Organization
of African Unity (OAU) called for the establishment of an
international force for stabilization and confidence-building
and asked the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in
cooperation with the Secretary-General of the OAU,
to
establish it. The leaders expressed their countries’ readiness
to participate in such a force. My delegation urges the
United Nations to take up the proposal and pledges its full
support for any efforts designed to follow it up in the
appropriate forums of our Organization.
The coup and the resulting conflict have already led to
the massacre of many people, the displacement of many
more and a massive number of refugees crossing borders
into neighbouring countries. The second and most urgent
area of attention is therefore the mobilization of emergency
relief assistance and support for the internally displaced and
refugee population.
for us
to remain aloof
As I indicated at the beginning of my statement, even
if it wanted to stay out of the conflict in Burundi, Tanzania
could not afford to do so. The ties of history, culture and
geography linking the two countries, not to mention the
imperatives of good-neighbourly cooperation, make it
virtually impossible
from
developments in Burundi. Every conflict in Burundi has
resulted in a large number of refugees from Burundi seeking
asylum in Tanzania. This happened during the conflicts in
1965, 1969, 1972, 1988 and 1991. The vast majority of the
estimated 180,000 to 240,000 refugees from Burundi seeking
asylum in neighbouring countries are in Tanzania. The
present conflict has already forced nearly 300,000 people
from Burundi to seek asylum in Tanzania, and the number
is rising daily. As always, the people of Tanzania in the
areas bordering Burundi have responded magnificently to the
emergency.
For example, one village with a normal
population of 4,000 now has a population of over 20,000.
Their need for outside support and assistance is obvious.
The Government of Tanzania would like to thank the donor
community, and especially the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees, for its support. We are
confident that, as it continues to mobilize more assistance for
the emergency in Burundi, it will continue to remember the
needs of people of Burundi living in exile outside their
country.
We cannot find strong enough language to condemn the
to roll back the democratic gains
misguided attempt
endorsed by the people of Burundi in the June elections. All
of us have a duty to condemn the cowardly murder of the
President and other leaders and to support the right of the
Government to bring to justice those responsible for these
despicable acts.
The legitimate Government must be
restored forthwith, and the army must return to barracks.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
What happened in Burundi on 21 October 1993 was a
great tragedy for Burundi and a great setback for the cause
of democracy and reconciliation in Burundi, Africa and,
indeed, the world. The draft resolution we are about to
adopt, which my delegation fully supports, will send the
perpetrators of the crime the loud and clear message that
they have set
the whole of the
international community.
themselves up against
Mr. MUMBENGEGWI (Zimbabwe): Let me begin,
Mr. President, by thanking you for giving the General
Assembly the opportunity last Friday, 29 October, to pay
homage and tribute to the late President of Burundi,
Melchior Ndadaye.
It is almost two weeks now since we received the news
of the tragic events of 21 October 1993 in Burundi. Ever
since that date, our condemnation of the attempted coup in
that country has been unequivocal. We are gratified that
relief agencies have responded quickly to the immediate
humanitarian needs of the people of Burundi.
The
international
community’s
concern
over
developments in Burundi is clearly illustrated by the United
Nations Secretary-General’s dispatch of a special envoy to
that country and by the efforts of the Secretary-General of
the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to consult with
neighbouring Heads of State on the events there.
It is our
hope that the combined efforts of the OAU and the United
Nations will put into place a viable mechanism for the
speedy restoration of
the legitimate
Government
in Burundi. To that end, Zimbabwe fully
supports the decision of the Regional Summit held in Kigali
on 28 October 1993 that
for
stabilization and confidence-building be set up by the United
Nations,
in close cooperation with the Organization of
African Unity, as requested by the legitimate Government of
Burundi.
the authority of
an international
force
The present intolerable reality is that the democratic
process in Burundi remains unjustifiably interrupted. This
state of affairs should not be allowed to continue. Every
effort should be made to stop any further loss of human life,
and any further displacement of people within the country,
as well as the continuing flow of refugees to neighbouring
countries.
We therefore call upon the international community to
redouble its efforts and initiatives aimed at achieving nothing
less than the immediate restoration of democracy and
constitutional government in Burundi, and the immediate and
unconditional return of the military to barracks.
The draft resolution before the Assembly constitutes an
important stepping stone for the international community in
the people of Burundi, and the
its efforts to support
democratic process in that country. It therefore deserves our
fullest support.
Mr. JESUS (Cape Verde): The people of Burundi
made their clear choice in recent elections by voting into
power the first democratic Government in the history of that
country. Their hopes of living in a free and democratic
country were shattered by the military coup d’état, in total
disregard for their free will.
that
in Burundi
The recent events
led to the
assassination of President Ndadaye and other members of the
Government of that country provoked world-wide outrage
and condemnation. The Security Council also, at the request
of
took immediate action and
condemned the coup.
its African members,
This violent action against
the newly established
democracy in Burundi is a threat to all of us at a time when
there is world-wide recognition of the need to respect the
free will of peoples in determining their destiny and deciding
the shape and form of their government. We hope that the
episode of Burundi
in the
democratization process in Africa, and that it is the last gasp
of an era in which coups d’état seem to have been the usual
procedure to attain power in our continent.
an isolated incident
is
However, like the rest of the world, Africa has changed,
response by the
and the prompt
Organization of African Unity (OAU) and its members
against the coup d’état in Burundi is a clear demonstration
of this fundamental change in attitude.
and unequivocal
As a newly established democracy itself, Cape Verde
could not but condemn the coup d’état staged against the
newborn democracy in that sister country, and joined other
members of
in requesting the
the democratically elected
immediate reinstitution of
Government.
the Security Council
We also condemned the violence used by the plotters to
attain their goals. We believe, as does the Security Council,
that
the
government officials of Burundi should be brought to justice.
those found to have caused the deaths of
the country.
The power vacuum created by the coup spawns
conditions for an increase in violence which threatens to
spread throughout
It becomes imperative,
therefore, that conditions be created to allow the remaining
members of the elected Government of Burundi immediately
to take charge of the country. In this context, the immediate
and concrete assistance of the OAU and the United Nations
seems to be of the essence.
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
17
We express our condolences to the people of Burundi
and to the family members of President Ndadaye and all
those that have fallen in Burundi for democracy.
Burundi in its efforts to restore peace and security and
ensure the return to power of the legitimate Government in
Burundi that was democratically elected last June.
the
regrettable developments
Mr. ELARABY (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic):
The delegation of Egypt
is deeply saddened by the
deplorable events that have taken place in Burundi. The
Egyptian Government has followed closely, at the highest
level,
country.
President Mubarak, in his capacity as the current Chairman
of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), has voiced
deep concern over the consequences arising from those
developments and the threats they pose to the safety and
security of the people of Burundi and to the democratic
process there in the country. Such threats complicate further
the problems of Africa.
in that
The official statement of 22 October 1993 by the
Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Egypt condemns the bloody
coup d’état which claimed the lives of many citizens and
high-ranking officials in Burundi. The President of the
Security Council was
immediately contacted on the
instructions of the Chairman of the Organization of African
Unity to convey the deep concern of Egypt and the whole of
Africa and request the Council to conduct the necessary
consultations in order to contain the situation and address its
consequences in conformity with the United Nations Charter.
The aim is to preserve the integrity of that State, ensure the
safety of its people and uphold the principles of democracy.
As is known,
the Security Council has issued a
presidential statement in which it condemned the setback to
the democratic process in Burundi and called on the
perpetrators of the coup d’état to lay down their arms and
return to their barracks.
At the African level, the central mechanism for the
prevention, management and resolution of disputes in the
OAU has issued a statement in which it declared the bloody
coup d’état to be a setback not only for Burundi but also for
the entire African continent.
condemning the
The African Group in New York also has issued a
statement
cowardly assassination of
President Ndadaye and the other officials who were killed in
the coup and considered it to be a serious threat. The
President of Rwanda also called a regional summit at Kigali
in which a number of African officials participated,
including a high-ranking Egyptian envoy representing the
current Chairman of the OAU.
The mini-Kigali summit discussed the situation and
views were exchanged in order to explore the ways and
means whereby assistance may be provided to the people of
We in Africa are extremely concerned over the events
in Burundi. Burundi was one of the countries that made a
speedy move, in an exemplary fashion, towards a healthy
climate of democracy. It is indeed unfortunate that that leap
forward has suffered such a setback because of the coup
d’état that claimed the lives of the President and Vice-
President and thus created a vacuum in the higher echelon
of leadership.
The coup also contains the seeds of rebellion and ethnic
strife. These, as we all know, are ominous signs of much
more serious consequences that may not be limited to
Burundi but may overspill beyond its borders through the
massive displacement of refugees that may ensue and affect
the whole region.
The international community, having condemned the
coup d’état attempt, must now act, through the General
Assembly, and take prompt action to deal with the
deplorable situation in Burundi. The General Assembly
should adopt the draft resolution submitted by the Chairman
of the Group of African States and thereby declare its
solidarity with the people of Burundi, underscore the need to
respect democratic institutions and provide humanitarian
assistance to the population of that country.
The PRESIDENT: In accordance with the provisions
of General Assembly
of
11 October 1965, I now call upon the Observer for the
Organization of African Unity.
2011 (XX),
resolution
Mr. SY (Organization of African Unity) (interpretation
from French): The tragic events that plunged Burundi into
mourning on 21 October 1993 are for so many reasons a
subject of grave concern to the Organization of African
Unity (OAU). A Head of State who was elected barely five
months ago in a completely democratic manner, and who,
moreover,
for
reconciliation, understanding and progress, was brutally
assassinated by the perpetrators of the putsch, blinded by
their hatred for democracy.
a whole
embodied
people’s
hopes
Democratic institutions freely chosen by a people have
been paralysed by a military clique which believes that it can
halt the democratic process by physically eliminating the
representatives of the people.
Lastly, we are confronted with a situation in which the
putschists’ violent deeds are exacerbating ethnic intolerance
and sectarianism and provoking reprisals
and other
widespread violations of human rights, threatening to destroy
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the social fabric completely. These facts are very serious
indeed. For this reason, on 22 October 1993 the Central
Organ of the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention,
Management and Resolution expressed its grave concern at
the alarming situation created by the military coup d’état
against a democratically elected President, and strongly
emphasized that the coup represents a step backward for
Burundi and a grave assault on the cause of democracy, not
only in that country but in all of Africa. The Central Organ
condemned that act, which is all the more reprehensible in
that only four months ago the Heads of State and
Government of the States members of the Organization of
African Unity, in their Declaration at Cairo on the occasion
of the thirtieth anniversary of the organization, had stated:
fear such an eventuality given the news we have received of
acts of intimidation and summary executions being carried
out in the countryside, frequently by military personnel.
Such events have given rise to a massive flow of
refugees - the figure of 600,000 has been quoted - to
neighbouring countries. These refugees, as well as the
populations receiving them, require urgent assistance from
the international community. Their number is likely to grow
as long as the threat from rebel bands of soldiers persists.
This is why the summit meeting held by three neighbouring
countries at Kigali on 28 October 1993 stressed the urgent
need to establish a stabilization force with the mandate of
building trust and restoring security in the country.
"... we undertake to promote the rights and freedoms of
our peoples and to enhance the democratic values,
ideals and institutions of our States in cultural, social,
linguistic and religious diversity". (A/48/322, annex II,
para. 12)
The actions of President Ndadaye were merely the
translation of that profession of faith into deeds. The putsch
of 21 October 1993 was therefore a serious challenge to the
new Africa that the OAU and the African States are trying
to build. Our stand reflects not only the condemnation of
assassination as a means of gaining power but also and
above all our conviction that democracy is an authentically
African value that must be nourished and protected if we are
not to turn our back on progress.
In this connection the African countries have been
heartened to note that their feelings and views are widely
shared by the international community. Thus, the Security
Council strongly condemned the acts of violence by the
perpetrators of the coup and expressed deep regret at the loss
of life that had resulted. The Council also demanded that
the perpetrators of the coup d’état cease all their acts of
violence, release all prisoners, return to their barracks and
put an immediate end to their illegal act, with a view to the
immediate reinstitution of democracy and constitutional rule
in Burundi (S/PV.3297, pp. 3 and 4).
Only a week ago the President of the Security Council
read out the statement by which I have just referred, but the
situation on the ground has improved only slightly. True,
the coup d’état has failed, but the members of the country’s
legal Government are still not in a position to ensure the
normal functioning of public institutions.
The resultant atmosphere of insecurity is a major
impediment, and Burundi finds itself in the dangerous
situation of a country whose Government is paralysed.
If
this situation is allowed to continue the climate of violence
and insecurity may worsen. We have all the more reason to
That stabilization force will be made up of forces from
neighbouring African countries, but it will still need the
support of the international community, and in particular the
United Nations, if it is to be rapidly dispatched to Burundi.
The Organization of African Unity supports the dispatch
of such a force and hopes that the Security Council will
rapidly address the question in order to decide how the
United Nations can concretely support such a force. This
decision is the more pressing in that it is essential that the
massacre of innocent civilians be ended as quickly as
possible.
Any temporization could have incalculable
consequences for the peace and security of a region that has
only just emerged from another painful fratricidal conflict.
For his part,
the Secretary-General of
the OAU,
Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, went to Burundi last week to assist
in promoting the return to constitutional order. In addition,
two days ago he dispatched to the country a high-level
delegation led by his Special Envoy for Burundi. That
mission will be entrusted with pursuing the discussions
begun by Mr. Salim with a view to finding a rapid and
lasting solution to the crisis in Burundi.
in African soil.
The failure of the putsch in Burundi has shown that
democracy has taken deep root
The
overwhelming majority of the people of Burundi have
opposed the criminal acts of a few sectarian rebel groups.
That courageous opposition, which fills us with optimism for
the future of the democratic movement in that country, must
be energetically supported by the international community if
it wants to avoid seeing old wounds reopened, the national
unity so laboriously fashioned undone, and the foundations
of democracy undermined. Our action in coming days will
be decisive not only for the future of Burundi but for the
future of democracy. We must demonstrate that it is no
longer possible to go backwards, that the era of coups d’état
is over and that political assassination is intolerable. We
must demonstrate that the other democracies are capable of
48th meeting - Wednesday, 3 November 1993
19
acting together to assist one that is being threatened or under
serious attack.
Let us demonstrate that the future of democracy in
Latin America, in Eastern Europe or in Africa is dear to us
and that we are prepared to show the same concern
everywhere.
It is now or never.
The PRESIDENT: The representative of Algeria has
asked to make a statement with regard to draft resolution
A/48/L.16, and I now call upon him.
Mr. LAMAMRA (Algeria) (interpretation from French):
I should like to make three comments.
First, on behalf of the Group of African States I should
like to thank all the delegations that have participated in this
debate and those that will show that they share the same
views and feelings by joining in the consensus adoption of
draft resolution A/48/L.16.
Secondly, I should like, for the record, to say that
Algeria’s sponsorship of the draft resolution introduced by
Burundi is on behalf of all delegations of the African Group.
Thirdly, I should like, with the consent of the delegation
of Burundi, and following consultations, to propose a small
oral amendment to the fourth preambular paragraph of the
draft resolution.
the
I propose the addition, at the end of
objective of the text.
the paragraph, of the following:
in any way affect
This will not
"with significant regional repercussions,".
The paragraph would then read as follows:
"Seriously disturbed by the tragic consequences of
the coup d’état which is plunging Burundi into violence
and causing loss of life and mass displacement of the
population, with significant regional repercussions,".
(interpretation
Mr. ABDELLAH (Tunisia)
from
The events that have brought bloodshed to
French):
Burundi and have involved the overthrow of the legitimate,
democratically elected President of that country have caused
great concern in my country and throughout the international
community. Tunisia, as a member of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU),
responded immediately to this
criminal action. We issued a declaration reflecting our
concern and condemning the coup d’état, which is
prejudicial
towards peace and
development.
to Burundi’s progress
Tunisia is committed to the principles of democracy,
and it respects the will of peoples to order their own affairs
through democratic institutions.
Tunisia has strongly
condemned the putsch, which undermines the democratic
process in this neighbouring African country - a process
marked by the free and honest presidential elections of last
June, which were monitored by foreign observers under the
auspices of the OAU.
Faith and resolve were invested in the efforts to
establish in Burundi a national covenant rising above tribal
attitudes, to facilitate action in the higher interests of the
country.
the entire international
community must demonstrate solidarity with this fraternal
country by providing emergency humanitarian aid for the
people who are affected.
Tunisia believes that
Tunisia
endorses
the draft
resolution, with the
amendment proposed by the Ambassador of Algeria as
Chairman of
to all
delegations to demonstrate good will with a view to securing
the restoration of constitutional legitimacy.
the African Group. We appeal
The PRESIDENT: Before the Assembly takes a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.16 I should like to
announce that Haiti has become a sponsor of the draft
resolution.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
The PRESIDENT: We shall now proceed to take a
draft resolution as orally revised by consensus?
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.16.
Draft resolution A/48/L.16, as orally revised, was
I call on the representative of Tunisia for an explanation
adopted (resolution 48/17).
of position.
May I remind representatives that, in accordance with
General Assembly decision 34/401, explanations are limited
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
Mexico for an explanation of position.
May I remind representatives that, in accordance with
General Assembly decision 34/401, explanations are limited
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
Mr. TELLO (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
My delegation joined in the consensus on this matter because
we believe that what has happened in Burundi
is
reprehensible in all respects. However, we have our doubts
as to the General Assembly’s competence to make a
judgement such as that
incorporated in the resolution.
Mexico maintains that it is incumbent solely on the people
of Burundi
to find the path to democracy and proper
institutional government.
The PRESIDENT: We have thus concluded this stage
of our consideration of agenda item 170.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
