United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.45 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 8 (continued)
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ALLOCATION
OF ITEMS: FOURTH REPORT OF THE GENERAL
COMMITTEE (A/48/250/Add.3)
I draw the
The PRESIDENT:
attention of
representatives to the fourth report of the General Committee
(A/48/250/Add.3), concerning a request for the inclusion of
an additional item submitted by Egypt as well as a request
for the inclusion of an additional item submitted by the
Secretary-General.
In paragraph 1 (a) of the report, the General Committee
recommends the inclusion in the agenda of the current
session of an additional item entitled "Building a peaceful
and better world through sport".
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include in its agenda an additional item entitled "Building a
peaceful and better world through sport"?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
In paragraph 1 (b) of the report,
the General Committee also recommends to the Assembly
that
this item should be considered directly in plenary
meeting.
31st
PLENARY MEETING
Friday, 15 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts this
recommendation?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: Next, I should like to draw the
attention of representatives to paragraph 2 (a) of the report.
The General Committee recommends the inclusion in the
agenda of the current session of an additional item entitled
"Personnel questions".
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include in its agenda the additional item entitled "Personnel
questions"?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
In paragraph 2 (b) of the report,
the General Committee also recommends to the Assembly
that the item be allocated to the Fifth Committee.
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts that
recommendation?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
The Chairman of
the Fifth
Committee will be informed of the decision just taken.
AGENDA ITEM 13
REPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF
JUSTICE (A/48/4)
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now turn to the
report of the International Court of Justice covering the
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86897 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.31
8 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
period 1 August 1992 to 31 July 1993;
contained in document A/48/4.
this report
is
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note of
the report of the International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on Sir Robert Yewdall
Jennings, President of the International Court of Justice, to
address the Assembly.
Sir Robert YEWDALL JENNINGS (President of the
International Court of Justice): The International Court of
Justice continues to have a full docket of cases:
there are at
present 11 cases at various stages of the procedure. Recent
additions to the list are the case between Hungary and
Slovakia over the Danube dams; and the request from the
World Health Organization for an advisory opinion
concerning the use of nuclear weapons -
the only
advisory-opinion request in the docket at present.
Twice during this last year the Court has had to deal
with complicated and lengthy requests for interim measures
of protection in the case brought by Bosnia and Herzegovina
against Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) concerning the
Genocide Convention. Such requests for interim measures,
according to the Court’s rules, "have priority over all other
cases". These two separate requests were such requests, and
the Court dealt with them immediately and with dispatch:
the first was handled in some three weeks, and the second in
only a little longer time - that period including in both
instances time for an oral hearing in which both parties were
heard and for
lengthy written
observations.
the study of
several
Particulars of the Court’s decisions and also of the
cases in its docket are given, as members of the General
Assembly will know, not only in the Court’s own report but
also in chapter II, section A of the 1993 report of the
Secretary-General on the work of the organization (A/48/1).
I can now add that on 14 June final judgment was
given, by 14 votes to 1,
in the important case between
Denmark and Norway - a further case arising from a
unilateral application by Denmark, basing jurisdiction on the
"optional clause" of Article 36 of the Court’s Statute -
concerning the maritime boundary between the east coast of
Greenland and the Norwegian island of Jan Mayen. There
have been indications that the Court’s judgment in that case
is perceived by both parties as a satisfactory final settlement
of a dispute which protracted negotiations had failed to
settle.
One case, between Nauru and Australia, in which a
jurisdictional phase was decided last year, was last month
the subject of a carefully drawn settlement out of court,
resulting in the withdrawal of the case from the Court’s list.
It will be remembered that last year I was able to report that
the Great Belt case between Finland and Denmark had been
settled, indeed almost on the eve of the scheduled oral
proceedings, in negotiations which had been suggested and
encouraged by the Court itself.
There is another case on the Court’s list in which
negotiations are active, the Court having been asked by both
Parties to grant a delay in the procedures to enable the
negotiations to continue in order to see whether it might be
possible to reach a settlement.
settlement, or
I mention these settled cases, and the case still the
subject of ongoing negotiations, because they illustrate a new
role for the Court, unimagined by earlier commentators on
the adjudication process in international matters. In all these
instances of
attempted settlement, by
negotiations after the time when the Court has been seized
of a case, some part of the procedures of the Court, such as
written pleadings, or indeed a hearing and decision in a
preliminary phase, such as jurisdiction or interim measures,
had been completed. Thus, it was the intervention of some
part of the procedures before the Court which apparently not
only made further negotiations in this new context possible
but made it possible for them to succeed.
In this way, the Court procedure is beginning to be seen
as a resort to be employed in a closer relationship with
normal diplomatic negotiation. No longer is resort to the
International Court of Justice seen, to use the traditional
phrase, as a "last resort" when all negotiation has finally
failed. Rather, it is sometimes now to be seen as a recourse
that might usefully be employed at an earlier stage of the
dispute.
I suppose a foretaste of this development was the
1969 North Sea Continental Shelf cases, where the Court, by
deciding a legal question that had been a sticking-point,
enabled normal negotiations to start again and to resolve the
matter in a way acceptable to all parties concerned. This
tendency to use the Court, acting under its contentious
jurisdiction, as a partner in preventive diplomacy rather than
as a last-resort alternative is after all only to conform to the
place that courts enjoy in any developed domestic system of
law.
rather
The perception of the International Court of Justice as
a normal,
than as an extraordinary, part of
international relations may perhaps also be reflected in the
fact that the number of declarations of acceptance of the
Court’s jurisdiction under paragraph 2 of Article 36 - the
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
3
optional clause - of the Court’s Statute is still on a slow but
continual upward trend. The total of such acceptances is
now 57 out of the 184 Member States. There have also
been several additions to the list of treaties with jurisdiction
clauses.
It is an interesting development, the significance of
which I do not attempt to comment upon here, that the
increased busyness of the Court is still the result almost
entirely of cases brought under the contentious jurisdiction
and that States show more eagerness to use the Court than
do those international organizations entitled to ask for
advisory opinions.
that
contentious
before
sometimes
proceedings
Whilst speaking of decisions in contentious cases, I
should like to say something about the notion one sometimes
hears
the
full
International Court of Justice take rather a long time.
It is
true that the period between the application and the judgment
is usually one to be measured in years rather than months.
But, in almost all cases, the greater part of that time is taken
up by the parties themselves in the preparation and study of
two or
three rounds of elaborate written
pleadings, followed by oral proceedings in which the parties
usually expect to be allowed to talk for typically three or
four weeks. So the time actually taken by the Court for
deliberation and drafting of a judgment is relatively short.
I am not suggesting that the parties necessarily take too long
over the preparation of written pleadings and the provision
of documentation. The cases we get are very important
cases and Governments naturally wish to take time over the
preparations leading towards a decision that will be final and
is without appeal. It is perhaps also relevant here to mention
the fact that the Court’s standing Chamber of Summary
Procedure has never been employed even though it has
remained continuously in being.
To give some idea of the dimensions of some of the
cases, let me instance the one which is now in the hands of
the Court for decision: the very important territorial dispute
Chad/Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, brought to the Court by the
Agreement of 31 August 1990. The written pleadings in that
case amount to some 30 stout volumes of argument and
documentation, and the phase of written pleadings was then
followed by five weeks of oral hearings. The documentation
is remarkable, for the case involves long periods of colonial
history in Africa and both parties have been able to use the
relevant British, French and Italian archives. Quite apart
from the need for the Judges to read and study this vast if
also fascinating array of material, almost every word of it,
of course, had to be translated into the other language of the
The time-consuming nature of this exercise is
Court.
evident, and certainly the Court has been working recently
under very great pressure.
All these things considered, one is justified in saying
that the Court itself really works remarkably quickly, and the
time taken will be found in any event, I believe, to compare
favourably with other superior courts of both domestic and
international jurisdiction.
All of the cases at present on the list are cases brought
before the full Court. The Court has, however, found time
to establish a Chamber for Environmental Matters, in the
belief that some litigants might prefer a Chamber composed
of Judges who have expressed a special interest in such
matters. It may be useful, however, to make it clear that the
establishment of this Chamber for Environmental Matters is
in no way intended to suggest
that cases involving
environmental matters should go to that Chamber, or any
other Chamber, rather than the full Court. The jurisdiction
of the full Court obviously comprehends environmental
matters, as indeed it comprehends any other question of
international
to take a contentious-
jurisdiction case to a Chamber will normally require
agreement of the parties to do so, whereas the full Court
might have jurisdiction, whether under paragraph 2 of
Article 36 of the Statute or under some treaty-jurisdiction
clause, in a case brought by unilateral application. And,
naturally, it would be the normal course to address any
request for an advisory opinion to the full Court.
Furthermore,
law.
I like to think that the new busyness of the International
Court of Justice is at least in part connected with a more
realistic appreciation of the place and function of a court of
justice in a society governed by the rule of
law.
Traditionally, the writers and commentators used to put
before us what they conceived of as an ideal situation in
which all disputes would be submitted for settlement to a
court.
I think there is now much more appreciation that
some disputes require political decisions by a political body.
Such a body will of course work within the framework of
the law, but the reasons for the decision will be political
rather than legal. This, of course, is the scheme of the
United Nations Charter, and the fact that that scheme is now
being put into operation in a way that has not until recently
been practicable helps us to see the Court - the principal
judicial organ of
in a new and
altogether more realistic context. People are much more
likely to resort to the Court if they have a clear idea of what
it can and should do, and what it cannot do.
the United Nations -
It is here that I should like to express the pleasure and
gratitude of all members of the Court for the terms in which
the use of the Court is recommended in the resolution of the
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
General Assembly on the report of the Secretary-General on
the work of the Organization. It is most encouraging to see
the use of the Court thus supported clearly in the general
context of "An Agenda for Peace" and as a component of
the scheme of preventive diplomacy.
I cannot leave this theme of the role of the International
Court of Justice without a mention of today’s tendency to
proliferate other and specialized courts and tribunals. We
may soon have three in The Hague alone:
the International
Court of Justice, the Permanent Court of Arbitration, and the
new international criminal court for crimes committed in the
former Yugoslavia. The relationship of these tribunals to
each other and to each other’s jurisdiction, and their
respective contributions to the directions taken by the
development of international law by the resulting case law
from their decisions, raise interesting and difficult questions
which might at some time have to be addressed. There is
only one thought I wish to leave with the members of the
General Assembly on this occasion:
there can be only one
"principal judicial organ of the United Nations", as there is
normally only one supreme court of any legally ordered
community; and that position of the International Court of
Justice ought always to be remembered and strenuously
protected.
This is probably my last appearance before the General
Assembly as President of the Court.
I want to thank the
Secretary-General and to thank you, Mr. President, and the
members of the General Assembly for their immensely
valuable support to the Court and to its work. This has been
of very great
in this time of
expansion of its work and of the addressing of the difficult
problems of staffing and premises brought about by that very
expansion.
importance to the Court
Mr. HAAKONSEN (Denmark): So far there has been
no tradition for opening a debate on the annual report of the
International Court of Justice. The reasons may be twofold:
for many years, there were very few cases, if any, to report
on; and as the Court is the highest judicial organ of the
world community, it may not have seemed appropriate for
the General Assembly to pronounce any opinion on the
disputes decided with binding effect once and for all by the
Court. However,
States appear
nowadays to be more ready to submit their disputes, inclu-
ding politically sensitive ones, to the Court in order to obtain
a final and legally binding settlement of the matter. This
trend is clearly shown in the Court’s report (A/48/4), now
before the General Assembly. In addition, the Court’s role
in furthering the international legal order may be commented
upon without
interfering with the Court’s exclusive
competence.
times have changed.
As can be seen from this year’s report, the Court is
gradually fulfilling its role as the principal judicial organ of
the United Nations. The steadily increasing number of cases
brought before it bears witness to this fact.
This is
particularly satisfying when seen in the context of the United
Nations Decade of International Law (1990-1999), during
which special attention will be given to the role of the Court
both in settling inter-State disputes and as an instrument of
preventive diplomacy through its advisory functions.
Through the jurisprudence of the Court, the rule of law is
gaining further ground within the international community of
States, and that is exactly one of the main objectives of the
Decade - and beyond.
a
seven-member
is to be welcomed that
It should always be kept in mind that bringing a dispute
before the Court can never be regarded as an unfriendly act.
If diplomacy and negotiations cannot bring about a solution
to a long-standing contentious issue between States, the
Court in The Hague has proven itself capable of handling its
many cases in a flexible and efficient manner.
In this
the Court has now
respect,
it
established
for
Environmental Matters. This topic is indeed one of the
high-priority items on the international agenda. Denmark
can testify to the Court’s ability in so far as the Danish
Government has been involved in two cases before the Court
within the last five years: the Jan Mayen case and the Great
Belt case.
In both cases, the Court has served justice in
accordance with the high expectations placed on it by the
parties. Thus I can confirm what was expressed just now by
the President of the Court.
standing Chamber
the Court
the Court
indicated at
A particular aspect relating to the Great Belt case is
worth highlighting, namely the role of
in
maintaining the option of reaching a negotiated settlement.
In deciding a preliminary question concerning provisional
measures,
the same time that a
negotiated settlement would be welcomed. That indication
proved helpful
in reaching an out-of-court settlement.
Though out-of-court, the settlement was still reached under
the Court’s auspices. The President of the Court expressed
this view in the following way when introducing the annual
report of the International Court of Justice (A/47/4) during
last year’s session of the General Assembly:
"Whenever the Court or its procedures can help in this
way,
still
productively at work." (A/47/PV.43, p. 11)
in an important
the Court
sense,
is,
The question may be raised as to whether the Court
to be empowered to play a more active role in
ought
offering its assistance to the parties, as appropriate, with a
view to keeping the door open for reaching a negotiated
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
5
settlement - because whenever there is agreement between
the parties, there is also equity.
It
The Court has shown that it is prepared to deal with all
is now up to States to show their
sorts of cases.
willingness to accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the
Court. One hundred eighty-six States are parties to the
Statute of the Court, but only 57 have recognized its
compulsory jurisdiction, and among those is only one
permanent member of the Security Council. We hope that
Member States will pay due attention to these facts as they
are set out in paragraphs 16 and 17 of the report.
It is the hope of my Government that in the years to
come this agenda item may be seen by Member States as an
opportunity to comment upon the role and functioning of the
world Court in furthering an effective international legal
order.
Settlement of disputes through peaceful means,
including the use of the International Court of Justice, should
become
in daily
international life, as is the case in all national societies
governed by the rule of law.
and acceptable
a normal
feature
the Secretary-General has
is not considered possible,
suggested that States might agree to a comprehensive list of
those matters in which the Court’s jurisdiction is accepted
and might provide for submission of disputes to the Court in
the dispute settlement clauses of multilateral treaties.
supports
Australia
the views
expressed by the
Secretary-General. The International Court of Justice has
been under-utilized for much of its existence, though there
has recently been an encouraging trend towards more
frequent recourse to the Court, as the President mentioned in
his statement this morning. To date, however, fewer than 60
States have accepted its compulsory jurisdiction. One of the
best ways to promote the use of the Court as an effective
dispute-resolution mechanism is for Member States to make
the individual decision, under Article 36 of the Statute, to
accept its compulsory jurisdiction. The fiftieth session of the
General Assembly, which will coincide with the fiftieth
anniversary of the Court, might provide a timely occasion
for
towards
acceptance of the Court’s jurisdiction.
the recording of progress on movement
to thank the distinguished President of
Mr. ROWE (Australia): The Australian delegation
wishes
the
International Court of Justice for his excellent report and
enlightening statement. The role of the Court, as the
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, is today more
important than ever, as so much more is expected of the
United Nations in maintaining international peace and
security.
The United Nations Decade of International Law, now
in its second biennium, provides an appropriate context for
States to reassess in a positive way their approach to
acceptance of the jurisdiction of the International Court of
Justice, with a view to promoting the Court as a means for
the peaceful settlement of international disputes.
In his report "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277), the
Secretary-General has expressed the view that greater
reliance on the Court could contribute significantly to
preventive diplomacy. This view was amplifled only last
week by the President of the Court, when he reminded us in
his address to the Sixth Committee that the International
Court of Justice is an integral component of the United
Nations system aimed at the maintenance of international
peace and security.
The Secretary-General has called upon all Member
States to accept the general jurisdiction of the Court before
the end of the Decade of International Law. Where
unconditional acceptance of general jurisdiction of the Court
We note that in "An Agenda for Peace" and more
recently in his report on the work of the Organization
(A/48/1), the Secretary-General has recommended that he be
authorized to take advantage of the advisory competence of
the Court.
Commenting on this issue in his recent
publication, Cooperating for Peace, the Australian Minister
for Foreign Affairs, Senator Gareth Evans, wrote:
"The Court has been wary of efforts by the UN’s
political organs to tempt it to render advisory opinions
on contentious cases without the consent of the parties.
That said, the ICJ has been influential both in dispute
and conflict resolution and in assisting the activities of
other actors in the international security community,
and could become a more valuable adjunct for the
Secretary-General in extending the range of responses
available in problem situations." (Cooperating for
Peace: The Global Agenda for the 1990s and Beyond,
p. 27)
We know there is still some ongoing resistance to the
Secretary-General’s proposal, but not, we understand, from
the Court.
It is time to give serious consideration to the
proposal and to determine the modalities under which such
authorization could be granted.
In order to allow for greater recourse to the Court as an
effective mechanism for dispute resolution,
it will be
essential that its procedures allow disputes brought before it
to be considered as expeditiously and efficiently as possible.
The will of Member States to provide for the enhanced
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
effectiveness of the International Court of Justice may in
time be expected to contribute constructively to a reduction
in the tensions that result
from and further aggravate
disputes between States. This would require that the Court
have the capacity to deal promptly with individual cases.
In his statement to the General Assembly last year, the
President of the International Court of Justice noted that a
review of its working methods would assist in improving its
functioning and thereby promote its use. Such a review
would be of particular value against a background where
greater adherence to the jurisdiction of the Court is being
promoted as a contribution to the preservation of peaceful
relations among States and where the Court is being given
more prominence as a dispute-settlement mechanism.
Australia favours such a review, which should take into
account
the promotion of the wider acceptance of the
Court’s jurisdiction by the year of its fiftieth anniversary.
We note that use is being made of chambers, particularly in
the recent El Salvador-Honduras case, which is mentioned in
the report, and we would welcome further development of
this mechanism. The establishment of the trust fund to assist
developing countries in bringing cases to the Court has also
been a useful innovation. Above all, it is essential that the
Court continue to be provided with adequate resources to
carry out its growing tasks. We wish it well, and we
reiterate Australia’s commitment to it and to the cause of
international justice.
Mr. TELLO (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
Mr. President, my delegation had asked to make a statement
before the General Assembly took note of the report of the
Court. When you assumed the presidency of this session of
the Assembly, we pledged to work with you as you
discharged your functions. You personally asked me to
make my statement after the Assembly had taken note of the
report.
In response to your request, we agreed to speak
afterwards, although we do not fully understand or share the
arguments that we have heard, which apparently prevent
Member States from speaking at the time they deem most appropriate.
My delegation wishes to place on record its gratitude to
Sir Robert Jennings for his comprehensive and lucidly
instructive introduction to the report submitted by the
International Court of Justice for the General Assembly’s
consideration.
delegation wishes
On the eve of the election of the new members of the
Court, my
to
Manfred Lachs. We are appreciative of Judge Lachs’ long
career dedicated to the development of international law,
both inside and outside the Court, and of the invaluable
tribute
pay
to
impartiality and independence of his judgements, not to
mention his valuable contributions to the teaching of law.
The Sixth Committee was honoured to have Lachs as its
Chairman on three occasions.
in
of
the
Court,
Mexico is one of the 57 States the report identifies as
having made the declaration recognizing the compulsory
jurisdiction
accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 36 of the Statute. We wish to
congratulate Hungary, which deposited its declaration on
22 October 1992. Even though judgeships on the Court are
not limited to nationals of those States that have made such
a declaration, it is no doubt true that when that condition is
met
the Court’s image is strengthened, as is countries’
commitment to and confidence in the Court.
My Government deems it desirable for the States that
have, within the United Nations system,
the greatest
responsibility regarding international peace and security to
show a greater commitment
to the Court. The limited
presence of the permanent members of the Security Council
and that group of 57 States does not have a positive effect
on the Court’s work, nor on the necessary balance that must
exist between the principal organs of the United Nations.
The Court’s efficacy and capacity for action would no doubt
be strengthened considerably if all the permanent members
of the Security Council made such a declaration.
In the light of the terms of paragraph 2 of Article 15 of
the Charter, by which the General Assembly must receive
and consider the reports of the International Court of Justice,
my delegation deems it appropriate to speak on this item.
The Mexican delegation considers that the General Assembly
must fulfil completely the function assigned it by the
Charter, and so we call on Member States to give this
important report greater attention.
The Mexican delegation invites the General Assembly
to take advantage of the introduction of the report of the
Court to take part every year in deep reflection on its work
and on the state of its links and relations with the other
organs.
We still believe that the Court’s participation in the
peaceful settlement of international conflicts deserves to be
stepped up. Recourse to the Security Council when the
Court’s means have not yet been exhausted minimizes the
latter’s potential to resolve legal problems, which sometimes
constitute the crux of potential crises. This view could and
should be of special usefulness in strengthening preventive
diplomacy.
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
7
With that very intention, a number of States, including
Mexico, have supported the Secretary-General’s suggestion
that he be granted the competence to request advisory
opinions from the Court, when circumstances warrant and in
accordance with the precise modalities of the principles of
the Charter and of international law.
the report of
My delegation takes special satisfaction in noting the
ever-growing number of legal consultants taking part in the
consideration of
the International Law
Commission, owing to the determination a year in advance
of the date for dealing with that subject. In the light of that
experience and in order to facilitate attendance by the
greatest number of interested persons to the introduction of
the Court’s report, my delegation proposes that the date for
receiving and considering the report of that principal organ
also be set in advance and that both reports be submitted to
the Assembly’s consideration within a period of time that
allows those persons to be present.
I wish also to mention the Trust Fund established by
the Secretary-General to help States settle disputes through
the International Court of Justice and to which my country
has contributed.
In addition to providing the necessary
financial support in order for countries facing economic
difficulties to be able to have resort
to the Court, my
delegation would like to invite the members of the Court and
the Secretary-General to consider the possibility of utilizing
part of that Trust Fund for the development of training
programmes for lawyers appearing before the International
Court of Justice.
Finally, my delegation cannot fail to mention the fact
that
in 1995 the Court,
too, will celebrate its fiftieth
anniversary. We think it would be fitting for the Assembly
to invite the judges to reflect on the role that the Court, as
the guarantor of international law, is called upon to play in
the next century and to share their conclusions with Member
States at the next session of the General Assembly.
to Sir Robert Jennings, President
Mr. KOROMA (Sierra Leone): First of all, may I
express the gratitude and appreciation of the Sierra Leone
delegation
the
International Court of Justice, for the excellent statement he
delivered when introducing the report of the International
Court of Justice. My delegation also wishes to convey its
sentiments of recognition and esteem to the other judges
who are here with us.
of
This annual pilgrimage, as it were, is an affirmation of
the Charter provision that the International Court of Justice
is not only the judicial organ but also an inseparable
component of the United Nations.
a
is
the Court here
The presence of
further
reaffirmation of the shared, noble objective of the General
Assembly and the International Court of Justice to resolve
international disputes in a peaceful manner.
Such an
objective is not only enshrined in the Charter but is also
firmly rooted in the shared goal of maintaining international
peace and resolving international disputes through peaceful
means. In that connection, and as the Secretary-General has
stated in his report on the work of the Organization to the
present session of the General Assembly, the incidence of
cases of considerable political as well as legal importance
under consideration by the Court shows that the Court not
only exists to settle questions of law, but is also an integral
part of United Nations peace efforts.
The continued role of the Court in this area is to be
welcomed for, as stipulated in Article 33 of the Charter,
"The parties to any dispute, the continuance of
which is likely to endanger
the maintenance of
international peace and security, shall, first of all, seek
a
enquiry, mediation,
conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlement ...".
negotiation,
solution
by
As I have said, we welcome the role of the Court in the
peace effort.
Through the report
itself and in the President’s
introductory statement the international community has been
made aware of the various methods and facilities that are
available through the Court for the peaceful settlement of
disputes. The report states that last year alone the Court
dealt with a wide range of disputes,
including treaty
interpretation,
territorial maritime disputes and disputes
relating to the alleged violation of human rights and
international humanitarian law.
It is gratifying to note not
only that today the vast majority of States have become
Parties to the Statute of the Court but also that, thanks to the
role and facilities it continues to offer,
the Court has
established its universality and more frequent use is being
made of it.
Today, attitudes towards the Court have improved and
support for its judicial role has continued to grow. Because
of the high standards of fairness and impartiality the Court
has maintained in the recent past, the attitude of withdrawal
once adopted by many, including most developing countries,
is largely a thing of the past, and we now realize that the
Court can apply international
the
interests of the weak can be protected and that the principle
of equality between States can best be realized through the
Court. Today, through its judgments, advisory opinions,
orders and interim measures -
in some cases, as the
law impartially,
that
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
circumstances warrant, delivered with dispatch, as the
President reminded us a few moments ago - the Court has
been contributing not only to the strengthening of the rule of
law among nations but also to a more orderly and humane
world.
The Sierra Leone delegation would like to encourage
the Court to continue to uphold legal norms which are
profoundly imbued with the sense of natural justice and
morality and which safeguard human rights and humanitarian
law. My delegation welcomed the decision of the Court to
establish a Chamber for Environmental Matters in view of
the developments in the field of environmental law and the
developments that have taken place in the last few years, and
considering that it should be prepared to the fullest extent
possible to deal with any environmental case falling within
its jurisdiction. However, my delegation also welcomes the
assurance given by the President that the establishment of
the Environmental Chamber does not preclude the referral of
environmental disputes to the old corpus of the Court.
My
reiterates
delegation
the
establishment of the Trust Fund, which should enable more
parties to a dispute to take advantage of the facilities
provided by the Court.
support
its
for
Finally,
the Sierra Leone delegation would like to
encourage the spirit of cooperation between the International
Court of Justice and the General Assembly, and we welcome
the report of the International Court of Justice.
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 13?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 10 (continued)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL ON THE
WORK OF THE ORGANIZATION (A/48/1)
Mr. AYEWAH (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation
would like to join other delegations that have congratulated
the Secretary-General on the lucidity and painstaking manner
in which he has drawn up and presented his report.
There is no doubt that this report is, as the Secretary-
General has himself admitted, a long one, but he has clearly
endeavoured to cover in a bold and imaginative manner all
the areas and activities in which the United Nations has been
involved during the past year in response to the growing
complexity and demands of the international environment.
My delegation has also taken note of the various
prescriptions and recommendations by the Secretary-General
in the report which are in themselves far reaching and
which, if implemented faithfully, would go a long way
towards assisting the Organization to achieve the purpose for
which it was created.
The United Nations is passing through a crucial phase
in the multilateral process of harnessing our collective
objectives and aspirations to the common good. It would be
a disservice to the entire membership if the United Nations
did not endeavour to respond to them, even within the
constraints of
is
operating. Fortunately, there is no lack of ideas in the
United Nations system.
is therefore our collective
responsibility to translate those ideas into concrete objectives
which would be of benefit to Member States.
the limited resources under which it
It
It
is
that
significant
the Secretary-General has
underscored in his report some of the critical problems
confronting the Organization in the areas of peace and
security, socio-economic development, the environment and
the restructuring of the various organs of the United Nations
system. While my delegation would like to commend the
Secretary-General for his wisdom and foresight in bringing
these issues to the fore, we wish to make the following
comments as our contribution to the debate on the subject.
fuelled by ethnic
My delegation agrees with the Secretary-General when
he posits that without peace there can be no development,
and that without development the basis for democracy is
In this connection, we commend the United
tenuous.
Nations for
its preoccupation with peace-keeping and
peacemaking. We accept that the proliferation of hotbeds of
tensions
socio-economic
disparities, underdevelopment and the emergence of new
micro-nationalisms cannot but engage the attention of our
Organization. There is an urgent need to streamline the
processes such that peace-keeping operations do not become
intractable or interminable. Peace is a shared responsibility.
Consequently, Member States must retain the necessary
political will and ready disposition to contribute their quota
to the enabling processes.
rivalries,
It is important also in this regard to take necessary
measures to ensure the safety of all personnel involved in
peace-keeping operations. My delegation would like to
stress that countries which willingly offer to participate in
these operations do so as part of their obligations under the
Charter and as their contribution to the mitigation of human
suffering.
It would be tantamount to double jeopardy for
such countries to suffer humiliation and abuse in addition to
bearing the material costs for assigning their nationals to
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
9
and full
undertake these United Nations missions. In this connection,
prompt
to contributing-troop
countries would encourage consistent and even wider
participation by Member States in the United Nations
peace-keeping operations.
reimbursement
deployment
pre-emptive
clarification of
The processes begun under "An Agenda for Peace",
which has been a subject of debate in both the General
Assembly and the Security Council,
should provide
the nature and extent of
additional
demilitarized
and
post-conflict peace-building in a manner that respects the
sovereignty of all Member States and accepts the merits of
prior consultations before such measures are undertaken. In
pursuing the purposes of "An Agenda for Peace",
is
desirable that the United Nations limit itself to preventive
diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping. The issue of
post-conflict peace-building involving efforts at putting in
place political processes in conflict areas requires caution
and additional consideration.
zones,
it
In the wake of the adoption of "An Agenda for Peace",
it has become urgent to work for the adoption of an agenda
for development. The issue of development is one in which
every Member State has a stake and a contribution to make.
In view of the widening disparities between the North and
the South, the adoption of an agenda for development must
undertake as a first step to reactivate the North-South
dialogue. Then it should address the issue of trade, official
development assistance, the debt crisis and the injection of
new financial flows, especially into the economies of the
developing countries.
economic
that Africa’s
crisis was brought
As you are well aware, Africa remains the weakest link
It was in recognition of this
in the chain of development.
fact
to
international attention in 1986 with the adoption of the
United Nations Plan of Action for African Economic
Recovery and Development (UNPAAERD). Unfortunately
this programme failed to achieve the desired result. The
General Assembly then undertook a reassessment of
UNPAAERD by adopting its New Agenda for
the
Development of Africa in the 1990s with measurable
objectives.
In my delegation’s view, this new agenda will
suffer the same fate unless a firm determination is made by
the international community to deliver on its commitment.
Africa invests a lot of expectations in the implementation of
this agenda. We would like to call on the Secretary-General
to ensure that the United Nations fulfills its part of the
process. The United Nations has a responsibility to assist in
putting in place feasible strategies that will enable Member
States
economic growth and sustainable
development.
to achieve
taken over
the Secretary-General has
The Secretariat of the United Nations is an international
civil service, and like any bureaucracy there is a compelling
need for it to look critically at itself, justify its raison d’être
and reassess how it proposes to meet the challenges of the
future.
It is in this connection that we welcome the bold
steps
the past
12 months to restructure the Secretariat with a view to
achieving efficiency, minimizing waste and promoting
accountability. This is as it should be. However, in the
process of carrying out this restructuring, care needs to be
taken to ensure that the principles of representativeness and
of geographical distribution are maintained, particularly at
the management level of the Secretariat. Competence is not
the monopoly of any one region. The United Nations must
indeed be a system that rewards achievement and punishes
inadequate performance.
the issue of
Aside from the restructuring of the General Assembly
which has resulted in the reduction of the number of Main
Committees, and the ongoing efforts to streamline their
workload and working methods, my delegation believes that
the time is opportune to address
the
democratization of
the Security Council. While my
Government has already expressed its views on this subject
in this body, and in response to the Secretary-General’s
requests to Member States, it wishes to state once again that
the Security Council can lay claim to legitimacy, moral
authority and representativeness only when it
is fully
democratized. We must put in place at the current session
of the General Assembly a process that would ensure that
this objective is realized not later than the fiftieth session of
the General Assembly. The reform process must not be
piecemeal; it must be global to include all the regions.
Anything short of this approach will be tantamount to a
denial of access. Such a development would be antithetical
to the spirit of the Charter.
The United Nations is what we make of it. From an
Organization of which so much is expected, so much must
be given. Member States have a responsibility to make the
Organization viable. To this end we join with the Secretary-
General in urging all Member States to endeavour to pay
their assessed contributions so that
the
Organization is not unduly constrained.
the work of
(interpretation
Mr. LAMAMRA (Algeria)
from
this
French): Algeria fully endorses the support
Organization and for the efforts of the Secretary-General that
was expressed anew by the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. It also
endorses the Movement’s observations, suggestions and
proposals as part of a consistent effort to contribute to the
for
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
strengthening of the United Nations while remaining true to
the purposes and principles of the Charter.
The international context is changing rapidly, and the
Organization’s missions are increasing in number, as are its
successes and difficulties, giving special importance to the
consideration this year of the Secretary-General’s report on
the work of the Organization.
the Secretary-General, who
The three words "peace, development and democracy"
sum up very well the great challenges of the day, identified
by
their
interrelationship. In this context, the Organization’s unique
position and vital
rightly reaffirmed and
demonstrated.
stressed
role
has
are
We are grateful to the Secretary-General for presenting
a comprehensive report
that deals accurately with the
Organization’s activities in the many spheres with which it
deals. At
the report contains analyses,
proposals and projections that will stimulate thought, debate
and dialogue.
the same time,
It is undeniable that the past year has been marked by
a considerable extension of the Organization’s activities in
the area of the maintenance and restoration of peace.
Its
role in the area of preventive diplomacy and post-conflict
peace-building has also been strengthened.
The increase in the number of overtures to the United
Nations and in the Organization’s presence in the field has
gone hand in hand with consideration by the General
Assembly and by the Security Council of the relevant
aspects of the "Agenda for Peace" and with the initiation of
measures, at the organizational and institutional levels, aimed
at strengthening the Organization’s ability to envisage, plan
and conduct peace-keeping operations. We consider it
essential
this process be pursued and successfully
carried out, using all the lessons learned from experience in
the field and taking account of the guidelines and principles
defined in the two resolutions adopted by the General
Assembly on the subject of the "Agenda for Peace".
that
Similarly,
the progress that has undeniably been made
in the area of disarmament, as a result of the ending of the
cold war, should be consolidated and expanded in order to
remove, once and for all, the spectra of nuclear war and
eliminate weapons of mass destruction.
At the same time - as is only right - completion of the
process of decolonization continues to be one of the priority
tasks of the Organization as it endeavours to fulfil
its
universal purpose.
report, about
The Algerian delegation shares the concern which is
frequently expressed by the Secretary-General, and which is
demonstrated clearly in his annual
the
exacerbation of the Organization’s financial crisis by the
accumulation of considerable arrears.
In this regard,
assurances that have been given over the past few weeks by
several contributors and payments that have been received
are encouraging developments. However, the fact remains
that the situation of the Organization will continue to be
precarious so long as its financial base is weakened as a
result of the irregular manner in which Member States
honour their obligations, or their delay in doing so.
the
structures of
the Secretariat
Another striking feature of the past year is the efforts
made by the Secretary-General and by Member States to
rationalize
and of
intergovernmental bodies. This process has involved the
mobilization of a great deal of energy in the economic and
social sectors. Of course, much remains to be done to
democratize structures and their functioning and to improve
communication and transparency.
there is
widespread recognition of what is necessary, at least in so
far as the Security Council is concerned, and recognition of
the need for the General Assembly to play its full role as
defined in the Charter.
However,
for
It seem to us that the time has come to liberate the
Organization’s potential
initiative in the area of
development, to give new momentum and vigour to United
Nations action to establish more just and more equitable
international relations. The close bond between peace and
development cannot be overemphasized. This is the central
the
issue in the agenda for development.
In addition,
integrated approach to human rights as one of
the
Organization’s new priorities -
this approach has been
advocated by the Secretary-General - should in our view be
a natural extension of
the recognition by the Vienna
Conference on Human Rights of the right to development.
It
the efforts of everyone
should converge towards full realization of this fundamental
right, for the benefit of the peoples of the third world.
that, henceforth,
is important
At the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly,
consideration of the Secretary-General’s report on the work
of the Organization was combined with a discussion of the
report "An Agenda for Peace". This resulted in wide
participation and aroused great interest. This year’s debate
confirms the importance of a thorough and constructive
study of the Secretary-General’s report. The next report of
the Secretary-General will coincide with the submission of
the agenda for development, which, we hope, will meet
expectations and rise to the challenge. We hope that this, in
turn, will
lead to the qualitative improvements that are
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
11
essential for clear expression of the faith of the peoples of
the United Nations in the building of peace and in the
creation of conditions for the well-being of all.
Mr. ABDELLAH (Tunisia)
(interpretation from
I should like, on behalf of my delegation, to
French):
extend warm congratulations to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on his innovative and substantive
report, which, we are sure, will constitute an excellent basis
for our continued efforts to strengthen the role of the
Organization and increase its efficiency.
Following the statement of
the
the representative of
Indonesia, which
the
Non-Aligned Movement, we should like to express our
wholehearted support for the position that he set out on our
behalf.
presidency
occupies
of
We welcome this opportunity to express our satisfaction
that the General Assembly is considering such an important
report as that of the Secretary-General, in accordance with
the spirit and letter of the Charter, which confers upon the
General Assembly the power to discuss the activities and
future of the Organization.
Consideration of this report will strengthen the role of
the General Assembly, especially in the current context, in
which, in a spirit of dialogue and understanding, we are
striving to revitalize the Assembly’s work and strengthen its
role under the Charter.
As the Secretary-General stressed in his report, peace,
development and democracy are interdependent goals that we
all share,
to which we are committed and which the
international community is capable of achieving on the basis
its wealth of
of the vast potential of the Organization,
experience and its effective capacity to meet
the many
different challenges to the international community and the
well-being of peoples.
the aegis of
The new dynamic approach outlined in "An Agenda for
Peace" describes innovative types of peace operations
undertaken under
the Organization. We
welcome the fact that immediately after the last session the
General Assembly embarked upon an examination of the
various suggestions and reached a consensus on them by
adopting two resolutions. We would point out that the
Security Council also got down to the task of examining
various aspects of "An Agenda for Peace", particularly
post-conflict
questions
of
and
reconstruction;
the protection and security of personnel
assigned to peace-keeping missions; recourse to Chapter VIII
of the Charter, which gives a fundamental peace-keeping
economic
recovery
role to regional arrangements, and the strengthening of
preventive diplomacy.
In this
regard we would stress once again the
importance, as a preventive measure, of the adoption of
economic and other measures which do not automatically
entail the use of armed force for the purposes of maintaining
international peace and security, in accordance with the
provisions of Article 41 of the Charter. None the less, we
remind the Assembly that, as the Assembly itself said in a
resolution (47/120 B) on "An Agenda for Peace", we are
concerned that certain States are continuing to encounter
economic difficulties because of preventive or enforcement
measures applied under Chapter VII of the Charter.
The natural corollary of "An Agenda for Peace" is an
agenda for development. We await with great interest the
development agenda foreshadowed by the Secretary-General
in his report, being convinced, as he is,
that human
development in all its dimensions, and particularly the social,
economic and environmental, must be the focus of the
concerns of the Organization and its efforts to promote
international cooperation and the establishment of a more
united, more just and more stable world.
The
for
and
need
equitable.
We are convinced that the Organization must be more
effective and play a central role in the establishment of an
legally binding, which is more
international order,
democratic
further
the decision-making process in the
democratization of
various organs for more transparency in the functioning of
the Security Council is clear. We welcome the process of
enlarging the basis of consultation and information in the
Council. Any constructive new measure is appreciated. We
consider
this process as a milestone on the way to
consideration of a greater participation of Member States in
the work of the Council, thus strengthening its credibility
and authority.
With regard to peace-keeping operations we consider
that appropriate machinery for regular consultations should
be established so that countries which traditionally supply
troops, on the one hand, and the Secretary-General, the
Security Council and the Military Staff Committee, on the
other, could together examine the advisability of, and the
means to be used for, launching a successful peace-keeping
operation.
Similarly, we wish to stress the need to rationalize the
work of the General Assembly. In this regard we welcomed
with great interest the adoption of resolution 47/233, and we
hope that the working group concerned will come up with
useful and relevant proposals on questions such as the
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
examination by the Assembly of reports of the major organs
established by the Charter.
General.
attention to three of its ideas.
I shall therefore confine myself now to drawing
Finally, we wish to stress
revitalized
including its Secretariat, would better
Organization,
guarantee the execution of its mandates in accordance with
the priorities assigned to it.
that
a
Those are my delegation’s preliminary views on the
important report on the work of the Organization. Of
course, our interest in various aspects mentioned in the
document will be no less keen when the various Committees
of the Assembly take up the relevant parts.
Mr. CARDENAS (Argentina)
(interpretation from
Spanish): As the Assembly considers agenda item 10,
"Report of
the
Organization" (A/48/1), I shall refer both to that recent
report and to the report of the Secretary-General, "An
Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277).
the Secretary-General on the work of
It is a little more than a year since the publication of
the report of the Secretary-General requested at the Summit
meeting of the Security Council on 31 January 1992. That
report, "An Agenda for Peace", stimulated a thorough
consideration in the General Assembly and other organs of
the Organization of its important contents and various
proposals.
The informal working group established by the
President of the forty-seventh session carried out intense and
difficult work, which led to the adoption of two resolutions
47/120 A and 47/120 B, whose texts owe much to the firm,
expert leadership of the representative of Egypt, Ambassador
Elaraby, and to the dedication of all those who shared in his
efforts.
The Security Council also established a working group
which met from time to time. The result of its deliberations
is reflected in six statements by the Council’s President.
Subsidiary bodies of the Assembly also have some of the
wise proposals in the report under consideration.
The Argentine Republic has already expressed its
position on the document (A/47/232) presented by the Rio
Group on 28 May 1992, "Guidelines for strengthening the
capacity of the United Nations in the area of preventive
diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping".
That
document is still valid.
It would take a long time to carry out a detailed
analysis of all the elements in the report of the Secretary-
First, preventive diplomacy and preventive deployment
are perhaps, for my delegation, two of the most interesting
and important concepts in the report. The subject was
considered in the Assembly’s unofficial working group, and
its preliminary conclusions are reflected in the resolutions.
The Argentine Republic reiterates its determination to
work with the United Nations in peace-keeping operations,
in keeping with its tradition, and also expressly supports the
concept of preventive deployment
in peace-keeping
operations.
The case of Macedonia, in our opinion, is a perfect
example of the effectiveness which can,
in theory, be
expected from this type of operation. We believe that this
item must continue to be considered both by the General
Assembly and by the Secretariat, within the framework of
peace-keeping operations. We believe that we must begin
by implementing, after due adoption, principles and norms
similar to those used in other peace-keeping operations.
Secondly, post-conflict peace-building was another of
the important subjects considered in "An Agenda for Peace".
The international community, over the past few years, has
witnessed a large number of armed conflicts, some of which
have been resolved within the framework of United Nations
forces. This emphasizes the fact
there is a close
relationship between economic development and political
stability. We also believe that this concept requires thorough
study and should be dealt with by the Secretary-General in
his much-anticipated report, "An Agenda for Development".
that
Thirdly, with respect to the safety of United Nations
personnel, Argentina participates, with a
significant
contingent of troops, in peace-keeping operations. We are
therefore very much aware of the importance and urgency of
the subject of the safety of personnel functioning in peace-
keeping operations. The fatalities this year and the dramatic
successes of Somalia and Bosnia and Herzegovina bear
dramatic witness to the great seriousness of the problem.
The Secretary-General has clearly drawn attention to
this subject in his report. Today, the General Assembly is
giving special consideration to this as well. We are pleased
that the item has been included on the agenda of the forty-
eighth session of the General Assembly and that the Sixth
soon begin consideration of a draft
Committee will
convention on this subject.
In this connection, we would
like to give special thanks to the delegations of New Zealand
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
13
and Ukraine for the energy and hard work they put into
promoting this item.
Just a few days ago, we took cognizance of the report
of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization
(A/48/1). This is a comprehensive document which clearly
illustrates the special period that our Organization is going
through, as is the entire international system. We appreciate
the methodological approach taken in this report. We too
believe that
the objectives of peace, development and
democracy are inextricably linked, and a global reality.
More specifically regarding our Organization, we
cannot today be indifferent to the crisis around us. This
crisis, in our opinion, could, in spite of its complexity, be
viewed as growing pains, and this is evident
in two
particular areas that are closely interrelated:
the financial
difficulties of the Organization and the vertiginous increase
in the number and functions of peace-keeping operations.
Today, we must not only continue to give thought to
these matters, but we must seek concrete solutions to
existing problems so as to perfect the machinery for creating,
executing and concluding these operations, which we will
continue to support.
If we fail to do so, this crisis, if
allowed to continue, will doubtless undermine the credibility
of the Organization, precisely at a time when it is finally
being called upon to play the role for which it was originally
created.
Mr. BELYEV (Belarus) (interpretation from Russian):
The delegation of Belarus would like to express to the
Secretary-General its gratitude for his report on the work of
the Organization (A/48/1). Not only does it give an
appraisal of the current state of the world and information on
the wide-ranging activities of the United Nations and its
major organs, but it also proposes measures for adapting the
Organization to new realities as well as recommendations
designed to solve the most important problems.
This report of the Secretary-General is not only the
longest over the past few years but it is one which contains
many new ideas and recommendations as well as a wealth
of material on the multifaceted work of the Organization.
One cannot but agree with the Secretary-General when he
says that "working for peace provides us with no place of
rest" (A/48/1, para. 5) and that without peace there can be
no development and there can be no democracy (A/48/1,
para. 11). We are therefore satisfied at the fact that the
report pays so much attention to questions of preventive
diplomacy and the settlement of conflicts.
Concrete steps have been taken to realize the ideas and
proposals contained in the report of the Secretary-General
entitled "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277). There has been
a strengthening of the potential of the Secretariat for fact-
finding and analysis with a view to meeting the early-
warning requirements of the United Nations. Discussion of
the recommendations of the informal open-ended working
group established by the General Assembly has yielded
concrete results, and the Security Council has also come
forward with concrete proposals. These important matters
are being discussed in other organs of the United Nations as
well. There has been further development of new forms of
preventive diplomacy, fact-finding missions, good-offices
missions and goodwill missions, and the dispatch of special
envoys to areas of tension.
Most
praiseworthy
are
b y
t h e
tremendous
efforts
the
u n d e r t a k e n
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l ,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. He has devoted a great deal of
attention to peacemaking, peace-keeping, and peace-building
in post-conflict periods. The question has already been
raised here about peace-keeping operations and the problems
that arise in this connection for the United Nations and its
Member States.
In our view, the most vigorous measures
are needed to enhance the effectiveness of peace-keeping
operations. At
in their planning and
execution the current possibilities and resources of the
United Nations must be taken into account.
the same time,
The Belarus delegation wholeheartedly shares the view
of the Secretary-General that in the international context,
from the standpoint of security, some important events have
occurred that have required new methods of settlement and
new efforts on the part of the international community. It is
precisely in this spirit that we should approach the talks on
the drafting of a comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty and
an extension of the non-proliferation Treaty for an indefinite
period.
Our Republic has made its own concrete
contribution to disarmament, and the Secretary-General
stresses in his report:
"I am gratified that Belarus has recently ratified the
non-proliferation Treaty ...".
(A/48/1, para. 474)
and I personally would add "and the strategic arms reduction
Treaty".
The delegation of the Republic of Belarus agrees with
the view of the Secretary-General that more attention should
be devoted to the Economic and Social Council, which has
the role of improving economic and social cooperation as an
independent objective enshrined in the United Nations
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Charter and also as a prerequisite for enduring global peace
and security.
At the high-level segment of the substantive session of
the Economic and Social Council in 1992 in New York, our
delegation supported the proposal by the Secretary-General
that the Economic and Social Council should submit to the
Security Council reports on situations that,
in its view,
involved a threat
to international peace and security.
Unfortunately, due attention has not so far been paid to these
proposals.
Our delegation notes with satisfaction the active work
of the Organization on implementing the decisions of the
United Nations Conference
and
Development, held from 3 to 14 June 1992 in Rio
de Janeiro.
Environment
on
The Belarus delegation has studied with particular
attention part B of Chapter II of the Secretary-General’s
report on the work of the Organization. Our Republic is one
of the countries where interim offices of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) have been opened. We
have repeatedly stated our support
the Secretary-
General’s efforts to render assistance to countries going
through a transitional period and to organize comprehensive
provision by the Organization of services in various areas.
for
The temporary UNDP office in Belarus is performing
some important practical tasks, meeting developmental needs
and also supporting the process of our society’s transition to
new forms of organization. It has become an important link
in the chain of coordination of the operational activities of
the various specialized agencies and programmes within the
United Nations system in our country.
Our delegation shares the Secretary-General’s profound
concern about the unsatisfactory financial situation of our
Organization. Given the gravity of this situation, and despite
our extremely difficult economic and financial situation, the
Government of Belarus has made a contribution in the
amount of $3.5 million to the Organization’s budget. At the
same time, we expect the Organization, in the form of its
to take measures
major organ,
ensuring
the
Organization is in strict concordance with its real capacity to
pay.
the General Assembly,
that Belarus’s
obligation
financial
to
An important event in the life of the United Nations
was the World Conference on Human Rights, which made
it possible to analyse and take stock of all previous United
Nations work in defending and promoting human rights.
The Conference also indicated major areas of activity for the
future and identified obstacles that hinder further progress in
this area. We fully share the Secretary-General’s conclusion
that it was a turning-point in the Organization’s work to
promote and defend human rights.
Our delegation took an active part in the preparations
for the Vienna Conference and in the Conference itself. We
note with satisfaction that, despite initial disagreements,
participants in the Conference were able to find a way of
coming to agreement, and thus confirmed the universality of
fundamental human rights and principles and reaffirmed the
status of the human person as the primary subject of human
rights. Of decisive importance for ensuring fuller respect for
human rights is the coordination and cooperation of all
organs of the United Nations and the specialized agencies,
regional
and national
institutions working in the field.
intergovernmental organizations
transition from emergency assistance
The institutional reform being undertaken in the United
Nations, the creation of new machinery for coordinating
humanitarian activities and a step-by-step approach to the
concept of
to
rehabilitation and development are all
important steps
towards
the management of emergency humanitarian
situations. Unfortunately, quite a number of these situations
have occurred in the Eastern European region.
In this
regard, the Republic of Belarus supports the expansion of
international preventive measures, which involve the United
Nations in difficult humanitarian situations, particularly in
hot spots, on the basis of the full consent of the parties
concerned.
However, I would like to stress our profound concern
at the fact that the United Nations has found itself more and
more frequently involved on a larger and larger scale, and
having to react not only to the humanitarian consequences of
natural catastrophes or technological disasters but also to the
consequences of ethnic conflicts and political instability.
Therefore, the highest priority of our Organization should, in
our view, be the prevention of a deterioration of the
humanitarian crises in any part of the world today.
In this context, I would also like to touch on the
consequences of the Chernobyl catastrophe which occurred
more than seven years ago. Our delegation shares the deep
feelings of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who
was recently able to visit one of the countries hardest hit by
the Chernobyl disaster and see for himself
the
consequences of this tragedy are still affecting the everyday
life of millions of people. The Republic of Belarus will
develop a new approach on the part of the United Nations
system to activities in stricken regions, worked out
in
new United Nations Special
conjunction with
that
the
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
15
Coordinator on Chernobyl, Mr. Jan Eliasson. The approach
received widespread support at the coordinating meeting in
Minsk this May, and also at the summer meeting of the
Economic and Social Council.
I would like to stress that broad international support in
dealing with the wide range of problems inherited from
Chernobyl, particularly humanitarian problems, could be one
of the most crucial guarantees of the strengthening of
democracy and economic and other reforms in our country -
not to mention the importance of the lessons of Chernobyl
for the whole of the international community.
In conclusion, I would like to express our gratitude for
this opportunity to make some comments in connection with
the discussion of the report of the Secretary-General on the
work of the Organization.
It
Mr. KHARRAZI (Islamic Republic of Iran): My
delegation wishes to express our appreciation to the
Secretary-General of the Organization and his staff for the
report on the work of the Organization.
is not my
delegation’s intention to touch upon all matters contained in
the present report, which includes issues ranging from peace-
keeping in different parts of the world to financial problems
of the Organization. My delegation will, in due course,
expound on different issues contained in the report during
the current deliberations of the General Assembly in the
plenary as well as in the Main Committees. Rather, I will
confine myself to addressing certain areas of the report in
general
terms which might shed light on the proper
functioning of the United Nations in the future.
Let me first emphasize that my delegation is convinced
that the United Nations, as the world Organization, can
provide the framework for effective cooperation and
dialogue among Member States based on the principles
enshrined in the Charter. The United Nations has a crucial
role to play in maintaining international peace and security
and fostering a just and equitable system of international
relations. In this regard, the Foreign Minister of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, addressing the current session of the
General Assembly, emphasized that:
"A balanced, objective and far-sighted approach to
various international political, economic and cultural
crises and challenges, based on justice and on the
common principles and objectives enshrined in the
Charter, is the most fundamental requirement for the
restoration and enhancement of the credibility of the
Organization, and can also play a significant role in
(Official
securing long-term stability and trust."
Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth session,
Plenary Meetings, 14th meeting, p. [71]).
the Non-Aligned Movement
During the forty-seventh session of
the General
Assembly, the report of the Secretary-General entitled "An
Agenda for Peace" was thoroughly discussed and the
members of
contributed
positively during the negotiations and discussions on the
report which led to the adoption of resolutions 47/120 and
47/120 B. My delegation maintains that the principles of
sovereignty,
and
non-interference in the internal affairs of States must be
respected
the
recommendations contained in the resolutions and in the
negotiations that may be conducted in the future on the
outstanding issues.
independence,
implementing
territorial
integrity
process
of
in
the
It is unfortunate to note that certain countries have
interpreted some aspects of "An Agenda for Peace" as
increasing the prerogatives of the Security Council at the
expense of the General Assembly. We believe that such
connotations should be rejected and that the role of the
General Assembly as the supreme organ of the United
Nations should be upheld. Article 24 of the Charter clearly
states that
the Security Council acts on behalf of the
Members of the United Nations. Therefore, the Security
Council should be accountable to the General Assembly,
which is composed of the entire membership. The General
Assembly must exercise its powers and functions relevant to
the maintenance of international peace and security in
accordance with the Charter. Noting the Secretary-General’s
view that the agenda of the General Assembly is in need of
some rationalization, my delegation believes
the
revitalization of
the General Assembly,
the work of
including the rationalization of
the agenda, should be
conducted through an informal open-ended working group,
as reflected in resolution 47/233. We are prepared to work
in this working group towards that end.
that
in
its
As
reflected
activities.
In the wake of the cold war, the Security Council has
expanded
the
Secretary-General’s report, during the period from 1 January
1992 to 31 August 1993,
the Council held numerous
meetings and adopted numerous resolutions and statements.
My delegation appreciates the fact that the Security Council
has been meeting almost continuously and that it has studied
a variety of security threats around the world. Now the
question is whether the Security Council - especially its
permanent members - has acted resolutely and expeditiously
to uphold justice and the principles of the Charter to reverse
aggression. Has the Council shown the necessary political
will to stop applying double standards?
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Unfortunately, the Security Council has been unable to
shoulder its responsibilities in dealing with some clear cases
of aggression,
the most recent of which is the Serbian
aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
a Member of the United Nations. The Security Council
should ensure that
its role conforms to its mandate as
defined in the Charter. Furthermore, the Council should
respect the principle of transparency in its work and avoid
undemocratic practices and hidden agendas. In this regard,
the
the
of
Secretary-General’s view that:
Islamic Republic
concurs with
Iran
"Informal consultations should be punctuated by more
formal meetings in order both to inform, and to seek
support from,
the wider circle of Member States."
(A/48/1, para. 38)
issue of
The current
international climate is conducive to
working urgently on the
reactivating the
North-South dialogue to strengthen international economic
cooperation for development. During the recent Ministerial
Meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement, held in New York
on 4 October 1993, the Ministers noted that the persistent
recession in the developing countries and continuing
economic stagnation in many of them were stifling their
development efforts. In our opinion, the United Nations has
a central role in promoting international cooperation for
development and in bringing development
issues to the
attention of the international community. In this regard, my
delegation appreciates the work of the Secretary-General in
the preparation of a report on an agenda for development, as
requested in General Assembly resolution 47/181, and looks
forward to receiving the preliminary report of
the
Secretary-General, to be submitted to the current session of
the General Assembly, as noted in the Secretary-General’s
report on the work of the Organization.
To conclude, I wish to refer to the measures taken by
the Secretariat
to enhance productivity in conference
services, as reflected in the Secretary-General’s report. My
delegation is of the view that the introduction of these
measures has caused difficulties for the proper functioning
of the work of delegations. Cognizant of the difficult
financial situation of the United Nations, my delegation
wishes to emphasize the importance of providing full
services to Member States in terms of both conference
services and distribution of documents.
Mr. MARKER (Pakistan): My delegation would like
to express its profound appreciation to the Secretary General
for his report on the work of the Organization contained in
document A/48/1.
The
vast
The Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement,
the
Ambassador of Indonesia, and the Chairman of the Group of
77, the Ambassador of Colombia, have already expressed
views which largely reflect the substance of my delegation’s
ideas. The report reflects a deep comprehension of the
strong currents of history flowing in these troubled yet
the
interesting
times.
Secretary-General’s
his
renowned diplomatic experience and skills, and his political
courage in standing up in defence of justice, equity and
peace. The report brings out the many achievements of the
Organization as well as the challenges which require urgent
and prompt
response. My delegation is particularly
impressed by the comprehensive manner in which the report
established linkages underlying the need to take a composite
approach for the realization of lasting peace around the
world.
report manifests
qualifications,
academic
As the Secretary-General has said, the United Nations
has a second chance today to live up to the role envisaged
for it under its Charter. The euphoria of yesterday is being
tempered by the sobering realities of today. But we must
not allow temporary difficulties in implementing the will of
the world community to cloud the vision and promise of the
United Nations Charter.
The Pakistan delegation is particularly gratified that the
Secretary-General has drawn the attention of the world
community to the problem of Jammu and Kashmir in
paragraph 352 of the report. The suppression of the right of
self-determination in Kashmir has led to massive violations
of human rights.
It also threatens international peace and
security, and my delegation deems it entirely appropriate that
the issue remains under consideration by the United Nations.
In this connection, it may be stated that the United Nations
Military Observer Group for India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP)
has an essential role to play in ameliorating this grave
situation and reducing tension and conflict. UNMOGIP
should be enabled fully to carry out its mandate to patrol the
line of control on both sides.
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has offered
his good offices to India and Pakistan to help in resolving
the Kashmir question. Pakistan welcomes this initiative and
has conveyed its acceptance of the Secretary-General’s offer
of good offices.
Mr. ROWE (Australia): We welcome the very
comprehensive and focused report
(A/48/1) which the
Secretary-General has presented on the work of the United
Nations over the past 12 months.
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
17
The report demonstrates unequivocally that with the
changes which have occurred in the world in recent years,
the United Nations now has a pivotal and more challenging
role to perform than at any other time in its history in
establishing world order and in seizing the opportunity to
make progress across the range of activities within its
mandate as set out in the Charter.
We share the Secretary-General’s view that the pattern
the past 12 months displays three realities:
the
of
comprehensive nature of
the
challenge;
indispensability of the United Nations, and the gap that has
been revealed by the fact that the demands of Member States
on the Organization are not matched by the resources
provided.
the global
The challenges presented by these realities are
considerable, not least because of the essentiality of working
to achieve a unified and integrated approach to peace,
development and democracy.
But
These changes and these challenges require responses
of substance.
in addition to dealing with each
substantive issue - whether in the field of peace, arms
control, economic development, human rights or
the
response to non-military threats to security - we are
compelled to add to the list of those tasks the need to reform
ourselves, to renew our institutions.
The report indicates the Secretary-General’s readiness
to implement change and records practical steps which have
been taken so far,
in several areas. We welcome this
approach.
if
However,
the United Nations is to play, with
maximum effectiveness,
the central role which is now
demanded of it, then further change - further reform - in the
system really is necessary. Unless the Organization develops
a comprehensive capacity to address today’s and tomorrow’s
problems, there is a real risk of its gradually losing, with
Governments and peoples around the world, the credibility
it needs to survive.
This is particularly so in relation to the role of the
United Nations and the international community generally in
securing peace in the world of the l990s and beyond. This
particular role is vital because, as the Secretary-General
notes, without peace there can be no development and there
can be no democracy.
The Secretary-General’s invaluable document "An
stimulated a major
the
Agenda
international debate on this particular
for Peace"
(A/47/277)
role
for
Organization. There have been very practical consequences
since then in implementing the recommendations in the
Agenda, as mentioned in the report on the work of the
Organization. But more remains to be done.
In his address
to the General Assembly at
its
5th plenary meeting, two weeks ago, the Australian Minister
for Foreign Affairs, Senator Gareth Evans, presented a study
entitled Cooperating for Peace, which represented an
Australian contribution to the ongoing debate begun by "An
Agenda
for Peace
Senator Evans identified seven priority areas for change, to
give the United Nations that comprehensive capacity to meet
the challenges of our times.
In Cooperating
for Peace".
We
the
that
support
proposal
The first is to restructure the Secretariat to ensure that
the Secretary-General has an effective chain of command
exercising authority over major United Nations operations,
and to consolidate and coordinate in a more orderly and
manageable way the present range of departments and
agencies.
the
Secretary-General create a new senior structure at United
Nations Headquarters, under which he would have four
responsible respectively for
Deputy Secretaries-General
Peace
and Social Affairs,
Humanitarian Affairs, and Administration and Management.
Each such Deputy would have full executive responsibility
for the operational issues falling within his or her portfolio,
subject only to direction by the Secretary-General. This
would be a big change, and it is not the first time it has been
proposed, but it is the change that, more than anything else
in our view, would create the conditions for more orderly
and effective management throughout the United Nations
system.
and Security, Economic
funding
problem of
The second priority need is to resolve conclusively the
critical
the United Nations.
Overwhelmingly, the problem is one that has been created
by Member States and is entirely within our ability to
resolve by meeting our assessed contributions for regular
budgets and peace operations in full and on time.
If the
bulk of current arrears were to be paid by the end of this
year,
the United Nations finances would be in a quite
healthy position, with the Working Capital Fund, the Peace-
keeping Reserve Fund and the Special Account all
replenished, and the Organization in a position to meet all
outstanding troop-contribution costs.
The third priority is to improve the management of
peace operations, both at Headquarters and in the field.
Some very significant and useful steps have been taken in
this regard and are mentioned in the Secretary-General’s
report, such as more clearly defining the respective roles of
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the Department of Peace-keeping Operations and the
Department of Political Affairs and incorporating the Field
Operations Division into the Department of Peace-keeping
Operations. But more remains to be done, including in
particular
time of a properly
constituted general staff to plan and manage the military
dimensions of such operations.
the development over
The fourth priority is to give special attention to the
machinery of preventive diplomacy,
again both at
Headquarters and in the field. These efforts have been
largely ad hoc in the past, although the Department of
Political Affairs is gradually building a core of appropriate
expertise. Quite apart from anything else,
there is an
overwhelming cost advantage in doing more to stop disputes
becoming armed conflicts. We welcome both the
recognition in the report that preventive diplomacy is now
becoming understood as a vital field for practical action and
the Secretary-General’s own involvement
in preventive
diplomacy. We consider that the most promising approach
to upgrading United Nations preventive diplomacy would be
one which gave the Organization the capacity to offer a
dispute resolution service to its Members, providing skilled
third-party assistance through good offices and mediation.
We suggest in this respect the creation of a number of
regionally located peace and security resource centres to help
carry out both preventive diplomacy and peacemaking
functions closer to the area where problems arise. We also
suggest there be a substantial upgrading of the information
and analytical capability available to the Department of
Political Affairs for these and related purposes.
The fifth priority is
to rethink the system of
humanitarian relief coordination. Despite advances that have
been made with the creation of
the Department of
Humanitarian Affairs, we think some basic structural
problems remain. We propose that they be addressed in a
rather radical way by the creation of a new disaster response
agency - combining the relief and basic rehabilitation
functions of
the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Children’s
Fund and the World Food Programme - which would work
directly with the suggested Deputy Secretary-General for
Humanitarian Affairs.
the Office of
The sixth priority, as we see it, is to take various steps
to raise the profile within the United Nations system of
peace-building. This is the point of intersection between the
peace and security role of the United Nations and its
economic and social role, and it should be given recognition
and emphasis as such. The pursuit of peace and security has
to include the satisfaction of basic human needs as well as
the direct prevention, containment and settlement of armed
social
sustainable
conflict. Much of the United Nations system is, in fact,
concerned with peace-building in the form of activities such
as the making of international law, disarmament, economic
and
development,
democratization and institution-building. But much more
can be done, organizationally,
to link these activities
together, recognize their security significance and ensure that
they are pursued with a sense of common purpose.
advancement,
The remaining priority, a very large subject in itself, is
to regenerate the Security Council - not because it is now
working ineffectively, but because its manifest
lack of
representativeness is beginning to have an impact on its
legitimacy. The Security Council is the linchpin of the
whole United Nations peace and security system, and it is in
no one’s interest that its credibility should be allowed to
erode gradually. The outstanding questions about the size
and shape of the Council should certainly be resolved by the
time of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, in
1995.
Indeed, this remains an ideal target date for the
achievement of a whole range of necessary organizational
reforms.
Our survival in the 1990s and beyond will depend on
our developing a new understanding of what constitutes
security and what contributes to it.
It will depend on our
capacity to think clearly about how to react to new security
problems as they arise. It will depend on us all developing
and sustaining habits of dialogue and a real commitment to
cooperating for peace. And it is through peace that we shall
be able to make headway with regard to the urgent need for
development in all its many dimensions.
The attainment of peace, development and democracy
will also, though, depend on our willingness to rethink and
reshape our institutions, particularly the United Nations, so
that they can cope with the new realities. The Australian
proposals are offered in this constructive spirit.
The Secretary-General’s report clearly reflects his
commitment to meeting the challenges posed by these new
realities. He acknowledges in his introduction that
the
renaissance of the United Nations remains in question and
that the international community stands at a turning-point.
Thus, his report is a stimulus to greater realism, engagement,
effort and political creativity. We should all work with the
Secretary-General to achieve the realization of that objective,
which we all share, of a more stable world order through a
stronger and more effective United Nations.
Mr. YASSIN (Sudan) (interpretation from Arabic): In
discussing the Secretary-General’s report (A/48/1) dated
10 September 1993, which covers the period between the
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
19
forty-seventh and the forty-eighth sessions of the General
Assembly, we must commend the report. Unlike the reports
of previous years, it is quite long - the longest and most
detailed document on the work of the Organization over
12 months.
It covers many vital points of interest to the
international community in the areas of development and the
achievement of international peace and security.
It is not our intention to deal with this significant
document analytically. My delegation may find an
opportunity to deal with some of its aspects at length in the
General Assembly’s competent Committees. However, it
may be appropriate here to deal briefly with some of the
aspects covered by the report together with those aspects
which relate directly to Sudan.
We associate ourselves with the Secretary-General’s
idea expressed in part III of the report, "Developing the
global community", that we must stop and reflect on this
important issue that is so vital to all human societies. It has
to do with global development activities, operational
activities for development, regional development activities
and human rights.
We agree with the premise that human development in
social and economic dimensions
the essential
its
foundation of all global development efforts. We look
forward to the Secretary-General’s initiative on an agenda
for development, and hope that it will set the guidelines for
the Organization’s work in the future in both the economic
and the social fields.
is
One of the reasons which led to the emergence of
social and economic hotbeds of tension in the developing
world has been the neglect of development in those two
major areas. While most of the countries of the developing
world have liberated themselves from colonialist domination,
they are still in thrall to unfair economic and commercial
and monetary systems. They have been calling, through
their regional institutions, for activating the North/South
dialogue and for alleviating the debt burden that has broken
their backs and deprived them of the ability to achieve
economic growth and prosperity. The developed countries
have to abandon their conditions within the framework of
bilateral economic and monetary cooperation and to embark
upon collective multilateral negotiations. We seek a suitable
mechanism that would make it possible to achieve this end.
Having said this, we must state that
there can be no
development for the countries of the developing world unless
they are enabled to acquire modern technology and to
acquaint
scientific methods of
development. This is a matter we hope the Secretary-
General’s development programme will touch upon.
themselves with the
As regards Agenda 21, Sudan, in its regional context,
has cooperated fully and has provided all the environmental
studies that could contribute to this great humanitarian effort
aimed at sparing the world grave environmental disasters.
Despite the close cooperation between Sudan and the United
Nations Environment Programme, we are still eager to have
further cooperation in the field of environmental law and in
environmental
completing
institutions so that we may be able to implement
the
recommendations of the Earth Summit in Rio, especially in
the field of combating drought and decertification.
establishment
our
the
of
on Drought
It may be fitting here to refer to the pioneering role that
the
Intergovernmental Authority
and
Development (IGADD) could play in the field of combating
decertification, drought and the monitoring of environmental
disasters if it is provided with the adequate funding and
technical support it requires for the important projects it has
submitted and continues to submit to the donor country in
order for them to consider the possibility of providing the
necessary funding. The Authority can play a significant role
that would complement the efforts of the competent United
Nations agencies in preventing the catastrophes that may
overwhelm the Horn of Africa and Eastern Africa. From
this rostrum, we call
to that
Authority and invite all United Nations agencies to extend to
it
the close cooperation it needs. We look forward to
participating effectively in the World Summit for Social
Development, scheduled for 1995 in Copenhagen, as it is
intended to deal with issues that have a direct bearing on the
developing world.
In the same spirit, we look forward to
participating in the Fourth World Conference on Women,
scheduled for 1995 in Beijing, as we expect the Conference
to focus on the importance of the pioneering role of women
in developing human societies and because we are convinced
that the achievements of women since the Third World
Conference on Women, held in Nairobi
in 1985, will
encourage us to deploy efforts towards the advancement of
women.
for all possible support
As
regards
the activities of
the United Nations
Children’s Fund (UNICEF) mentioned in the report,
it
behoves us here to commend the close cooperation by this
programme with the Government of Sudan in many areas,
including those of expanded immunization, oral rehydration
therapy, provision of fresh water and health services for
mothers and children, a matter which has led to a fall in
infant and mother mortality rates. UNICEF also works in
concert with the Government of Sudan in combating the
guinea-worm disease and in dealing with the imbalances that
result from iodine deficiency.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Given the importance my country attaches to mothers’
and children’s health, a high council for child health care
under the personal supervision of the Head of the State has
been established. Also, a giant Ministry of Social Planning
has been established with a view to promoting the welfare
of Sudanese citizens in every respect.
As for the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) we commend Mr. Speth, the Administrator of the
programme which is of great
importance to us in the
developing countries. However, alleviating the intensity of
poverty, the management of development, the environment
and natural resources, enhancing the role of women in
development, ensuring technical cooperation and harnessing
science and technology in the service of development are
objectives which cannot be achieved except by increasing the
Programme’s technical and financial capabilities. We look
forward to further efforts by this important Programme and
closer cooperation with other United Nations specialized
agencies as well as with international and regional financial
institutions.
Once peace is established in Sudan, we look forward to
increased cooperation with the Programme in the repatriation
of displaced persons and refugees and the rebuilding of all
that has been devastated by war. We wish to restore the
social fabric in the South and to enable the citizens there to
return to normal life and to obtain their basic needs.
We wish to express our full appreciation for the
remarks in the report of the Secretary-General concerning
the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA)
because of its assistance in implementing our plan aimed at
linking the priorities of our national development policies to
population activities. We have
received appropriate
assistance in formulating the plans of the last census in the
country.
Within the framework of our cooperation with the
World Food Programme (WFP) as contained in the report of
the Secretary-General, Sudan offered 153,000 tonnes of grain
to the World Food Programme to be distributed to all the
needy in the country, especially in the southern part. Ninety
thousand tonnes have been distributed but we have not been
able to deliver the remainder. We hope that countries and
institutions in a position to do so will help us meet our
commitments by providing land, river and air transport
facilities.
The chapter that we mentioned deals with many of the
activities by several agencies and organizations. The limits
to enumerate those activities.
of time make it difficult
However, we are sure that those organizations and agencies
have discharged their mandates.
We share with the international community the great
interest it takes in human rights issues. We thank the
Secretary-General for his keen interest in that area and hope
that he will be able to build the necessary institutions to deal
with human rights. We have participated effectively in the
Vienna World Conference on Human Rights. We have
warned and continue to warn against selectivity and double
standards when applying human rights standards. Human
rights are fundamental and should not be politicized. Also,
the right to development is an inherent human right.
As regards the establishment of the post of a high
commissioner for human rights, it may be necessary for this
session and the working groups of the relevant Committees
in focusing on the principle of establishing such a post to
focus on the parameters of the mandate and sphere of
competence of that
important post, as well as on the
necessary consensus which we hope will be achieved on this
issue.
As
for
the fourth chapter concerning preventive
diplomacy, humanitarian assistance and conflict resolution,
we hope that "An Agenda for Peace" will be organically
linked to the development programme proposed by the
Secretary-General.
In this regard, we associate ourselves
with those who have spoken before us about the activities of
the Security Council which have intensified recently. We
hope that the Security Council will take it upon itself to
implement its resolutions in a balanced manner that avoids
discrimination. We hope that the General Assembly will be
a genuine partner in the making of resolutions relating to
international peace and security. Preventive diplomacy and
conflict resolution cannot be practiced unless they are
pursued in full cooperation with regional organizations.
Peace cannot be preserved and maintained without removing
the causes of national and regional conflicts with all their
social and economic aspects. We cannot but pay tribute to
the Organization of African Unity (OAU) which has been
able to contain numerous conflicts in Africa, and hope that
other regional organizations will follow suit.
The turmoil
in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be
considered by any yardstick as one of the successes of
preventive diplomacy. Having said that, we command, from
this rostrum, United Nations successes in Cambodia and El
Salvador while calling for a complete revision of its role in
Somalia, especially with regard to departures from their
mandates by United Nations forces in that country.
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
21
to all
citizens without
the report’s highlighting of
My delegation wishes to refer here, in particular, to
paragraphs 492 and 493 of the report which relate directly
I wish to commend in this
to current events in Sudan.
respect
the many efforts
deployed by my country with the aim of ensuring delivery
of humanitarian relief
any
discrimination whatever, wherever they may be, including
the areas of rebellion and military operations. This is a
precedent and model to be presented to the international
community,
represented by Operation Lifeline and the
ensuing
the United Nations,
international non-governmental and voluntary organizations,
as well as the rebellion movement, with all
its various
factions
in December 1992 and 1993, and with the
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in March
1993.
agreements
between
to
clarity
enough
the mission
While we consider paragraph 493 of the report on the
Sudan to be positive on the whole, we notice that it does not
refer with
of
Ambassador Traxler or to the reasons of my Government’s
reservations, at first, on that mission. My country’s position
stemmed from the fact that the framework of Ambassador
Traxler’s task had not been defined in an unambiguous
manner and that
the mission had
political dimensions which encroached upon our national
sovereignty as it was defined without prior consultation with
my Government. When the purely humanitarian framework
of the mission was clarified, my country welcomed it and
hospitably received the Ambassador, thus ensuring the full
success of the mission and the achievement of its objectives.
it was reported that
Sudan, in line with its ethical and cultural beliefs, has
always been faithful to the donors of assistance to its people.
Therefore, the contents of paragraph 482 of the report which
mentions the murder of United Nations staff who worked in
humanitarian programmes are indeed a source of sorrow to
us. However, the report has remained silent with regard to
the parity that perpetrated this evil deed, namely the
rebellion movement which has assassinated four
relief
workers and launched numerous attacks on relief craft, thus
turning this humanitarian effort into a weapon which it uses
to starve and coerce the innocent into joining its ranks.
I wish also to refer to paragraph 488 of the report
which dealt with human suffering in a number of countries,
including the Sudan.
My country absolutely believes the current conflict in
southern Sudan cannot be resolved militarily but must be
resolved through genuinely peace-oriented negotiations. We
call upon the international community to give its blessings
to the efforts of the Sudan Government in this respect. By
the same token, those circles that lend material, moral or
political support to the rebellion in southern Sudan should
desist from doing so in order to put an end to the human
suffering in the areas of conflict and since such support
constitutes interference in my country’s internal affairs.
Sudan has welcomed all initiatives by the leaders of
Kenya, Uganda and Nigeria and by international personages
such as the former United States President Mr. Carter.
Sudan has also welcomed the recent initiatives of Presidents
Moi, Museveni, Zenawi and Afwerki of Kenya, Uganda,
Ethiopia and Eritrea respectively aimed at
reaching a
peaceful solution to the conflict in southern Sudan through
negotiations and at breaking the present deadlock.
In this
spirit we maintain that the international community is duty
bound to observe the principles of
the Charter and
international law in order to promote the peace efforts in
Sudan and to refrain from taking measures that would
contribute,
to impeding the
achievement of this objective.
in one way or another,
Mr. PIRIZ BALLON (Uruguay) (interpretation from
to express our
Spanish): We should like first of all
congratulations to the Secretary-General on the report
(A/48/1) he has submitted to us on the work of the
Organization. We admire the exhaustive information he has
given us and appreciate his deep analysis of the problems
confronting the Organization, problems that reflect the very
complex reality the international community must face.
That objective reality is not fundamentally the result of
anything the Organization, its Members or its leaders and
administration - that is, the Secretariat - have done or have
failed to do. The reality - the world situation in which we
live today - is the result of the collapse of an unjust political
order that has not been replaced by the new order of peace
and equity that all the peoples of the world had hoped for.
The resulting disorder manifests itself in xenophobia, racism,
historical resentments, political intolerance, tribal conflicts
and so on. Nor has there been any lack of illegitimate
political ambitions on the part of individuals, nations and
clans that, taking advantage of chaotic conditions, seek to
gain ascendancy through force and violence.
We all recognize that the background and, in large part,
the primary cause of these ills is the influence of economic
factors that affect developing countries in
and social
particular.
In this regard, the Secretary-General’s report
points out quite rightly the linkage between peace and
development, and we eagerly look forward to the submission
of the report on an agenda for development.
In the face of the potentially apocalyptic state of affairs
we have just described, this question arises: who, what
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
forces or what centres of power will be able to impose
order? Equally important is the question of how a new
system of international relations can be created and what
form it will take, a system whose principles and norms
reaffirm the concept of States while also recognizing the
intrinsic rights of human beings. There seems to be no
Power or alliance of Powers in the world that is willing and
materially able to exercise its authority unilaterally, and let
us be thankful for that. What is more, certain isolationist
tendencies can be perceived. Apparently - and we should
like to believe it to be so - the fruit of the advances made in
international ethics is the preference for achieving a new
order based on multilateral, participatory action, though our
hope is tempered by the evidence that, while all States are
equal, some are more equal than others.
However, there is a consensus that on the basis of
participatory multilateralism it must be the United Nations
that carries out the laborious task of establishing an order
that is politically acceptable to all and that at the same time
aims at solving urgent economic and social problems. If we
decide to assign this crucial role to the United Nations, we
must recognize that the first priority must be to put out the
fires, to halt, contain or at least mitigate conflicts. At the
same time, we shall have to act effectively and swiftly to
attack the underlying causes of many of these tragedies:
underdevelopment, dire poverty and the unjust order that
prevails in the economic and trade relations between nations.
Obviously,
in order to take up such a formidable
challenge we need to strengthen the United Nations and
make sure that we do not thereby trample on inviolable
principles such as the sovereignty of States, non-intervention
and the self-determination of peoples. Strengthening the
United Nations within these
faithfully
the allocation of
interpreting the Charter as
competencies among the various organs of the system.
terms means
regards
In this context we must also strengthen the Secretariat’s
capacity for taking initiatives and expressing views, but not
of taking decisions. In this connection, my country has from
the outset paid tribute to the Secretary-General for his
proposals in "An Agenda for Peace".
In addition, for
reasons of urgency, many of the initiatives suggested therein
have been implemented in the course of events through
action by the Security Council and in most cases with the
tacit or express approval of the General Assembly or the
Member States.
If we are to judge the Secretariat’s performance, let us
not beat around the bush: we would excuse certain errors
that may have been committed, but what we would not
excuse is the inertia of a body under the control of Member
States that is asked, in view of the urgency of the situation,
to produce concrete ideas and suggestions.
In that regard we believe that the strengthening of the
lead to greater effectiveness in the
Organization must
execution of the mandates entrusted to the Secretary-General.
For this reason, in the case of interim offices, though we
fully share the position of the Group of 77 that such offices
must never assume political functions, we recognize as quite
valid the desire to impose greater coordination and
effectiveness on operational activities,
in keeping with
General Assembly resolution 47/199. This subject could
also be dealt with in the context of the questions related to
the process of restructuring the economic and social system.
In any case, such an approach would help to clear up
misunderstandings and ease concerns regarding the character
and competencies of those offices.
In summary, this and other subjects and ideas dealt with
in the Secretary-General’s report deserve our Government’s
special attention. We are prepared to consider them and
their adoption so long as, in the General Assembly and other
bodies, we have removed certain elements in which, for the
sake of pragmatism and effectiveness,
the constitutional
authority of the Secretariat may be exceeded. This is the
very criterion we apply when examining the paragraphs on
preventive diplomacy and the future of peace-keeping
operations.
Uruguay believes that the net result of what has been
done is unquestionably positive. Millions of people all
across the world can bear witness to the effective action of
the Organization, and Uruguay is very proud to take part in
this collective enterprise.
We regard peace-keeping operations as an element in
the political settlement of a given conflict
through the
creation of a climate of stability. Obviously, however, they
are not appropriate to every crisis.
What, then, are the prerequisites for the deployment of
a peace-keeping force?
In our opinion, the first is strict compliance with the
principles of international law, as enshrined in the Charter -
in particular,
the peaceful settlement of dispute, non-
intervention in internal affairs, and the self-determination of
peoples.
The second prerequisite is the existence of a viable,
precise and well articulated mandate, providing, so far as
possible, a realistic timetable - something that requires a
Security Council decision based on reliable information. We
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
23
in the
are very happy to note the steady improvement
formulation of peace plans and the tendency to approve very
clearly defined mandates. Similarly, we warmly welcome
the increase in the planning capacity of the Secretariat,
which should be manifested in expansion of the Department
of Peace-keeping Operations.
The third important factor is unified command and
control by the Secretary-General, under
the political
supervision of the Security Council. Strict implementation
of this principle is essential to the success of any operation.
Unified command must be scrupulously respected.
Fourthly, the safety of personnel - military or civilian -
involved in operations must,
so far as possible, be
guaranteed. In this respect, we welcome the recent Security
Council resolution on the subject and General Assembly
resolution 47/120 B. We support
the initiative of New
Zealand and Ukraine in proposing that the Sixth Committee
discuss the preparation of a draft convention on the security
of personnel.
Fifthly, there must be adequate financing. This will
necessitate careful supervision of the budget and of the
conduct of the operation and a renewed formal commitment
by countries to pay their contributions fully and on time.
The sixth requirement is the non-use of force. Action
under Chapter VII of the Charter or operations with broad
mandates, in what might be called the grey area - including
the imposition of sanctions and the use of force - should be
undertaken only after the failure of political measures as
provided for in Chapter VI.
Faced with the crises in Somalia, Haiti and Bosnia,
people yield easily to frustration and to the temptation to
indulge in criticism of United Nations actions. We do not
believe that the Organization is above criticism. On the
contrary, we
are quite prepared to make whatever
contribution we can to its improvement. However, before
engaging in blind, emotional criticism, we must give some
thought to the fact that the United Nations is only the sum
of its Members. Thus, we are all bound to its successes and
its failures.
In varying degrees, but collectively, we are all
responsible for the fruits of the labours of the Organization.
Mr. MISHRA (Nepal): The Secretary-General has
described his annual report to the General Assembly as the
longest for many years. My delegation greatly appreciates
his comprehensive overview of the activities of the United
Nations during the past year.
The issues dealt with in the report relate to several
major items before the General Assembly at the current
session. My delegation will deal with them as appropriate
when the relevant agenda items are taken up at plenary
meetings or at meetings of the Main Committees. I have in
mind,
the Secretary-General’s views with
regard to peace-keeping operations. At this stage, I wish to
make a few general observations.
in particular,
My delegation shares the Secretary-General’s opinion
that
the United Nations has a central role to play in
advancing peace, security and development. In this context,
I wish to refer to the address given by the Prime Minister of
Nepal last Wednesday, in the course of the general debate.
The Prime Minister said that bridging the gap between the
developed and the developing countries is an integral part of
the efforts to strengthen world peace and security. He said
also that
relations
presents an opportunity to reactivate North-South dialogue
and to enhance South-South cooperation. With this
expectation, my
the
Secretary-General’s agenda for development, which, we
trust, will provide firm ground for an exchange of views on
a framework for concrete action to promote international
cooperation for development.
the current climate in international
delegation
forward
looks
to
The
delegation
of Nepal
agrees with
the
Secretary-General that it is important to promote democracy
in all aspects of international relations - particularly within
the United Nations system.
In this exercise, the General
Assembly occupies one of the most important positions.
Together with fellow members of
the Non-Aligned
Movement, Nepal has supported the proposals aimed at
revitalizing the General Assembly. We are pleased that you,
Mr. President, intend to continue this process during the
current session.
is representative in character and that
On the question of strengthening the United Nations, it
is important that action be taken to ensure that the Security
Council
there is
transparency in its activities. We have communicated to the
Secretary-General our views on the composition of the
Council. My delegation looks forward to a more detailed
discussion of this question later in the session.
My delegation will provide all possible support for the
Secretary-General’s efforts to streamline the Secretariat and
the Organization’s presence in the field. We understand that
the Secretary-General is motivated by the desire to increase
efficiency and cost-effectiveness.
Nepal, as a least-
developed country, values the multilateral assistance for its
development efforts. My delegation therefore emphasizes
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
that restructuring and streamlining should not be at the cost
of the loss of programmes and projects for development.
referred to by the Secretary-General in paragraph 352 of his
report.
The report of the Secretary-General, "An Agenda for
Peace", was the subject of extensive discussions during the
forty-seventh session. The General Assembly has adopted
two important resolutions dealing with various proposals of
the Secretary-General. My delegation believes that
the
concepts and proposals in "An Agenda for Peace" are
evolutionary. This is an ongoing process, and my delegation
is ready to cooperate in further discussions.
The PRESIDENT: A number of delegations have
asked to speak in exercise of the right of reply, and I shall
call on them now.
Mr. ANSARI (India): My delegation asked to speak at
this late hour only on account of the remarks relating to my
country in the statement on this agenda item by the
representative of Pakistan. My Government has taken note
of the paragraph on India and Pakistan in the Secretary-
General’s report to the General Assembly. It appreciates his
reference to the Simla Agreement and to the commitment
therein of the two sides to resolve the issues peacefully,
through negotiations.
The Government of India reaffirms its belief that such
negotiations should be conducted bilaterally, in the letter and
spirit of
the Simla Agreement, and without external
interference, and calls upon the Government of Pakistan to
eschew the path of violence and terrorism and revert to the
Simla process for resolving bilateral issues, in the larger
interests of the peoples of the two countries.
My delegation has noted with surprise and dismay the
effort by the delegation of Pakistan in the General Assembly
deliberately to engineer an atmosphere of crisis.
It is our
apprehension that
to avoid bilateral
discussions. That apprehension seems to be confirmed by
the language used by representatives of Pakistan in briefing
foreign Governments on the subject. One sentence reads:
the purpose is
"The present Government of Pakistan is fully
capable of conducting talks. However, we are not
anxious for talks with India".
Members may wish to note the expression used: "capable",
but not "anxious".
I submit that the unwillingness is because Pakistan has
opted for the paths of subversion, terrorism and hostile
propaganda against India as its principal
instruments of
policy. Each of those violates the bilateral agreements
The PRESIDENT:
I would appeal to representatives
to be as brief as possible, as the hour is late.
Mr. KHAN (Pakistan):
I shall be as brief as possible,
keeping in mind the statement of the Indian representative.
First,
the
I note with satisfaction that
Indian
Government has at least taken note of the relevant paragraph
in the Secretary-General’s report. That is heartening. But
what followed was very disheartening. Yes, there is a Simla
Agreement between Pakistan and India.
The Simla
Agreement does not preclude discussion or deliberation of
this issue in international forums.
There are Security
Council resolutions - numerous Security Council resolutions
- which mandate that the final disposition of the Jammu and
Kashmir dispute should be in accordance with the wishes of
the people, through a free and impartial plebiscite under the
auspices of the United Nations. So the Simla Agreement is
not restrictive. As a matter of fact, it was one of the efforts
made by Pakistan in good faith to solve this problem.
I would also like to point out that the Simla Agreement
was signed in 1972. Twenty-one years have passed. Has
India once, just once, seriously proposed discussing the
Jammu and Kashmir issue under the Simla Agreement?
Yes, it has been making statements to the press; it has been
using it for propaganda purposes; but has it ever discussed
or proposed discussing this
the Simla
Agreement? Pakistan has indeed proposed discussing this
issue under the Simla Agreement, but India rejected that
overture from Pakistan.
issue under
Another allegation: We should "eschew terrorism".
Well, we are not indulging in terrorism. It is India which is
indulging in the worst kind of terrorism, the kind called
State terrorism. And it is suppressing and subjugating a
territory which does not belong to it. That territory is under
its unlawful occupation, as recognized by the United
Nations, as recognized by the international community - as
recognized by India itself.
It should read the Security
Council documents again:
it should also go back and read
the resolution of 5 January 1949 which solemnizes the
agreement between Pakistan and India to make all necessary
arrangements for holding a free and impartial plebiscite.
Where has that commitment gone? Are Indians becoming
a victim of growing amnesia? Are they forgetting their
commitments? Or is this a deliberate tactic to confuse
international opinion?
31st meeting - Friday, 15 October l993
25
is taking place in Kashmir.
They are surprised and dismayed that what Pakistan is
doing is "engineering". But it is not "engineering"; it is a
call from Pakistan, and it is our right to make that call, in
the light of what is happening in Kashmir, the gruesome
tragedy that
Some 40,000
people have been killed; women have been raped by security
forces with impunity - in certain cases with wantonness - as
a part of their well-conceived strategy to terrorize people
into submission. Is this being "engineered" by Pakistan? If
anybody is the author of the situation,
is India, not
Pakistan.
it
Then they say that Pakistan has said, in one of its
non-papers, which were circulated, that Pakistan’s present
Government is fully capable of, but is not interested in,
dialogue with India. Well, they must read their own non-
paper, which preceded our non-paper; in it, they said that
Pakistan had an interim Government and that therefore it
was not appropriate for India to enter into negotiations with
that Government. We clarified the fact that our interim
Government, like all other Governments, is competent to
take up this issue.
of Pakistani troops from Jammu and Kashmir, as stipulated
in part II. They reveal not how the pulsation of time and
space, and the movement of the chariot of history itself,
could have been stalled.
Above all, they explain not the annexation to Pakistan
of a part of Jammu and Kashmir known as the Northern
Areas, for which they were indicted by one of their own
high courts very recently - in March this year. They admit
not their own culpability and tax, instead, the credulity of
this Assembly. They do take too much for granted.
The PRESIDENT: The representative of Pakistan
I call on
wishes to speak in exercise of the right of reply.
him, and appeal to him to be brief.
Mr. KHAN (Pakistan): The Assembly must have been
impressed by the sophistry of the Indian representative’s
presentation, but not by the strength of his argument,
somehow
because
responsible for
the UNCIP
resolution in question is false and unsubstantiated.
allegation that Pakistan was
the non-implementation of
the
Then they talk about "subversion and terrorism". For
God’s sake, we must be honest about this. The worst
practices of terrorism are committed by India itself. I have
the facts and figures, but because of the lateness of the hour
I will not go into them. But I can enumerate 20 training
camps concentrated along the Pakistan-India border, which
are training terrorists and sending them across to Pakistan.
They have been involved in 101 terrorist activities: bomb
explosions, arson. What they are doing in Kashmir they also
want to do in Pakistan.
Let me remind the representative of India that the
question of demilitarization applied to Jammu and Kashmir
territory as a whole and not to Azad Jammu and Kashmir
alone. Pakistan did comply with the provisions spelled out
in the Security Council resolutions, but when the time came
for the withdrawal of Indian forces, India wriggled out of its
commitment, offering many excuses. Sir Owen Dixon, the
United Nations Mediator, was constrained to report that
India was insisting on conditions that made the holding of a
free and impartial plebiscite impossible.
India also frustrated the efforts of Mr. Graham, the
successor of Sir Owen Dixon, aimed at the withdrawal of
The PRESIDENT: We are well beyond the closing
time, but the representative of India wishes to speak again.
I call on him, with the appeal that he, too, be as brief as
possible.
Mr. ANSARI (India): Thank you, Sir. I do not know
the punishment in criminal law for the offence of flogging,
but that is what the delegation of Pakistan have inflicted on
this Assembly. They flog an argument without sustaining it.
They indulge in what logicians call systematically misleading
expressions.
They tell us not
the time and date on which the
Government of Pakistan implemented part II A of the
resolution adopted on 13 August 1948 by the United Nations
Commission for India and Pakistan (UNCIP) - a resolution
so often and so selectively cited by them. They explain not
how part III of the same resolution could ever have been
implemented without the completion of the total withdrawal
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
India was not interested in a
the bulk of Indian forces.
plebiscite and it was determined to hold on to Kashmir.
Towards the end of 1950, India, in contravention of the
Security Council resolutions, took steps towards the total
integration of Kashmir by convening the
so-called
Constituent Assembly. Thus, right from the beginning it
was India that stalled the implementation of the Security
Council resolutions by turning down all proposals for the
demilitarization of Jammu and Kashmir, which would have
paved the way for a plebiscite.
As for the Northern Areas, I would like to tell the
representative of India and this Assembly that the Northern
Areas have not been annexed to Azad Kashmir or to
Pakistan. As a matter of fact, they have a special status.
We are ready for a plebiscite today, and we are ready to
make appropriate administrative arrangements as and when
defined by the Security Council, if India is ready.
The representative of India’s reference to the High
Court judgement is out of context and has no bearing on the
question of the holding of a plebiscite in the whole of
Kashmir. Are they trying to suggest that the right of self-
determination is to be exercised only in Azad Kashmir, in
one part of Pakistan, and that India is not going to allow it
to be exercised in occupied Kashmir? This is illogical, to
say the least.
The PRESIDENT:
It is customary for the Assembly
to take note of the annual report of the Secretary-General on
the work of the Organization. If I hear no objection, may I
consider that the Assembly wishes to take note of the report?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: We have thus concluded this stage
of our consideration of agenda item 10.
The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.
