United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 151 (continued)
UNITED NATIONS INITIATIVE ON OPPORTUNITY
AND PARTICIPATION:
DRAFT RESOLUTION
(A/48/L.19)
(interpretation
Mrs. SELMANE (Algeria)
from
French): We listened carefully to the statement made by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Papua New Guinea. His
presentation gives a picture of all
the efforts already
undertaken to prepare and develop the initiative with a view
to the establishment of a "United Nations Panel on
Opportunity and Participation".
At a time when our Organization is tackling the
preparation of an agenda for development and working to
make its fiftieth anniversary the target date for concluding a
process of renewal and of adaptation to the new challenges
facing mankind,
this initiative is certainly timely and
important.
The especially difficult economic situation of
the
developing countries, exacerbated by an unfavourable
international environment, underscores the importance of the
link between peace and development in today’s world. The
concept of development has
itself become especially
complex, and there is an ever-growing awareness of the need
to integrate fully the elements of sustainability and human
security; hence, the timeliness and the high stakes attached
to the field of investigation proposed for the United Nations
Panel on Opportunity and Participation.
The Panel’s
57th
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 17 November 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
independence and the competence of its members are such
as to imbue its analyses and recommendations with the
relevance, originality and boldness needed for it to have a
salutary impact as we approach the fiftieth anniversary.
The Algerian delegation therefore wishes to reaffirm its
support for this initiative, and it fully supports the draft
resolution (A/48/L.19)
its objectives and
modalities.
that defines
I would like to extend our
Mr. McKINNON (New Zealand): On behalf of my
delegation,
thanks and
appreciation to the Honourable John Kaputin, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Papua New Guinea, for his opening of the
debate on this item and for his introduction of the draft
resolution contained in document A/48/L.19.
The United Nations Initiative on Opportunity and
Participation was considered at the South Pacific Forum
The Heads of
meeting in Nauru in August this year.
Government of Pacific States gave their support
to the
that meeting, and Forum members were
proposal at
encouraged to support
this session of the General
Assembly.
it at
We believe that the further examination of this issue
may help our understanding as we move to shape a new
agenda for development in the 1990s.
Sustainable human development is now identified as the
crucial target for our age. A key ingredient in that concept
is the ability of people, as individuals or as groups, to
participate fully and effectively in the economic, social,
cultural and political processes that affect their lives. We
now recognize that development which does not deal with
this dimension is seriously flawed. For development to be
equitable and sustainable it must reach out and encompass
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87207 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.57
29 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
all of society, not just those individuals and groups who
happen to be historically well positioned to benefit from
development.
The link between economic and social
development and peace and stability is now well established.
The Government of Papua New Guinea and the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Papua New Guinea, the
Honourable John Kaputin, are performing a very valuable
service in bringing to our attention the fact
that rapid
economic growth can misfire if we do not provide
opportunities for participation by and benefit to individuals
throughout society. The draft resolution before us represents
an endeavour to advance the process of identifying and
remedying the barriers to opportunity and to participation
that clearly do exist in many countries.
There is much fruitful work that can be drawn on by
the panel proposed in the draft resolution. In particular, the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has
focused attention on this very issue in the 1993 Human
Development Report and again last week in a very thought-
provoking statement made by the new Administrator of
UNDP, Gus Speth, to the Second Committee. We would
encourage the panel to work closely with UNDP in the
execution of its mandate, amongst the other avenues it will
explore.
range of
Given the potential
to
opportunity and participation, my delegation believes it is
important that the panel’s work be carefully delimited and
well focused. The panel will need to determine specific
directions in which it wishes its work to proceed.
relevant
issues
the
"Agenda
for Peace",
The theme of people’s participation is receiving
attention in a number of United Nations forums, for example
in the elaboration of an agenda for development, which will
complement
and also in
preparations for the International Conference on Population
and Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women
and the World Summit for Social Development.
The
initiative of examination, by the panel, of the issues of
opportunity and participation is therefore timely across a
broad spectrum of United Nations activities. The panel’s
reports to the General Assembly should provide a valuable
input to these broader discussions under way in the United
Nations.
I think we all agree that impulses for participation
should be better understood and nurtured. We therefore look
to the proposed panel to advance this process.
and warmly welcomes the stimulating statement with which
the Honourable John Kaputin, Minister for Foreign Affairs
of Papua New Guinea, opened the debate on this initiative.
As prerequisites for human development, opportunity
and participation are so self-evident that we tend to take
them for granted.
In any social system people have to
pursue their aspirations for development, and opportunity
and participation are necessary for
their advancement.
Necessary as it is for human development, the spirit of
initiative and enterprise is inadequate if unaccompanied by
opportunity and participation. My delegation believes that
this has been the experience of many countries, particularly
developing countries, in the last several years. An important
objective of the reforms undertaken by many countries
around the world, especially developing countries, has been
to provide opportunity and participation for their citizens.
In the case of my own country, Tanzania, we learned
very early on that while nothing can replace one’s own
efforts for economic and social advancement, supportive
intervention from the outside has a critical role to play in the
process of development. That role essentially involves
making available to citizens the opportunity to develop
themselves and to participate in making the decisions that
affect their lives.
Each of our countries has had its own experience. The
Papua New Guinea initiative provides us with a very
welcome opportunity to share these experiences and to reach
a common understanding on ways and means of enlarging
the opportunity and participation of our citizens in their own
advancement and in that of their countries.
the
Since
forty-seventh session of
the General
Assembly, when the idea was first presented, we have had
a number of opportunities to discuss the proposal and to
assess its contribution to the evident and urgent need to
increase the opportunity and participation, not only of
citizens in the local economy as stated earlier, but also of
developing countries in the global economy. At both the
national and the international
level, opportunity and
participation are required for development. Unfortunately,
at the international level the concept of opportunity and
participation has not been fully accepted. That is why the
call for an agenda for development is very timely. As we
await the Secretary-General’s report on this subject, the
proposal by the Government of Papua New Guinea gives us
a welcome opportunity to initiate a discussion which can
only enrich the debate on this important item.
Mr. NYAKYI (United Republic of Tanzania): My
delegation joins previous speakers in congratulating the
Government of Papua New Guinea for the proposal on the
United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation
The fact that reform efforts in the developing countries
to foster growth and development continue to be frustrated
by the persistent
inequalities in international economic
relations constitutes a serious obstacle to the establishment
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
3
of global partnership and to the realities of interdependence
in the world today. The proposal on opportunity and
participation is both timely and urgent, as it allows us to
examine past failures in our attempts to build a just and
equitable international
system and to chart new and
innovative strategies for sustainable development. We have
attended several
focused on
different aspects and dimensions of human cooperation and
development in an attempt to seek solutions to growing
inequalities in the global economy.
international conferences
The proposal by Papua New Guinea rightly points out
that even after several decades of United Nations resolutions,
expert studies, special international conferences, including
the North-South dialogue and plans of action, many
developing countries are experiencing static or declining
rates of economic growth, while many of the most serious
and widespread difficulties
experienced in securing
opportunities for economic participation by individuals,
groups and firms in developing countries remain largely
unaddressed.
The United Nations International Development Strategy
for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade lists six
goals for the achievement of its aims:
"(a) A surge in the pace of economic growth in
the developing countries;
(b) A development process that is responsive to
social needs, seeks a significant reduction in extreme
poverty, promotes the development and utilization of
human resources and skills and is environmentally
sound and sustainable;
(c) An improvement of the international systems
the
of money, finance and trade so as to support
development process;
(d) A setting of strength and stability in the world
economy and sound macro-economic management,
nationally and internationally;
(e) A decisive strengthening of
international
development cooperation;
(f) A special effort to deal with the problems of
the least developed countries, the weakest among the
developing countries."
(resolution 45/199, annex,
chap. II, para. 14)
The reality is that
the international community is
nowhere near realizing the above goals, as the circle of
prosperity has not widened to include the majority of the
developing countries that are not so fortunate as to receive
favoured access to finance, markets and technology. In the
Uruguay Round, the priorities and interests of developing
countries have figured marginally even in areas such as
markets for agricultural commodities, which constitute the
mainstay of their economies. Commodity markets have
continued to be depressed, and to be destabilized by
changing demand and supply conditions.
Prices of
commodities have declined further, in some cases even in
nominal terms. There is a danger that the establishment of
regional trade blocs may exclude many developing countries
from preferential access to the markets of the developed
countries.
The least developed countries are almost exclusively
dependent on official development assistance (ODA) for
their external financing and, because of their limited access
to international
financing markets and foreign direct
investment,
they have been unable to benefit from an
increased flow of external resources to developing countries
that has taken place in the past few years.
With the dramatic and profound changes that have taken
place in the world political and economic scene, the United
Nations has an unprecedented opportunity to play its Charter
role in the vital area of economic and social development
through important international conferences, including the
United Nations Conference
and
Development, the forthcoming World Summit for Social
Development and the International Conference on Population
and Development, to mention but a few. The preparatory
process for these conferences has already identified the
problems
international
economic relations and in development, and this should
facilitate the search for their solutions.
contemporary
Environment
on
encountered
in
The proposed United Nations initiative on opportunity
and participation will serve as a useful link for various
resolutions adopted by the United Nations and especially by
United Nations organized international conferences
in
seeking a methodology through which those goals and
objectives may be realized.
The Human Development
Report for 1993 states:
4
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
They might
"People everywhere are certainly demanding much
to political, economic and social
greater access
opportunities.
’full
participation’ - but they do want a steady advancement
towards it. Participation is, after all, a process, not an
event
it helps maximize the use of human
capabilities and is thus a means of increasing levels of
social and economic development." (pp. 21 and 22)
expect
not
...
The same can be said about nations. Opportunity and
participation will certainly bring about effective partnership
and equitable cooperation in the sphere of international
economic relations. Effective economic integration of
developing countries in the world economy could be a major
stimulus to global economic activities, provided it remains
open and outward-looking and does not result in additional
external barriers.
My delegation fully supports draft resolution A/48/L.19,
which was introduced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Papua New Guinea.
It seeks the appointment of a United
Nations Panel on Opportunity and Participation composed of
a small number of distinguished experts and eminent
persons,
international
community, in order to prepare a comprehensive report to be
considered during the General Assembly’s fiftieth session.
representative
broadly
the
of
I am also pleased to announce my delegation’s
sponsorship of the draft resolution, and I share the hope of
many previous speakers that it will be adopted by consensus.
Mr. LAING (Belize):
It may well be the case that
undemocratic and illiberal
regimes are becoming an
increasingly rare species. As we approach the end of the
millennium, some think that
this trend can be seen
everywhere. While we have not witnessed the wholesale
emergence of stable liberal democracies, liberal democracy
has become the universal political and economic aspiration,
spanning different regions and cultures around the globe.
and
the means
Liberal principles such as individual freedom, popular
sovereignty, free markets and free trade have become the
new watchwords
through which
underdevelopment can allegedly be definitively conquered.
The prescription to solve our social, political and economic
problems has now become that we in the developing world
must replace traditional forms of social organization with
economically rational ones based on function and efficiency;
we must open our markets to international trade and we
must tighten our belts, both metaphorically and in reality.
Structural adjustment, too, is the popular euphemism.
and the creation of structures wherein we must take the same
prescribed medicine for the ills that plague us - and, indeed,
several of us who have swallowed the pill have experienced
reasonably high levels of material prosperity and long
periods of stability and positive economic growth.
However, that is only part of the picture.
In many
countries there have been no improvements.
In fact, the
socio-political and economic situation has deteriorated to the
point where it threatens international stability. Problems
abound in many of the countries that have accepted the
prescription and swallowed the medicine. Indeed, it would
be accurate to say that the social, political and economic gap
between the developed and the developing worlds has
widened, even as we in the developing world attempt to
adopt the measures that are indispensable are told that we
must wait for growth and development to take off.
Why is this so? We believe that part of the truth lies
in the fact that over the past quarter of a century we have
been experiencing top-down development. Solutions have
been mandated from the top - and when we say "the top",
and financial
we mean the
institutions, development-oriented multilateral
institutions
and,
those of us in leadership positions in our
Governments. We have told our people that they must
follow the uniform prescription to overcome the myriad
problems.
international
economic
indeed,
We have made a fundamental mistake throughout this
entire process. We have not always related the institutions,
structures and remedies to the genuine needs of our people.
And we have failed to give the people an adequate role in
articulating and guiding their own political, economic and
social destinies. We have compounded the problem by
forgetting a basic truism, namely, that the primary purpose
of development is to enlarge people’s opportunities and
choices.
We agree with the Human Development Report 1993
that:
"People today have an urge - an impatient urge -to
participate in the events that shape their lives. And that
impatience brings many dangers and opportunities.
It
can dissolve into anarchy, ethnic violence or social
disintegration. But if properly nurtured in a responsive
national and global framework, it can also become a
source of tremendous vitality and innovation for the
creation of new and more just societies." (UNDP
Human Development Report 1993, p. 1)
Over the past two decades many in the developing
world have dutifully followed the regimen that has been laid
out for us. All of us have embarked on a process of reforms
We see the Papua New Guinea initiative on opportunity and
participation in this light.
It provides an opportunity to
begin the dialogue on the means and mechanisms through
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
5
which we can involve our peoples in the process of
development and further ensure that we create opportunities
that will enable them and us to meet their genuine needs.
After all, a primary purpose of development is to create and
enlarge social, economic, developmental and political
opportunities.
Let us, therefore, go beyond the formal symbolism of
talking about grass roots. The people must fully and truly
participate in the widest possible horizontal range - that is to
say, villagers, trade unions, the aged, youth, native peoples
and others usually overlooked in the top-down, verticalized
process. In this light, this proposal is very timely. It is also
opportune, because we are about
to embark on a new
the issues of development with the
dialogue about
presentation
of
the Secretary-General’s
for
development. We are therefore happy to act as a sponsor of
the draft resolution embodying this worthy initiative.
agenda
If all that this initiative accomplishes is that the agenda
for development and the Assembly fully accept and
articulate the critical importance of popular participation, it
will go down in history as a signal accomplishment.
Mr. VAN LIEROP (Vanuatu): Odd as it might seem,
this is the first occasion on which our delegation has come
to the podium to speak during the current session of the
General Assembly. Thus, it gives us great pleasure to join
in the congratulatory remarks previously addressed to you,
Sir, on your unanimous election to preside over the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
Quite aside from our long and deep personal friendship,
and that of our respective countries and delegations, you are
well known for your professionalism, your diplomatic skills
and your integrity. These are not easy qualities to come by.
You, therefore, are one of the most highly respected of all
of our colleagues in this House. The manner in which you
have led our deliberations thus far has certainly justified our
great faith in you.
We also take pleasure in thanking your predecessor and
commending his efforts during the forty-seventh session of
the General Assembly. We also join in the congratulations
extended to the new States that have recently joined the
United Nations, bringing us yet one step closer to our long-
cherished goal of universality in the membership of the
world body.
initiative
Vanuatu is a sponsor of draft resolution A/48/L.19 on
and
the United Nations
participation. As such, we associate ourselves with the
statement made two days ago by the Foreign Minister of
Papua New Guinea in introducing that draft resolution.
There is no doubt
the active involvement and full
opportunity
that
on
participation of everyone in a given society - men and
women, young and old, the economically advantaged and the
disadvantaged,
the physically firm and the infirm - are
essential elements in the process of economic and social
development. Doors of opportunity that remain permanently
closed to any segment of a society tend to diminish the
ability of that society to realize its full potential. Similarly,
on a global
remain
permanently closed seriously diminish the ability of mankind
to realize its full potential.
scale doors of opportunity that
The process that led the world to Rio de Janeiro last
year for the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development taught us the value of a global partnership.
However, for that lesson to have a lasting and meaningful
impact the partnership will have to be further nurtured,
strengthened and institutionalized at its very roots. All
segments of society, beginning with the smallest, most
distant and most diverse communities, have their own unique
contributions to make. Those contributions should all be
encouraged and valued for their unique worth.
That
is one important aspect of
the proposal on
opportunity and participation. There is another, which we
think should also be borne in mind.
as
For,
As electoral democracy spreads throughout the world -
to big nations and small, in every corner of the globe, and
to every village, hamlet and outer island - few ideas could
more appropriate or more timely than opportunity and
participation.
electoral democracy spreads
throughout the world, new questions are being raised in both
the new democracies and the older democracies - questions
about economic justice and what the future holds in store for
those who have never had much margin for economic error.
Fears are being articulated about social equality, and new
concerns
future of
international or multilateral democracy.
are being expressed about
the
Every day, those who live and labour in developing
countries - particularly the smallest, the poorest and the most
ecologically fragile - find themselves facing less and less
certain futures. Every day, the representatives of the people
of such countries find themselves having to defend the right
of those people to be heard, in all forums, on all issues, and
forums,
having to defend,
in international
the very
democratic principles and practices
that most people
recognize as being essential in their own countries.
We cannot help asking:
is it not a cruel hoax to tell
they can have a voice in choosing a
our people that
Government and Government representatives but then to
construct elaborate processes that have the effect of denying
those Governments and those Government representatives
the opportunity to have an effect on the decision-making
6
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
Is it not
reasonable to expect
the normal
process?
fundamental
rules of participation in the democratic
processes within countries to be looked upon favourably with
respect to participation in the decision-making processes in
international forums?
Many ideas are brought to mind by the initiative of the
Foreign Minister of Papua New Guinea.
Like other
delegations, we have limited ourselves to commenting on a
minimum of those ideas. We view this proposal as another
important step in the global enfranchisement of those who
are not yet enfranchised to the fullest extent possible. The
ideas that may be generated by this proposal, with their
potential impact on peoples, communities and nations, are its
most appealing aspect.
Like other sponsors of the draft resolution, we continue
to be open-minded and receptive to the ideas of others.
Therefore, consultations with a number of
interested
delegations have continued, and some very positive
suggestions have been made and will be reflected in a
revised text.
It is to be hoped that the draft resolution will
be adopted by consensus and that all of us will have an
opportunity to participate
and
development of this very timely and well-intentioned idea.
in further
refinement
in order
The PRESIDENT: I should like to inform delegations
that,
to give the Advisory Committee on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Fifth
Committee an opportunity to review the programme budget
implications of draft resolution A/48/L.19, action on it is
postponed to a date to be announced.
AGENDA ITEM 40
THE
SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA:
PROCEDURES FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
FIRM AND LASTING PEACE AND PROGRESS IN
FASHIONING A REGION OF PEACE, FREEDOM,
DEMOCRACY AND DEVELOPMENT:
(a) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
(A/48/586)
(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/48/L.21)
The PRESIDENT: I call on Mr. Mario Carias Zapata,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Honduras, to introduce draft
resolution A/48/L.21.
Mr. CARIAS ZAPATA (Honduras) (interpretation from
I wish, on behalf of the countries of the Central
Spanish):
American isthmus, to say again how pleased we are that
you, Sir, are presiding at this General Assembly session, in
which each of us has promised you support and cooperation
as you discharge your delicate tasks.
At
its forty-seventh session,
the General Assembly
praised the Central American effort to achieve peace through
implementation of the "Procedures for the establishment of
a firm and lasting peace in Central America" and of the
agreements, adopted at summit meetings, that reaffirm the
decision of the Central American Presidents to declare
Central America a region of peace, freedom, democracy and
development.
Today, Central America is at one of the most important
stages in its recent history - that of the consolidation of
democracy. Evidence of this is the conclusion of the
international Treaty known as the Tegucigalpa Protocol of 13
December 1991, which created the Central American
Integration System (SICA).
That Protocol reflects the
political and legal regeneration of the region as a cohesive
exercise in integrated development to be undertaken through
machinery of regional coordination - machinery that has
been functioning since 1 February this year - with a view to
reinvigorating economic,
social, cultural and political
programmes, as well as programmes concerning the Central
American environment.
We therefore agree with the efforts of the United
Nations Secretary-General, who, since 1992, has been
striving to bring about coordination within the United
Nations and who, in his most recent memorandum, talks of
the need for an integrated approach to development, based
on the indivisible elements of peace, democracy and
development programmes.
Furthermore, we believe that
the establishment of
democratic regimes in our countries does not by itself
guarantee solution of
social, political and
economic problems that we, as countries and as a region,
confront.
requires
understanding and sustained support from the international
community.
Democracy in Central America
the major
The Secretary-General, in his report to the General
Assembly, says:
"Social disparities remain a source of tensions. With
regard to health care, housing,
education and
employment, the region’s indicators continue to be a
cause for concern. Across the region, extreme poverty
has been on the increase in recent years.
In addition,
new challenges have emerged, such as drug trafficking
and environmental degradation." (A/48/586, para. 7)
To trace and undertake a new course of development in
peace and democracy, our countries require, as a minimum,
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
7
a framework of stability that is in accordance with the
special features of each country. The common denominator
is the achievement of national consensus in respect of peace
and development. That is how the socio-economic problems
will be solved and the sustained human development
necessary to ensuring that resources reach the most needy
sectors of the population will be made possible.
security,
The Central American Governments, aware of their
historic responsibility to ensure that their peoples may enjoy
peace,
justice and social development, have
consistently striven, in all areas and at all levels, to achieve
the goals that were set in 1987. That is why in this forum,
we speak with a single voice, in a spirit of unity, and with
a single hope - that better standards of living may be
provided for our peoples.
The Central American Presidents met 14 times and
signed agreements of the greatest importance for Central
America. During those meetings they called for the support
and assistance of the international community. Its response
was not long in coming:
the participation of the United
Nations in the peace processes in El Salvador and Nicaragua,
and now in Guatemala, and its participation in programmes
of cooperation such as the Special Plan of Economic
Cooperation for Central America (PEC), has mobilized
important resources for the region as part of emergency
programmes, and immediate-action and social-and-economic
recovery programmes.
developed
through
The Programme for Displaced Persons, Refugees and
the United Nations
Returnees
Development
innovative
contribution in Central America by establishing procedures
which have mobilized various social sectors in the region to
work together to find solutions to common problems.
Programme
has made
an
Nevertheless, regardless of the efforts undertaken and
the resources invested in Central America, there remain
serious political, economic and social problems which could
nullify the gains made to date. In the present debate in the
Assembly, and throughout the general debate, representatives
of our countries at the very highest level have expressed
concern on the subject - and, because of its importance, I
consider it appropriate to remind members of this.
T h u s ,
o f
Mr. Alfredo Cristiani Burkard, stated:
P r e s i d e n t
t h e
E l
S a l v a d o r ,
An almost
spontaneous
"The rhythm of transformation occurs in a way that
cannot be resisted. We see this in the changing
international, political and economic relations of our
time.
restructuring has
followed the removal of so many straitjackets. And
this restructuring has brought to light what has always
been most important:
the real problems. As the East-
West conflict has disappeared, almost no one speaks
about the North-South conflict or alternative alignments,
but the serious problems of inequality, critical poverty
and dependence have not been resolved. They are still
with us. And they are a challenge for this new order
which we are trying to create on a more rational and
reasonable foundation."
the
General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Plenary
Meetings, 5th meeting, p. 3)
(Official Records of
Minister Bernd H. Niehaus Quesada of Costa Rica
reminded us:
"Those who were interested in a Central America full
of bloodshed and trenches do not want to deal with a
Central America of the poor, the Central America that
calls for cooperation for development, for understanding
of its human and economic tragedies." (Official Records
of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Plenary
Meetings, 23rd meeting, p. 9)
I should also like to remind members of the efforts of
the Government of Nicaragua to promote economic recovery
within the framework of and adjustment process that
includes economic growth and development - a process that
has been hampered by the violence that was a product of
war, by the needs of
thousands of displaced persons,
refugees and unemployed who must be integrated into the
country’s economic activities and by the effects of natural
disasters. The Government of Nicaragua has also made
important progress in bringing about broad social consensus
through national dialogue, the adoption of measures that will
lay the bases for reconstruction, and economic and social
development.
In fact the case of Nicaragua is special.
It has had to
It is overcoming the
go through a threefold transition.
aftermath of war; it is building democracy; and it is restoring
dynamism and strength to the economy in a society that is
still polarized. That makes it necessary to give Nicaragua
special treatment which will allow for flexibility in the
application of
so that,
without losing its sense of direction, it can obtain loans and
investments - on preferential terms - designed to provide
incentives to social investment and local production, and
structural-adjustment measures,
8
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
enable it to adapt to the pace of fiscal adjustment, the
reduction of import customs duties and the freeing up of the
financial system.
As part of
these efforts,
the Central American
Presidents met in Guatemala City from 27 to 29 October last
in their fourteenth summit. Their political Declaration
contained this statement:
"The democracy we have been building with such
great hope is beginning to reap the fruits of a peaceful
Central America - a Central America invigorated by a
new integrationist vision capable of changing the course
of history."
The Presidents also declared:
"... we have launched a bold and innovative integration
process that has given us regional
institutions and
forums that include presidential summits, the Central
American Parliament and the Central American Court
of Justice, all of which are expressions of the legal and
political framework established by the Tegucigalpa
Protocol."
In the operative part of the Declaration the Presidents
decided that they
"... will promote the establishment of a Central
American social investment fund under the auspices of
the Central American Integration Bank to fight poverty,
to promote social works, and to improve the people’s
standard of living by financing social development
programmes."
They also called on the international community to
support this initiative at the international conference for
peace and development in Central America which they hope
to convene in 1994.
The Presidents stated:
"Central America offers all the necessary conditions for
the independent implementation of a peace plan and an
agenda for development. Our efforts, together with
specific expressions of international solidarity, will
allow us to make our region a model for resolving
conflicts,
enhancing
democracy through comprehensive development."
consolidating
peace,
and
Following these guidelines laid down at the Summit,
yesterday the Central American countries, at the invitation of
the United Nations Development
the Administrator of
Programme (UNDP), attended a technical
international
meeting with the community of donor countries, specialized
agencies of the United Nations system, and other regional
organizations, with a view to relaunching and revitalizing
programmes and reviewing what has been achieved so far,
and seeking new initiatives in multilateral cooperation for the
region.
are
that
serious
difficulties
Central America, like other regions, has to face and
overcome
its
development. We are therefore striving to achieve
diversification of our production structures, in the quest for
new markets for our products and in order to attract the
necessary foreign-investment flows. As Mr. Arosemena, on
behalf of the late Mr. Julio E. Linares, the Foreign Minister
of Panama, reminded us in the Assembly:
curbing
"The Central American countries are striving to
build a peaceful,
free, democratic and developing
region. For that reason, the efforts to bolster peace that
have been initiated require actions capable of solving
our
and humanitarian
problems in order to strengthen our peoples’ faith in
democracy." (Official records of the General Assembly,
Forty-eighth Session, Plenary Meetings, 17th meeting,
p. 6)
economic,
cultural
social
Our region wishes to record its gratitude for the results
of the political dialogue and economic cooperation between
the European Union and its member States, the States of
Central America and Panama, and the Group of cooperating
countries - Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela - and also for
the initiative of the industrialized countries which, with us,
make up the forum known as the Partnership for Democracy
and Development in Central America.
We are also aware that the operations of the United
Nations that have been undertaken in the area, such as the
PEC and the International Conference on Central American
Refugees (CIREFCA) have yielded many results. But
CIREFCA still has to conclude its operational cycle in May
1994, and PEC may meet difficulties in obtaining financial
resources to complete its programmes, which will give it
new prospects and more time for international cooperation
for Central America.
That
is why, with a view to making a substantial
contribution to the process of transforming our region,
Central America is submitting for the General Assembly’s
consideration draft resolution A/48/L.21, which I have the
honour of introducing and in which we set forth new
concepts for this recovery and call for support for national
and regional actions that have been taken. We wish to
consolidate the principal achievements in the quest for peace,
national reconciliation and economic reconstruction and to
take up the challenges and problems to be solved with the
support of
the international community, which has an
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
9
irreplaceable role to play in Central America. We hope that
the Assembly will adopt this draft resolution without a vote.
In conclusion, I should like once again to thank the
Secretary-General for his work and the report which he has
presented to us on the situation in Central America and
which is contained in document A/48/586. We are
particularly grateful to those who made it possible for the
Special Plan of Economic Cooperation for Central America
to be a substantial contribution by our Organization and the
international community to Central America.
Much remains to be done, but we have faith and
confidence that our efforts and those of the international
community will enable us to work together for a better
future for the peoples of Central America.
Mr. NOTERDAEME (Belgium) (interpretation from
I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the
French):
European Union in this debate on the situation in Central
America, which has begun with the introduction of a draft
resolution of which we have become aware only today.
In
the circumstances, the European Union wishes to make it
clear that its statement in the debate will in no way prejudge
its position on the draft resolution.
Since the San José Declaration in 1984,
the peace
processes in Central America have enjoyed substantial
support from the European Union. For some years now,
they have also been closely followed by the General
Assembly.
the 1980s
in terms of democratization,
The overall situation in Central America has improved
since
the
consolidation of peace, and regional stability and integration.
Nevertheless,
the Esquipulas Agreements have been
implemented in different ways in different countries.
Implementation has given rise to tempered optimism or to
hope in certain cases; but other situations, where national
reconciliation and the consolidation of peace are still out of
reach, remain a matter of concern.
Far from discouraging us, the remaining difficulties
must strengthen the common determination of the peoples
and Governments of the region and of the international
community to persist in their efforts. I should like to pay a
tribute to the Governments and political leaders of Central
American countries that have exhibited the vision that is
indispensable if their peoples are to move forward on the
path of peace, development and democracy.
the decisive progress in the
Although still fragile,
the remarkable
is one of
Salvadorian peace process
achievements in which our Organization can take pride.
I
should like to congratulate the United Nations Observer
Mission in El Salvador (ONUSAL) and its personnel on the
positive results they have achieved so far in the restoration
of peace in El Salvador.
The European Union is determined to continue to play
its full role both within the framework of the political
dialogue with the Central American countries and in terms
of cooperation. We must nevertheless recall that the solution
to remaining conflicts must come from the Central
Americans themselves.
Armed conflict in El Salvador is now a thing of the
past. We must welcome this success for peace, which we
owe to the realism displayed by both parties and to the
efforts of the international community and, in particular, the
The European Union has
United Nations.
its
unswerving support
to the implementation of the Peace
Accords and continues to stress respect for all their parts.
We welcome the measures taken by the Government to
implement the recommendations of the Ad Hoc Commission
on the Purification of the Armed Forces, to reduce the size
of the army, and to demobilize the Frente Farabundo Martí
para la Liberación Nacional (FMLN) and transform it into a
political party.
lent
Despite such undeniable progress, recent developments
in El Salvador have aroused concern. As the beginning of
the electoral campaign approaches, the intensification of
political violence, noted in the latest report of the Human
Rights Division of ONUSAL, and the resurgence of illegal
armed groups, noted in the latest report of the Secretary-
General on the recommendations of the Commission on the
Truth, remind us of the continued fragility of the process for
the peaceful settlement of the Salvadorian crisis. On 28
October, the European Union expressed its concern at the
resurgence of political violence and asked President Cristiani
to see to it that those responsible for violence are caught and
brought to trial.
Recently, the Secretary-General stressed the importance
of making up for the delay that has occurred in the
implementation of the recommendations of the Commission
on the Truth. He also stressed the need to respect the Peace
Accords. In order to break the vicious circle of violence, he
called for the rapid establishment of the machinery for
investigating illegal armed groups, and the establishment of
the national Civil Police and the land-transfer programme.
the President of the
In his statement of 5 November,
Security Council
the
Secretary-General’s
recommendations.
supported
The European Union attaches particular importance to
the
implementation of
the
Commission on the Truth. The European Union, which has
contributed through substantial action to the reinsertion of
recommendations of
the
10
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
former combatants into the agricultural sphere, also wishes
to see the problems related to land distribution solved.
Similarly, the new national Civil Police must receive the
necessary resources to perform its task efficiently. The
European Union is now studying the matter of what
resources it can use to help the new Civil Police Academy.
Serious efforts are still required before the human rights
situation will be satisfactory. In particular, an end should be
put to ordinary violence that may conceal political motives.
Finally, all progress achieved must be confirmed by a
properly conducted electoral process. The elections next
March will be a decisive test of the peace process. The
impartiality of the bodies responsible for the proper conduct
of the elections, broad participation in the elections, and the
peaceful acceptance of the voters’ choice will be the criteria
for success. Following up the efforts it has already made in
regard to the preparations for the electoral process,
the
European Union is now actively considering an assistance
project aimed at contributing to the training of the personnel
responsible for
the elections.
ONUSAL, whose mandate has been expanded to include
observation of
a valuable
contribution to the electoral process.
the proper conduct of
the
elections, will make
Having condemned the suspension of constitutional
order in Guatemala,
the European Union welcomed its
peaceful restoration and expressed its support for President
de León Carpio.
We earnestly hope that the President of Guatemala will
succeed in consolidating democratic institutions and the
dominance of civilian authority. We note his proposal to
promote national dialogue and solve the most severe social
problems, but we are concerned that the proposal does not
yet enjoy the support of all segments of society and we call
on all parties concerned to show flexibility by permitting the
broadest possible participation in the political and social
process. We hope too that resumed peace negotiations will
rapidly end this,
in Central
America, and will bring about profound political and social
reforms.
the oldest, armed conflict
We welcome the fact that both the Government of
Guatemala
and the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional
Guatemalteca (URNG) have requested the Secretary-
General’s help in facilitating the resumption of dialogue. In
that connection, we support the efforts of the Secretary-
General to promote that dialogue. The European Union
reiterates the great
importance it attaches to significant
improvement in the human rights situation and, in particular,
in efforts to punish the guilty.
The European Union is pleased that Guatemala has
affirmed its recognition of Belize, and hopes that those two
countries will continue to improve their relations and settle
their territorial dispute once and for all.
Turning to Nicaragua, the European Union notes with
concern the deterioration of the situation in that country.
Despite the amnesty declared by the Government,
the
situation of demobilized personnel has not led to true peace.
We reiterate our firm support for President Chamorro’s
efforts to promote dialogue and national reconciliation and
to assure civilian control over the army. We call on all
political forces to respect their commitment not to turn to
political violence, to overcome their differences and to make
the necessary effort
to implement a plan for national
reconciliation placing the higher interests of the country
above political antagonisms. The support the European
Union has given for many years to the Central American
peace process and the significant assistance it provides to
Nicaragua in that framework entitle the Union to issue this
appeal - by which it intends no interference - to the political
groupings in Nicaragua. While the international community
is continuing its efforts to contribute to the process of
national reconciliation, the primary responsibility for this still
belongs to the Nicaraguans.
We hope the mediation efforts of the Central American
Presidents and the Organization of American States (OAS)
will make it possible very shortly to achieve a true national
agreement.
Another priority concern of the European Union with
respect to Central America is human rights. There can be
no lasting economic development or political stability
without human rights guarantees.
The efforts of the European Union in this sphere are
also reflected in its support for many practical projects
relating to democratization and human rights. We share the
gratification of our Central American partners at the fact that
the multi-year programme for the promotion of human
rights, solemnly launched at
the Lisbon conference in
February 1992 by the European Union and the countries of
Central America, has come up to speed. That programme
joins many other endeavours in support of democratization,
electoral processes in particular.
The European Union has continued its efforts for the
refugees and displaced or demobilized
to El Salvador and
reintegration of
persons, particularly with respect
Nicaragua, and for the return of Guatemalan refugees.
To support the fight of these countries against drug
the European Union has provided Central
trafficking,
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
11
American countries with trading facilities in the European
market.
The European Union reaffirms its determination to
cooperate with the Central American countries in their
efforts to protect the environment and restore ecological
balance.
The European Union also welcomes the resumption of
the integration process, marked by the implementation of the
Central American Integration System and the establishment
of the Central American parliament, which it supports.
We have noted with interest initiatives such as the
Caracas Commitment and the Caracas Statement issued by
the Central American countries and the Group of Three to
promote cooperation and trade.
The implementation of the San Salvador Agreement
between the European Union and Central America, signed at
the ninth San José ministerial meeting, held in El Salvador
in February 1993, marks a new stage in relations between
the two regions and opens the way for continued and
intensified Community cooperation. I would recall that the
European Union is the largest provider of assistance to the
region.
Next year we mark the tenth anniversary of our
dialogue with Central America, a dialogue through which we
have striven to support the peace processes, both politically
and in terms of cooperation. The progress is encouraging,
but
from us and from the international
community at large remains indispensable. The European
Union vigorously reaffirms its commitment
to promote
peace, democracy and development in Central America.
firm support
Mr. HATANO (Japan): The Central American peace
process has made remarkable progress in the past six years,
since the Esquipulas Agreements were concluded. The
peoples of El Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua have
demonstrated an unshakeable determination to overcome
decades of violence, repression and deprivation. Their
progress towards reconciliation and reconstruction, bolstered
by the initiatives of like-minded countries, has demonstrated
that peace-keeping and peacemaking efforts may be
effectively combined.
Indeed, I believe the experience in
Central America can serve as a model for similar endeavours
in other regions.
Decades of conflict and mistrust cannot be forgotten
overnight, and numerous obstacles remain on the path to
lasting peace. Japan has various concerns about the situation
in the region, and I would like to touch on them very
briefly.
First, in El Salvador, the signing of the Chapultepec
Agreement by the Government and the Farabundo Martí
National Liberation Front (FMLN) in January of last year
formally ended the armed conflict and marked a turning-
point for both the country and the region.
Japan warmly
applauded the good-faith efforts made by both sides in the
negotiating process. Recently, however, violence has once
again erupted in El Salvador, prompting the Security Council
to call for a thorough and prompt
investigation and to
reaffirm the
the
timely
implementation of all the provisions of the peace agreement.
Japan remains concerned about delays in implementing the
agreement, but recognizes that the development of mutual
trust will require time, patience and much wisdom. Japan
trusts that both sides will recognize the need to adhere to a
definite timetable, and that
they will overcome their
remaining difficulties in a peaceful manner.
importance
and
full
of
Japan regards the forthcoming election in El Salvador
as the culmination of the entire peace process, and hopes
that the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador
(ONUSAL), which is playing a key role in that process, will
ensure the credibility of that election. This is essential to the
establishment of lasting peace and stability.
I
turn now to Guatemala.
Japan welcomed the
inauguration of Mr. Ramiro de León Carpio as that country’s
new President, democratically elected following the partial
suspension of the Constitution by the former President last
May. We hope the negotiations between the Government
and the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Union will be
resumed promptly so as to strengthen the stability of the
country.
With regard to Nicaragua, Japan has welcomed the
efforts made by President Chamorro towards political
reconciliation, even as she has had to cope with the
difficulties of presiding over a divided Congress. Recalling
the crisis that occurred last August, Japan hopes that all
political and social divisions within Nicaragua will be
overcome through negotiations - for example, through the
national
the Nicaraguan
Government, the FSLN and the UNO - and that further
progress will be made in the democratization efforts,
including civilian control of the armed forces.
Japan
outlined its concerns about the situation in Nicaragua more
fully in its statement on agenda item 45, "International
assistance for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
Nicaragua", at the current session.
dialogue
tripartite
between
Although genuine progress has been made in the
establishment of peace and stability throughout Central
America, serious difficulties still remain. But, rather than
allowing ourselves
to become discouraged by these
difficulties, we should be challenged to resolve them by
12
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
combining peace-keeping and peace-building efforts in new
and creative ways.
as well as those of economic reconstruction and recovery,
which are closely linked to them.
In this context, Japan is extending various kinds of
medium- and long-term cooperation, including yen loans,
general grant aid and technical cooperation, to the countries
in the region. In addition, it provides emergency assistance
to the people of Central America at
times of natural
disasters. We hope that this development and humanitarian
assistance will also help to advance the peace process and
ensure that it is irreversible.
In addition to bilateral
assistance,
intra-regional
cooperation is also important.
Japan has been actively
participating in various activities of the Partnership for
Democracy and Development in Central America ever since
it was established. Japan also serves as Co-Chairman of the
Working Group on Economic Development, and presided
over the Central American ministerial meeting last March in
Tokyo. The success of the meeting was reflective of the
progress that has been made in the peace process throughout
the region.
Japan will continue to support, in these and
other forums,
the initiatives of the nations of Central
America.
In closing, I would like to note that the Secretary-
General, who has played an important role in restoring peace
and stability to Central America, deserves our admiration
and strengthened support. I wish to emphasize that both the
General Assembly and the Security Council should follow
the situation in Central America very closely, with a view to
applying the concept of peace-building in its most innovative
sense. We hope that our experience in the region will spur
further United Nations efforts to pursue peace-keeping,
peacemaking and peace-building in other parts of the world.
Japan is among the many nations that vigorously support this
expansion of the United Nations role on behalf of world
peace.
(interpretation
Mr. BIVERO (Venezuela)
ties of friendship and solidarity with all
from
Spanish): Venezuela attaches particular importance to the
item on the situation in Central America, because of its
traditional
the
countries of
its permanent
commitment to seeking solutions to the serious political,
economic and social difficulties that those countries have had
to face,
to the serious detriment of their development
processes.
the area, and because of
Today, as the Secretary-General stresses, the region is
firmly committed to a process of consolidating peace, which
generally has reached a level of significant stability. The
international community has been involved in this progress,
supporting the processes of national peace and reconciliation
Venezuela, both individually and together with other
countries with particular links to, and interests in, the region,
will continue to support these processes, politically as well
as economically. We have always been careful to respect
the will of the Central American countries themselves, being
convinced that the consolidation of peace and the promotion
of development in the region will be more stable and long-
lasting the more they respond to the convictions of those
countries. This is an appropriate occasion to express our
gratitude and admiration for the constant efforts of the
Central American countries to identify and promote their
own priorities in an exercise of affirmation that deserves the
support of the entire international community.
Venezuela recognizes the particular characteristics of
each national political policy process in Central America as
well as the obstacles facing them. We will continue to be as
objective as possible, with continuing support
the
Secretary-General’s good offices and for the will of the
parties that have placed their trust in them. We are pleased
with the progress described in the Secretary-General’s report
in this regard, and we note its assessments of the stage
reached in each of these political processes of peace and
national reconciliation. Venezuela will continue to work
with them, as a friendly country, in the search for and the
promotion of progress.
for
In the area of economic cooperation, as the Secretary-
General’s report also indicates, Venezuela has endeavoured
to contribute to the reactivation of the Central American
economies and the strengthening of ties of interdependence.
It has done so both individually and with other countries of
the area, in particular Colombia and Mexico, with which it
forms the Group of Three.
I should like in this respect to highlight the signing on
12 February 1993, the signing of the Caracas Commitment,
which established a new framework for cooperation between
the Group of Three and the Central American region, as well
as the Caracas Statement which renews the Group’s
commitment to create a free trade zone.
in the first
Yesterday we took part
international
technical meeting on Central America. Here I should
mention that Venezuela supports the Central American
countries’ initiative - they were represented in the technical
meeting at ministerial level - to begin working towards an
international conference for peace and development
in
Central America that would enable them to consolidate the
progress in these areas that has been achieved so far, and to
lay down sound foundations for multilateral cooperation in
future.
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
13
constructive
In conclusion, I wish to offer our wholehearted support
for the conclusions of the Secretary-General’s report, which
says that Central America has emerged from the difficult
decade of the 1980s with a dynamic institutional framework,
a comprehensive social and economic agenda and an active
and
international
community, which will undoubtedly make it possible for
Central America to continue to rely on international
solidarity and to make use of it for the benefit of its
peoples. Venezuela supports the United Nations continuing
interest in, and support for, this process. We are sure that
the General Assembly will ratify its collective commitment
to peace, democracy and development in Central America.
partnership with
the
Mr. OSVALD (Sweden): Over the last few years
developments in Central America have been, by and large,
very encouraging. The wind of democracy has swept away
authoritarian regimes. Almost everywhere, war and conflict
have given way to peace and reconciliation. There are now
genuine prospects for dealing constructively with the
economic and social injustices that have always been the
roots of the conflicts in the region.
Since the outset, Sweden has actively supported the
peace process in Central America. We shall continue to do
so.
The objective of our political and economic endeavours
in the region has always been to contribute to the promotion
of peace, reconciliation, democracy and respect for human
rights.
In addition, Sweden supports economic reforms
aiming at growth, increased trade and investment and a more
equitable distribution of income favouring the poorest groups
of the population, in so far as these objectives are part of the
development efforts of the Central American countries and
their commitments towards human rights and environmental
protection.
for
has
had
Sweden
programmes
development
cooperation in Central America for more than 10 years. On
average, our yearly contribution to the
region for
development projects and humanitarian assistance has been
$115 million.
This includes assistance under bilateral
agreements, through the United Nations, or through regional
as well as non-governmental organizations.
Sweden strongly supports
integration efforts in Central America.
cooperation is,
democracy in the region.
in our view, crucial
the ongoing regional
Such regional
for stability and
the United Nations High
efforts by the Office of
Commissioner
for Refugees and the United Nations
Development Programme to find a modality for giving
continuation to the major aspects of the CIREFCA process
after its conclusion in April 1994.
Sweden wholeheartedly supports the United Nations
activities in Central America. As the peace process
continues, we hope that these efforts can be expanded. The
importance of the international community’s political and
economic
be
overestimated.
for Central America
support
cannot
The progress made in the peace process in El Salvador
is promising. The parties themselves and the United Nations
through the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador
(ONUSAL), have been the main contributors to this positive
development. We consider it essential that ONUSAL should
be able to continue its task and to support the peace process
until
situation in El Salvador has been firmly
consolidated. The will for peace and the courage and the
willingness of the parties to compromise have made it
possible to find solutions to many difficult and sensitive
problems.
the
Sweden notes with satisfaction that many of
the
recommendations of the Commission on the Truth have now
been implemented. We share the view of the Secretary-
General that the remaining recommendations especially those
concerning reform of the judicial system, investigation of the
activities of illegal groups and the ban on holding public
office placed on individuals mentioned in the Commission’s
report - should be implemented before the start of the
election campaign. The time between now and the elections
in March next year will be of crucial importance. One of
the main tasks must be to speed up voter registration and
make it as comprehensive as possible. This is necessary to
ensure the credibility of the election process.
Furthermore,
the peace agreements must be fully
implemented in order to promote a favourable political
atmosphere. We are therefore concerned about the delays
with regard to the creation of the new civilian police, the
reintegration of former soldiers and ex-FMLN combatants
into civilian society, and the redistribution of land.
Recent acts of violence, notably the assassination of
FMLN leaders, is another cause of grave concern to Sweden.
We expect these acts to be promptly investigated and the
guilty brought to justice.
The International Conference on Central American
Refugees (CIREFCA) process is a good example of what
can be achieved through internationally supported regional
cooperation. We support and are carefully monitoring joint
It
is of great
importance that
the international
community should contribute by all means available to the
realization of free and fair elections in El Salvador. Sweden
has already stated its willingness to engage in the process by
14
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
providing personnel, both in the preparatory phase of the
elections and as election observers. In addition, Sweden has
decided to allocate $7.5 million yearly over a period of three
years, in part for the election process and in part for the
successful installation of a new national civilian police force.
Sweden salutes the victory of the democratic and
civilian forces in Guatemala earlier this year. We have
strong reasons to hope that President Ramiro de León Carpio
will continue the democratization and will vigorously
promote respect for human rights. The early resumption of
the peace negotiations between the Government of
Guatemala and the URNG would make a crucial contribution
to
national
reconciliation. President Ramiro de León Carpio has taken
steps to help reactivate the negotiations.
consolidation
democracy
and
the
of
In Sweden’s view, an increased role for the United
Nations in the negotiations in Guatemala may be of benefit
to the peace process in Guatemala as a whole. We welcome
the fact that both the Government and the URNG have
expressed interest in a United Nations involvement.
Sweden will continue to follow the peace process in
Guatemala closely. We are prepared to contribute to the
process, provided the parties agree that
this would be
constructive.
We are still concerned about the human rights situation
in Guatemala. A breakthrough in the peace negotiations is,
in our view, likely to have a positive impact in this field. A
separate, internationally verified agreement between the two
parties on human rights issues would enhance the prospects
for peace. Sweden provides assistance to Guatemala in areas
such as human rights, and we are prepared to make
additional efforts in this regard.
by
ago
the Guatemalan Government
The agreement regarding repatriation of refugees, signed
a
year
and
representatives of the Guatemalan refugees, is unique and
merits respect from all parties involved. It is important that
this agreement be carried out as stipulated. Sweden will
continue to monitor and support the implementation of the
agreement, and we are encouraged by the recent reports in
this regard.
The path towards mutual understanding and national
reconciliation chosen by the Government of Nicaragua has
our full support. However,
the political basis for this
endeavour must be broadened.
cooperation, amounting to $35 million during the current
fiscal year, is a recognition of this fact.
Our objectives are firm. One aim of our assistance is
towards national
to support Nicaragua’s own efforts
reconciliation and a strengthening of democracy. Another is
to promote the Nicaraguan programmes for economic
stabilization and growth. Only through a consistent donor
policy will we be able to maintain confidence in our
programme for development cooperation with Nicaragua.
However, when required, we have made the necessary
modifications to our policy, and we urge other donor
countries to show flexibility.
Sweden is of the view that the acute crisis in Nicaragua
is basically political in nature. A national consensus must be
reached on a number of fundamental political issues in order
to create the conditions for a comprehensive approach to
Nicaragua’s problems, economic as well as political.
The national dialogue has to continue and must lead to
in particular on questions of
a concrete agreement,
ownership and access to land, reform of the judicial system
and transformation of the army and the police.
The parties in Nicaragua have a joint responsibility for
setting their country on a stable political and economic track.
This would be the best way to attract foreign cooperation.
We have previously stated that Sweden is prepared to
take part,
together with the United Nations and other
members of the international community, in international
efforts to contribute to the finding of solutions to the serious
political
hampering Nicaragua’s
development. This is, of course, subject to the existence of
broad support among the parties in Nicaragua for such an
endeavour.
problems
that
are
there are reasons
In spite of all the difficult issues that remain to be
solved,
for optimism as concerns
developments in Central America. Fortunately, the internal
and regional problems that we see today can be approached
on their own terms now that our vision is no longer clouded
by the perceptions of the cold-war era.
Peace, reconciliation, democracy, justice, respect for
human rights and economic development are at the top of
the agenda. It is not only the duty but also in the interest of
the international community to give its full support to the
achievement of these goals in Central America.
Sweden is aware of the difficult economic problems
that the Nicaraguan leadership is confronting today. The
continuation of Sweden’s programme for development
The PRESIDENT: I should like to propose, if there is
no objection, that the list of speakers in the debate on this
item be now closed.
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
15
It was so decided.
Mr. SOMAVIA (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
The report of the Secretary-General on the item before us
today, "The situation in Central America: procedures for the
establishment of a firm and lasting peace and progress in
fashioning a region of peace, freedom, democracy and
development" (A/48/586), points out in paragraph 2 that, for
a decade now, the United Nations has been assisting the
peace process in Central America.
The report then goes on to remind us that the General
Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretariat itself
have participated actively in that process, the success of
which, according to the Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean, led to a significant economic
reactivation in 1992, owing to a great extent to internal
demand. The report adds:
"The transition from confrontation to consensus in
intergovernmental relations has generated increased
cooperation on a large number of issues.
It has
rekindled the thrust towards regional integration, with
concrete results particularly in the area of trade."
(A/48/586, para. 5)
The report states also:
"The economic gains mentioned above must be
consolidated against a background of world recession,
decline in the price of traditional exports and growing
difficulties for some export products to enter foreign
markets." (A/48/586, para. 7)
On the other hand, the analysis before us recalls, too,
"... many of the structural causes of the acute crisis
suffered in the 1980s are still present. Social disparities
remain a source of tensions. With regard to health
care, housing, education and employment, the region’s
indicators continue to be a cause for concern. Across
the region, extreme poverty has been on the increase in
recent years.
In addition, new challenges have
emerged, such as drug trafficking and environmental
degradation." (A/48/586, para. 7)
The report also notes:
that:
"In that context, Central American Governments
have continued to stress the interrelationship between
the
and
freedom,
development." (A/48/586, para. 9)
democracy
goals
of
peace,
For Chile, the action that has been carried out in recent
years by the Central American nations is truly exemplary.
It serves as an example of the ability to innovate in the face
of difficulties that had appeared insurmountable; an example
of how to develop new concepts of security; an example of
how to shoulder one’s own problems with imagination,
courage and resoluteness; and an example, too, of how
peoples have been able to defend their political and human
rights.
The Central American countries have been true leaders
in the area of agreements for peace and political cooperation,
and we should recognize that their attainments are no less
important than the achievements in the Middle East and in
South Africa. But these achievements require consolidation.
The situation is not easy and stability is still fragile, hence
the need for continued use of United Nations machinery at
this new stage in the quest for a strengthening of peace,
freedom, democracy and development - four terms that are
synonymous with what Central America sees as its own
destiny today. In this process, particular importance should
be attached, in our view, to the players and institutions of
civil society.
Another aspect of great importance to us is the fact that
Central America has continued to believe in the United
Nations, even at a time when - at the beginning of the 10
years of United Nations presence in the area, in a strictly
political sense - the Organization was under scrutiny because
of its apparent lack of effectiveness. With the determination
of the usefulness of international action channeled through
the United Nations,
the validity and force of our
Organization were demonstrated also. But demonstration of
this validity should continue above and beyond peace-
keeping operations, because - as we have so often reiterated
in this forum when these topics are discussed at the United
Nations - there can be no peace without development, just as
there can be no development without peace.
Central America is an example that cannot be cast
It cannot be ignored, because the best examples
aside.
cannot be cast aside.
It is precisely because there are
difficulties, obstacles and complexities - which have even
required decisions by various United Nations bodies - that
support must be reinforced. For this reason, the convening
of a conference on peace and development
in Central
America is of great importance. Both this conference and
the draft resolution (A/48/L.21), before us deserve our full
support.
This Monday, there began, in Puntarenas, Costa Rica,
a Latin American meeting dealing with the social aspects of
regional cooperation.
Various bodies entrusted with
programmes relating to development and social investments
are meeting there, with the objective of strengthening a
16
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
continent-wide network for the exchange of experiences on
these topics. Chile is participating in that exercise in the
same spirit as that in which it is making this statement: with
a deep commitment
to working together within Latin
America and the Caribbean, and with the objective of
keeping alive the duty of international solidarity, of which
Central America has shown itself to be deserving.
My country has been developing, in so far as its means
permit, a programme of cooperation with Central America.
In addition to our present participation in the United Nations
Observer Mission in El Salvador, we have since 1990 been
carrying out various projects within the framework of a
rapprochement with an area to which Chile attaches
particular importance - not only because of historical ties but
because, for us, this is not a case of solidarity with the
problems of others. Rather, it is an opportunity for support,
backing and commitment in a situation that is ours as well.
Consistent with our sense of integration with Latin
America and the Caribbean, we accept wholly and
permanently the realities of the region. Last week in San
Pedro Sula, Honduras, Chile and the countries of Central
America made a first general evaluation of this endeavour,
with very encouraging results.
But, above and beyond our individual contribution,
which, as I have mentioned,
is necessarily limited, we
believe that the countries of the developed world and the
multilateral bodies must maintain their interest in Central
America, despite the internal problems the cooperating
countries are experiencing. We are aware that "development
fatigue" is coming to be felt in certain parts of the developed
world, but we believe that it is possible to optimize the use
of
resources and carry out efforts to achieve greater
efficiency. None the less, the most important thing is to
understand that the Governments and the civil societies of
the Central American countries cannot do everything on their
own. They have already made great sacrifices, and they
deserve an
integrated response from the international
community. That is the political meaning of what we are
discussing here today in the General Assembly.
In that spirit, the Rio Group, at its meeting in Santiago,
Chile, some weeks ago lent support to a particular situation -
that of Nicaragua - in order to deal with the problems that
country is facing at this juncture.
I should like to conclude by pointing out
the
prospects for Central America to become definitively a zone
of peace, freedom, democracy and development are very
good. Let us not allow this opportunity to slip through our
fingers.
that
Mr. CÁRDENAS (Argentina)
(interpretation from
Spanish): My delegation is pleased to participate in this
debate on the situation in Central America, to which we
attach special importance. We have carefully analysed the
report (A/48/586) of the Secretary-General, and we share
many of its affirmations and conclusions.
The situation in the Central American region is, of
course, no exception to the global trends emerging since the
end of the cold war or to the concrete manifestations we
have seen in the world in the course of efforts to attain the
goals of peace, freedom, democracy and development. The
quest for these interrelated goals will contribute to the
consolidation of well-being and stability in the region.
The international community must be aware that the
Central American region is emerging from a difficult period
of
internal conflicts and is entering a new stage of
reconstruction and economic development.
institutional
However,
the advancement of this process requires the
solidarity and cooperation of all other countries, which can
guide the process while taking into account, inter alia, the
following urgent matters:
the need for bilateral and
multilateral financial support able to stimulate investment
and,
reduction, partial
forgiveness and/or conversion of external debt; and the need
to prevent the continued suffering of some countries of the
region because of the adverse consequences of protectionist
commercial policies, especially those that, with devastating
results, affect their traditional agricultural exports, hampering
exports and disturbing the commercial flows of commodities.
We are referring, of course, to the same policies that the
Cairns Group has been denouncing during the lengthy
Uruguay Round of negotiations.
in consequence, growth;
the
In the context of assistance for sustainable development,
we cannot ignore the fundamental importance of providing
suitable international cooperation in the processes of
democratic consolidation and of continuously pouring in the
economic and technical assistance indispensable to facing
and surmounting the trying sequels of violent conflicts.
International responsibility does not stop, of course, at
settling crises of war, but must be shouldered, in peacetime,
through the institutional, economic, social and cultural
reconstruction of the countries involved.
My country is clearly committed to this philosophy, as
it has shown in concrete fashion in peace processes; in such
recent initiatives as the signing of conventions for technical
cooperation in the fields of human resources, agriculture,
forest management, fishing, energy and, in particular, the
renegotiation of external public debt; and through its military
and civilian participation in the peace-keeping operations of
the region. We have also made, and continue to make,
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
17
concrete contributions
elections and related matters.
in human rights, assistance in
In this spirit we reaffirm our commitment to the Central
American region, whose peoples share such close bonds of
fraternity with our own.
Mrs. JAGAN (Guyana):
It is with a deep sense of
satisfaction that I take the opportunity to speak on agenda
item 40 - "The situation in Central America: procedures for
the establishment of a firm and lasting peace and progress in
fashioning a region of peace, freedom, democracy and
development".
I say this because it was but one short year ago that we
in Guyana, after a period in which there were four rigged
elections, experienced the return of participatory democracy,
through the free expression of the will of the electorate. The
result of this was a change of government after 28 years.
Democracy has been an ideal which the people of Guyana
and, no doubt, most people the world over cherish dearly.
It is therefore our sincere hope that the opportunity afforded
to the Guyana electorate for free and fair elections can be
afforded in other countries where people are still clamouring
for the right to self-determination and the right of a free
expression of choice in regular, transparent polls. Peace,
freedom, democracy and development are ideals cherished
by all right-thinking men and women of the world.
The quest
for democracy in Central America is
qualitatively no different from that in other regions. We
have in recent years witnessed the organization and conduct
of elections in countries such as Nicaragua and El Salvador.
These elections have been preceded by an elaborate plan of
voter education, voter registration and other measures taken
for the institutional strengthening of the whole democratic
process. The role of the United Nations in this preparatory
process must be highly commended.
Its observer missions
to monitor the actual conduct of the balloting and the
counting of the ballots have provided the additional element
of international supervision, thereby further strengthening the
expression of the will of the people.
that
It remains the case, however,
the institutional
strengthening of the electoral process and the holding of
democratic elections are not ends in and of themselves, but,
rather, the underpinnings of a climate of confidence in which
the electorate can exist. We have seen, therefore, that there
is still work to be done, both domestically and through
international and regional organizations.
One way to promote peace, freedom, democracy and
development
in Central America is the United Nations
Observer Mission in El Salvador (ONUSAL). This Mission
has served to create the objective conditions for enhancing
the prospects of economic and social development in that
It has played a pivotal role in organizing and
country.
reinvigorating institutional mechanisms for
the orderly
conduct of the State’s internal affairs.
Thus the civil
administrative structure - the police, the judiciary, the court
system - have all been addressed in the interest of the
preservation of democracy. The Government of Guyana was
pleased to be in a position to offer a small contingent of
members of its police force to perform the role of Civilian
Police Monitors in El Salvador’s transition process.
The international community must be vigilant against
any attempt, as evidenced by recent events in that country,
to frustrate consolidation of democracy.
I hasten to add that it would be unfortunate if we were
to discuss the concepts of peace, freedom, democracy and
development
in Central America while confining our
comments to a single State. Peace and stability have a
regional connotation as well as on international one. Indeed,
in the past situations of internal political unrest and violence
have not gone unnoticed by the international community
because of their potential threat to international tranquility.
We should therefore applaud the efforts to return El
Salvador to the fold of democratic Central American States,
while recognizing that more needs to be done internally and
that
the precedents set by countries like Nicaragua are
exemplary.
The Guyana delegation believes that
the return to
acceptable minimum standards of protection of human rights
is essential to the return of peace and stability in Central
America. Access to the courts, the right to a fair trial and
recourse to the remedies of habeas corpus and amparo are
paramount. Moreover, the establishment of measures for the
promotion and protection of civil, political, economic, social
and cultural rights is the sine qua non for the establishment
of a region of peace, freedom, democracy and development.
The international community, and developing countries
in particular, have agonized for years over the question of
whether democracy should of necessity precede development
or whether development should be sustained while the
democratic traditions of a State are either held in abeyance
or otherwise lag behind comparative global norms. This
debate was in a sense circular, since the institution of
democracy is a political concern while development is more
of an economic concern. But in reality the two concepts are
inextricably intertwined:
in statistical
indicators such as gross domestic product (GDP), in the
absence of political and social conditions which allow people
to improve the quality of their lives in a holistic sense, is
short-lived if not counter-productive. The overwhelming
body of opinion now is that democracy and development
enjoy a symbiotic relationship and that quality of life
an improvement
18
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
indicators can no longer solely be economic statistics but
must also reflect the fundamental rights and freedoms of the
electorate.
While taking note of the qualitative improvement of
democratic traditions not only in El Salvador, through the
work inter alia of ONUSAL, but also in Central America as
a whole, we must ensure that respect for human rights is
complementary to economic and social development in order
to achieve lasting and stable peace within the region. We in
Guyana cherish these ideals, and we therefore pledge our
support
in the overall aim of
maintaining international peace and security. Consequently,
the Guyana delegation will
resolution
A/48/L.21.
their promotion,
for
support draft
Mr. TELLO (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
The Government of Mexico has been closely following
developments in Central America. Although the period of
conflicts and confrontations seems finally to be behind us,
we must recognize that progress has been uneven. Important
progress has been made in adopting measures for dialogue
and reconciliation. We can also note a strengthening of the
institutional and democratic structures and a more dynamic
evolution of the subregional process of harmonization and
cooperation.
At the same time, new uncertainties and contradictions
have arisen. New challenges to the definitive consolidation
of peace, reconciliation and development have been added to
old but persistent problems. Today more than ever it is vital
that we redouble our efforts to realize the hope of the
Presidents of the Central American countries that the region
become one of peace, freedom, democracy and development.
The consolidation of a stable and lasting peace can be
achieved only if there is progress in economic and social
development.
Peace and development are indissolubly
linked.
institutional and democratic
progress must be accompanied by the capacity to raise the
standards and quality of life of the region’s inhabitants.
Hence, political,
I should now like to discuss the efforts made by the
Government and the society of El Salvador to carry out the
Peace Agreements. Various aspects of the process formally
initiated on 16 January 1992 have been implemented
satisfactorily, while in other areas problems and delays
remain. We encourage the parties to continue working,
through dialogue, towards fulfilling all the commitments.
We cannot but express our deep concern at
the
unfortunate acts of violence recently observed in El
Salvador; they bring new uncertainties to the peace process.
The violence must be stopped and the facts relating to it
fully brought to light.
We appeal
to Salvadorian society to establish the
conditions for carrying out the electoral process successfully.
This would be the beginning of a new stage in the history of
El Salvador. Hence, we are pleased at the signing, on
5 November of this year, of the "Commitment of Six
Presidential Candidates
to Peace and Stability in El
Salvador".
The holding of elections
in March 1994, under
ONUSAL supervision, will be a decisive step in the process
of consolidating peace. However, we must bear in mind that
national reconciliation will not be automatic. All sectors of
Salvadorian society will have to work daily and continually
to consolidate the peace process and to take firm steps
towards promoting economic development.
We should like to make special mention of ONUSAL,
a key operation in resolving the Salvadorian conflict and
implementing the Peace Agreements. We wish to express
great appreciation for the difficult, painstaking work carried
out by this Mission, which has carried out with dedication
and efficiency the task entrusted to it by the Organization.
With respect to Guatemala, we note with satisfaction
the restoration of constitutional order there after the events
of last May. The process of dialogue should be begun again
as quickly as possible, and the negotiations should take fully
into account the progress achieved before the interruption of
the process.
The people of Nicaragua continue to face the enormous
challenge of national reconciliation. We are pleased with the
agreement achieved on 21 August between the Government
of Nicaragua,
the National Opposition Union and the
Sandinista National Liberation Front, pledging the removal
of all
the obstacles to the achievement of institutional,
economic and social normalization.
We wish to stress once again the importance of
international cooperation with Central America.
The
international community should continue to support the effort
of the Central American countries to make progress towards
peace and economic and social development.
Just as there was no major problem in finding financing
during the years of armed conflict, the community of nations
should now respond, more generously still, to the challenge
of strengthening peace in this region.
Mr. SIDOROV (Russian Federation) (interpretation
The Russian Federation notes with
from Russian):
satisfaction that the positive trends in the Central American
region in the settlement of conflicts and crises and the
elimination of tension are gathering momentum.
is
the policy of national conciliation through
obvious that
It
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
19
and negotiation designed to halt violence,
dialogue
strengthen trust and cooperation, ensure respect for human
rights, consolidate democratic institutions and create a civil
society is yielding appreciable results.
As has been quite rightly pointed out in the report of
the Secretary-General on the situation in Central America:
"The end of the cold war and the end of the armed
conflicts which afflicted El Salvador and Nicaragua and
affected the region as a whole during the 1980s have
generated better prospects for the achievement of the
goals
reconciliation,
development and justice ..." (A/48/586, para. 4).
democratization,
peace,
of
The settlement in El Salvador has now entered the
delicate phase of preparations for elections, which are
designed to be the culmination of the peace process. In this
context, we share the profound concern expressed in the
letter dated 3 November 1993 from the Secretary-General
addressed to the President of the Security Council (S/26689),
concerning the situation regarding human rights in El
Salvador and, in particular, politically motivated murders and
delays in the creation of a national civil police force and in
the implementation of the voter registration process. In the
presidential statement dated 5 November 1993 (S/26695), the
Security Council underlined the importance of full and
timely implementation of all the provisions of the Peace
Accords. The Council expressed concern about delays in the
resolution of a number of problems, particularly the phasing
out of the National Police force and the full deployment of
the
the National Civil Police,
the implementation of
recommendations of the Commission on the Truth,
the
transfer of land and the carrying out of other reintegration
programmes, which are essential for the development of a
solid framework and a new climate for the respect of human
rights in El Salvador.
the
between
agreements
While welcoming
the
Government of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Martí
para la Liberación Nacional
(FMLN) with regard to
acceleration of the implementation of the Peace Accords, we
would stress that the parties must do their utmost to ensure
the irreversibility of democratic reforms based on respect for
human rights and the social and economic rebirth of the
country with the active support of
the international
community.
This task of consolidating peace on the basis of
democracy and social and economic reforms is entirely in
keeping with the goals of the Central American process
itself.
Russia intends to continue to extend the necessary
support to the work of the Secretary-General and of his
representatives, the United Nations Observer Mission in El
Salvador, and is ready to cooperate constructively with the
Government of El Salvador, the FMLN and all interested
countries in the interests of promoting peace and prosperity
in that country.
It
improvement
is our hope that an overall
in the
situation in the Central American region will have a positive
effect on the situation in Guatemala. The fact that the
efforts of the Guatemalan leadership have been stalled for so
long now - efforts designed to bring about a normalization
of the situation in the country - gives ground for concern to
us and to the whole international community.
The
continuation of the smouldering civil war in that country
could in certain circumstances carry with it the danger of
destabilization, not only for Guatemala, but for the whole
region.
influential circles
We would also hope that
in
Guatemalan society will demonstrate maximum flexibility
and readiness to search for mutually acceptable solutions and
reasonable compromises. However, we would stress that,
given the motivation and the political will on the part of the
Guatemalans themselves, a considerable contribution to the
creation of favourable conditions for successful negotiations
could be provided by a more active tapping of the potential
of the United Nations and the Organization of American
States, as well as of the accumulated wealth of experience in
overcoming crisis situations in the region. We support the
efforts of the Secretary-General in this area.
We note the importance of consistent implementation of
decisions of the Central American countries to convert
Central America into a region of peace, freedom, democracy
and development. The Russian Federation, as a permanent
member of the Security Council and a permanent observer
at the Organization of American States, is ready to continue
cooperating constructively with the States of the region, both
bilaterally and multilaterally,
to promote a
successful resolution of the problems they face as well as the
total normalization of the situation in the region.
in order
its
for
full
support
Canada reaffirms
Mrs. FRECHETTE (Canada)
(interpretation from
French):
the
establishment of a firm and lasting peace in Central America
based on freedom, democracy and development.
The
regional peace process demonstrates the determination of
Central Americans, with the assistance of the international
community, to resolve the problems afflicting their region.
Canada congratulates the Governments of
the Central
American States, the United Nations and those Member
States whose efforts have brought about a negotiated
settlement of
the civil conflicts in Nicaragua and El
Salvador, and whose efforts are aimed at finding peaceful
solutions to the ongoing civil conflict in Guatemala.
20
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
Canada welcomes the advances made in Central
America with a view to settling the political, social and
economic problems facing the region. We are optimistic that
the Central American Governments’ efforts to work together
to face these challenges, and in particular their commitment
to regional integration, will consolidate the progress already
made towards establishing peace in the region.
Increasing
communication, understanding and cooperation between the
Central American States are keys to strengthening the peace
process.
In this regard we note the summit meeting of the
Central American Presidents held at Guatemala City from 27
to 29 October.
In El Salvador considerable progress has been made in
implementing the Peace Accords signed in 1992.
In this
regard we salute the efforts of all the parties in carrying out
the Accords. We should also like to pay a tribute to the
important role the United Nations,
through the United
Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador (ONUSAL), has
played and continues to play in the successful fulfilment of
this objective. We are disturbed, however, by the apparent
resurgence of politically motivated violence and the delays
in carrying out certain provisions of the Peace Accords. The
Canadian Government welcomes remarks by both the
Salvadorian Government and the Farabundo Martí National
Liberation Front calling for renewed efforts to implement
rapidly all the provisions of the Accords. We urge them to
is especially
fulfil
important
all
Salvadorians work together to ensure that the upcoming
electoral campaign and the national elections scheduled for
spring 1994 are free and fair.
their obligations in this regard.
democratization
process
that
for
the
It
(spoke in English)
Four years after the negotiated settlement of its civil
conflict, Nicaragua has worked hard to overcome the many
obstacles to the establishment of peace, democracy and
development. The international community is providing
significant financial and political support for those efforts.
However, the economic situation is difficult and the political
environment troublesome. We were especially concerned
this year by the resort
to violence and intimidation to
achieve political ends by groups from both sides of the
political spectrum. We welcome and fully support renewed
efforts by President Chamorro to work towards political
reconciliation in Nicaragua. While assistance from the
international community can help, dialogue between political
groups in Nicaragua remains the basis for building political
stability and establishing the right environment for future
prosperity.
Earlier
this year
the people of Guatemala, with
international support, successfully defeated an attempt to
thwart constitutional rule in their country, demonstrating a
desire for civil society based on the rule of law. However,
Central America’s oldest armed civil conflict continues
unresolved.
The Canadian Government calls upon the
Government of Guatemala and the Guatemalan National
Revolutionary Unity to resume the peace talks suspended
this May as soon as possible with a view to ending this
harmful confrontation. To this end, Canada welcomes the
Secretary-General’s efforts, in the framework of his mandate
of good offices, to arrange a preliminary meeting in the
coming weeks to establish the terms for the continuation of
the peace talks.
The international community has played an important
role in promoting peace in Central America. The United
Nations, the Organization of American States and individual
countries have all made significant contributions to help
achieve peace, enhance democratic institutions and support
economic growth.
In this regard we welcome the meeting
organized yesterday in New York by the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) on international assistance
to the region. Canada has been part of this international
involvement and remains fully engaged in efforts to build on
the advances already made. Despite the progress, however,
these advances are fragile.
International involvement can
only complement the strength, resolve and courage of the
Governments and peoples of Central America themselves,
which remain essential to ensuring that the progress already
made in establishing lasting peace and stability in the region
is further strengthened.
take
the Secretary-General’s
Mr. HUSLID (Norway) (interpretation from Spanish):
this opportunity to express my delegation’s
I
appreciation for
lucid report
(A/48/586) on the situation in Central America (A/48/586).
The report describes in a precise manner the peace process
under way and the efforts to establish a lasting democracy
in Central America. The report is particularly useful in
regard to the role the United Nations and the international
community can play. My delegation has also taken note of
the widespread sentiment expressed at
the International
Technical Meeting on Central America convened yesterday
by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
that
there continues to be a strong need for active
participation by the international community.
It is in our
opinion a positive aspect of the situation that the countries
of Central America remain open to dialogue with the
international community.
The situation in Central America is not without
encouraging signs of development. Years of conflict and
mistrust have given way to agreements that have been signed
and implemented, and democratic elections have become the
rule rather than the exception. Nevertheless, the picture is
still not as clear and positive as one could wish. Certain
incidents this year have given some cause for concern.
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
21
that
the positive
However, we maintain our hope
developments will continue. The reason for our guarded
optimism is that we have witnessed agreements worked out
by the national political forces in which their obvious mutual
interests are reasonably balanced. A clear understanding has
emerged that true democracy must prevail and that an end
must be put to injustice.
efficient processes of secure human rights for all sectors of
the population. It is the responsibility of the Government to
safeguard human rights.
the international
community should be prepared to help, if requested. We
hope that ways and means of improving the human rights
situation will be given the highest priority in renewed talks
between the Government and the URNG.
However,
The signature of the Peace Accords in El Salvador in
January 1992 initiated a fruitful process of peace-building in
that country - a process to which the United Nations has
contributed substantially. However, we have learned in
recent weeks with deep concern of several politically
motivated murders in El Salvador. A return to old practices
in El Salvador could put the whole peace process in danger.
In order to maintain the positive trends it is important for
State institutions to observe the laws scrupulously. They
must also demonstrate the authority and responsibility to
ensure fair and clean elections in March, with equal voting
rights for all Salvadorians.
The United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador
(ONUSAL) is an example of the new kind of peace-keeping
operation, integrating both military and civil post-conflict
peace-building. ONUSAL has an innovative aspect in the
way in which it is monitoring the human rights situation, and
the experience that it is gaining may later prove useful in
other conflict areas. Norway is pleased to have been able to
take part in this process through participation in ONUSAL
and the training of the new national civilian police force.
I turn to the question of Guatemala. Following the
agreements of Oslo, Quéretaro and Mexico City, continuous
efforts have been made to end the conflict in Guatemala
through negotiations. The talks have been difficult and
complex, but the parties involved have shown a constructive
attitude. Unfortunately, these peace talks have been stalled
since the beginning of the year.
It
is
therefore
encouraging that
last week the
Government of Guatemala and the Unidad Revolucionaria
Nacional Guatemalteca (URNG) requested the Secretary-
General to arrange a preliminary meeting between the two
parties, to establish terms for continuing the peace talks. We
believe that the Secretary-General and his staff have an
excellent basis for carrying out that task. They can build on
the experience acquired by the United Nations in the region,
and the Secretary-General can suggest methods by which the
United Nations, in cooperation with regional organizations,
could assist. My country pledges its full support for these
efforts, by, inter alia, participation in the Group of Friends
of Guatemala.
The human rights situation in Guatemala remains a
source of concern to us. There seems to be a need for more
It
is urgent
With regard to the political process in Nicaragua, there
is still a need for greater efforts to achieve a national
that a more stable basis for
consensus.
constructive talks between the President,
the Frente
Sandinista de Liberación Nacional (FSLN) and the Unión
Nacional Opositora (UNO) be found. The dialogue has been
disrupted by violence, and some armed groups have still not
demobilized as agreed. However, only through political
dialogue will it be possible to address the serious social and
economic problems facing Nicaragua. For the good of the
nation, all parties must be prepared to compromise. The
current situation in the country is causing hardship and
disillusionment among the population.
for
The situation calls
renewed efforts by the
international community to generate sustainable and healthy
economic development. Stable economic growth for the
benefit of the people can be achieved only in conditions of
political stability, whose creation is the shared responsibility
of all Nicaragua’s political forces. Such conditions are a
prerequisite for
long-term investment and lasting trade
relations, and they also make possible a more efficient use
of development assistance.
It must be stressed, however,
that development assistance by itself - without a propitious
political climate - is not sufficient to guarantee improved
living conditions in the long run.
financially and otherwise,
to
Norway is prepared,
maintain its support for
the determined efforts of the
Government of Nicaragua to secure peace and economic
development, for the benefit of the people of that country.
Mr. LAING (Belize): Belize is happy to speak in
support of the draft resolution sponsored by the other six
countries of Central America.
institutions, domestic
The draft resolution quite correctly deals organically
with the integrated issues of peace and reconciliation, the
environment and sustainable development, the strengthening
of democratic
tranquillity and
negotiations, international cooperation and the key principles
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. These are all
concerns of every Member of the Assembly, which will
undoubtedly give the draft resolution consensus support.
Certainly, it has the unreserved support of Belize, consistent
with my country’s long involvement with the organic
problems of the isthmus where Belize is located.
22
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November 1993
In the field of the prevention of epidemic and other
diseases, Belize services communities across the borders
with its neighbours. Belize, whose population is about
200,000, has provided a safe haven for well over 20,000
refugees, even though it is an onerous burden. Of course,
the refugees are from Central America.
As noted in the Secretary-General’s report (A/48/586,
para. 12), Belize has taken certain initiatives to establish a
meaningful regional dialogue on such pressing issues as
narcotic drugs. As a bastion of democracy, human rights
and justice, Belize provides some comfort
to peoples
elsewhere who strive for fulfilment of the basic values for
which the Organization stands. Above all, Belize is a full
partner - we would hope a pivotal partner - in the exercise
of building bridges between our other economic subregion,
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), and historical
Central America. This Central America-CARICOM forum
is now widening the economic spaces of our two subregions,
which are now searching together for a fuller life for their
peoples.
This expansion and cooperation are due in no small
measure to a recognition by Guatemala of the independence
and sovereignty of Belize. As this recognition takes hold in
the body politic of Guatemala, we look forward to the rapid
resolution of a difference which persists because of an
unfortunate legacy from the past.
transmuted into plausible
The nagging problems with which the Assembly deals
are largely attributable to history. Under this rubric,
subjectivities get
incipient
objectivities. We are therefore grateful that the new Central
American leaders are persons of wisdom and intellectual
vigour.
They eschew subjective historicity. As they
reinvigorate democratic institutions and reduce violence they
demonstrate a refreshing modernity. As they put forward
proposals such as a new organic model for security they
show that they wish Central America to regain its true,
ancient, natural order, the order of the indigenous peoples.
Belize salutes this new leadership. As it does so, we
must state our eagerness to participate fully in these new
special plans, these new international conferences and these
new initiatives.
In all of them, Belize will willingly, and
gratefully receive its fair share as a good neighbour. At the
same time, good friends and neighbours in Central America
continue to expect from Belize at
least as much as it
receives, to the greater glory of the Caribbean and of Central
America.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item.
I should like to inform members that the Assembly will
take action on draft resolution A/48/L.21 on Monday, 22
November, in the morning.
AGENDA ITEM 7
NOTIFICATION BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
UNDER ARTICLE 12, PARAGRAPH 2, OF THE
CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS: NOTE BY
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL (A/48/411 AND Add.1)
THE PRESIDENT: May I take it that the General
Assembly takes note of document A/48/411 and Add.l.
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
7?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 8 (continued)
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ORGANIZATION
OF WORK: EIGHTH REPORT OF THE GENERAL
COMMITTEE (A/48/250/Add.7)
The PRESIDENT:
two additional
I draw the
to the eighth report of
attention of
the General
representatives
Committee, document A/48/250/Add.7, concerning requests
submitted by the Secretary-General for the inclusion in the
agenda of
items, as well as a request
submitted by Algeria for the inclusion in the agenda of an
additional item.
In paragraph 1 (a) of the report, the General Committee
recommends the inclusion in the agenda of the current
session of an additional item entitled "Financing of the
United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda".
May I take it that the Assembly decides to include that
additional item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
In paragraph 1 (b) of the report,
the General Committee also recommends to the Assembly
that this item should be allocated to the Fifth Committee.
May I
take
recommendation?
it
that
the Assembly adopts
this
It was so decided.
57th meeting - Wednesday, 17 November l993
23
The PRESIDENT: Next I should like to draw the
attention of representatives to paragraph 2 (a) of the report.
The General Committee recommends the inclusion in the
agenda of the current session of an additional item, entitled
"Financing of the United Nations military liaison team in
Cambodia".
The PRESIDENT:
In paragraph 2 (b) of the report,
the General Committee also recommends that the item be
allocated to the Fifth Committee.
May I take it
that
the Assembly approves of this
recommendation?
May I take it that the Assembly decides to include that
It was so decided.
additional item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
The Chairman of
the Fifth
Committee will be informed of the decisions just taken.
I
should like
Next,
to draw the
attention of
representatives to paragraph 3 (a) of the report. The General
Committee recommends the inclusion in the agenda of the
current session of an additional item, entitled "Emergency
action to combat locust infestation in Africa".
May I take it that the Assembly decides to include that
additional item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
In paragraph 3 (b) of the report,
the General Committee also recommends that the item be
considered directly in plenary meeting.
May I
take it
that
the Assembly adopts
that
recommendation of the General Committee?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: May I also take it
that, as
requested by the sponsor, the item should be considered by
the Assembly as soon as possible because of its urgent
character?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
It is my intention therefore to
schedule this new item, which becomes item 175 of the
agenda of the forty-eighth session, for consideration by the
Assembly on Friday, 19 November, in the morning, as the
first item, on the understanding that the agenda item will not
be debated and that the Assembly will have before it a draft
resolution for consideration.
The meeting rose at l.10 p.m.
