United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
28th
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 13 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. MOSES (Federated States of Micronesia): On
behalf of the Federated States of Micronesia, I am honoured
this morning to address the General Assembly at its forty-
eighth session, and I bring the warm greetings of our
President and our people.
Given the many challenges facing the Organization and
the entire world in the coming year, we are pleased by your
election, Mr. President. You have our confidence and
support as you assume this high office, so ably discharged
by your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who
enjoyed our respect and gratitude.
Special
recognition must also be given to the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, under whose
leadership the United Nations has taken difficult steps in a
process of
redefinition and reorganization, which is
necessary if we are to take advantage of the opportunities
presented by the new world order and work together in the
interests of all mankind.
During the past year we have seen the membership of
the United Nations draw ever closer
to the goal of
universality. We thus congratulate the Czech Republic, the
Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra, and to each of
them we extend a welcome and pledge cooperation and
friendship.
Our people are deeply saddened by the loss of life and
the suffering caused by the earthquake in India last month,
and we express to the Indian people our sincere sympathy
and pledge to them that we will participate in any effort
undertaken by this Organization.
Not many years ago,
the appropriate role of the
"micro-States" within the world community was to be seen
but seldom heard, and even to be excluded from many
forums.
In our own small island developing State, we, as
the body politic of a classic "micro-State", hesitated to assert
our views on international affairs, thinking that a small
nation could not make a difference in or have an impact
upon the resolution of global issues.
Today I draw attention to a significant but
less
noticeable feature of the new order. Throughout history,
international relations have been conducted on a competitive
basis, where power and size made a difference. But I am
happy to note that things have changed for the better, that a
change has begun to take place; and I think it is one that has
gathered increased momentum even within the past few
years. Nations large and small, in the process of working
together under the Charter, have begun to focus their
attention and direct
their efforts along the lines of
commonality of interests and problems - and not merely to
pay lip-service.
Indeed there is a growing, genuine
phenomenon, which is seen partly in the unfolding of events
in New York, but even more clearly in the impressive
outcomes of
the Rio Conference on Environment and
Development and the recent World Conference on Human
Rights. Another sign is the entire world community’s keen
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86861 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.28
4 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
anticipation of the upcoming Conference on Population and
Development
Social
Development.
the World
Summit
and
for
I do not mean to suggest a disappearance of national
interests; but, across a wide spectrum of social, development
and even security matters, there is a growing recognition that
common interests give strength to new alliances on an
inclusive rather than exclusive basis. Thus, there is good
reason for continued progress towards
self-determination
among peoples, since they can now be confident that they
will not be alone in addressing the great difficulties of
starting out. For similar reasons, many of the "micro-States"
recently
have
this
concluded
Organization is
imperative, despite the burdens and
responsibilities involved.
that membership
in
As this session of the General Assembly proceeds, we
are becoming aware of the changes in the Organization in
terms of organization, administration and policy. There may
be some who doubt
that Members have the will or
commitment to achieve consensus on these changes and to
re-establish the proper financial basis for a United Nations
that can be responsive to the present.
I submit, however,
that any such doubts must be dispelled during our work here
in the coming months, for we simply cannot afford to fail.
The United Nations is no longer an optional feature of the
international community. The common concerns of mankind
in the great issues to which I alluded earlier cannot be
addressed from behind national fences. And so, I appeal to
all Members to commit themselves fully to reaching at this
session the goal of preparing the United Nations to become
the central instrument through which we can work to secure
the future well-being of our peoples.
I believe that
the direct experience of my country
within our brief time as a Member provides unmistakable
evidence of the strength of concerted, international action.
Only a few years ago, having emerged from colonialism, our
best hopes for development
lay in dependence for an
indefinite period on the generosity of a few friends, chief
among them the United States. Moreover, as inhabitants of
small, low-lying islands, we were helpless in the face of the
looming threat of sea-level rise and other natural disasters
caused by human-induced climate change.
the
needs
special
Today, through the work of this body and with our
participation,
and
environmental concerns of all small island developing States
are being carefully addressed in a number of settings,
including
and
biodiversity and the follow-up activities of the United
the Conventions
development
climate
change
on
The early work of
Nations Conference on Environment and Development
(UNCED).
the Commission on
Sustainable Development promises attention to our problems,
as can be seen in the upcoming first Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States.
All this is not happening because of an outburst of
charitable sympathy by the developed countries, but rather
in the context of addressing a complex of issues in which
peoples everywhere have a stake. Herein, I think, lies the
real strength and value of the United Nations - to us and to
all.
During the past year, my Government has found
encouragement in the ways in which this Organization as a
whole recognizes the difficulties that small States encounter
as they try to participate fully in its work. We deeply
appreciate the opportunities afforded to us through the
contribution of Members to voluntary funds that have
enabled our participation in important functions. We also
acknowledge the instances where calls by small States for
the holding of meetings here in New York to make our
presence possible have been heard.
Furthermore, we
appreciate that, whenever possible, special measures for our
benefit - such as limiting the number of simultaneous
meetings - are being taken.
For our part, small States are now more often coming
together on common issues to speak with one voice for
greater effectiveness and efficiency. Here,
I cite the
Alliance of Small Island States as a successful example on
the issue of climate change and other UNCED-related
matters.
the regional groups
operate to the benefit of
small States, affording us
opportunities of access to elected positions by virtue of
allocations and the principle of rotation. I am sure there are
other factors favourable to us that I have failed to mention
here.
In a more general sense,
Yet, even with all this, I must state that we are very
hard pressed to participate in the broad range of United
Nations activities, both financially and owing to the sheer
volume and complexity of those activities. For this reason,
and because so many other Members are in similar
situations, I propose that the United Nations, as part of its
comprehensive
reorganization
examination of
to the full
participation of small States with a view towards identifying
institutional
After all,
achieving universality in the United Nations would be a
hollow accomplishment so long as a significant number of
efforts,
the obstacles
than ad hoc solutions.
that exist
undertake
rather
a
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
3
reaching their effective
Members remain incapable of
potential within the Organization. We look forward to
addressing this issue during the course of the forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly.
My country is a member of the South Pacific Forum,
an organization of Governments of Pacific island countries
which, each year prior to this date, meets to address matters
of concern to our region and to provide an expression of our
joint views on many issues before this body. I wish to state
our complete solidarity with that expression, contained in the
communiqué from our recent meeting in the Republic of
Nauru, which will be presented for incorporation in the
records of this Assembly.
The Forum members have been outspoken in opposing
the testing of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass
destruction. Our optimism ran very high at
the Nauru
meeting because it seemed that at last the nuclear Powers
had found the resolve to bring this dangerous chapter of
history to an end. Now, with reports of a recent test by one
of them,
the Federated States of Micronesia is deeply
concerned that the great progress made towards achieving a
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty will be reversed. We
call on all nuclear Powers not to treat this recent aberration
as an incentive to turn backwards, but rather to restore and
hold to their collective discipline.
The issue of fundamental human rights is interwoven
into every aspect of the activities undertaken by this body.
For too long many Governments have been content to avoid
confronting it directly as
a matter of multilateral
responsibility.
I am glad to say that we sense some
improvement in the situation despite continuing occurrences
of the most repugnant kinds of human rights violations.
fundamental human rights.
In this decade, we have witnessed unprecedented
changes in world conditions, brought about in part by a
growing unanimity of resolve among peoples to express and
exercise their
Recently,
prominent States have been dismantled,
leading to the
formation of other States that afford broader opportunities
for the expression of these rights. Sadly, at the same time,
other States continue to go to great lengths to suppress them.
The world finds itself
rejoicing in newly established
freedoms but also feeling deep revulsion over atrocities and
repression of shocking magnitude.
If any lesson emerges
from this dichotomy, it must be that isolated progress is not
enough and that fundamental human rights issues can no
longer be relegated to the background in a set of supposedly
higher multilateral priorities. Rather, human rights must be
the cornerstone of our work, which must be guided by the
principles of the United Nations Charter and the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights.
Accordingly, my Government expresses its support for
the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action agreed
upon at the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna
in June this year. We support
that
Declaration by the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session.
the adoption of
In keeping with the principles of that Declaration, I
wish to affirm my Government’s strong and unconditional
support for the universality of human rights and for the
effective multilateral
instruments that give meaning and
definition to the concept.
As an early priority, our new nation has undertaken a
close examination of the existing instruments with a view to
freely assuming obligations under them, as is consistent with
our Constitution. As a first step, we have acceded to the
Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we anticipate
further action on other instruments as well.
One of the very important concerns that is interlinked
with all our Government’s hopes for a better future is the
rights of women. We fully support the development of
effective new instruments in the cause of women’s rights in
order to secure their protection against discrimination and
abuse.
As a nation comprised entirely of indigenous peoples,
my Government also expresses its solidarity with all
indigenous peoples of the world and particularly those
subjected to deprivation of their fundamental human rights
within their own homelands.
In this the International Decade for the Eradication of
Colonialism it is important that this body redouble its efforts
to ensure that
the peoples of the remaining Non-Self-
Governing Territories are given every opportunity to exercise
their right to self-determination and self-government. While
the obstacles
the remaining
Territories are minor compared to those that are being
confronted so dramatically in Eastern Europe and in
Palestine, it remains our moral responsibility to support the
right to self-determination for all peoples under colonial
administration.
to self-determination for
Today, the enlarged membership of the United Nations
is in itself strong testimony to the success of decolonization;
let us hark back to our own earlier struggles and recommit
ourselves to the complete elimination of colonialism.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
My Government welcomes the establishment of the
International Tribunal, and the recent election of
its
members, to try perpetrators of war crimes in the former
Republic of Yugoslavia.
the
establishment of a permanent international human rights
tribunal. The independent, juridical composition of any such
body should place it above concerns regarding political
intervention while denying human rights violators any refuge
from defined international responsibility.
Still, we would support
The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
attaches great importance to the issue of fundamental human
rights, and will continue to participate in the work of this
body towards a world community in which all peoples live
without
threat of encroachment upon these fundamental
rights.
It has been well established by actions of this body that
the right to development is itself a fundamental human right.
But to recognize a right is one thing:
to secure the exercise
of that right is much more difficult. A great deal is said and
done here at the United Nations every year to address the
needs of developing countries and peoples, not to mention
the considerable resources that are mobilized bilaterally
towards that end. Yet we continue to see wide variations in
the degree of effectiveness of that assistance and in the
results of efforts by developing countries themselves.
This has led an increasing number of us to question
whether there might not exist a number of identifiable
factors that prevent development efforts from achieving
success. If those factors could be defined with precision and
recognized where they are present, it might well be possible
to attain significant increases in economies and outcomes.
On Papua New Guinea’s welcome suggestion, and with its
welcome leadership - and after considerable discussion and
extensive exchanges of views between eminent leaders in the
developing world - this matter has been placed before the
Assembly as agenda item 151, entitled "United Nations
initiative on opportunity and participation". We shall join
others in sponsoring a draft resolution to be presented under
this item and calling for a comprehensive, systematic and
thorough study of the encumbrances to full opportunity and
participation in development, with particular reference to the
economies of developing countries.
If properly supported
and carried out,
initiative would make possible
significant breakthroughs in the effort
to secure this
important and fundamental human right, with equality and
equity for all.
this
The Federated States of Micronesia pays a tribute to the
enlightened men and women who gave life to the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development
(UNCED) process and focused the world’s attention on the
need to begin replacing wasteful and polluting practices with
sustainable development.
is especially
well-timed for my country, since our development planning
is still in the early stages and, as a consequence, and with
the encouragement and support of the world community, we
now have in place a national environmental management
strategy that provides an essential complement
to our
development-planning efforts.
This movement
We intend for our country to become a model of
effective partnership with other nations, and with this body,
demonstrating the application of new, clean technologies in
order to accommodate sustainable development within a
small, pristine environment.
Of course, as a nation of remote and widely dispersed
small
islands, many of which are low-lying atolls, we
experience all the difficulties recognized in section G of
chapter 17 of Agenda 21 as inhibiting the development of
small
island countries. Thus, we are thankful for the
opportunity now before us to enhance general understanding
of those difficulties through the Global Conference on the
Sustainable Development of Small Island States.
As a member of the Alliance of Small Island States, we
are participating fully in that process.
It was most
encouraging to note, at the recent preparatory conference, the
strong participation by developed countries and also the solid
support from our colleagues in the Group of 77. We shall
fully reciprocate that support
in all appropriate settings
because, despite our awareness of our own problems, we
know that virtually all developing countries exhibit one or
more disabling characteristics that distinguish them from the
others. While we are part of a relatively large grouping of
countries that share similar characteristics and disabilities, all
developing countries deserve to have attention paid to their
particular obstacles to development.
In that light, we perceive the Barbados Conference next
year as an important early milestone in the post-Rio process,
not only for small
island developing States but for all
nations, developed and developing, that believe as we do in
the Rio Declaration and in Agenda 21. The Barbados
Conference is, in our view, the first real test of Agenda 21.
islands
are
It may seem at times that we of the region of the
Pacific
our
environment, and that we take too broad a view of the
potential impact resulting from the actions of others. We
raise our voices loudly and often on the subject of
overly-preoccupied
about
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
5
human-induced climate change and sea-level rise, but many
say that it may not happen. We speak out against nuclear
testing, especially in and among our islands, but those who
are more powerful say that it probably is not harmful. We
strongly urge that lethal toxic substances such as plutonium
and chemical weapons not be transported through or stored
within our region, but even some of our closest friends do so
regardless, insisting that in all likelihood there is no danger.
Are we too concerned? Are we naive? I believe that we are
not, because the Pacific region appears to be a vast, thinly
populated ocean area and thus a prime location for the dirty
business of others - but that region is our home and our
responsibility.
Not only must we provide for ourselves from its
bounty, but we are also stewards of what is coming to be
recognized in scientific circles as the last remaining great
unspoiled natural resource of the planet. Our fisheries are
plentiful, but
they could be threatened if experiences
elsewhere in the world are repeated. Our air is still clean,
but we now know we are vulnerable to occurrences
elsewhere. Our water is still pure, but we have seen other
seas contaminated by unsustainable practices. We must, and
will continue to, speak out.
Our region is not simply the victim of the callous
disregard of the powerful for the consequences visited upon
the poor or the weak. Rather, we recognize that for
centuries mankind has regarded the vast oceans as free
space, open to all passage and exploitation. Although
exclusive economic zones and multilateral treaties have had
major impact, the fact remains that the Pacific Ocean is
today the world’s ultimate "back yard".
then,
is quite
simple
My country’s plea,
in the spirit of Rio,
and
straightforward. We call on all members of the world
community to join us,
in a true
partnership for the sustainable development, not just of one
or more Pacific island countries, but of our ocean and all
that is in it. One important focus must, of course, be upon
the land and coastal areas within our region, in order to
accommodate appropriate development without degrading
either the land or its surrounding marine space. But another,
broader, focus must be on the ocean itself - to respect and
build upon the growing scientific knowledge of its complex
ecological systems.
It
is well known that
the Federated States of
Micronesia, along with other low-lying island countries of
the World, is literally frightened that its scarce land space
may be made uninhabitable and ultimately disappear if even
the moderate predictions of global warming and sea-level
rise come to pass. But if this were the only concern with
regard to human-induced climate change, loss of biodiversity
and unsustainable development, we would be hard put to call
upon the world at large to make fundamental changes in the
way it lives. Ours, however, is by no means an isolated
concern. As the South Pacific Forum Heads of Government
have stressed for some years, the fate of the islands is an
advance warning of things to come, as we have predicted.
Thanks to the trends that I discussed earlier in respect
of the modern realignment of motivations for international
cooperation, I have tremendous confidence that we, and our
children and their children, will succeed not only in
preserving the environment but also in maintaining the pace
towards the ultimate goals of peace, enjoyment of human
rights and social enrichment, as enshrined in the Charter.
My country pledges its efforts within this great Organization,
during this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly and
afterwards, towards the attainment of these ends.
Mr. SAEMALA (Solomon Islands): Let me extend to
you, Sir, the warm greetings of my Government and the
people of Solomon Islands. We congratulate you on your
election as President of the General Assembly at this forty-
eighth session. Your experience, diplomatic skills and
leadership assure us of a successful and fruitful session.
I also join in the tributes paid to your distinguished
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria,
for the excellent manner in which he presided over the
affairs of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly.
We join, too, in acknowledging and commending the
report (A/48/1) of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, His Excellency Mr. Boutros-Boutros Ghali, on the
work of the Organization. The report is a comprehensive
catalogue of the achievements of the United Nations, its
strengths and weaknesses, the threats and opportunities the
Organization faces and the challenges it has before it. All
these point to one common truth:
there is an undeniable
disparity between idealism and reality, between the mounting
responsibilities of the Organization and its capacity to
achieve pragmatic, focused and specific goals. The gap
between promotion of
the ideals of
the Charter and
realization of them continues to widen.
Over the last three weeks, we have heard Member
States renewing their support for, and commitment to, this
body. It is clear that the Organization is calling out for our
attention.
It needs us all, just as much as we need it;
perhaps it now needs us more than ever before to strengthen
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
it and enhance its performance in its delivery of services and
goods to our many peoples around the globe.
"The United States intends to remain engaged and to
lead." (A/48/PV.4, p. 8)
Mr. President, your opening statement 22 days ago
concluded with the visionary challenge, "We the peoples -
united for a better world" (A/48/PV.1).
In the spirit of a
family of nations, the United Nations will be celebrating this
theme at its fiftieth anniversary in 1995. While Solomon
Islands shares this vision, it counsels against extravagance,
waste and mere symbolistic ceremonials which do not reflect
long-term substantive benefits. To mark the occasion with
serious reflection, education and communication, careful
planning and a wider consultation programme at all levels of
the international community will be essential. Awareness
programmes and activities aimed at promoting the principle
of unity in diversity should be a key to strength and wealth,
both for nations and for the global community. A goal
which can be promoted during the fiftieth-anniversary
celebrations is that of world citizenship, or citizens of planet
Earth.
The basis for this should be very simple:
everyone
living on this planet has a responsibility for its sustainable
growth. Everyone must be aware of, and feel concerned at,
the possibility of our destroying the planet.
Individuals
make up communities. Communities make up nations.
Nations make up the global community.
The global
community lives on this planet.
Mr. Wlosowicz (Poland), Vice-President,
took the
Chair.
Citizens of Planet Earth, or world citizenship, is a
unifying vision of a peaceful, prosperous global society.
This emerges from a sense of
responsibility and the
acceptance of the oneness of humanity. To embrace this
vision of world citizenship into the twenty-first century,
leaders and Governments must change their attitudes to take
on the greatest challenge facing the world community -
releasing the enormous financial, technical, human and moral
resources required for the sustainable development of our
planet. Can we collectively face this challenge in order to
implement the various components of Agenda 21? The
answer lies in the hands of the people and the nations of the
world. How can we make this theme a reality - a reality not
only for us at this time but also for future generations on
this planet?
I was heartened to hear the President of the United
States, Mr. Bill Clinton, say these words on the first day of
the general debate:
He also went on to say:
"... we must and will serve as a fulcrum for change and
a pivot point for peace." (ibid.)
is
an
environmental
The Solomon Islands is currently working with the
United Nations Development Programme on a pilot
programme called "Children of Planet Earth" (COPE).
educational-awareness
COPE
programme aimed at primary-school children.
It will be
incorporated into the school curriculum as a module
compulsory for all children. There will be no pass or fail
grade, but any child who completes the module will get a
United Nations badge or a certificate. The module will
focus on the environment and on sustainable growth, and
national, regional and international perspectives will be built
into it.
The Solomon Islands strongly believes that
education with regard to the environment is important and
deserves priority investment.
The target group is the
children, because they will be the leaders of tomorrow.
Two weeks ago, His Excellency Shimon Peres, Israeli
Foreign Minister, described war and peace in this way:
"In war, the old bury the young, and in peace, the
young bury the old."
I thought this was quite revealing. It tells of a reality,
a reality which has written a new chapter with a change of
heart.
The handshake between Palestine Liberation
Organization leader Mr. Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister
Mr. Rabin on Capitol Hill symbolized a major milestone in
Middle East history. The Solomon Islands welcomes this
great advancement in human relations between these two
nations. It is hoped that the process of creating forgiveness
and trust will pave the way for lasting peace in the Middle
East.
I applaud the countries that have pledged financial
assistance or assistance in kind to Palestine.
The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly
opened at the dawn of a new era in South African history.
African National Congress leader Mr. Nelson Mandela,
renowned for his struggle against apartheid, made a moving
statement at this very rostrum requesting the lifting of
economic sanctions against South Africa. To see Mr.
Mandela and President De Klerk moving towards South
Africa’s first non-racial elections is an immense and
promising change. At last, both leaders have decided to
travel in the same bus of democracy. We too join the rest
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
7
of the world in welcoming this first historic step towards
majority rule in South Africa.
the Middle East, Africa, Latin
given a chance in Asia,
America and the South Pacific regions, so may it be given
a chance in the Balkan region.
The parameters for the global agenda of the United
Nations General Assembly have evolved slowly over the
years. However, not only have agenda items changed from
time to time, but they have increased in number as well.
The issues before the forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly fall into the following broad categories:
first,
making and keeping peace; second, arms controls and
disarmament;
third, economics and development; fourth,
global resource management; fifth, human rights and other
social issues; sixth, international legal issues; and seventh,
financing and administration of the United Nations.
Each of these broad headings receives a thorough
survey and analysis at every session of
the General
Assembly from both the developed and the developing parts
of the globe. Some speakers focus specifically on certain
issues, such as making and keeping peace, or arms control
and disarmament; others draw the General Assembly’s
attention to such matters as economic development, global-
resources management, human rights and other social issues.
The debate so far has been interesting.
A quick overview of what has been said so far from
this rostrum reveals a global picture that is both bright and
gloomy. One truth, articulated by almost every speaker in
the area of world peace and security is that the threat of
conflicts between States has not diminished, even after the
super-Power rivalry has been eroded. Senator Gareth Evans,
the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs, captured the
question of world peace and security in a more imperative
way when he addressed this Assembly at its 5th meeting, on
27 September.
resurgence of
ethno-nationalism, which often takes a violent form, giving
ethnic groups a claim to minority human rights protection as
well as a claim to self-determination.
referred to the
He
In his address to the General Assembly on 28
September, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Russian
Federation referred to the Bosnian conflict and remarked:
"... the key to the settlement of many conflicts has not
yet been found." (Official Records of
the General
Assembly, Forty-eight Session, Plenary Meetings, 6th
Meeting, p. 15)
He also said:
"In any case, it is surely time to think of establishing
closer contacts between the United Nations and the
world’s leading religions." (ibid., p. 15)
It appears that
approaches employed in conflict resolution.
there is a missing dimension to the
As we consider the growing number of problems
confronting our world, we cannot escape the feeling that the
solutions will not simply be political, economic or social. In
many cases, the problems are so complex and so deep-seated
that we need superhuman help. A new prescription for true
peace must include the development of the spiritual and
pastoral well-being of all peoples around the world.
To this important extent, my Government recognizes,
as its first principle,
sovereignty of God as
justice
and
"the
righteousness,
development of
people."
the basis of
the
the Solomon Islands and its
dignity
in
Speaking on behalf of the European Communities,
Mr. Willy Claes, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Belgium, patrolled the
major trouble spots of the world in a memorandum attached
to his statement. The Solomon Islands appreciates the
efforts of the European Communities in resolving regional
conflicts throughout the world and welcomes its commitment
to world peace and security. The Balkan crisis has become
a cryptic jigsaw puzzle. Human suffering continues.
Peacemakers and peace-keepers have tried, and are still
trying, to find a solution. The Solomon Islands deplores the
atrocities committed and appeals to the nations with ways
and means to bring peace to this region. As peace is being
We realize that neither the individual nor society can achieve
full potential without the help of Almighty God.
If God is
sovereign in the affairs of our world, would we not be wise
to bring Him into the planning process as well as give Him
a place in the resolution of conflicts, whether national,
regional or global?
The question of New Caledonia, in the South Pacific,
has been on the agenda of the United Nations for some
time - but not for much longer, I hope. Solomon Islands
joins its colleagues in the South Pacific region in endorsing
the recent report on New Caledonia of the Ministerial
Committee of the South Pacific Forum. As a member of
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
that Committee, I hereby humbly express our appreciation
and gratitude for the cooperation and support of the French
and territorial authorities in facilitating the recent visit of
Ministers to the Territory. My Government also reaffirms
its strong support for the Committee’s recommendations and
renews its firm support for the aspirations and goals of the
people of New Caledonia, including the Kanak community.
We note the progress of the Matignon Accords, and, while
sensitive to the varying and conflicting interpretations and
expectations, we urge
to maintain their
commitment to the Matignon process and to the promotion
of economic, political and social development
in New
Caledonia.
all parties
to date,
The United Nations is a strong supporter of peace.
This noble world body has,
supported the
reunification of the two Germanys and of the two Koreas.
In this context, reunification means only one thing - the
uniting of people. Unification means peace and coexistence.
Conflicts in areas around the world should be resolved
through dialogue. Thus, we believe that the United Nations
mechanism that was used in the case of Germany and in the
case of the two Koreas should be applied to the situation
involving the Republic of China and the People’s Republic
of China.
Solomon Islands recognizes the need for reunification
of the two Chinas through good will and in good faith. We
call on both to hold talks, on equal terms, on the basis of
this important United Nations principle. But the process can
be successful only if
this world body considers the
exceptional situation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in
the international context, based on the principle of
universality of membership and in accordance with the
established model of parallel
representation of divided
countries at the United Nations.
Solomon Islands fully recognizes and strongly supports
the wish of the people of the Republic of China to rejoin the
United Nations. As a small,
friendly nation with a
population of only about 300,000, Solomon Islands firmly
believes that the desire of the 21 million people of the
Republic of China in Taiwan for their own representation in
this world body is reasonable and justified. We are sure that
the international community would benefit from the positive
contribution that the Republic of China is capable of making
to this Organization. Our own country has benefited, in the
past 10 years,
from the economic development and
technological progress that the people of the Republic of
China have secured through achieving for their country such
a high position in the league of the industrialized nations.
Solomon Islands therefore supports the call from other
Member States for the establishment of an ad hoc committee
to examine the question of the Republic of China rejoining
the United Nations.
The mere existence of weapons of mass destruction
poses a big threat to global peace and security. However,
even more worrying is the potential proliferation of nuclear,
chemical, biological and ballistic missiles - the danger of
their falling into the wrong hands. We applaud the countries
that have taken positive steps towards the elimination of
these weapons. We also welcome the Secretary-General’s
report on new dimensions of
regulation and
disarmament in the post-cold-war era. We believe in the
integration of arms-regulation efforts into the broader
structure
the
globalization of arms control and of the disarmament process
and the revitalization of arms control. We strongly propose
that the arms-control and disarmament agenda clearly reflect
the realities of the post-cold-war era. This is the challenge
for the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
international
security,
peace
of
arms
and
Turning to nuclear testing in our region, I must say that
our continuing desire and concern is to ensure that the South
Pacific region remains a nuclear-free zone and a zone free
of all types of radioactive waste. Solomon Islands therefore
maintains its support for further suspension of nuclear testing
in our region. We warmly welcome the decisions of the
United States, Russia and France to extend their testing
moratoriums.
In this vein, owing to recent developments,
we call upon China and the United Kingdom seriously to
consider declaring similar moratoriums.
Solomon Islands is gravely concerned about
the
dumping of radioactive and other waste at sea. We therefore
urge the States parties to the London Dumping Convention
of 1972, when they adopt amendments in November this
year, to continue their active support for a total ban on such
dumping.
The shipment of plutonium, with the danger that it
poses to the fragile marine ecosystem of the South Pacific,
is a matter of major concern to the Governments of the
region.
international safety and security
standards must be adhered to. Any nation engaging in this
business must
possible
contingencies.
satisfactorily
The highest
address
all
There is a clear message in statements issued by States
It points to the increasing
members of the Group of 77.
and
connection
developmental issues, to the delicate balance between the
environment and development, between population and
environmental
concerns
between
development,
development.
and
between
good
government
and
priority areas for action at the national level have been
identified.
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
9
Member countries of the South Pacific Forum were
the United Nations Conference on
well represented at
Environment and Development held in Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil, in June 1992. A principal outcome of the Rio
Conference is Agenda 21 - an action plan for the 1990s and
the twenty-first century.
strategies and
integrated-programme measures to halt and reverse the
effects of environmental degradation and to promote
environmentally sound and sustainable development in all
countries.
It sets forth
Once again Solomon Islands reaffirms its strong
commitment to sustainable development. We believe that
sound environmental practices constitute an integral part of
the development process. Thus, all development activities
pursued must be both economically and ecologically sound.
The collective voice of small island developing States is
heard through the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS)
which share unique circumstances, vulnerabilities and
limitations. These include their small size and relative
geographic remoteness, a narrow range of resources, severe
population stress, sometimes minimal renewable fresh water
resources, and high degrees of endemism. These pressures
and limitations underscore the need for careful and
sustainable management of
resources to sustain future
generations. This point was highlighted in our country’s
statement last year.
like
Solomon Islands,
its other South Pacific
neighbours, continues to rely heavily, and in some cases
totally, on the sea, the land, the rivers, the forests and the air
around us for its livelihood and survival. Solomon Islands
therefore attaches great importance to environmental issues
and accords high priority to collective efforts in the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development
follow-up activities and the implementation of Agenda 21,
including other, associated principles and conventions.
Solomon Islands is a party to the Port Vila Declaration on
Population and Sustainable Development. We therefore
continue to support preparations for the forthcoming two
major Conferences
the Barbados Global
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island
Developing States and the Cairo World Conference on
Population and Development.
in 1994 -
Solomon Islands is one of the few countries in the
South Pacific that now has a national environment
management strategy endorsed by the Government. That
in which
strategy is now in the implementation phase,
Human-induced climate change and its subsequent
effect of sea-level rise is perhaps the most intractable threat
to human well-being and the survival of many species on
Earth. The South Pacific is no exception. Solomon Islands
is a signatory of the Framework Convention on Climate
Change and will soon complete the necessary requirements
for its ratification. The formalities for the ratification of the
Montreal Protocol are under way. We warmly welcome the
speedy action of the United Nations in establishing a
Commission on Sustainable Development and, in particular,
we welcome the acceptance of the South Pacific Forum
secretariat as a special representative to the Commission and
the South Pacific Regional Environment Programme
(SPREP) as an observer in the Commission.
Solomon Islands applauds the initiative taken by the
Government of Papua New Guinea in putting forward,
through the United Nations system, the agenda item on
opportunity and participation.
The adverse economic
changes in recent years have created difficult circumstances
for many small countries. There is a need to identify
options
to make possible participation by
Governments and peoples of developing countries on an
equal footing. Solomon Islands welcomes the proposal in
the Papua New Guinea initiative for the establishment of a
panel of experts to study and recommend ways of increasing
opportunity and participation for developing countries.
in order
Speaking about Papua New Guinea, I should like to
convey Solomon Islands’ profound appreciation to the
United Nations for the goodwill mission it sent last year to
discuss the problems we had encountered at the border
between Solomon Islands and Papua New Guinea.
I am
happy to report that the new Solomon Islands Government,
through its six-point initiative, is working constructively with
its neighbour, Papua New Guinea, to find a lasting peaceful
solution to the problems at our border.
Proper management and good fishing practices are
essential for the sustainable use of marine living resources.
The major income earner of Solomon Islands is fisheries.
Solomon Islands supports the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea. Preparations for its ratification are
being considered.
The Solomon Islands Government
strongly supports the work of the Forum Fisheries Agency
(FFA) and appeals to distant-water
fishing nations to
cooperate with the management and conservation measures
stipulated by that Agency.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
launched
its
blueprint
document
The new Government of Solomon Islands has just
officially
entitled,
"Statement of Policies". The Government’s philosophy of
where and how to steer the country over the next four years
is laid out in this document. The Government is embarking
on a major programme of economic and social reforms
aimed at attaining sustainable development. The ministries
responsible are currently discussing and putting together a
programme of structural adjustment.
The programme
emphasizes the sustainable management of natural resources,
public-sector reforms and the promotion of private-sector
development. It devotes particular attention to the sizes and
costs of
the
redeployment of resources to areas of production and need.
The preparation of
this programme is expected to be
completed by November 1993.
institutions, and outlines proposals
for
it
While this exercise is considered to be a long-term
viable undertaking,
is necessary to seek external
assistance. The Government of Solomon Islands is fully
committed to this long-overdue reform, but appeals to
international financial institutions and donors to provide
financial assistance and advice.
On human rights, the Solomon Islands Government
fully supports the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action which were the outcome of the World Conference on
Human Rights held from 14 to 25 June 1993. Fundamental
rights and freedoms of the individual are listed in chapter II,
sections 3 to 19 of our national Constitution. We condemn
any violation of human rights anywhere in the world. We
also join the rest of the world in the promotion of human
rights and support those who have spoken in favour of the
establishment of a post of high commissioner for human
rights.
Such a post would indeed be a worthwhile
investment.
Solomon Islands also salutes the work and courage of
those countries that contribute troops and humanitarian
assistance to trouble-spots all over the world. We pray for
the souls of those who have died in the field. We strongly
deplore the actions of those who have committed atrocities
against peace-keepers, Red Cross workers and associated
personnel. Solomon Islands therefore strongly supports New
Zealand’s initiative in requesting the inscription on the
General Assembly’s agenda of the critical item on the safety
of personnel in United Nations peace-keeping operations.
disposal. Perhaps this is a positive sign - a justification of
the need for its continuing existence.
A few more flags have been added at
the United
Nations this year. We warmly welcome the new Members
of
family and congratulate their
Governments and peoples on taking this courageous step.
the United Nations
In 1945 the founders of the United Nations saw the
need to set up this body. Today, we are challenged in no
uncertain terms to ensure that the work that was begun 48
years ago continues, to keep the Organization alive, relevant,
meaningful and cost effective. It is the only hope for world
peace and security and for the promotion of democracy,
development and global-resource management. Member
States request the Organization to be accountable, and so we
Member States too must return to it our individual due
responsibilities.
May the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations bring
a new dawn to human relations between all peoples around
the world.
ADDRESS BY MR. GIRIJA PRASAD KOIRALA,
PRIME MINISTER AND MINISTER FOR FOREIGN
AFFAIRS OF THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign
Affairs of the Kingdom of Nepal.
Mr. Girija Prasad Koirala, Prime Minister and
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Nepal, was
escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the
Kingdom of Nepal, His
The Right
Honourable Girija Prasad Koirala, and inviting him to
address the General Assembly.
Excellency
Mr. KOIRALA (Nepal):
I have the honour to convey
to the General Assembly greetings from the people and
Government of Nepal and the best wishes of His Majesty
King Birenda Bir Bikram Shah Dev for the success of its
forty-eighth session.
The United Nations Charter has now been physically
reduced to a pocket-sized booklet, but the demands the
nations of the world place on this global Organization
outstrip the limits of its capabilities and the resources at its
As I stand before members today, my thoughts go back
to 1960, when the first elected Prime Minister of Nepal, the
late B.P. Koirala, addressed the Assembly and declared that
the foreign policy of Nepal was inspired by the purposes and
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
11
principles of the United Nations. He said then that Nepal
looked upon the Organization as an instrument for promoting
peace and justice among nations.
The late Prime Minister’s visit to the United Nations
was an event of historic significance for Nepal. A
revolutionary transformation had then taken place in my
country. As a result, a conscious and coherent foreign
policy, with centrality given to the principles of the Charter
of the United Nations, had started to take shape.
Similar revolutionary changes again took place in my
country in 1990, after a gap of more than three decades. In
accordance with the wishes of our people, multiparty
democracy has been restored in Nepal. Now there is a
constitutional guarantee of human rights and fundamental
freedoms. As the second elected Prime Minister to address
this body, after 33 years, I must say that this moment has a
deep personal overtone for me.
Restoration of multiparty democracy and respect for
fundamental human rights does not necessarily mean that we
have solved all our problems. The expectations of the
people are naturally high, but the means at our disposal are
extremely limited.
Faced with such problems, my Government has been
making every effort to ensure a better standard of living for
our people in larger freedom. Our development plans are
based on the premise that it is the individual citizen and not
the State which has the right to development. Along with
economic liberalization, we are pursuing a people-oriented
development policy focused on poverty alleviation. To
achieve our goals we have increased investments in human-
priority areas. Given the enormous constraints upon us,
resources to the high cost of
ranging from lack of
infrastructure,
and
institutional deficiencies, our problems are daunting. We
look forward to greater understanding from donor countries
and multilateral agencies in helping us to implement our
people-oriented development programmes, in upgrading local
skills and in building the capacity to accelerate human
development.
personnel
shortage
skilled
of
a
The foreign policy of Nepal is guided by the objective
independence and
of ensuring its sovereignty, political
national security while promoting international peace and
cooperation. Inspired by the purposes and principles of the
United Nations, the policy of non-alignment, and respect for
human rights, we seek friendship and cooperation with all
countries of the world, and in particular with our neighbours.
We have reason to be satisfied with the excellent relations
the
countries
enjoy with
immediate
we
neighbourhood. We are partners with our friends in South
Asia in an effort to forge a mutually beneficial scheme of
cooperation for the welfare of our people under the aegis of
the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation.
our
in
With the sudden end of the cold war the world is at the
threshold of a new era of shared responsibility for global
peace and development. The post-cold-war world is very
much in need of order, but it is a world that cannot be
ordered by military and economic Powers alone. At this
time of historic transition, political leadership in all countries
must show a higher order of statesmanship.
It is time to
shed old prejudices and parochialism. We should be able to
pool the best of every civilization and culture for the greater
good of mankind.
in
to
devise
new partnership
Changes in international relations have also created
opportunities
global
responsibility. The world today is poised to consider new
approaches to international law based not on unilateralism
but on multilateralism.
is an
organization of the powerful and the weak, the large and the
small, the wealthy and the poor, each contributing its share
to the common interest.
It is in the interest of all to make
the United Nations an effective and influential agent of
constructive change in a turbulent world.
The United Nations
If the United Nations is to fulfil its Charter obligations
it must deal with the root causes of conflicts and instability.
The mechanisms and processes at its disposal for achieving
that goal must be strengthened and refined. In this context,
there are four areas which demand immediate attention:
first, international cooperation to combat poverty; secondly,
strengthening of the role of the United Nations in the
maintenance of international peace and security; thirdly,
progressive reduction and finally elimination of weapons of
mass destruction and, fourthly, universalization of human
rights.
Democracy and human rights are easily eroded when
widespread poverty prevails. Poverty undermines human
dignity, contributes
to environmental degradation and
undermines the cohesion of a society. It also poses a lasting
threat to peace and stability. The search for collective
security cannot, therefore, be separated from the sustained
efforts to improve the economic and social conditions of
the Rio
peoples everywhere. Agenda 21, adopted at
Conference on Environment and Development,
is a
comprehensive blueprint for sustainable development. To
turn that vision into reality there is an urgent need for
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
resumption of the North-South dialogue and for economic
cooperation between developing nations.
The President returned to the Chair.
In
this
I
forward
to
look
context,
the
Secretary-General’s agenda for development. We sincerely
hope that an agenda for development will form the basis of
accelerating international cooperation to the mutual benefit
of developed and developing countries alike. The upcoming
International Conference on Population and Development,
the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth
World Conference on Women should also be occasions to
focus on the human dimensions of socio-economic problems.
In speaking of social and economic issues, I recall the
initiative taken by countries of South Asia under the aegis of
the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation to
work together for the cause of children. That initiative
provided the major motivation for the holding of the World
Summit for Children. The mid-decade review in 1995 must
be an occasion to evaluate the implementation of the
promises the international community made to children at
the World Summit. Despite conflicting demands on our
limited resources, we in Nepal are allocating an increasing
portion of our national budget to child and maternal health
and welfare and on other basic human-services areas. We
are in favour of
for matching resource
allocations by donor countries for such national initiatives.
the proposal
The dramatic increase in the demands on and
heightened expectations of the United Nations is nowhere
more compelling than in the area of peace and security.
With experience spanning over 35 years in United Nations
missions, Nepal welcomes the expansion in the mandates of
peace-keeping operations. The recent successes of the
missions in El Salvador and Cambodia are testimony to the
potential of a United Nations operation with a clearly
defined and practicable mandate. The joint venture of the
United Nations and the Organization of American States in
Haiti is breaking newer ground in international cooperation
to restore a democratically elected Government and to
protect and promote human rights.
Without minimizing the enormity of the problems the
United Nations has to take into account in Somalia, I feel
that the emphasis on military action will overshadow the
larger goal of the mission in that country.
I urge the
redoubling of efforts to seek lasting political solutions to the
problems in Somalia.
I appeal
to the parties concerned in Bosnia and
Herzegovina to respond immediately to the successive
resolutions of the Security Council and halt the senseless
carnage of innocent people. The continuing tragedy in the
territory of the former Yugoslavia presents a test-case for
viable cooperation between the United Nations and regional
organizations in the maintenance of peace and security.
Nepal will continue to support the further development
of preventive diplomacy by the Secretary-General and the
Security Council. In the maintenance of peace and security,
the implementation of enforcement measures under the
Charter should be the step of last resort.
It should be the
exception to rather than the rule of the game. The real
strength of collective security lies in the ability to implement
the provisions of the Charter relating to peaceful settlement
of disputes.
The grounds for
the intervention of
the Security
Council have also raised questions of consistency. As the
principal organ entrusted with the maintenance of
international peace and security, the Council must act in an
even-handed and impartial manner and must be perceived as
doing so.
The recent comments of the Secretary-General on the
financial situation of the Organization should be a cause of
concern to all. Investments in peace-keeping, peacemaking
and preventive diplomacy are investments in collective
stability. It is not possible for the United Nations to play its
role without adequate resources.
Along with other non-aligned countries, Nepal has
always subscribed to the call for a more active United
Nations role in arms control and disarmament. Since mutual
fear is the source of any arms race, confidence-building
measures must be seriously pursued in order to achieve the
goals of disarmament. Nations should pursue a culture of
ensuring security at the lowest possible level of armaments.
Successes in bilateral negotiations on nuclear weapons,
conventional forces in Europe and chemical weapons prove
that it is a feasible goal.
Nepal deems it extremely significant
that all five
nuclear-weapon States are now parties to the nuclear
non-proliferation Treaty. We have long advocated an early
conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Meaningful
progress in this area will have important implications for the
review and extension Conference on the non-proliferation
Treaty.
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
13
Protection of human rights has emerged as an important
factor in the development of friendly relations among States.
The United Nations must spare no effort in establishing an
international norm of human rights. The World Conference
on Human Rights was a major step in this direction. Human
rights cannot be secure without a universal conscience on the
part of all peoples to uphold each other’s rights in full
understanding of the just demands of the individual, the
community, the State and the international order. Human
rights cannot be secured unless there is an absolute freedom
from fear from any source. There is a direct correlation
between the status of human rights, the democratic process
and an evolution of a culture of peaceful settlement of
disputes. The threat to peace is the greatest when human
rights are denied.
The world is at a vital turning-point. The old order has
come to an end while the new has yet to take shape. While
some old contradictions persist and new ones appear, some
unexpected bright areas have also dawned. Nepal welcomes
the agreement reached by the negotiating parties in South
Africa to hold an election in April 1994. We share the deep
concern of the international community over the continued
violence which threatens the peaceful transition of South
Africa to a non-racial democratic society.
Nepal has long enjoyed friendship with both the Israeli
and the Palestinian peoples. We welcome the Declaration of
Principles as well as the exchange of letters of mutual
recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization (PLO).
The statesmanship shown by the
leaders of Israel and the PLO promises a new beginning for
the Middle East and, indeed, the world. We earnestly hope
that this historic breakthrough will facilitate the search for a
comprehensive and lasting solution of the Middle East
problem.
As I come towards the end of my statement, I wish to
extend to you, Sir, my hearty congratulations on your
election to the high office of President of the General
Assembly at a time when the United Nations is passing
through a very important phase in its history.
I also take
this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation to
Mr. Stoyan Ganev for his stewardship of the forty-seventh
session of the General Assembly.
I must also take this opportunity to pay our warmest
tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
His efforts to reform and strengthen the United Nations with
the courage of conviction have been universally appreciated.
We are impressed by his vision and dynamism, which are
necessary for the United Nations to cope with the new
realities and challenges of our time. Mr. Boutros-Ghali was
a well-known figure in my country even before he became
the Secretary-General of the United Nations. We consider
him to be a sincere friend of Nepal.
Although small
in military and economic strength,
Nepal is fully alive to its responsibilities as a Member of
this world Organization. Nepal will not hesitate to take an
independent and objective stand in favour of larger good and
justice. For us, the Charter of the United Nations captures
I take this opportunity to
the highest ideals of mankind.
rededicate
and the
Government of Nepal to the United Nations.
commitment of
the
the people
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Nepal for the
statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Girija Prasad Koirala, Prime Minister and
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Nepal, was
escorted from the rostrum.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
time in the history of
Mr. Barrow (Belize): The delegation of Belize takes
immense pride, Sir, in your election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. This is the
first
the Organization that a
Commonwealth Caribbean national has been chosen to
superintend the deliberations of the General Assembly. Your
election is, thus, not only the highest tribute that could have
been paid you, but is also the accomplishment of your
country, Guyana,
the wider Commonwealth
Caribbean. As a part of the latter, Belize may be forgiven
for any note of self-congratulation that creeps into the
encomiums we heap upon you today.
and of
In that regard - and we say this only slightly with
tongue in cheek - we note that almost your first act of
wisdom upon assuming office was the selection of a very
excellent Belizean as presidential spokesperson.
Let me at
this time also record my delegation’s
appreciation of the most able manner in which the outgoing
President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, conducted the work of the
General Assembly at its forty-seventh session.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In addition, may I take the opportunity to welcome
formally to the United Nations family the six countries - the
Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Andorra -
which have joined the Organization this year.
Allow me also to offer, on behalf of the people and the
Government of Belize, our deep sympathy to the people and
the Government of India for the heavy death toll and
considerable material
loss caused by the devastating
earthquake on 30 September.
through peaceful elections,
Over the five years since I last appeared in this Hall,
many things have changed in the world. In Belize we, too,
have experienced change. On 30 June 1993 the people of
Belize voted,
for a new
government. Once more we have demonstrated the stability
of our democratic institutions and the maturity of our polity.
In an age when the so-called global
trend towards
democratization seems at times to be a process that moves
one step forward and two steps back, we in Belize are justly
proud of our record.
In these five years, some of the changes occurring in
the global prospect have been favourable, and many of these
are attributable to this Organization, which, under
its
distinguished Secretary-General, has been striving to fulfil
the mandate of its Charter and find ways and means to cope
with problems not necessarily envisaged by the framers of
that Charter.
In the brief tour d’horizon of the international scene
which I shall undertake today, the first matter I wish to
address is peace and security. We are very gratified by the
positive developments that have occurred in several places.
Uppermost in our minds is our own subregion of Central
America. There we have been heartened by the movement
of several of our neighbours towards reconciliation and
social justice.
In particular, we note with satisfaction that the brief
hiccup of the events in the Republic of Guatemala in May
and June does not appear to have seriously flawed that
country’s efforts at permanent redemocratization. We are
happy that the new government there has publicly confirmed
Guatemala’s recognition of sovereign and independent
Belize. Diplomatic relations between our two countries can
once again proceed apace; and we shall continue the work
for the preservation of bilateral and regional security and the
search for a lasting solution to the issues that still bedevil us.
In accordance with the principles enunciated by this
Organization, such a solution must be on the basis of mutual
for peace,
the rights of both countries to
respect
self-determination and for the integrity of each other’s land
and sea territory.
for
In the Caribbean we have hopes that the long-suffering
people of Haiti will be rewarded by the return of its
legitimate government.
Recent developments in South Africa are clearly very
encouraging, and we are confident of the success of the
transition to majority rule, which will be heralded by the
non-racial elections scheduled for April 1994.
Then, in the midst of continued strife in the Middle
East, we believe we see positive signs of the way forward
with the dramatic opening between the people of Palestine
and the State of Israel. At long last there seems a real
possibility of
to self-
determination coexisting with the State of Israel’s right to
safe and secure borders.
the Palestinian people’s
right
We welcome the finalization of the demarcation of the
boundary between Kuwait and Iraq, which was accomplished
by the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission on
20 May 1993. We also welcome the adoption by the
Security Council of resolution 833 (1993),
in which it
guaranteed the inviolability of the boundary between the two
States.
Encouraging, too, has been the consolidation of the
broad consultative mechanisms for confidence-building,
security, human rights and cooperation originally established
for Europe in the Helsinki Conference and now substantially
expanded. Such structures have considerable value, and we
understand that our colleagues in the countries members of
the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) are
in the process of developing a similar mechanism with a
distinct ASEAN character. Above all, we commend the
Secretary-General for his vision in "An Agenda for Peace".
Despite all these promising developments, however, the
overall outlook for world security remains bleak. In far too
many places the peace is disrupted by fratricidal struggle.
Everywhere the crushing burden of armaments - to employ
a famous expression used by President Roosevelt and
Winston Churchill in 1941 - bids to drive our planet off its
established course. The Second World War was partly
fought, and this great Organization was largely established,
to eradicate programmes of ethnic genocide. Now, nearly
50 years after the birth of the United Nations, we are
experiencing several such programmes on a massive scale.
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
15
I urge that during this session we take the first major
step to right these imbalances, which affect global peace and
security. Just as the Helsinki model is one way forward, we
hope that another is the International Tribunal on war
crimes, the judges of which this Assembly recently elected.
Among other steps which might be taken are the
following: Governments must forswear profiteering from
the sale or sponsorship of the sale of armaments. There
must be an expansion of regional and subregional systems of
cooperation and coordination in the cognate areas of
security, narcotics interdiction and counter-terrorism. This
body must make firm recommendations for the development
and rigid enforcement of domestic neutrality laws
everywhere. Likewise,
law relating to
neutrality must be thoroughly modernized to proscribe and
severely punish trafficking in arms. This must be not only
in situations of belligerency, but also in cases of insurgency,
rebellion and other armed conflict, both internal and
international. The recent salutary reinvigoration of this
Organization’s peace-keeping mechanisms must be furthered.
the international
This is a time when the United Nations is increasingly
being called upon to act as a peacemaker in troubled and
turbulent regions of the world.
It is to the Organization’s
credit
it has risen to the occasion by undertaking
complex and challenqinq assignments around the globe.
that
There was a time when United Nations peace-keeping
forces could successfully be composed of contingents from
the so-called third world countries. But recent experience
has now shown that large and difficult operations of the
Bosnia and Somalia type stand little chance of success
without the active participation of major Powers.
In this
context, we welcome President Clinton’s speech in this
session of the Assembly, offering to commit United States
troops to the United Nations Bosnia operation under certain
conditions.
the Charter, which calls
Yet there is still a role for small States. And we in
Belize would be prepared to offer training facilities to the
Organization as a contribution to increasing the efficiency of
peace-keeping forces. This would be in accordance with
Article 43 of
for member
Governments to make available to the Security Council
"assistance and facilities ... necessary for the purpose of
maintaining international peace and security". Needless to
say, we would be happy to make our contribution in concert
with other countries in our area. Either pre-existing regional
security mechanisms and/or new bilateral and multilateral
arrangements might serve as the vehicle for small country
efforts at cooperation.
As a backdrop to all this, the provisions of the Charter
relative to peacemaking must be strengthened. In particular,
a standing United Nations force under unified United
Nations command should be considered and the Military
Staff Committee must be made fully operational. In keeping
with the Secretary-General’s quest to improve efficiencies,
strict military discipline of United Nations forces must be
established and there must be improved coordination at
Headquarters and in the field.
The most important of the steps which my Government
believes should be taken is reform of the Security Council.
It is self-evident that in these times of turmoil and increased
United Nations activity the agenda item of equitable
representation on, and increase in membership of,
the
Council looms large. Belize has recently submitted a paper
to the Secretary-General, detailing our
ideas on this
all-important topic.
I wish to turn next to international cooperation.
I
believe that there exists an international legal obligation to
cooperate in good faith.
It is anticipated in the Articles on
principles and purposes and other provisions of the United
Nations Charter, and is reiterated in such Declarations as the
friendly relations Declaration of 1970 and the 1974 Charter
of Economic Rights and Duties of States. I will address the
question of economic cooperation at a later stage in my
remarks. At this point, I wish to train the spotlight on
cooperation in the area of ecospheric concerns.
ratification of
As regards the ecosphere, Belize considers that the
the United Nations
early and universal
Convention on the Law of
the Sea is of paramount
importance. It will be recalled that the Convention imposes
myriad duties of cooperation. In that way, the weak, and not
only the strong and mighty, will inherit the Earth and its
waters.
In that
intensive
We have seen two recent examples of successful efforts
at cooperation in the ecosphere. The first involves the ozone
cooperation by
layer.
Governments and by private industry, pursuant
to the
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone
Layer, as amended, has led to a significant decline in the
rate of expansion of the hole in the ozone layer.
connection,
My other example is the cooperation of foreign and
domestic agencies with the Governments of my country,
Belize and Costa Rica, which has contributed to substantial
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
success in our conservation efforts. Cognizant of these
successes, we appeal for intensive cooperation in all aspects
of the ecosphere, including the termination of ocean and
terrestrial dumping,
the halt of desertification and the
reduction of the causes of global warming. We also hope for
a concrete programme of action at next April’s Global
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island
Developing States to be held in Barbados.
One area in which we must redouble our efforts at
cooperation is the moral environment. In numerous Member
countries the people have clamoured for cessation of corrupt
practices in government and business, both national and
international. Now, we are extremely happy to observe that
the Secretary-General has established the new post of
Assistant
and
Investigations.
In so doing, he has made it clear that the
moral environment of our organization must be sanitized.
We must support him in this endeavour. At the same time,
we lend our voice to those who call for the accountability of
all inter-governmental organizations to independent auditors
and inspectors.
Secretary-General
Inspections
for
My Government attaches the greatest importance to
integrity and decency in public life. We applaud such
international efforts as the forthcoming anti-corruption
conference to be held in Mexico later this year to plan
national strategies for fighting corruption. And we in Belize
have recently taken our own action to strengthen the legal
infrastructure necessary to banish the scourge of political
corruption. In just three months since taking office, we have
introduced four major pieces of legislation in our Parliament.
They are the Prevention of Corruption in Public Life Bill,
the Ombudsman Bill, the Contractor General Bill and the
Freedom of Information Bill. This last, as far as we can
determine,
its kind in the entire
Commonwealth Carribean. These measures bear testimony
to my Government’s determination to wage a total war on
corruption and to make Belize the model of a just, honest
and democratic society.
is the only one of
I
to issues
turn next
relating to international
development and economic relations. For over 30 years, the
Organization has painstakingly sought to spell out that the
right to development and the duty of the privileged to assist
the underprivileged are firmly based in international law and
public policies. This right and duty were part of the
"freedom from want" principle, one of
the founding
principles of the 1942 wartime coalition that was the first to
be called the "United Nations". Freedom from want had
nothing to do with ideology and great-Power
rivalry.
ideological,
Nevertheless,
there have been dramatic
geopolitical and economic changes during the late 1980s. As
these changes have occurred, needs have increased but
resources have not. Yet we have heard rumours that various
initiatives to bring economic justice to this planet are no
longer necessary.
I respectfully suggest that nothing could be further from
the truth. In fact, such controversial movements as the one
to establish a new international economic order were merely,
as we have intimated,
the reiteration of an established
principle. That is, those initiatives were the renewal of an
order, not a new order. Furthermore, in the original Somalia
intervention, we see strong confirmation of the continuing
vitality of the principle of "freedom from want" - for all of
us will remember that the avowed objective of the current
exercises in that beleaguered country was to bring food,
comfort and succour to its suffering people.
Thus, I believe, we are seeing the reaffirmation of
freedom from want as a human right. At the same time, I
would urge the Assembly to take firm steps to ensure that
food no longer be used as a weapon by parties to civil and
international conflicts.
In all this we are acutely aware of the shift in world
trading patterns brought on by the formation of new trading
blocs. The most recent and prominent of these are of course
the North American Free Trade Agreement among Mexico,
the United States of America and Canada, and the Single
European Market. And so, in some areas at least, the march
towards wider trade liberalization and true market economy
moves inexorably forward. But we in the South also see that
our economies and life as we know them are threatened by
these developments;
our preferential access to markets
steadily erodes and our terms of trade consistently worsen.
What we are in fact concerned about here is the
pressure to open up our borders prematurely to the free flow
of agricultural and other products from the more developed
countries.
It is a bitter pill to swallow, even as we watch
the protectionist squabbling among developed countries that
has prevented the successful conclusion of the Uruguay
Round of Multilateral trade negotiations under the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Of course, it
would also result in massive economic dislocation followed
inevitably by social and political unrest in our countries.
Nevertheless, we acknowledge that we must in the long
run identify alternative commodities that we can produce
efficiently and with comparative advantage.
I must stress,
however, that we are hard pressed to find the resources
required for comprehensive research, development and
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
17
promotion programmes for new products. We must be
afforded an adequate transition period to adjust our
economic and production activities. I would wish, therefore,
to take this opportunity to call on the countries members of
the Organization
and
Development to identify and dedicate significant financial
and technical
in
developing alternative products. Of course, current trends in
official and private financial flows to the developing world
suggest that this is a cry that will fall largely on deaf ears.
Economic Cooperation
small countries
to assist
resources
for
On a more positive note, permit me at this juncture to
applaud the apparent resolve of the United Nations organs
for development assistance to improve their efforts at
coordination.
In this connection, I single out for special
mention the Secretary- General’s ongoing formulation of an
agenda for development and the determined spirit of the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
to
strengthen its mission and revamp its machinery. This,
however, is but a beginning of what must be a crusade for
development.
The last set of issues I shall address are social, political,
cultural and humanitarian. First, we must do much more to
ensure that women are accorded their proper rights in the
domestic and international orders. No longer should we
merely echo the litany that women’s development
is
indispensable for economic development. We must ensure
rights in all spheres.
that women are accorded equal
Furthermore,
equal
representation in our political, social, cultural and other
institutions. Again, I take note of the recent efforts of this
Organization to improve the position of women in the upper
echelons of the United Nations Secretariat.
they must
urgently
given
be
As regards refugees, it would be disingenuous to call
for their enhanced protection without acknowledging the
severe problems which host countries increasingly face. For
instance, we in Belize do the best we can, but overcrowding
a slender raft - even in a relative haven of calm - can bring
dire consequences to all its occupants.
Nevertheless, I am happy to report to this Assembly
that Belize’s record of human rights is good and worthy of
emulation. Our Constitution is founded on the principles of
justice and respect for the fundamental freedoms of all our
people, and our laws and practices fully conform to the
mandate of our Constitution.
The international
scourge of narcotics continues
unabated. Again, we add our voices to those who urge that
at least the same degree of attention be given to curbing
demand and improving public health, as to addressing
supply. Narcotics, terrorism and urban violence are all gross
manifestations of an awful cancer seeking to engulf our
planet. One clear contributor to this is the mass and
universal culture, or what passes for culture, purveyed by the
moguls of television. While we welcome the utility of the
new global news channels, we lament the other, baneful,
influences to which our people are subjected by some
aspects of worldwide programming. It is high time that this
Organization tackle this problem.
Finally, as regards human riqhts and humanitarian law,
even over the brief period of five years since I last addressed
this body, we have witnessed significant expansion in the
activities of the Commission on Human Rights and the
bodies established under
the various United Nations
instruments for the protection of fundamental rights and
freedoms. We have seen this Organization, on invitation,
participate in monitoring and conducting elections and, in the
unprecedented case of Cambodia, actually administer a
country prior to the holding of democratic elections. Yet the
basic rights of human beings in numerous places are still
seriously impaired. Many of those who should protect, in
fact violate. And conferences, tribunals and conventions
bring scarce relief.
In the realm of humanitarian law, we are hopeful that
the International Tribunal on war crimes will set a healthy
precedent. Nevertheless, we view with increasing concern
the flouting of the Geneva regime, especially the 1977
Protocols applicable to various forms of civil strife. That
regime is the other side of the coin of human rights.
Whichever side comes up when that coin is tossed, it comes
up tarnished.
Clearly, despite a somewhat mixed record, the United
Nations is no moribund organization. Nevertheless, as it
nears its golden jubilee, it does require additional impetus,
a more focused consensus for reform and revitalization. Let
all of us, then, as we go about the business of this forty-
eighth session, bear well in mind the words of the Preamble
to the Charter and accordingly pledge our rededication to the
task of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of
war, reaffirming faith in fundamental human rights and
equality, and creating the moral climate in which justice and
international law will finally prevail.
Mr. ALLAGANY (Saudi Arabia) (interpretation from
Arabic):
It is with pleasure that I convey to Your Excellency at the
outset of my statement, our sincerest congratulations on your
election to the Presidency of the forty-eighth session of the
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
General Assembly of the United Nations. Your election
reflects appreciation for you personally, as well as for the
positive role played by your country in the international
arena.
I wish you every success in the pursuit of your
mission.
On this occasion, I also wish to congratulate your
predecessor for his effective guidance of the affairs of the
General Assembly at its previous session.
I also wish to acknowledge the sincere efforts
constantly exerted by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
to enhance the
prospects for peace and reduce the elements of tension
which prevail in many parts of the world.
I am also pleased to welcome, on behalf of the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, all the States that have joined our
Organization to participate, along with all other Member
States, in realizing the noble objectives towards which we all
strive.
This session of the General Assembly takes place
amidst important developments in the international arena that
require us to strive to conclude our work with successful
resolutions on the problems and crises we face. These
resolutions must be within the context of our efforts to
benefit from the opportunities provided by the emergence of
what has come to be known as the new international order.
We have all contributed, through the United Nations to
establishing the new international order, the foundations of
which are based on the principles enshrined in the United
Nations Charter and inherent in international law. This new
order respects the sovereignty and independence of States
and guarantees the inviolability of their international borders.
It guarantees the territorial integrity of States and rejects
interference in their domestic affairs.
It is based on equity
among nations, small and large, rich and poor, and its goal
is to replace war and destruction with cooperation between
nations and peoples. The new international order strives for
the peaceful resolution of conflict and rejects the use of
force or coercion. It operates to preserve the dignity of man
and to spread security, stability, prosperity and development
to all corners of our world.
The emergence of this new order has been a source of
hope and optimism for
the international community,
particularly when serious and constructive international
cooperation succeeded in confronting the Iraqi aggression
against
the State of Kuwait. Today, however, we are
saddened and pained by the inability of this order to confront
a State Member of our
the aggression committed against the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina,
international
Organization. This crisis,
if not resolved in a manner
compatible with the principles of the new world order, will
cause this new order to lose its credibility and effectiveness.
We therefore call for enhancing the role of the United
Nations
and
maintenance of peace to one of active and effective
peacemaking.
from one of mere
crisis management
A general overview of the current international situation
reveals that there remain pockets of tension which threaten
security and stability in many regions of the world. With
the persistence of such challenges, the role of the United
Nations is becoming increasingly important, not only for the
maintenance of peace, but as an effective means for creating
conditions conducive to peace and stability throughout the
world. Without a doubt, the creation of such conditions will
be made much easier if the opportunities for cooperation
between nations are increased and support for the United
Nations is strengthened so that
the Organization may
function in a manner that would guarantee that no country
commits aggression against another or threatens its security,
sovereignty or territorial integrity.
The honourable role played by the United Nations more
than three years ago when it stood firmly in the face of
Iraq’s aggression against
its neighbour Kuwait, and the
resolutions it adopted led in the end to repelling aggression
and restoring legality to Kuwait the peace-loving nation.
This positive role portrays our expectations of
this
international body in the present circumstances. We hope
that it will continue to be played and ask that it be enhanced
by efforts to ensure the complete implementation of all
Security Council resolutions regarding the Iraqi regime,
which continues to flout international legality. Two years
after the liberation of Kuwait, the Baghdad regime continues
to resort to threats and false allegations against Kuwait.
It
continues to delay efforts to implement United Nations
resolutions and rejects all international obligations. We
point in particular to the Iraqi regime’s objections to the
recommendations of
Iraq-Kuwait
Boundary Demarcation Commission and its rejection of
Security Council resolution 833 (1993), as well as its
continued detention of Kuwaiti hostages and prisoners of
war. This regime has arrogated the right, on the basis of
sovereignty, to starve and abuse its people and subject Iraq
to dangers which threaten its unity and security.
It falsely
blames the international community for the dangers and
tragedies to which Iraq and its people have become subject.
The surest way of facing up to the threats this regime poses
the United Nations
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
19
to the region as a whole, and to the Iraqi people is to fully
and completely implement Security Council resolutions.
The Declaration of Principles between the Palestine
Liberation Organization and the Israeli Government, signed
in Washington, D.C. on 13 September 1993, has raised
expectations and hopes that a just and permanent settlement
can be found to the Arab-Israeli conflict, which has persisted
for far too long. This development, though representing
only an agreement on autonomy in the occupied Palestinian
territories, beginning with Gaza and Jericho, nevertheless
represents a step towards the establishment of a just,
comprehensive and permanent peace between the Arab
States and Israel. A solution to the Palestinian question will
obviously contribute to a just and comprehensive settlement
of the Arab-Israeli conflict as it is the core issue of that
conflict.
the Arabs
The warm welcome with which the Palestinian-Israeli
agreement was received within Palestinian, Arab and
international circles genuinely and clearly reflects the desire
of
and
comprehensive peace in the Middle East.
It also indicates
the seriousness with which the Arab side has pursued the
current peace process, which was launched in Madrid in
October 1991 under the sponsorship of the United States of
America and the Russian Federation.
to establish a permanent,
just
As we witness today the optimism generated by the
Palestinian-Israeli agreement, we cannot but feel that it is
incumbent upon the international community to lend support
to the progress that has been achieved in this area by
providing the necessary economic and developmental
assistance required to build the administrative structures
needed to make the agreement on self-rule succeed. At the
same time, it is also incumbent upon us to work diligently
to exploit the momentum generated by this agreement in
furthering the cause of peace.
The consolidation of this step requires the achievement
of tangible and positive results in the areas of negotiation
between Palestinians and Israelis; at the forefront of those
are the issue of Al-Quds, which is an integral part of the
occupied Arab territories,
the return of
Palestinian refugees, and the settlements built by Israel in the
occupied Arab territories contrary to international law and
the Geneva Conventions. At
the same time, genuine
progress along all the other bilateral negotiating tracks is
needed.
the issue of
The issue of the occupied Arab Syrian Golan Heights
it is governed by the principle of respect for
is clear:
international borders. The maintenance of security is not
feasible, as the realities of contemporary history teach us,
through the occupation of territory by force, but rather
through the establishment of peace. Thus, peace on this
front will be achieved only by a complete Israeli withdrawal
from the occupied Golan Heights.
Likewise,
the Lebanese-Israeli negotiating track is
governed by United Nations Security Council resolution
425 (1978), which clearly calls
immediate,
unconditional withdrawal of Israeli forces from all Lebanese
territory.
the
for
I wish to express the appreciation of the Government of
the Custodian of the two holy mosques to President Clinton
for his prudent initiative in calling for, and hosting, an
international donors’ conference to solicit political and
financial support for the Palestinians as they prepare to
assume the responsibilities of self-rule in the occupied
I also wish to take this opportunity to express
territories.
our pleasure at
that
conference.
the positive results achieved at
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has given, and continues
to give, its full support in all possible forms to the Middle
East peace process since it began in Madrid.
It has
participated effectively in the multilateral
talks, and
genuinely hopes that
lead to a just,
permanent and comprehensive solution to the Palestinian
question and the Arab conflict with Israel on the basis of
United Nations Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and
338 (1973).
the process will
Despite the financial burdens the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia bears in building an advanced economy in which the
expectations of its citizens for a better future are fulfilled,
and despite its current international obligations at a time of
difficulty in the international economic system, the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia participated in the international donors’
conference
in
Washington.
recently concluded its meetings
that
to
providing
substantial
The Custodian of the two holy mosques has bestowed
upon me the honour of announcing the Kingdom’s
commitment
developmental
assistance to improve the infrastructures in the West Bank
and Gaza Strip in coordination and cooperation with the
World Bank’s special five-year programme for the occupied
territories. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will participate,
through the Saudi development
to the tune of
$100 million for the year 1994. We believe that
this
improve the living conditions of our
assistance will
fund,
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Palestinian brethren in the occupied Arab territories and
contribute positively to the peace process.
their aggression, and to continue their abhorrent policy of
"ethnic cleansing" without fear of retribution.
The Lebanese Government has made great strides in its
efforts to implement the Taif Accords, and has taken the
necessary political and constitutional measures to achieve
this aim. We must continue our support for the efforts of
the legitimate Lebanese authorities and contribute to the
process of reconstruction in Lebanon.
In this regard, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia appeals to
the international community to help Lebanon by all available
means in order to enable its Government to continue moving
forward with the process of
reconstruction and allow
Lebanon to regain its material and cultural position.
It is important to reiterate the need, if this goal is to be
achieved, for an Israeli commitment to implement, fully and
unconditionally, United Nations Security Council resolution
425 (1978), which requires Israel to withdraw from Lebanese
territory to enable the Lebanese Government to extend its
legal authority over all Lebanon.
We should like to emphasize our desire for the Middle
East region to obtain its legitimate share of security, peace
and stability so that it is able to direct all its energies
towards development and devote all its resources towards
prosperity for its people.
is
a
important
One of the most
tasks facing us in this
respect is to strive towards the elimination of weapons of
mass destruction in the Middle East. The Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia
signatory to the Convention on the
non-proliferation of chemical weapons and the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We continue to
believe that the goal of making the Middle East a region free
of all kinds of weapons of mass destruction, whether
nuclear, chemical or biological, will be realized only when
all States in the region, including Israel, refrain from the
production, stockpiling, or possession of any kind of weapon
of mass destruction.
The
situation in the Republic of Bosnia
and
Herzegovina is being aggravated by the continuation of a
genocidal war waged by Serb forces, with the support of
Serbia and Montenegro, against that young Republic. The
continuing tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
which has resulted in the death of thousands of innocent
civilians and the displacement of a large portion of its
citizens, would not have occurred were it not for the
apparent indifference of the international community. This
attitude allowed the forces of aggression to benefit from
This
feeble stand on the part
the international
community, particularly the European countries, was
reflected in the inability to implement comprehensively the
resolutions of the London Conference, upon which we had
rested great hopes.
It is also reflected in the failure of the
Vance-Owen plan and the collapse of the subsequent Geneva
talks on refugees.
The international community’s dereliction of
its
responsibilities vis-á-vis the Serb aggression has emboldened
the Croats to embark upon a similar course of making gains
by means of force and coercion.
resolutions calling for
Against such a backdrop, it was strange indeed that
when Croatia was targeted by Serbian aggression,
the
international community, and especially the European
nations, were quick to stand by Croatia and provide military
assistance that contributed to the success of international
efforts to achieve a peaceful settlement, whereas the
international community’s feeble stance in the case of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and its failure to implement the
international
the imposition of
economic sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro, have
deprived that young Republic of the means of exercising its
legitimate right to self-defence. Those resolutions and the
sanctions they call for remained dead letter and were not
seriously implemented until it was too late, after the Serbs
had rejected the Vance-Owen Plan, which the Bosnians and
Croats had accepted. What really shocks and amazes us is
that this war of aggression is being waged on the European
soil whereas history teaches us that such wars on that soil
have never been limited wars but have always overspilled
beyond the borders. However, no one seems to be paying
any attention to those object-lessons.
While we hope that the history of Europe’s wars will
not repeat itself, we hope that the solutions that are being
proposed do not turn out to be the seeds of future conflicts
and disputes. We hope that the international community will
give serious consideration to the demands of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina so that it may be saved from any
repetition of
the policies of aggression and "ethnic
cleansing". The geographical demands of that young nation
should be satisfied by granting it access to the sea as well as
providing it with the means of legitimate self-defence, in
consonance with the principles of
the United Nations
Charter.
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
21
The principled stand by the people and Government of
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in support of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina emanates from their strong and total
adherence
for
international law and not from any religious fanaticism or
ethnic affinity. It is the same principled stand that was taken
by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in support of Kuwait when
it fell victim to the Iraqi regime’s aggression.
legality and respect
to international
Somalia continues to be in the grip of instability and
political chaos, with all the attendant acts of violence and
bloodshed, despite all the efforts deployed to help that nation
out of its plight. International efforts, during the Conference
for National Reconciliation held at Addis Ababa, focused on
the preservation of the Somali State and the maintenance of
its independence and territorial integrity. Unfortunately, the
required steps have not been taken for
the serious
implementation of that Agreement. The role of the United
Nations has been limited to the distribution of humanitarian
assistance to those in need at a time when the role it is
expected to play within the new world order is to contribute
to peacemaking and to the stabilization of the Somali State.
should help to establish a Somali
Such measures
Government
that can extend its authority throughout
Somalia.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has made a number of
attempts to contain the conflict in Somalia and has tried to
bring about national
reconciliation among the various
It will continue to deploy efforts to stop the
factions.
bloodshed and to provide humanitarian assistance and relief.
We support the Secretary-General’s recommendations in his
report to the Security Council, on the means of helping re-
establish Somalia’s constitutional institutions and on the
efforts needed to reach national reconciliation and to rebuild
Somalia.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia stood by the fraternal
people of Afghanistan throughout their jihad and celebrated
with them their victory over the forces of brutal occupation
in the struggle for restoring their national identity. The
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia spared no effort in working for
reconciliation when the infighting started between the
various mujahidin factions. Those efforts were crowned
with the signing of the Mecca Agreement and the initiation
of
A National
Government
that combined all factions of the Afghan
mujahidin was established. We take this opportunity to urge
our brethren in Afghanistan to comply with the terms of the
agreement so that Afghanistan may begin to move towards
reconstruction and development and regain its place and role
in the international community.
implementation.
towards
steps
its
It must be noted that that part of the world continues to
suffer as a result of the problem of Jammu and Kashmir,
which continues to be an element of instability in the region.
The Government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques
follows with great concern the ongoing violence there. We
are keen on finding a solution on the basis of United Nations
resolutions
has
overshadowed the relations of the two neighbours, India and
Pakistan.
problem that
long-standing
this
to
Among the other conflicts in Asia I would refer to the
tragic developments resulting from the worsening conflict
between two United Nations Member States, the Republic of
Azerbaijan and the Republic of Armenia. That conflict has
recently resulted in the occupation by Armenia of parts of
Azerbaijan. We consider that occupation to be a breach of
the principle of the peaceful resolution of conflicts, and
emphasize the importance of withdrawal by Armenia’s
forces from Azerbaijan’s territory in order to transfer that
issue to the negotiating table with the aim of reaching a
peaceful and just settlement that would ensure the legitimate
rights of the people of Azerbaijan.
Our joint and serious efforts towards consolidating the
underpinnings of the new world order aim at making it
possible to address the issues of development and the
creation of an international economic environment in which
financial resources would be diverted from arms races to
economic and social development. Those efforts are in
keeping with our ambitions and the aspirations of our
peoples for a better world of peace, prosperity and security.
Such an enterprise requires the cooperation of the developed
industrial nations by opening their markets to the products
of the developing nations, the elimination of protectionist
measures, ensuring an early successful outcome to the
Uruguay Round of multilateral trade talks and finding an
urgent, rapid solution to the debt problem. On the other
hand,
cooperation between the developing
countries themselves is a paramount issue and represents a
fundamental tool for consolidating international economic
growth.
economic
My Government attaches great importance to issues
relating to the world economic system. The Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia represents a State open to the world,
interacting with all the trends and developments that affect
it. Thus, we are keen on preserving the health and strength
of the world economy, and we are concerned by the
disruptions
and
development. It is on that basis that the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia is participating positively in the ongoing discussions
on energy and environment. We have shouldered our
and turmoil
course
affect
that
its
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
confidence, and it is a society undergoing evolution and
significant reform. Its reforms are guided by the Custodian
of the Two Holy Mosques, King Fahd Bin Abdul-Aiz, and
embodied in the basic laws of governance, the Charter of the
Majlis al-Shura - the consultative council - and the laws of
the provinces. These laws place upon the State the primary
responsibility for
in
accordance with the Islamic Shariah and determine the
relationship between ruler and ruled on the basis of
brotherhood, consultation, loyalty and cooperation.
the protection of human rights
I am pleased to inform this body that the members of
the Majlis al-Shura and those of the provincial councils have
been named. These institutions are now making serious
preparations to embark upon their appointed tasks and to
serve their faith, their King, and their nation. This important
step in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s development paves
the way for participation by Saudi citizens in sharing the
responsibility for confidently building a promising and
hopeful future.
responsibilities in this regard and have played an active role
in international discussions to find a workable and balanced
solution to global warming based on proven scientific
evidence. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is convinced that
the future of this world, its prosperity, and the well-being of
its inhabitants, depend on a clear understanding of the
environmental problems that
face us all and on fully
understanding the consequences of the policies adopted in
dealing with those problems.
This requires delicate balancing of the burdens and
commitments of each and every State in addressing problems
of the environment. Due consideration should be given also
to the situation of every energy producing or consumer
developing country and the effects of environmental policies
on the economic growth of those countries.
Such an
approach will certainly contribute to the achievement of
comprehensive development and to the betterment of our
peoples’ standards of living so that they may all enjoy
prosperity, peace, security and stability.
The current
international circumstances, resulting from the ending of the
cold war, together with the progress achieved in arms control
and reductions of conventional weapons afford us a rare
opportunity for channelling the financial windfall towards
solving the problems of development and economic
backwardness.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been at the forefront
of Islamic States that have adhered to the Cairo Declaration
on Human Rights in Islam, issued by the Organization of the
Islamic Conference on 5 August 1990.
This Cairo
Declaration should be regarded as a tributary providing the
proper foundation for positive and practical international
cooperation and flowing into the main stream of universal
support for human rights and freedoms.
Most particularly, the Declaration expresses the will of
over 1 billion people, which by any measure grants it a
universal character. While the principles and objectives of
human rights are universal in nature, their application must
take into consideration the diversity of societies and their
historical, cultural, and religious backgrounds and legal
systems. We should not rush to the creation of mechanisms
that would only deepen differences and disregard the sort of
sensitivities that became noticeable during the World
Conference on Human Rights that was held recently in
Vienna.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is a developing society
firmly based on the rules that constitute the pillars of Islamic
civilization.
It is a society that has firmly set itself to face
up to the challenges of our times with determination and
Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993
23
The political and economic challenges we face which
abound on this session’s agenda, put a great burden of
responsibility on us all towards our peoples and nations.
Our common future will depend on the way we face up to
those challenges.
In the light of the current international
situation and of the emergence of a new international
outlook which rejects fanaticism and ossification and
confirms a desire for openness and progress, we harbour
great hopes that we shall be able to surmount
those
challenges. In so doing, we must take into consideration the
fact that the new international order will not be able to
provide us with the peace, justice and development we desire
unless we give it the opportunity to do just that.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
