United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
51st
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 10 November 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 15 (continued)
First, in accordance with General Assembly resolution
264 (III), a State which is a party to the Statute of the
International Court of Justice but not a Member of the
United Nations shall participate in the General Assembly in
electing the members of the Court in the same manner as the
States Members of the United Nations. Therefore, on this
occasion the representatives of Nauru and Switzerland may
participate in the election.
ELECTIONS TO FILL VACANCIES IN PRINCIPAL
ORGANS:
(c) ELECTION OF FIVE MEMBERS OF THE
INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE
Secondly, I should like to confirm that at this time the
Security Council, independently of the General Assembly, is
also proceeding to elect five members of the Court. This
procedure is in accordance with Article 8 of the Statute of
the Court, which provides that
(i) MEMORANDUM BY THE SECRETARY-
GENERAL (A/48/432-S/26489)
(ii) LIST OF CANDIDATES
(A/48/433/Rev.l-
S/26490/Rev.1)
(iii) CURRICULA VITAE (A/48/440-S/26497 and
Corr.1)
The PRESIDENT:
The General Assembly will
proceed to the election of five members of the International
Court of Justice for a nine-year term commencing on
6 February 1994. The terms of office of the following
Judges expire the previous day: Mr. Shigeru Oda,
Mr. Ni Zhengyu, Mr. Jens Evensen, Mr. Bola Ajibola and
Mr. Géza Herczegh.
In connection with the election, I should like to bring
the following matters to the attention of the members of the
General Assembly.
"The General Assembly and the Security Council
shall proceed independently of one another to elect the
members of the Court."
Accordingly, the results of the voting in the General
Assembly will not be communicated to the Security Council
until five candidates have obtained the required majority in
the Assembly.
Finally, I should like to draw the attention of the
Assembly to the documents relating to the election. The list
of candidates which have been nominated by national groups
is to be found in document A/48/433/Rev.l-S/26490/Rev.1.
The curricula vitae of the candidates are to be found in
document A/48/440-S/26497 and Corr.l. The Assembly also
has before it document A/48/432-S/26489 containing a
memorandum by the Secretary-General on the present
composition of the Court and the procedure to be followed
in the Assembly and in the Security Council with regard to
the election.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87117 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.51
12 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In accordance with Article 10, paragraph 1, of the
Statute of the Court, those candidates who obtain an absolute
majority of votes both in the General Assembly and in the
Security Council shall be considered as elected.
The consistent practice of the United Nations has been
to interpret the words "absolute majority" as meaning a
majority of all electors whether or not they vote or are
allowed to vote. The electors in the General Assembly are
all 184 Member States together with the two non-member
States which are parties to the Statute of the Court, namely
Nauru and Switzerland,
for a total of 186 electors.
Accordingly, for the present election, 94 votes constitute an
absolute majority in the General Assembly.
The General Assembly will now proceed to a secret
ballot. If on the first ballot fewer than five candidates obtain
an absolute majority it will be necessary to proceed to other
ballots until five candidates have obtained that majority.
Pursuant to the decision taken by the General Assembly at
its 915th meeting, on 16 November 1960, these ballots shall
be unrestricted.
I should like to remind representatives that, pursuant to
rule 88 of the rules of procedure:
"After the President has announced the beginning of
voting, no representative shall
the voting
except on a point of order in connection with the actual
conduct of the voting."
interrupt
Therefore, any announcements such as those concerning
withdrawals of candidatures should be made prior to the
commencement of the voting process, that is to say, the
distribution of the ballot papers.
May I
take it
that
the Assembly agrees to the
procedures I have just outlined? I see no objection.
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT:
Ballot papers will now be
distributed and I ask members to take their seats to allow for
their smooth distribution.
The voting process has now begun.
Representatives are requested to use only the ballot
papers that have been distributed. Only those candidates
whose names appear on the ballot papers are eligible.
Representatives will
indicate the five - I repeat, five -
candidates for whom they wish to vote by placing crosses at
the left of their names on the ballot papers. Ballot papers on
which more than five names are marked will be considered
invalid. Votes may be cast only for those whose names
appear on the ballot papers.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Yahya (Brunei
Darussalam), Mrs. Valle Camino (Cuba), Ms. Lehto
(Finland), Mr. Suziedelis (Lithuania) and Ms. Iiyambo
(Namibia) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 10:55 a.m. and
resumed at 12:20 p.m.
The PRESIDENT: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Mr. Shigeru Oda (Japan)
Mr. Carl-August Fleischhauer (Germany)
Mr. Jiuyong Shi (China)
Mr. Géza Herczegh (Hungary)
Mr. José Luis Jesus (Cape Verde)
Mr. Abdul G. Koroma (Sierra Leone)
Mr. Samuel K. B. Asante (Ghana)
Mr. Alexander Yankov (Bulgaria)
Mr. Krzysztof Skubiszewski (Poland)
Mr. Rodger M. A. Chongwe (Zambia)
Mr. Volodymyr A. Vassylenko (Ukraine)
Mr. Andronico O. Adede (Kenya)
Mr. Nasrat Mounla Hayder (Syrian Arab
Republic)
Mr. Francis M. Ssekandi (Uganda)
Mr. Enrique P. Syquia (Philippines)
179
0
179
1
178
94
163
152
147
76
72
68
39
33
32
24
22
18
15
7
6
The PRESIDENT: The following three candidates
have obtained an absolute majority in the Assembly:
Mr. Carl-August Fleischhauer, Mr. Shigeru Oda
and
Mr. Jiuyong Shi.
The Assembly will have to proceed to another
unrestricted ballot to fill the remaining two vacancies.
Before proceeding to hold another round of balloting,
I should like to advise representatives that I have been
informed that Mr. Volodymyr Vassylenko of the Ukraine
51st meeting - Wednesday, 10 November l993
3
wishes to withdraw as a candidate. His name has therefore
been deleted from the ballot paper.
ORGANIZATION OF WORK
The PRESIDENT: Before suspending the meeting for
a short while, I should like to inform members of a change
in the programme of work of the General Assembly.
assistance
The introduction of agenda item 41, "Emergency
international
and
reconstruction of war-stricken Afghanistan", originally
scheduled
to
Wednesday, 24 November, in the morning, as the second
item.
tomorrow morning
postponed
for
peace,
normalcy
for
is
Tomorrow morning the Assembly will instead take up
agenda items 16 (a), "Election of twenty-nine members of
the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment
Programme"; 16 (b), "Election of twelve members of the
World Food Council"; and 16 (c), "Election of
twenty
members
and
Coordination"; and agenda item 17 (g), "Appointment of
members of the Committee on Conferences".
the Committee
Programme
for
of
the work of
I should also like to announce, concerning agenda
item 53, "Revitalization of
the General
Assembly", that I have been conducting consultations in
order to determine how best to continue work started at
previous sessions, and am now in a position to say that we
will be establishing an informal open-ended working group
with a view to carrying out the tasks set forth in resolution
47/233,
to seek a consensus text before the
conclusion of the current session.
in order
In order to ensure continuity, I have requested the
Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka and the Permanent
Representative of Uganda to serve as co-chairmen of this
informal open-ended working group and thus assist me in
the task of advancing our work towards the revitalization of
the General Assembly.
I would also like to advise representatives that I have
been informed that Mr. Francis M. Ssekandi of Uganda
wishes to withdraw as a candidate.
Once again, I should like to remind representatives that
pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of procedure,
"After the President has announced the beginning of
voting, no representative shall
the voting
except on a point of order in connection with the actual
conduct of the voting."
interrupt
Therefore, any announcement such as those concerning
withdrawals of candidature should be made prior to the
commencement of the voting process, that is to say, the
distribution of the ballot papers.
If there are any such
announcements, now is the time to make them; otherwise we
would have to go through the entire process of revising the
ballot papers.
* * *
Ballot papers will now be distributed. The voting
process has now begun.
All the candidates whose names appear on the ballot
paper are eligible. The names of the three candidates who
have already obtained an absolute majority of votes,
Mr. Carl-August Fleischhauer, Mr. Shigeru Oda,
Mr. Shi Jiuyong, and the names of the two candidates who
have withdrawn their candidatures, Mr. Francis Ssekandi and
Mr. Volodymyr Vassylenko, have been deleted from the
ballot paper.
Once again I would remind delegations that only the
names of two candidates should be marked with a cross.
Any ballot paper on which more than two names are marked
will be declared invalid. Votes may only be cast for those
whose names appear on the ballot papers.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Yahya (Brunei
Darussalam), Mrs. Valle Camino
(Cuba), Ms. Resch
(Finland), Mr. Suziedelis (Lithuania) and Ms. Iiyambo
(Namibia) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The meeting was suspended at 12.55 p.m. and
resumed at 1.30 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 15 (continued)
Therefore, any announcements such as those concerning the
withdrawal of candidatures should be made prior to the
commencement of
the
distribution of the ballot papers. This should facilitate the
election process.
the voting process -
that
is,
ELECTIONS TO FILL VACANCIES IN PRINCIPAL
ORGANS:
I call on the representative of Kenya.
(c) ELECTION OF FIVE MEMBERS OF THE
INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE
(i) MEMORANDUM BY THE SECRETARY-
GENERAL (A/48/432-S/26489)
(ii) LIST OF CANDIDATES (A/48/433/Rev.1-
S/26490/Rev.1)
(iii) CURRICULA VITAE (A/48/440-S/26497 and
Corr.1)
The PRESIDENT: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Mr. Abdul G. Koroma (Sierra Leone)
Mr. Géza Herczegh (Hungary)
Mr. José Luis Jesus (Cape Verde)
Mr. Alexander Yankov (Bulgaria)
Mr. Samuel K. B. Asante (Ghana)
Mr. Krzysztof Skubiszewski (Poland)
Mr. Rodger M. A. Chongwe (Zambia)
Mr. Andronico O. Adede (Kenya)
Mr. Nasrat Munla Hayder (Syrian Arab Republic)
Mr. Enrique P. Syquia (Philippines)
178
1
177
1
176
94
93
87
78
32
22
14
9
5
4
2
The PRESIDENT: Since no candidate has obtained an
absolute majority in this round of balloting, the Assembly
will proceed to another unrestricted ballot
the
remaining two vacancies. However, in view of the lateness
of the hour, I propose that the next round be postponed until
3.30 p.m.
to fill
I should like once again to remind representatives that,
pursuant
to rule 88 of the rules of procedure, after the
President has announced the beginning of voting, no
representative shall interrupt the voting, except on a point of
order in connection with the actual conduct of the voting.
Mr. MUTHAURA (Kenya):
I wish, on behalf of my
delegation, to thank very much all those delegations that
voted for Mr. Adede of Kenya.
We put forward the candidature of Mr. Adede because
we felt very strongly that there was a need to balance the
representation in the International Court of Justice to reflect
our various legal systems.
regard, we were
concerned about the representation of the common law in
Africa.
In that
As we did not obtain the number of votes that would
have secured Mr. Adede’s election to the Court, and as we
are still very far below the required minimum, we have
decided, in consultation with Mr. Adede, to withdraw his
candidature in the interest of securing consensus on a
candidate of the type that we should like to have - that is,
one able to reflect the common-law concerns in Africa.
The PRESIDENT: I take it from the statement of the
candidate
of Kenya
representative
Mr. Andronico O. Adede is withdrawing.
that
the
I call on the representative of Ghana.
Mr. DANKWA (Ghana):
to
delegation’s
Mr. Samuel K. B. Asante.
gratitude
I wish to express the Ghana
those who
for
voted
The candidature of Mr. Asante was put forward for the
purpose of creating an opportunity for a more effective
contribution to the Court - particularly in terms of
representation of the various legal systems. We are all in
agreement about the impeccable credentials of Mr. Asante.
However, having taken part in the process, the delegation of
Ghana has come to the conclusion that Mr. Asante’s
candidature should be withdrawn with a view to enhancing
the prospect of equitable representation on the Court.
It is
our pleasure to facilitate the achievement of that end.
The PRESIDENT: I take it from the statement of the
candidate
representative
Mr. Samuel K. B. Asante is withdrawing.
of Ghana
that
the
I call on the representative of Zambia.
51st meeting - Wednesday, 10 November l993
5
Mr. MUSUKA (Zambia): Zambia put forward the
candidature of Mr. Rodger M. A. Chongwe, a lawyer who
is distinguished not just in our country or in southern Africa
but in the entire continent of Africa and who has served well
in many international organizations.
The International Court of Justice was set up to secure
the peaceful settlement of international disputes in such a
manner as to ensure that litigants are satisfied that justice as
they know it has been done. Like the delegation of Kenya,
we put up a candidate because we knew that the seat being
contested was a common-law seat.
We feel that as the results stand we should support the
candidate who will be able to serve the legal culture which
Ghana, Kenya and Zambia fully support.
We want
to thank sincerely all
those who have
supported our candidate, Mr. Chongwe, and to assure you,
Mr. President, of our full support for the candidate who will
be elected, because we know that he will serve the interests
of the common law and bring about balance within the
International Court of Justice.
We beg to withdraw the name of our candidate,
Mr. Chongwe.
The PRESIDENT: I take it from the statement made
by the representative of Zambia that Mr. Rodger Chongwe
is withdrawing his candidature.
From that statement and the others that have just been
made we have gathered that Mr. Samuel K. B. Asante,
Mr. Rodger Chongwe
have
withdrawn. Those names should therefore be deleted from
the ballot paper.
and Mr. Andronico Adede
To allow time for the preparation of new ballot papers,
I shall now suspend the meeting until 3.30 p.m., when we
shall resume the balloting process.
The meeting was suspended at 1.45 p.m. and resumed
at 3.50 p.m.
In
The PRESIDENT:
the
announcement I made this morning, since no candidate has
obtained an absolute majority in the last round of balloting,
the General Assembly will have to proceed to another
unrestricted ballot to fill the remaining two vacancies.
accordance with
Mr. LOZANOV (Bulgaria): The Bulgarian delegation,
with the consent of Mr. Alexander Yankov, Bulgarian
candidate for election as a member of the International Court
of Justice, and desiring to facilitate the election process and
the proceedings of the current meeting, is announcing the
withdrawal of his candidature.
I should like to take this opportunity to express, on
behalf of my Government and Mr. Yankov, our most sincere
thanks and appreciation to all delegations which have lent
their support to the Bulgarian candidate.
The PRESIDENT: Representatives have heard the
statement made by the representative of Bulgaria. The name
of Mr. Alexander Yankov will therefore be deleted from the
ballot paper. Once again I remind representatives that,
pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of procedure:
"After the President has announced the beginning of
voting, no representative shall
the voting
except on a point of order in connection with the actual
conduct of the voting."
interrupt
Therefore, any announcements such as those concerning the
withdrawal of candidatures should be made prior to the
commencement of the voting process and the distribution of
ballot papers.
Ballot papers will now be distributed.
The voting process has now begun.
All the candidates whose names appear on the ballot
paper are eligible. The names of the four candidates who
have withdrawn
namely
Mr. Andronico Adede, Mr. Samuel K. B. Asante,
Mr. Rodger Chongwe and Mr. Alexander Yankov, have been
deleted from the ballot paper.
candidatures,
their
Again I remind delegations that the names of only two
candidates should be marked with a cross. Any ballot paper
on which more than two names are marked will be
considered invalid. Votes may be cast only for those whose
names appear on the ballot papers.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Yahya (Brunei
(Cuba), Ms. Lehto
Darussalam), Mrs. Valle Camino
(Finland), Mr. Suziedelis (Lithuania) and Ms. Iiyambo
(Namibia) acted as tellers.
I call on the representative of Bulgaria, who wishes to
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
make an announcement.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The meeting was suspended at 4 p.m. and resumed at
5.05 p.m.
The PRESIDENT: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Mr. Abdul G. Koroma (Sierra Leone)
Mr. Géza Herczegh (Hungary)
Mr. José Luis Jesus (Cape Verde)
Mr. Krzysztof Skubiszewski (Poland)
Mr. Nasrat Mounla Hayder (Syrian Arab
Republic)
Mr. Enrique P. Syquia (Philippines)
175
0
175
1
174
94
120
111
81
19
5
0
The PRESIDENT:
Since Mr. Géza Herczegh and
Mr. Abdul Koroma have obtained the required majority, the
following five candidates have now received an absolute
m a j o r i t y
t h e G e n e r a l A s s e m b l y :
Mr. Carl-August Fleischhauer, Mr. Géza Herczegh,
Mr. Abdul Koroma, Mr. Shigeru Oda and Mr. Jiuyong Shi.
i n
I have communicated the result of the vote to the
President of the Security Council, and I have received from
the President of the Council the following letter:
of
the
on
held
Security Council,
"I have the honour to inform you that at the 3309th
meeting
on
10 November 1993 for the purpose of electing five
members of the International Court of Justice for a
term of
6 February 1994,
Mr. Carl-August Fleischhauer, Mr. Géza Herczegh,
Mr. José Luis Jesus, Mr. Shigeru Oda
and
Mr. Jiuyong Shi obtained an absolute majority of
votes."
beginning
office
As a result of the voting which has taken place
independently in the General Assembly and the Security
Council, the following four candidates have obtained an
a b s o l u t e m a j o r i t y
b o d i e s :
Mr. Carl-August Fleischhauer, Mr. Géza Herczegh,
Mr. Shigeru Oda and Mr. Jiuyong Shi. They are therefore
duly elected members of the International Court of Justice to
serve for a nine-year term commencing 6 February 1994. I
take this opportunity to extend to them the congratulations
of the Assembly on their election.
b o t h
i n
In accordance with the provisions of article 11 of the
statute of the Court, it will be necessary to hold a second
meeting to fill the remaining vacancy.
I propose that this
meeting should be adjourned and that the second meeting
should be held immediately to vote on the remaining
vacancy.
The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.
