United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 8 (continued)
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ORGANIZATION
OF WORK: SIXTH REPORT OF THE GENERAL
COMMITTEE (A/48/250/Add.5)
The PRESIDENT: The sixth report (A/48/250/Add.5)
of the General Committee concerns a request by Burundi for
the inclusion in the agenda of the current session of an
additional item entitled "The situation in Burundi".
The General Committee decided to recommend to the
General Assembly that the item should be included in the
agenda.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include in its agenda this additional item?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: The General Committee further
decided to recommend to the Assembly that the item should
be considered directly in plenary meeting.
47th
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 2 November 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
The PRESIDENT: May I also take it
that, as
requested by several Member States, the item should be
given priority for immediate consideration by the Assembly
because of its urgent character?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will thus consider
the item on the situation in Burundi as the last item of this
morning’s meeting.
I should like to inform members that this new item
becomes item 170 of the agenda of the forty-eighth session
of the General Assembly and that the documents reflecting
its inclusion and allocation will be issued tomorrow.
The list of speakers for agenda item 170 is now open.
I should also like to inform members that a draft
resolution on the situation in Burundi will shortly be
available
as
document A/48/L.16.
the General Assembly Hall
in
AGENDA ITEM 21
RETURN OR RESTITUTION OF CULTURAL
PROPERTY TO THE COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN
(a) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
(A/48/466)
May I
take
recommendation?
it
that
the Assembly adopts
this
(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/48/L.15)
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: I call on the representative of Zaire
to introduce draft resolution A/48/L.15.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87056 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.47
23 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. JUMA (Zaire) (interpretation from French): Since
time my delegation has spoken in the
this is the first
Assembly at
to
congratulate you, Sir, on your outstanding election to the
presidency of the General Assembly. Our congratulations
also go to the other members of the Bureau.
this session, we wish at
the outset
The main thrust of my statement is the introduction of
draft
resolution A/48/L.15 on agenda item 21, entitled
"Return or restitution of cultural property to the countries of
origin".
In this connection, my delegation first wishes to
congratulate the Secretary-General on his instructive, concise
and complete report (A/48/466), which we have just read
with great attention. As was done in earlier years, a certain
number of States have sponsored this draft resolution which,
at the initiative of my country, Zaire, is regularly submitted
to Member States for their consideration.
There is no need to prove that work on the item under
consideration has made tangible progress on all continents
and has prompted States to cooperate to a greater degree
towards the progressive implementation of the relevant
resolutions. The cultural and moral nature of the restitution
of cultural property arises from a moral principle capable of
strengthening harmony and international cooperation.
It
endows the matter with an enduring political, economic and
cultural dimension.
Every nation is attached to its artistic values, its culture
and its creative drive and to everything that contributes to
the flowering of its environment. The African States in
particular have often reaffirmed the importance of the
contribution of culture to the definition of societies within
which peoples throughout the world wish to live in harmony.
This reaffirmation is manifest in the Cultural Charter of
Africa.
Mindful of the fact that, during the colonial era and in
the course of the many wars fought between various nations,
the States of the third world endured not only domination
but also and particularly the systematic pillaging of their
artistic works, it is only right that the restitution of this
cultural property should become a part of the historic
liberation process - not only political
and economic
liberation, but cultural as well. This is the reasoning behind
the work undertaken by my country, Zaire, since 1973.
It
also led the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization to launch an enormous operation
aimed at encouraging countries which, one way or another,
had appropriated the artwork or cultural property of other
countries to return them.
My delegation welcomes the positive and tangible
results secured by the Intergovernmental Committee for
Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries
of Origin or Its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation.
the past years is
The list of property restored over
undeniable
draft
resolution A/48/L.15; hence my delegation is once again
submitting a draft resolution on this subject to the General
Assembly for adoption.
importance
proof
the
of
of
Mr. SHAMBOS (Cyprus): An item on the return or
restitution of cultural property to the countries of origin was
first considered by the General Assembly in 1972, but the
theft and removal of objects of cultural and archaeological
significance have a much longer history. And they go on
and on unabated.
the spirit
Even more disturbing is the fact
that, on certain
occasions, desecration and pillage are the order of the day
through conscious attempts to extinguish the cultural heritage
of territories forcibly stripped of their lawful inhabitants or
to distort
identifying the source of cultural
creativity of nations in their evolution through history.
Thousands of cultural treasures end up in foreign museums
and private collections. Others are destroyed in the process
of smuggling, or in the hands of ignorant or unscrupulous
individuals. With the loss of these archaeological objects, a
part of history is also for ever lost to the nation or country
of origin, and to the world in general.
As in the case of other countries,
this constant
haemorrhage of our cultural heritage is the main reason why
my Government has supported, from the very first,
the
inclusion of this item in the agenda. We particularly
appreciate the constant efforts of
the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)
and its
the Intergovernmental
Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to
Its Countries of Origin and Its Restitution in Case of Illicit
Appropriation, for enhancing world awareness and assisting
countries to reclaim their cultural property.
specialized committee,
I should also like to express our sincere appreciation to
the Director-General of UNESCO for the progress report
reproduced in document A/48/466, and to commend him on
his continued efforts to promote the return or restitution of
cultural property to the countries of origin.
in
the
We
note
report
that UNESCO’s
Intergovernmental Committee is presently considering a
number of claims in the context of facilitating sensitive
bilateral negotiations which, it is hoped, will lead to the
eventual repatriation of the cultural properties in question.
We strongly believe that bilateral negotiations, especially
when embarked upon in conjunction with increased
international cooperation, could effectively promote the aims
of the Committee.
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
3
In this respect, it is crucial, whether States act jointly or
individually, that the focus of these efforts should be to
protect artifacts in their original shape and context, restoring
them where necessary to the countries and peoples of their
origin, for the sake of cultural continuity and justice.
Similarly, we welcome the efforts to improve the
existing international conventions for the protection of the
world’s cultural heritage, and we agree that our focus should
be centred on increasing the number of ratifications by
non-party States and on providing technical assistance to
States where there are acute problems of illicit trafficking in
archaeological objects.
We are following with great
interest and high
expectations the negotiations on the UNIDROIT preliminary
draft Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural
Objects, and we hope that this process will be finalized in
the very near future.
We are of the view that special attention should be paid
to the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural
Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. The multiplying
armed conflicts that mankind is being faced with nowadays
have
and
plundering of archaeological objects and sites. Being
ourselves victims of invasion and occupation, we are well
aware of the wanton and systematic looting, vandalism and
devastation that follow such events.
indiscriminate
highlighted
the
destruction
The richness and variety of the cultural heritage of
Cyprus are renowned all over the world. The soil of Cyprus
never ceases to reveal further testimony to the millennial
passage of history over
three
continents. Cyprus is the focal point for many renowned
historians
Through meticulous
archaeological excavations, or sometimes by chance, an
impressive diversity of
remnants from an even more
impressive cultural heritage is regularly yielded up.
this vital crossroads of
archaeologists.
and
The wealth of our cultural heritage has, however, also
attracted unscrupulous collectors and treasure hunters who
illegally remove priceless cultural treasures of Cyprus. The
famous Kanakaria mosaics are an internationally celebrated
case in point and for the return of stolen and plundered
artifacts. In this case, the Republic of Cyprus brought legal
action in the United States for the recovery of four priceless
Byzantine mosaics, crudely hacked and stolen from the apse
of the sixth-century church of Kanakaria in the occupied part
of Cyprus and sold to an American art dealer.
returned to their homeland and their rightful owner. The
Court said that it took this decision, not only because the
mosaics belonged in Cyprus, but as a reminder that greed
and callous disregard for the property, history and culture of
others could not be countenanced either by it or by the world
community.
Referring to words of Lord Byron, and awarding
possession of these valuable mosaics to Cyprus, Chief Judge
Bauer continued:
"Byron, writing of the Turkish invasion of Corinth
in 1715, could as well have been describing the many
churches and monuments that today lie in ruins on
Cyprus, a small war-torn island in the eastern corner of
the Mediterranean Sea. As Byron’s poem laments, war
can reduce our grandest and most sacred temples to
mere ’fragments of stone’.
Only the lowest of
scoundrels attempt
to reap personal gain from this
collective loss. Those who plundered the churches and
monuments of war-torn Cyprus, hoarded their relics
away, and are now smuggling and selling them for
large sums, are just such blackguards. The Republic of
Cyprus, with diligent effort, has been able to locate
several of these stolen antiquities; items of vast cultural,
religious (and monetary) value."
This decision is not only a precedent-setting case for
the return of stolen antiquities to countries of origin, but is
also a vindication of the position of countries suffering such
losses while under foreign occupation.
Notwithstanding, however, the encouraging outcome of
this case, my Government remains concerned about
the
continuing losses that the cultural heritage of Cyprus has
been suffering since 1974. We receive reports, almost on a
daily basis, of destruction and pilferage. The most severe
destruction has been suffered by churches and monasteries.
Over 100 have been stripped of their sacred objects and
looted of their icons, frescoes and mosaics.
We strongly condemn these desecrations and the
ongoing destruction, and we appeal for resolute action on the
part of the international community to preserve a cultural
heritage that casts a long shadow from the dawn of history
and over modern civilization, and to preserve the bleeding
soul and living memory of generation after generation of its
rightful owners, the people who created that heritage by the
sweat of their brows all down the centuries on the land of
Cyprus until this very day.
Following a lengthy judicial process, the United States
Court of Appeal confirmed that the mosaics before it were
of great intrinsic beauty, that they were the virtually unique
remnants of an earlier artistic period and that they should be
Let me stress in this connection that the Government of
Cyprus and other institutions and individuals have spared no
effort or money in seeking to recover - even buy
back - whatever Cypriot antiquities could be salvaged. We
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
return
cultural
of many
despite
significant
the
to these institutions and to international
are grateful
organizations for their cooperation and assistance. They
have undertaken a world-wide campaign for the discovery
treasures.
and
Nevertheless,
of many
organizations - including UNESCO, the International Council
of Museums and Sites, the International Criminal Police
Organization (INTERPOL), Europa Nostra and the Council
of Europe - and devoted curators and scholars throughout the
world, we still have no control over the fate of our cultural
heritage in our own territory in the occupied part of the
Republic.
assistance
This area contains the largest part of the island’s
archaeological and historical sites and religious monuments.
These include the Venetian walled city of Famagusta; the
seaport of Kyrenia, with its medieval
the
archaeological sites of Salamis, Mycenaean Engomi, Vouni
Palace and Soli; the three medieval castles of the Kyrenia
range, St. Hilarion, Buffavento and Cantara Castles; churches
and monasteries built between the fourth and nineteenth
centuries; and neolithic, Bronze Age, Phoenician, Greek and
Roman sites - literally hundreds of places of great historical
interest and value.
castle;
the international community of
It is our hope that the United Nations, through its
specialized agencies, will continue to contribute to increasing
the awareness of
the
irrevocable damage done to the cultural heritage of
individual countries through plunder and destruction. For,
in the final analysis, the loss of a cultural heritage is indeed
a loss for the global culture, for future generations and for
humanity.
It is a loss for ever.
In conclusion, may I emphasize that we firmly believe
that no conquest of the past, no occupation of the present, no
illicit acquisitions of any sort can justify for long the
withholding or refusal of return or restitution of cultural
property to its rightful owners:
the peoples who were the
creators of that property and their countries of origin, as the
case might be. Neither secular nor divine law would allow
otherwise.
the cry of the
tragedian of old, Euripides, testifies to that in these words:
From the depths of history,
"Foolish is the one who sacks a city, making a desert
of temples, pillaging the tombs, the sanctuaries of the
dead; for he prepares his own doom in times to come."
Mr. BATU (Turkey):As a nation with a rich cultural
heritage, Turkey is particularly pleased that we are again
considering, under agenda item 21, the important issue of the
return or restitution of cultural property to the countries of
origin.
Having taken note of the valuable report (A/48/466) of
the Director-General of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), my
delegation wishes to reaffirm its firm support for the efforts
of that Organization to promote the return or restitution of
cultural property to the countries of origin. The references
in the report to the serious increase in the illicit traffic of
stolen cultural property underscore the need for further
action in this area.
Turkey’s heritage can be traced to many ancient
civilizations. We are the repository of the treasures provided
by these great civilizations. Turkey has thus become a key
target for looters and traffickers in stolen art and antiquities.
As
systematic plundering of our
archaeological sites, many of our cultural treasures have
been unlawfully removed and acquired by museums and
collectors in certain countries.
result of
the
a
It
that
is essential
these properties be located and
returned to us. Indeed, it is critical to the preservation of the
heritage of all art-rich nations that their cultural properties be
preserved in their geographical and natural surroundings and
be available for scientific and archaeological studies in their
proper context. This is the prevalent world view, and we
must accelerate our efforts to accomplish this goal.
As the Director-General’s report observes, much has
been done under the auspices of UNESCO since 1991 to
protect cultural property in its original and natural context
and to repatriate the property illegally taken from countries
of origin. Moreover, as the report notes, Turkey has
initiated bilateral negotiations with the Federal Republic of
Germany for the return of a sphinx from Boguskoy and has
issued two notices of stolen property, one concerning the
theft on 9 December 1990 of 34 antique coins, mostly gold,
from the collection of the Kayseri Museum, and another
concerning the theft of 596 pieces of Iznik ceramic tiles
from the Bayrampasa Turbesi Museum in Istanbul.
While some progress has been made, there can be no
doubt that more should be accomplished at the international
level.
Thus far, cooperation between nations has not
achieved a workable mechanism for dealing with specific
cases of the illicit removal of cultural property from the
countries of origin. As a result, the international traffic in
stolen cultural property proliferates, and the archaeological
treasures of Turkey and other art-rich countries continue to
be at risk of plunder. We must continue to work together to
achieve acceptable measures to accomplish the return and
repatriation of stolen cultural property to the countries of
origin by international action, which the present available
Conventions and Protocols do not provide.
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
5
Unless and until this goal is accomplished, we have no
to address these problems through bilateral
choice but
negotiations and in the courts.
In this area, Turkey has
taken the lead among art-rich nations in seeking redress
through the courts to recover its stolen cultural patrimony.
Our painstaking efforts in this regard have been vindicated,
most recently by the successful resolution of a six-year
lawsuit against the Metropolitan Museum of Art to recover
the fabled "Lydian hoard" antiquities, which have now been
returned to us.
artifacts.
The 363 "Lydian hoard" antiquities returned by the
Metropolitan will be prominently exhibited in the museums
of Istanbul, Ankara and other Turkish cities, together with
some other
a
precedent-setting case and is hopeful that the return of this
priceless collection will help pave the way toward
establishing the rights of all nations to recover stolen artistic
and cultural property and deterring smugglers and traffickers
from further spoliations of ancient treasures in Turkey and
other art-rich States.
Turkey considers
this
as
Turkey is hopeful that it will one day be able to bring
cultural property of the Turkish people home without delay
and the expense of legal action. Until then, it will protect its
rights in the courts whenever and wherever it has to do so.
At the same time, Turkey will continue to contribute to
international efforts to solve this serious problem.
In this
regard, Turkey has, among other things, ratified the 1954
Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in
the Event of Armed Conflict, the 1970 UNESCO Convention
on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit
Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural
Property, and the 1972 Convention concerning the Protection
of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage.
Moreover, Turkey has participated in the negotiations
in the framework of the International Institute for the
Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT) on the preliminary
draft Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural
Objects, most recently at the last meeting of experts held at
Rome in October 1993. We look forward to the diplomatic
conference that will consider the draft Convention next year.
We must, however, caution art-importing nations to give
serious consideration to the concerns expressed by Turkey
and other art-rich nations with respect to compensation,
retroactivity and like issues, so that a document
that
effectively addresses the problem and is acceptable to the
greatest number of nations has a realistic chance of approval.
We urge all nations to work together to ensure, on an
international level, the protection, recovery and return of
stolen and illegally exported archaeological, historical and
cultural property. By preserving our respective cultural
heritages and restoring them to the rightful countries of
origin, we shall best serve the interests of all peoples of the
world for generations to come. We pledge our support to
that process.
Mr. KHANAL (Nepal): Our world is blessed with rich
cultural diversity.
That diversity has inspired human
imagination and creativity of an astounding variety. Respect
for the right of each people to develop its culture and respect
for the dignity and value of each culture across national
boundaries are essential preconditions for the development
of a climate of peace and tolerance. Indeed, as was rightly
stated in the Declaration of the Principles of International
Cultural Cooperation, adopted by the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)
in 1966, reciprocal respect for, and influence of, the variety
and diversity of cultures form a part of the common heritage
of mankind.
Illicit trafficking and appropriation of cultural property
is hence one of the sad developments of modern civilization.
Such criminal acts rob countries of their past. Each piece of
cultural property is an essential part of the heritage of the
country of origin. Illegal and clandestine uprooting destroys
the symbolic bond between a creation of the human mind
and its place of origin. As a result, mankind as a whole
loses an essential part of the heritage of its civilization.
Since 1973 the General Assembly has been considering
this agenda item. International cooperation for the restitution
or return of cultural property without charge is the minimum
just reparation for the damage done. One welcome result of
this initiative has been closer coordination between the
General Assembly and UNESCO in efforts to halt this traffic
and to effect the restitution of cultural property.
done
by UNESCO through
The 1970 UNESCO Convention on the Means of
Prohibiting and Preventing the Illegal Import, Export and
Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property is a major
instrument
in this area. My delegation appreciates the
valuable work
its
Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of
Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution
in Case of Illicit Appropriation, of which Nepal
is a
member.
the General
Assembly, the Director-General of UNESCO submitted an
exhaustive study describing the achievements of
the
Intergovernmental Committee. My delegation appreciates
the updated report of the Director-General of UNESCO,
which has been transmitted to the General Assembly in
document A/48/466.
the forty-sixth session of
At
My country, Nepal, is situated at the crossroads of two
of the most ancient civilizations. Nepal itself is the home of
a uniquely fascinating and rich cultural diversity. We are
proud of our cultural heritage, which attracts visitors from all
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
over the world. The three cities of the Kathmandu valley
are renowned for the richness of their architecture, sculpture,
paintings and manuscripts.
the artistic
monuments of the Kathmandu valley is clear from their
designation by UNESCO as the cultural heritage of mankind.
The items of our cultural heritage continue to be used today
in community and family rites and ceremonies.
The value of
and
illicit
traffic.
and metalwork,
It is therefore deeply saddening to see our ethnic and
folkloric objects, our religious statues, paintings, intricate
woodwork
our manuscripts
systematically plundered. Every community in Nepal has
been affected by this
His Majesty’s
Government has been taking strong measures to counter this
illegal activity. However, governmental action alone is not
enough to stop this nefarious business. We appeal for
cooperation in drawing up systematic inventories of the
cultural property in our country and of our cultural property
abroad.
This could be an important step towards the
preservation of our cultural heritage and towards the return
or restitution of works of art that have been removed from
Nepal. It might also be helpful to start thinking in terms of
punitive compensation in case of damage to cultural property
owing to illicit traffic.
Nepal has been working with other countries to counter
the serious increase in illicit traffic. In that regard, I wish to
make particular mention of the regional workshop held in
1992 in Thailand in cooperation with UNESCO.
It was
attended by participants from 15 Asia-Pacific countries and
observers and representatives from the International Criminal
Police Organization (INTERPOL), the Customs Cooperation
Council and the International Council of Museums. The
workshop gave the participants an opportunity to exchange
information about their national experiences and common
problems, including those related to effects of tourism.
My delegation fully agrees with the view that
dissemination of information and a campaign of education in
both developed and developing countries are crucial
in
raising public awareness of this important matter. Nepal
appreciates the efforts of UNESCO in that direction, and we
urge even greater efforts in the days to come. We strongly
condemn illicit
just as we
strongly advocate adherence to the principle of restitution
and return. Nepal stands ready to cooperate with all
countries in efforts to preserve and protect
the cultural
heritage of mankind.
traffic in cultural property,
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to propose that the
list of speakers in the debate on this agenda item be now
closed.
It was so decided.
Mr. CAMACHO OMISTE (Bolivia)
(interpretation
from Spanish): Bolivia possesses vast archeological, ethnic,
historical and artistic wealth that comes, in large part, from
a
important
pre-Columbian indigenous tradition that endures today.
encompassing
diversity
cultural
an
The marginalization and subjugation suffered by the
indigenous cultures through several centuries have not
prevented the continued existence of
important human
cultures that keep intact invaluable traditions and customs in
defence of their identity.
Here I should like to speak about the specific instance
of one of my country’s indigenous communities. The
community of Coroma, in the central region of Bolivia,
defends its way of life as a means of keeping faith with its
ancestral culture and of resisting misguided definitions of
progress.
One of the central elements in Coroma’s life is the
religious festivals, in which the entire population takes part.
The people display ancient ceremonial weavings of great
artistic value that depict their ancestors and serve a cohesive
function for their social organization.
In 1978, during the annual celebration held on
1 November, a group of international traffickers managed to
take out of the community complete records of the textiles
exhibited. Subsequently, through middlemen, they replaced
the best pieces and took them out of the country as
handicrafts, thus circumventing the laws regarding Bolivia’s
cultural heritage.
Fortunately, the leaders of the community had written
inventories of the textiles and records of all visitors to the
region, which made it possible to make reports to the legal
authorities. As a result, in 1988 the Customs authorities of
the United States of America seized about 700 pieces, of
incalculable value, some of which were to be displayed at a
festival in San Francisco, California.
After more than five years of litigation and negotiations,
which included the signing of a bilateral agreement between
Bolivia and the United States, 43 of the textiles were
returned to their community of origin,
in view of the
pre-eminent role they play in social, political and religious
life there. The rest of the material seized was handed over
to the traffickers, and it was not possible to set a judicial
precedent. What is more, the dealer involved has initiated
legal action against
the community of Coroma and the
Government of the United States, demanding the signing of
an agreement that would prevent the legitimate owners from
recovering their
Judicial proceedings,
initially decided in favour of Bolivia, are under way in
textile heritage.
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
7
Canada with a view to achieving the recovery of other
ancient textiles of great artistic and historical value.
Bolivia wishes to take this opportunity to thank the
authorities of the United States and of Canada for what they
have done to date. Nevertheless, my Government is of the
view that there is more to be done, since the archeological,
historical, ethnological and artistic heritage of our nation
continues to be subjected to intensive plunder that has
reached alarming proportions.
We have specific information about displays and sales,
in certain cities of Germany and England, of ancient Andean
textiles
that have passed through the United States.
Accordingly, we ask the countries that are signatories of the
United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) Convention of 1970 that have also
signed bilateral accords prohibiting the import of cultural
property to study the possibility also of limiting the export
from the co-signing country of objects of this type that
might, for whatever reason, be found in their territory.
Bolivia appeals to the parties to the 1970 Convention to
take measures to prohibit and impede the illegal import,
export and transfer of cultural property, and invites other
countries to become parties to that Convention. Bolivia
looks forward to the completion of legal proceedings for the
recovery and return of illegally exported cultural property,
and requests that museums, both public and private, and art
collectors be urged to ascertain the origin and legitimacy of
ownership of pieces before making any acquisition.
Bolivia also deems it necessary, above and beyond
bilateral agreements that might be reached, that joint action
be taken focusing,
through the domestic legislation of
individual countries, on respect
for the prohibition on
exporting and importing property considered to be part of a
national heritage, as Canada has done.
Diversity also involves a reassessment of the traditional
and indigenous cultures of our countries, which are often
adversely affected by certain aspects of the process of
change. This applies to native communities that suffer the
constant theft of their historic, artistic and religious heritage
by international
traffickers who sell ancient ceremonial
objects in various world capitals, without the industrialized
nations taking preventive measures. We need to take a firm
stand to safeguard our archaeological, historic, ethnological
and artistic wealth. The United Nations should play a
decisive role in protecting the cultural property of our
peoples.
Bolivia is a co-sponsor of
the draft
resolution
(A/48/L.15) before the Assembly.
Mr. OUCH (Cambodia) (interpretation from French):
As this is the first occasion on which I have addressed the
Assembly, allow me first, on behalf of the delegation of the
Kingdom of Cambodia,
to offer you, Sir, my warmest
congratulations on your election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at this forty-eighth session.
I am firmly
convinced that under your leadership, and in view of your
extensive diplomatic experience, the work of this session
will be crowned with success. You may be assured of the
full cooperation of the delegation of
the Kingdom of
Cambodia.
It is an honour and a privilege for me to address the
Assembly and make our contribution to consideration of
agenda
of
22 October 1991.
item 21,
resolution
pursuant
to
46/10
It is well known that Cambodia is a country with a
great many archaeological monuments and treasures and
more than 1,000 sites whose magnificent stone and brick
edifices rival each other in beauty.
I should like to avail
myself of this solemn occasion to alert all the friendly States
Members of the United Nations, far and near, and all the
international organizations concerned of the great harm done
to, and the danger of destruction of, art objects of the Khmer
culture - a situation which each day grows more serious.
Despite the difficult circumstances Cambodia has passed
through, the protection of those art objects has continually
been one of
the international
community and of the relevant international organizations.
I should not like to miss this opportunity to express, on
behalf of the Royal Government of Cambodia and all the
Cambodian people, our deepest gratitude for the timely and
generous assistance of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and Japan,
India, France, Poland and Hungary in helping to maintain,
preserve and protect Cambodia’s cultural heritage.
the major concerns of
The sad events of more than 20 years have not only
destroyed Cambodia’s economic and human resources but
have also considerably impoverished its cultural resources.
Most of the monuments which are part of the archaeological
site of Angkor, the seventh wonder of the world, spread over
more than 200 square kilometres, were subjected to
plundering, theft, vandalism and clandestine archaeological
digs, all of which were facilitated by war and the unsafe
conditions in the region. Hundreds of extremely valuable
statues disappeared, and these stolen art objects have
recently appeared on the international art market. This
considerable loss gravely harms the cultural patrimony as a
whole - the patrimony not only of Cambodia but of all
mankind. The Angkor site has, since December 1992, been
listed as part of the world’s cultural patrimony. As a
signatory to the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and
Preventing the Illicit
Import, Export and Transfer of
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Ownership of Cultural Property (Paris 1970) - the so-called
1970 Convention - the Kingdom of Cambodia continually
takes necessary and urgent measures in close cooperation
with UNESCO and the international community to ensure
better protection against plundering. In this context, the
Royal Government of Cambodia will soon submit to our
National Assembly a draft law on managing the national site
of Angkor. Article 1 of the law reads as follows:
"The Angkor site, a part of the world’s patrimony, is
built on Khmer national territory. The improvement of
this site is declared to be a national priority."
In the same spirit, UNESCO organized two very
important workshops, in February 1992 at Jomtien, Thailand
and in July 1993 at Phnom Penh, Cambodia, with the
participation of 15 Asian countries, experts from UNESCO,
INTERPOL, the International Council of Museums, police
and customs officials, and representatives of the Ecole
Française de l’Extrême Orient, to exchange information and
opinions on the measures to be taken against
theft,
clandestine archaeological digs and the trafficking of cultural
objects, with a view to training Cambodian specialists in
various techniques such as the preparation of inventories of
cultural objects, police investigations, customs searches,
organization of guard services, electronic security measures
in museums and at the sites, and legislative measures.
I take this opportunity to appeal to the international
community, pursuant to article 7 of the 1970 Convention, for
its full cooperation against the illicit trafficking of Khmer art
objects.
the
following proposals made by His Royal Highness
Sdech Krom Loung Norodom Ranariddh,
Prime
Minister of the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia,
to the General Assembly on 4 October 1993:
In this spirit, I have the honour to recall
First
to adopt
"In order to recover these valuable cultural properties,
we appeal to all countries which export such goods and
through which they are transported ...
the
following steps to help us. First, they should prevent
national museums
from
acquiring any antiquities which are native to the
Kingdom of Cambodia. Secondly, they should ban the
import of these cultural properties as soon as they are
legally listed in the inventories of Khmer national
patrimony,
legally licensed by the
competent Cambodian authorities for export purposes.
Thirdly, they should take all necessary steps to ensure
that antique dealers and merchants of cultural resources
assist the Royal Government of Cambodia in recovering
and repatriating those cultural
illegally
exported from the Kingdom of Cambodia." (Official
Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Plenary Meetings, 15th meeting, p. 8.)
if they are not
and similar
institutions
treasures
countries of origin,
and totally endorses
My delegation agrees with the report of the Director-
General of UNESCO on the action to be carried out by that
organization for the return and restitution of art objects to
their
the
recommendations in draft resolution A/48/L.15, submitted to
the General Assembly for adoption. We once again affirm
the determination of the Government of the Kingdom of
Cambodia to combat these wrongs in close cooperation with
the international community. We are firmly convinced that
the measures mentioned in the draft resolution and the
aforementioned Convention will be applied by all countries
and will encourage all countries which import art objects, or
through which such objects pass, and which have not yet
ratified the 1970 Convention to do so.
Mr. DROBNJAK (Croatia): The Republic of Croatia
is speaking in this discussion by the General Assembly of
agenda item 21, "Return or restitution of cultural property to
the countries of origin" for the following reasons:
The cultural property of my country was pillaged during
the period of the aggression by the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) against the Republic of
Croatia. Even today, Croatian cities and cultural monuments
are daily subjected to indiscriminatory attacks originating
from the occupied territories. Parts of Croatia’s cultural
heritage have been taken outside the country’s boundaries
and are still unlawfully kept in Serbia and Montenegro or
are under the control of Serbian authorities in third countries.
The most serious example of this followed the utter
destruction of Vukovar, a Croatian city bordering Serbia.
After its valiant defenders had been overwhelmed by four
months of siege, constant bombardment and armoured
attacks and many of them had been summarily executed by
the Yugoslav People’s Army - an event at present under
investigation by the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) and the commission of experts that
is
investigating war crimes in the former Yugoslavia - the
occupying forces entered underground vaults to collect and
steal priceless works of art belonging to the City Museum of
Vukovar and several private collections. All those treasures
were taken outside the Croatian borders, to Beograd, Novi
Sad and Subotica in Serbia.
Furthermore, Belgrade
authorities shamelessly attempted to show part of those
treasures at an exhibition in Paris in May 1992.
The ownership of the stolen pieces of art is beyond
dispute: even the Government of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia admitted at the time that the items "belong to the
family Paunovic, Dr. Antun Bauer,
the Vukovar City
Museum and the Vukovar Gallery of the Art Treasure".
It
is clear that the property was taken out of the country
without the consent of its owners or the relevant authorities
of the Republic of Croatia, after the occupation of Vukovar.
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
9
the Belgrade
Compounding their shameless behaviour,
authorities then requested the Committee of the Security
to resolution 724 (1991)
Council established pursuant
concerning Yugoslavia to allow repatriation of
those
treasures to Belgrade.
The Government of the Republic of Croatia stated at
the time that the repatriation requested by the Government
of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia should be denied.
Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia asked that the party
found in illegal possession of the treasures in question be
instructed to submit them to the impartial custody of a
United Nations official designated by the Committee, at
which time the Government of the Republic of Croatia
would file a request for repatriation to the real country of
origin and to its legitimate owners. Unfortunately,
the
Committee found itself incompetent and declined to issue
such an order. However, we believe that the stolen treasures
are still in Paris.
I should like to point out that the former Yugoslavia
was, and the Republic of Croatia is, a party to the 1954
Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the
Event of Armed Conflict and to the Convention on the
Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import,
Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. On
29 November 1991 Croatia logged the first in a series of
communications
to the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) concerning
the pillage of treasures from Vukovar. My Government asks
that
the Belgrade authorities finally comply with their
international obligations under those Conventions, and that
all the stolen property be returned to the Republic of Croatia
without delay.
The city of Vukovar is not the only pillaged location in
the Republic of Croatia. There are many others such as
Drnis and Ilok. The destiny of 16 museums and numerous
private and ecclesiastical collections holding more than
200,000 items, which remain cut off in the occupied territory
of Croatia,
It has been
determined with certainty that six of the museums were
completely pillaged by the occupying forces and their
possessions taken away to an unknown location.
largely unknown.
remains
The Serbian aggression has devastated large parts of my
country. The ancient cities of Dubrovnik, Zadar and Sibenik
were heavily shelled and many priceless pieces of art have
been lost to future generations. However, my Government
takes note with appreciation of the report of the Director-
General of UNESCO (A/48/466), hopeful of the definitive
return of all
the stolen treasures and the possible
reconstruction of those damaged or destroyed by Serbian
vandalism.
I should like to take this opportunity to express our
deepest gratitude to UNESCO for the effort in reconstruction
of Dubrovnik and other devastated sites on Croatian
territory.
Mr. BAYART (Mongolia): The Mongolian delegation
has studied with a great deal of attention and interest the
report of the Secretary-General (A/48/466) on item 21,
"Return or restitution of cultural property to the countries of
origin".
We are gratified at the work done and the progress
made since the seventh session of the Intergovernmental
Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to
its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit
Appropriation, held at Athens in April 1991.
As can be seen from the report, various activities have
taken place with a view to promoting bilateral negotiations
and regional cooperation, especially on the reduction of
illicit traffic in cultural property, to preparing inventories of
movable cultural property, and to disseminating information
to the public.
In spite of the work accomplished thus far, one can
hardly overestimate the dimensions and complexities of the
problems and the tasks at hand. There is no doubt that the
issue calls
for close international attention and the
elaboration of sound strategies to deal with the different
aspects of it.
It is in this light that my delegation sees the
importance of a periodic review of the question in the
General Assembly.
My delegation highly commends the work being done
by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) and expresses the hope that its
activities in this important domain will be further expanded.
The question of protecting cultural property and
ensuring its return or restitution to the countries of origin has
gained increased prominence of late. It is especially true in
the case of those countries which, having done away with
ideological impediments, are making strenuous efforts to
revive national identity and restore cultural heritage.
It is
equally true with respect to regions and countries riddled
with wars and ethnic conflicts.
Mongolia, a nation with a centuries-old history and a
great historical and cultural heritage, is today undergoing a
dramatic process of spiritual renewal.
Efforts are being made to restore the cultural and
religious relics destroyed during recent years as a result of
given political and historical circumstances.
In addition,
Mongolia desires to cooperate with other countries and
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
international organizations in locating and returning the
many invaluable cultural artefacts taken away from our
country.
Mongolia has recently become a party to the 1970
Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the
Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural
Property.
In February 1992 Mongolia participated in a
regional workshop at Jomtien, Thailand, on the means of
combating illicit traffic in cultural property.
My delegation wishes to commend the initiation of a
national workshop on measures against
traffic in
cultural property at Phnom Penh, Cambodia. We believe
that similar national workshops could be organized in other
interested countries. Mongolia is willing to cooperate with
UNESCO in this regard.
illicit
The Mongolian delegation strongly supports the content
of draft resolution A/48/L.15 and is pleased to co-sponsor it.
We hope that the draft resolution will command the widest
possible support of the Assembly.
that
Mrs. ESCHENKO (Ukraine)
(interpretation from
Russian): The fact
the problem of the return or
restitution of cultural property to the countries of origin is
being systematically considered at the United Nations is
evidence of the importance of the issue for international
relations. A large number of international documents
confirm the right of States that have been deprived of their
cultural property as a result of colonial or foreign occupation
or crime to have them returned. Members of
the
international community are urged to take the necessary
steps to create favourable conditions for the realization of
such a right.
On its centuries-long path to independence Ukraine
suffered tremendous losses of its national relics and historic
and cultural property. My country has ratified international
conventions on the return of cultural property and supports
the relevant resolutions of the United Nations General
Assembly.
on
the
In this respect it might be appropriate to refer to the
law of Ukraine entitled "Implementation of International
Agreements
of
international
10 December 1991.
agreements concluded and properly ratified by Ukraine
constitute an integral part of the national
legislation of
Ukraine and are implemented according to the procedures
provided for under national legislation.
of Ukraine",
law,
Territory
Under
that
Ukraine has thereby demonstrated its readiness for
closer cooperation in the preservation of cultural heritage,
and, for its part, hopes for the effective support of the
international community.
of
of
States
of Heads
participants
Independent States
An agreement adopted at the initiative of Ukraine at the
the
meeting
Commonwealth of
in Minsk on
14 February 1992, has as its aim the solving of the problems
involved in this issue. This agreement, in the spirit of
United Nations General Assembly resolutions, could serve as
a legal basis and machinery for returning cultural and
historic property to the countries of origin - a matter which
has become an urgent issue since the disintegration of the
Soviet Union. We regret that the agreement was rejected by
the former parliament of the Russian Federation and we
hope that a new Russian parliament will have a better
understanding of the problem.
In order
further to enhance the Minsk agreement
Ukraine has endorsed the initiative of the Republic of
Belarus to establish an inter-State commission on ownership
rights over cultural property collected in museums, libraries
and archives as well as in storage in the former Soviet
Union.
We deem it important to cooperate on this issue with
the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. To that end
Ukraine’s representatives participated in the seminar on the
prevention of illicit traffic in cultural property that was held
by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) at Budapest last March.
The future of cultural property in the aftermath of the
collapse of empires and great Powers and the establishment
of independent States is an important problem that demands
closer
community.
Consideration of the question and elaboration of up-to-date
recommendations could add impetus to the solution of
problems, including those faced by participants from the
Commonwealth of Independent States.
international
attention
the
by
Ukraine is most interested in the implementation of
international agreements on the return of cultural property
expropriated during the Second World War. We do realize,
however, that the underlying factor in practical work to
return cultural property is bilateral cooperation. Therefore,
provisions on the return of property are included in a large
number of Ukraine’s agreements on cultural cooperation
with different countries. We have already found positive
solutions to the problem of the return of the national
property of other States which has happened, by a stroke of
fate, to be located on Ukrainian territory.
Joint work has already begun with Belarus, Moldova,
Hungary, Great Britain and Germany. We value highly
cooperation with Poland, on whose territory there is a great
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
11
deal of the cultural property of the Ukrainian people,
including our unique national relics.
Contact with the German side in this area has special
significance for Ukraine. As is well known, the Nazis
inflicted terrible damage on Ukraine during the Second
World War. Its losses in art objects alone totalled more than
300,000 items.
and informational publication, Heritage, has begun. Draft
laws concerning the national cultural heritage, the procedures
for the export of cultural property from Ukraine and the
conditions of its transit are being submitted for consideration
by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. In this connection close
links with the International Criminal Police Organization
(INTERPOL) and the Art Loss Register, London, would be
most helpful to us.
I should also like to touch upon our relations with
Russia in this field. That country still has in its possession
unique documents and relics relating to the very core of
Ukraine’s history and statehood - in particular the archives
of the Zaporizhia Cossack Sich, which was liquidated by the
Tsarist Government in 1775. The archives of the Ukrainian
People’s Republic experienced the same sad fate following
the occupation of Kiev by Bolshevik troops in 1918.
for
the first
This year,
time in 60 years, we
commemorated the tragic anniversary of the Great Famine
of 1932-1933 in Ukraine. Thanks to the work of Ukrainian
researchers in the Diaspora and of American historians, we
know today that it was actually genocide committed by the
Stalin regime against
The artificially
induced famine in Ukraine cost
the lives of more than
8 million people. Those horrifying figures need further
clarification, but archives relating to this dark page in our
history are also in Moscow, which makes it difficult for
Ukrainian researchers to investigate the question.
its own people.
Ukraine is placing its hopes on the world community’s
understanding of this problem and on the support of those
who care about the future of spiritual treasure. For every
nation, the return of its cultural property to its native soil
means the return of its national dignity.
The delegation of Ukraine approves the report of the
Secretary-General on this agenda item (A/48/466) and
endorses the proposed draft resolution A/48/L.15, which will
contribute to the solution of this important international
problem and thus strengthen mutual understanding among
States.
that
Mr. EXARCHOS (Greece): When I addressed the
item I
Assembly two years ago on this very important
pointed out
the question of protecting the cultural
property of all nations is more relevant now than in the past
and that respect for each nation’s unique character, most
prominently expressed by its cultural heritage, would
undoubtedly benefit
international
cooperation.
the strengthening of
These are but a few examples - the list of historical
documents alone is far from exhaustive - and there are also
many cultural relics that were removed from Ukraine at
different periods of time. Some art collections, such as that
of Khanenko, a well-known Ukrainian patron of the arts,
were transferred to Moscow as temporary exhibits.
It is,
however, well known that nothing lasts longer than the
temporary. We venture to hope that bilateral consultations
on the issue will be held in the near future and that they will
benefit both peoples and States.
The fate of cultural property detected by customs
services during attempts to smuggle it out of the country is
a separate issue. To coordinate such work a National
Commission on the Return of Cultural Property has been
created under the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At
present nearly 43,000 objects have been registered that were
at various times illegally shipped out of Ukraine. Their
precise or supposed location has been identified. A
comprehensive catalogue of lost cultural property, with
descriptions and photographs of more than 4,000 items, is
being compiled by the Commission.
An automatic information system called "Lost Property"
is being created in Ukraine, and work on an annual scientific
Since then, the goals set by the resolutions adopted by
the General Assembly may not yet have been reached, but
the matter is at least being given serious consideration by the
Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of
Cultural Property to Its Countries of Origin, and we are glad
to note that progress is being made. In this respect we also
welcome the continuing accession of States
to the
Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the
Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural
Property, which has now been signed by 78 countries. We
of course look forward to the accession of more States in the
future.
The latest report of the Secretary-General (A/48/466)
provides us with a useful account of the steps being taken to
curb the illicit traffic in cultural property. We can but
commend the Secretary-General and the Director-General of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) for their unrelenting interest in and
efforts with regard to this important question. We should
also like to express our appreciation for
the efforts
undertaken by a series of international organizations, namely,
the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL),
the International Council of Museums (ICOM), the United
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Information Agency (USIA) and the Customs
States
Cooperation Council.
We also wish to reaffirm the importance we attach to
bilateral cooperation in the attempt to seek and find the
solutions required. This is also an area where we are aiming
at further improvements in relations between countries.
As we had an opportunity to state in an earlier
discussion on this matter, we believe that a proper procedure
should be worked out to take into account the principle of
retroactivity in the restitution of illicitly transferred cultural
property. Is this principle not the essence of the item we are
examining, along with the prevention of
future illicit
transfers of works of art, which constitute the cultural
heritage of the peoples who created them?
In this connection, I should like to reiterate our strong
and continuing interest in the elaboration of a convention on
stolen or illegally exported cultural objects. As a matter of
fact, Greece has actively participated in all the meetings of
the Committee of Experts established by the International
Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT) for
this purpose. The adoption of a convention could constitute
a significant step forward in respect of this very important
and thorny issue.
In this connection, may I refer to the useful work being
done by the Intergovernmental Committee of UNESCO -
especially its first recommendation, with regard to the
restitution of the marbles of the Parthenon. The Committee
"recommends that the Secretariat, with the advice and
assistance of the International Council of Museums,
seek the opinion of a panel of independent experts of
international
studying
conditions in their present location and those specified
in the plans of the new Acropolis Museum, advise the
Committee as to the place where the Parthenon Marbles
could best be situated".
repute which will,
after
We are glad to report
that work on the plans for the
construction of the new Acropolis Museum has been going
forward.
On the other hand, it is with concern that we note the
theft of 64 archaeological objects of priceless value from the
museum on the island of Aegina, near Athens. This is
mentioned
the Secretary-General.
Fortunately, a significant number of bronze Early Mycenaean
objects were later found by the Greek police authorities.
report
of
in
the
Equally disturbing is the fact that 20 very valuable
marble and clay figurines and craters of the Early Cycladic
period are missing from the Archaeological Museum of the
island of Paros. There can be little doubt about their illicit
removal from Greece.
I should like to mention also a
segment of a mosaic floor from the Museum of Sparta,
depicting a head of the Medusa, which was recently located
in a New York private art gallery.
We also note that in the occupied part of the Republic
of Cyprus, where most of the archeological and religious
monuments of the island lie, there has been large-scale
looting by the occupying foreign troops. Apart from the
removal of unique mosaics from the church of Panagia
Kanakaria, to which we referred two years ago, there are the
cases of illicit removals from the Antiphonitis Monastery
and the Chapel of Agios Themonianos and of illegal exports
and sales by smugglers to collectors abroad.
Finally, equally disturbing is the fact that new, and
similar, cases of the theft and illegal export of cultural
objects are reported in so many countries around the world.
Against this pessimistic background, I should like to
draw attention to the fact that the Secretary-General’s report
does make reference to cases of the restitution of stolen
articles. This is an encouraging note. Pieces of pottery
were returned to the Museum of Ancient Corinth in Greece;
the first Panamanian flag is back at the Museo de Historia
in Panama; and stolen paintings were found as a result of
action by West Berlin’s repression-of-crime unit.
However, new cases of the theft and illicit transfer of
cultural property demonstrate clearly the pressing need for
increasingly
specialized
international organizations.
tough measures
from the
May we soon see an end to this sad practice.
The draft
Mrs. JAGAN (Guyana):
resolution
(A/48/L.15) that is before us today, which deals with the
return or restitution of cultural property to the countries of
origin, is of great importance to a large number of countries,
which, through the ages, have been deprived of cultural
property created and/or owned by earlier civilizations. Such
property, in the main, forms the cultural heritage of nations,
as well as the basis of a nation’s history.
The pride and glory of countries in all parts of the
globe is derived, to a great extent, from what their artists,
architects, artisans and workers produced in different periods
of history. To many countries, there is a great sense of loss,
as well as of humiliation, in the thought that irreplaceable
objects of their cultural heritage are to be found in museums,
and even in private collections, in other countries.
The importance of these objects of art and of the
culture of some of the world’s great civilizations is beyond
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
13
estimation. The removal of the cultural property of these
countries indicates the lack of a thorough understanding and
appreciation of their own cultural heritage and denies their
scholars and historians the right to a careful examination and
analysis of their past.
It is to the credit of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) that this
subject has been dealt with and put in its proper perspective
and has been given priority.
in the
materialistic world in which we live, insufficient attention
has been paid to history and culture and to man’s need to
take pride in the knowledge of a rich culture as part of his
heritage.
So frequently,
The concern evinced by UNESCO about this matter has
helped to guide many countries with regard to the provision
of
recovering
treasures of earlier civilizations; and the creation of the
climate for the return of such historical objects.
legislation and inventories; methods of
Also, with the improvement of scientific methods of
recovering cultural property from seabeds and from
excavations carried out with highly technical equipment,
there are now greater possibilities for plundering cultural
property. Thus, proposals in the text of the draft resolution
constitute ways and means of dealing with these new
challenges.
What we are dealing with is a moral issue too. Thus,
we must take into account the responsibilities of countries in
possession of the cultural property of - and this is generally
the case - smaller and poorer nations.
These monuments, objects of art, pieces of great
importance belonging to buildings and historical sites that
have lost whole sections - including manuscripts and other
cultural treasures - are important to the study of a nation’s
history.
In this hemisphere, the magnificent indigenous
cultures have been plundered since the arrival of Columbus.
These are especially important to the young people of the
countries concerned -
the generations to come, who need
reassurance
complete
understanding of what their ancestors created. Such cultural
property is an inspiration and an incentive to young people
to achieve the greatness of
their ancestors, a better
understanding of their rich history, and a pride in being that
derives from cultural values.
their worth
a more
and
of
The UNESCO appeal,
the purpose of which is to
encourage the mass media, along with educational and
cultural bodies, to foster greater awareness with regard to the
return of cultural property to the country of origin, deserves
serious consideration, as do appeals for bilateral agreements
for the restitution of historical treasures.
The injustices of the past can be corrected today, when,
one hopes, the conscience of nations is maturing. There is
a great need to restore the self-esteem, conscience, pride and
dignity of the nations that have provided the basis for the
great advances we have witnessed in this century. UNESCO
deserves greater support and needs greater clout if it is to
repair the damage of the past. Draft resolution A/48/L.15
must be more than a piece of paper tucked away in a file -
we must strive to give it life and meaning.
(Russian
Mr. ORDZHONIKIDZE
Federation)
(interpretation from Russian): The return or restitution of
cultural property to its countries of origin is an extremely
important issue which, while no doubt important in and of
itself, should in our view be considered in broader terms, in
the context of the overall problem of the preservation of
cultural heritage. Solving this problem is important for the
world community as a whole and for the various regions and
subregions, and of course for every State and people. The
significance of the problem should be matched by measures
to be taken at the universal, regional, bilateral and national
levels,
issues as the
preservation of cultural heritage and specific issues of the
restitution of cultural property to its countries of origin.
to settle such overall
in order
The item we are discussing is extremely topical for
Russia.
It comprises a number of historical and basically
disparate elements which make it necessary to combine
varied approaches to its solution.
A particular situation which goes back a very long way
is one that grew out of the Second World War. A
significant amount of the cultural property that ended up
outside our country at the end of that war has not yet been
returned; nor have all aspects of restitution to the appropriate
States of property that ended up in our country after the war
been solved. Fundamental for us here are the principles
formulated in the 1954 Convention for the Protection of
Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, concluded
in The Hague, and the Protocol to the Convention.
A new situation arose with the need to preserve the
cultural heritage after
the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics ceased to exist, when on the territory of a single,
multinational State there was a great deal of cultural
property that belonged to various newly arisen States. Here
we must observe that with the formation of new States on
the territory of a State that had existed for a long time it was
very difficult to determine which State should be regarded
as
the country of origin of cultural property, and
consequently to whom the property should be restored.
During the establishment of the Commonwealth of
Independent States, and the formation of customs, border
and other law- enforcement machinery of the Russian
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Federation, there was large-scale illegal export of cultural
property from our country. For the first half of 1992 alone,
officially registered crimes pertaining to cultural property
numbered 2,211, and this figure has virtually doubled over
the past year. According to the data available to us, outside
Russia there are active smuggling organizations trafficking
in the export from our country of items of antiquity and art
objects. Now we are taking the appropriate steps at the
national level as part of international cooperation in order to
correct the situation.
Pursuant
to the recommendations of
the General
Assembly at its forty-second and forty-sixth sessions, the
Russian Federation has adopted a number of legislative acts
to protect our cultural heritage. First and foremost we have
in mind the basic premises for legislation on culture. They
include the definition of such concepts as cultural property
and the cultural heritage of the peoples of the Russian
Federation, and they also point out that Russia is carrying
out a purposeful policy to return cultural property that was
illegally exported from its territory. As a development of
this law, the President of Russia has approved a provision on
the basic sites of cultural heritage for the peoples of the
Russian Federation, and a State inventory has been
established for these sites for the peoples of Russia. Along
with this, pursuant to the President’s decree on steps to
preserve cultural property and to prevent its illegal export
from the Russian Federation, a federal service to preserve
cultural property has been established. This service, along
with other functions, documents the export of cultural
property and registers cultural property that comes into
Russia.
In 1992 the Government of the Russian Federation
formed the State Commission to Register Cultural Property,
headed by the Ministry of Culture. The Commission was
instructed to prepare materials on claims for Russian cultural
property outside of Russia, as well as to consider the claims
of foreign States with regard to cultural property that might
be found on Russian territory.
the
Commission is authorized to carry out consultations and
negotiations on restitution.
In this connection,
to the major
As the successor State to the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, Russia adheres
international
legislation in this field: the Convention for the Protection of
Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and the
Protocol to the Convention, the Paris Convention concerning
the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage,
concluded in 1972, and the Paris Convention on the Means
of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and
Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property, concluded in
1970. These broadly recognized multilateral Conventions
are a good basis for developing bilateral cooperation. We
hope that all States will adhere to them. We agree with the
conclusion in the report of the Director-General of the
United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO), submitted in 1992 to the Executive
Board, to the effect that we should focus efforts not on a
revision of the 1970 Convention, but on enhancing its
effectiveness.
We are open to all kinds of cooperation in restoring
cultural property. Russia is a member of UNESCO’s
Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of
Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution
in Case of Illicit Appropriation.
In March this year the
Russian delegation took part
in a regional seminar in
Hungary on this issue of trafficking in cultural property.
By the same token, as we see it, the bilateral format for
cooperation is the most effective, since it allows us to take
into account fully the specifics of every situation.
In
particular, we find useful bilateral consultations with a view
to exchanging experience for the effective campaign against
illegal transactions in cultural art objects. An agreement on
consultations, for example, has already been concluded with
Italy.
We welcome the contribution made by the General
Assembly to solving this problem, as well as the great deal
of work that has been done in this sphere by UNESCO, in
particular through the Intergovernmental Committee. This
is a good back-up for, and stimulus to, the efforts under way
by States at the national, bilateral and regional levels.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/48/L.15.
I call on the representative of Zaire, who will announce
the names of additional sponsors of the draft resolution.
Mr. LUKABU KHABOUJI N’ZAJI
(Zaire)
I should like to inform the
(interpretation from French):
Assembly that, in addition to the countries listed as sponsors
of draft resolution A/48/L.15 - Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Ghana,
Greece, Mali, Mexico, Morocco, Niger, Rwanda and Zaire -
the following countries have decided to become sponsors:
Bolivia, Cameroon, Costa Rica, Egypt, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Mongolia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Peru and Ukraine.
I should also like to bring to the Assembly’s attention
an error appearing in the English version of operative
paragraph 14 of draft resolution A/48/L.15. The words
"forty-eighth session" should be replaced by the words
"fiftieth session".
The delegation of Zaire wishes to thank all those who
have supported this draft resolution as well as those who
have given it their tacit approval.
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
15
The PRESIDENT:
I now put to vote draft resolution
A/48/L.15. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belarus, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: None.
Abstention: Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation,
Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Draft resolution A/48/L.15 was adopted by 106 votes
to none, with 25 abstentions (resolution 48/15).
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of the
United Kingdom, who wishes to speak in explanation of
vote.
May I remind representatives that explanations of vote
are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations
from their seats.
Mr. RICHARDSON (United Kingdom): My delegation
abstained in the vote on the draft resolution which the
Assembly has just adopted.
cultural property which has been freely and legitimately
acquired should be returned to the country of origin. We are
always willing to discuss specific cultural property questions
bilaterally with other Governments.
My delegation strongly condemns illicit
traffic in
cultural property and we can support much of the draft
resolution which the Assembly has just adopted. But there
are no grounds in law on which the British Government can
order the return of items which were legitimately acquired
by British museums.
Other elements of the resolution also present us with
some difficulties. Operative paragraph 2 runs counter to our
belief that the great international collections of works of art
constitute a unique resource for the benefit of both the
public and the international academic community.
Support for operative paragraphs 5 and 6 would imply
that my delegation favoured the establishment of a
systematic inventory of cultural property in the United
Kingdom. As we have explained in previous debates on this
subject, this would pose great practical difficulties.
Ratification of
Operative paragraphs 10, 11, 12 and 13 refer to the
1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and
Import, Export and Transfer of
Preventing the Illicit
Ownership of Cultural Property.
this
Convention would present considerable problems for the
United Kingdom. But, as the Assembly will know, many of
the underlying requirements of the Convention are already
part of our approach to this problem. The British Museum
and Art Trade interests have subscribed to two voluntary
codes of practice, in 1977 and 1984, on the handling of
items of dubious provenance, which uphold the spirit of the
1970 Convention. We take these codes seriously and
investigate any reports of their contravention.
In addition,
the Metropolitan Police Art and Antiques Squad maintains
close links with INTERPOL.
The United Kingdom views draft convention of the
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law
(UNIDROIT) on the restitution of stolen or
illegally
exported cultural property as an innovative attempt
to
address the problems raised by the Convention of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO). The United Kingdom participated in the four
meetings of national Government experts held in Rome to
consider the Convention and awaits the revised draft of the
Convention following the conclusions of the latest meeting,
in October.
We are sympathetic to the aspirations of those countries
that wish to develop and improve their collections of
cultural property, but we cannot accept the principle that
In conclusion, I should refer briefly to the remarks
made by the Permanent Representative of Greece about the
works of art known as the Elgin Marbles. It is the view of
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Her Majesty’s Government that the portions of the Parthenon
known as the Elgin Marbles were legally obtained and that
they should remain in the British Museum, whose Trustees
consider it in the general interest to maintain the integrity of
the Museum’s collections for the benefit of international
scholarship and the enjoyment of the general public.
To avoid this disaster, the constitutional order must be
restored and the legitimate Government must be able to take
things in hand. The Government of Burundi
therefore
desires the support of
the international community in
condemning the coup d’état and in restoring democracy and
the constitutional regime.
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
21?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 170
THE SITUATION IN BURUNDI (A/48/L.16)
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to remind members
that a draft resolution similar to that in document A/48/L.16
appeared in document A/48/240.
I now call on the representative of Burundi to introduce
draft resolution A/48/L.16.
Mr. SINUNGURUNZA (Burundi) (interpretation from
French): Mr. President, I thank you for the opportunity you
have given me to speak.
At
the outset, I should like to thank the General
Assembly, which has just adopted the report by its Bureau
on including an additional agenda item entitled "The
situation in Burundi" in the agenda of its forty-eighth
session.
On 21 October 1993, as I have already had occasion to
say here, an attempted coup d’état was staged by a group of
military people and has plunged Burundi into a serious
constitutional crisis. On the heels of the putsch,
the
President of the Republic, who had been democratically
elected on 1 June this year, was assassinated.
The
perpetrators of the putsch also killed the President and
Vice-President of the National Assembly, and a number of
other eminent figures who were members of the Government
or the administration.
When they learned the bad news, the people rose up
and at the same time the old ethnic fault lines became active.
Today, violence has ravaged the villages of Burundi, and
people have sought sordid and unsafe shelter in the centre of
the country while many others have fled to our neighbouring
countries, Rwanda, Zaire and Tanzania. The situation is so
bad that, if nothing is done now, a civil war is likely to
spread
incalculable
consequences for international peace and security.
country, with
throughout
the
To achieve this,
it would be desirable for an
international force to be established in Burundi with the
mission of protecting the democratic institutions and
restoring a climate of confidence amongst the population. It
would also be desirable for the international community to
provide emergency humanitarian aid to Burundi, for our
people who are suffering within our borders and also
outside.
In submitting the draft resolution, the delegation of
Burundi is hoping for support from the General Assembly
and for the draft resolution to be adopted.
The situation in Burundi is of the greatest concern to
the whole international community. We have already had
occasion to say so here, and have indeed said so in other
groups too; accordingly, we believe that we already enjoy
the necessary support from the Assembly, for which I thank
you.
Mr. LAMAMRA (Algeria) (interpretation from French):
President Ndadaye, God rest his soul, on 4 October just past
declared from this very rostrum that he wanted, just shortly
after the victory of democracy in his country, to convey a
message from his people to the international community, a
message of peace, friendship, fraternity and solidarity.
In paying to him a ringing and moving tribute last
Friday, and in mobilizing in communion and solidarity with
the people of Burundi
the
international community has indeed proved that it believes
in President Ndadaye’s message, so that the sacrifice this
statesman, now gone from us, has made can implant and
nurture the noble values he articulated here; his people and
Government will ensure that those values prevail.
and their Government,
The unanimous international condemnation of
the
coup d’état and the assassinations of Burundi’s Head of
State and a number of the country’s leaders, along with the
spontaneous convergence of the various types of action taken
internationally are all legitimate grounds for satisfaction for
us all inasmuch as they bear witness to the international
community’s capacity to react swiftly and effectively when
the ideals we share are threatened or flouted.
The
simultaneous
Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim,
Organization
of African Unity
to
visits
Secretary-General
(OAU)
Bujumbura
of
and
by
the
by
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
17
Mr. James Jonah, the representative of the United Nations
Secretary-General, are a reassuring demonstration of this.
Surely what we have here is an example of the convergence
and complementarity of the actions taken by the world
Organization and the Africa-wide organization, both of
which are striving to strengthen the measures taken or
planned by the Government of Burundi with a view to
setting the situation, in political and security as well as in
humanitarian and socio-economic terms, rapidly to rights.
As Algeria has the chairmanship of the African Group
this month, I feel duty-bound to refer here, with justifiable
pride, to the position adopted and the action taken by the
executive organs of the OAU:
I refer here to the action of
the acting President of the OAU, President Hosni Mubarak
of Egypt, in taking the matter to the Security Council, and
to
the OAU Secretary-General,
Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim.
efforts
the
of
Similarly,
the central organ of the OAU’s conflict
prevention, management and settlement machinery - which
was just recently established, at the Cairo summit meeting
held last June - immediately, on 22 October, began to
consider the situation in Burundi and took a firm position by
deploring the coup d’état and demanding the restoration of
democracy and the rule of law in Burundi.
The OAU Secretary-General’s visit to Burundi was
made with this point in mind, and expresses our pan-African
organization’s
firm determination to exert a positive
influence on the outcome of this tragic situation and in
easing the trials to which the people of our brother country,
Burundi, are now being put.
In building on these African initiatives and actions, the
Group of African States within the United Nations has
naturally rallied in support of the initiative taken by the
Permanent Representative of Burundi in submitting the item
entitled "The situation in Burundi" to the General Assembly
for inclusion in the agenda, and in submitting a draft
resolution whose unanimous adoption will, we are certain,
deliver a message of hope to the people of Burundi and of
support for their Government.
The actual content of the draft resolution requires no
detailed comment; its provisions, objectives and premises are
obvious at a glance, and have all already received the
broadest international support.
It is now up to the General
Assembly to place the seal of its moral and political
authority on the universal condemnation of the coup d’état
of 21 October, to demand the immediate restoration of the
constitutional regime in Burundi, to mobilize humanitarian
aid from the international community quickly and on a par
with the actual needs and to support the efforts of the
Government of Burundi, the Organization of African Unity,
the Secretary-General of the United Nations and of the
countries in the region to promote the restoration of the
constitutional order.
the statement
In the spirit of
just made by the
Permanent Representative of Burundi, and in support of his
request, I recommend to the Assembly that it should adopt
the draft resolution by consensus.
Mr. NOTERDAEME (Belgium) (interpretation from
I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the
French):
European Community and its member States.
Barely five months ago, the people of Burundi, for the
first time in their history, were able to express their will
through free, pluralist and fair elections. The European
Community and its member States welcomed with great
satisfaction this exemplary process of democratization and
expressed their solidarity with the authorities and the people
of Burundi.
on
ago,
than
Less
a month
that democratic
4 October,
from this very rostrum,
President Melchior Ndadaye,
the
expressed his hopes
establishment of
and a
comprehensive amnesty would lead to the consolidation of
peace and a strengthening of confidence among the various
components of his nation and would speed up the economic
and social development of his country.
a broad-based Government
elections,
This hope was brutally dashed by the attempted military
coup d’état of 21 October last and by the assassination of
President Ndadaye and of other political figures.
The European Community and its member States
condemn this attempt most vigorously and reiterate their
support for the elected Government of Burundi. We appeal
to the entire nation to restore constitutional order and
democracy and to respect human rights.
It is absolutely
necessary to put an end to the violence and to the massacres
raging in Burundi.
The European Community is considering steps to be
taken if constitutional order is not restored in Burundi.
These measures would be in addition to those taken by some
of its member States, which have suspended their bilateral
cooperation with Burundi. The European Community and its
member
of
President Ndadaye, who, through his democratic convictions,
his forthrightness and his courage, incarnated the promise of
a positive political development in Africa.
the memory
tribute
States
pay
to
In the face of the tragic situation in Burundi, we note
with satisfaction that
the United Nations has reacted
promptly. We thank the Secretary-General for following up
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
request by appointing Under-Secretary-General
on our
Mr. Jonah as his Special Envoy for Burundi. We await with
interest the report of the Secretary-General on the situation
in Burundi as a follow-up to Mr. Jonah’s mission.
The Security Council, for its part, met on an urgent
basis at the request of Burundi, the Group of African States
and the Organization of African Unity (OAU). In an official
statement, the Council greatly deplored and condemned the
events that took place in Burundi.
Finally, also at the request of Burundi, our Assembly is
meeting today to show that the international community
condemns loud and clear this attempted coup d’état and
demands the restoration of legality in Burundi.
The European Community and its member States
support the efforts of the OAU. We have taken note with
interest of the visit to the region of the Secretary-General of
that organization, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, accompanied by
President Mubarak’s Special Envoy. We hope that the OAU
will be able quickly to take steps to gradually restore trust
between the legal Government of Burundi and the armed
forces of that country.
is absolutely
necessary for the return of the constitutional order and for an
end to massacre and violence in Burundi. An initiative by
the OAU would augur well for the prevention machinery and
crisis management which are to be established pursuant to
decisions taken at the Cairo Summit.
this trust
Indeed,
One of the most disturbing aspects of the Burundi crisis
is the massive exodus of refugees. According to the
information we have received, hundreds of thousands in
Burundi have fled their country for Rwanda, Tanzania and
Zaire. The European Community and its member States
support the appeal for humanitarian assistance in the draft
resolution before us (A/48/L.16). We, for our part, have
already given initial emergency aid to those refugees.
refugees
the
The
illustrates
exodus of
serious
repercussions of the situation in Burundi on peace and
stability in the region, and especially in Rwanda. This is
why the European Community and its member States ask
most urgently that the United Nations Assistance Mission for
Rwanda be deployed as soon as possible so as to avoid any
spillover effect in that country. In this connection, we note
with satisfaction the arrival in Kigali of the reconnaissance
mission under the leadership of General Dallaire.
It goes without saying that the European Community
and its member States fully agree with the draft resolution
before us which, we hope, will be adopted without a vote.
May this
international
community be heard by the rebels, and may the attempted
clear-cut message
from the
coup d’état be but a brief pause in Burundi’s march towards
democracy.
Mr. LADSOUS (France) (interpretation from French):
France fully agrees with the statement which was just made
by the Belgian President of the European Community. For
its part, France would like in addition to emphasize several
particular aspects.
France was greatly shocked to learn of the coup that
took place in Burundi on 21 October. It was with the same
shock that
learned that President Ndadaye had been
assassinated, along with other Burundi political figures, by
members of the military whose responsibility for such events
is well established.
it
France firmly condemns these acts of violence as well
It
as those that led to the massacre of many civilians.
demanded that
the military immediately return to their
barracks and that they free the prisoners who had been
illegally detained since 21 October.
It hopes that those
responsible for these acts will be brought to justice after an
inquiry.
Burundi,
in recent months, had seen more than
satisfactory developments. The elections that were held in
June in that country were exemplary in all aspects. Indeed,
the first elected President of Burundi himself, only a few
weeks ago in the General Assembly, committed himself to
foster the emerging pluralism in Burundi.
There can be no question of acquiescing in such coups.
On several occasions since 21 October,
the people of
Burundi themselves, in spite of the risks involved, have
shown their opposition to the rebels and their determination
immediately to restore democracy and a constitutional
regime to their country.
France welcomes the fact that the United Nations and
the Organization of African Unity were able to react so
quickly and give the legal Government of Burundi
unconditional support. We also welcome the fact that the
international community was able quickly to send on the
spot
the hundreds of
thousands of refugees who have had to flee the violence
caused by the coup.
initial emergency assistance for
My delegation remains concerned at
the situation
created in the region by the events in Burundi. Indeed, these
sad population movements threaten international security in
the region, especially in Rwanda, where a fragile process of
reconciliation has begun. France hopes that measures will
be taken to hasten the deployment of the United Nations
Assistance Mission for Rwanda in order to consolidate that
process.
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
19
In that connection, we believe that
My country hopes too that the international community
intervene in Burundi with a view to national
will
reconciliation.
the
Secretary-General’s dispatch of a special envoy to Burundi
is a positive initiative. We consider also that the efforts of
the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity
and the States of the region will enable us to do useful work
to that end. Finally, we hope that close cooperation will be
established between the United Nations and the Organization
of African Unity in order to achieve a solution as soon as
possible to the present crisis in Burundi.
My country will therefore support the draft resolution
before the Assembly.
(interpretation
Mr. BIZIMANA (Rwanda)
from
French): At the outset, I wish on behalf of the Government
and the people of Rwanda again to convey our heartfelt
feelings of sympathy and solidarity to the brotherly people
of Burundi in connection with the tragedy that has followed
in the wake of the military coup d’état perpetrated in the
night of 20 to 21 October 1993.
I cannot fail to thank you, Sir, and through you the
General Assembly for having agreed to the urgent inclusion
in the agenda of an item devoted to the alarming situation in
Burundi.
When it learned on the morning of 21 October 1993 of
the ignoble action aimed at overturning the institutions that
had emerged from the free, democratic elections of June this
year, the Government of Rwanda immediately and forcefully
condemned this reactionary forcible seizure of power. We
appealed to the international community to condemn
unreservedly that act which has slowed the democratic
process under way in Burundi and throughout Africa, and to
take whatever steps were necessary to help the people of
Burundi restore the democratic institutions that had been
jeopardized by the coup.
The ordeal the people of Burundi is now experiencing
and this negation of the primacy of law through this blatant
violation of
the very foundations of modern society
constitute, in our view, a source of concern to all the nations
gathered together here in the General Assembly. That
concern is all the greater since this attempt to take power
illegally, forcibly and anti-democratically in Burundi has
been accompanied by a terrible toll
in human life, yet
uncounted, including the vile murder of His Excellency
President Melchior Ndadaye and other political and judicial
leaders and of many innocent civilians. Another intolerable
result has been the displacement of thousands of persons
within the country and of
refugees into neighbouring
countries.
Rwanda is a neighbour of Burundi and its people are
closely linked to the people of Burundi by ties of blood. We
are therefore particularly affected by the current situation
there. We are absolutely convinced that supporting the
efforts being made to restore peace in Burundi not only
would be in the interests of that country but also would meet
the concerns of our region,
including my own country,
which is harbouring over 350,000 refugees from Burundi,
who have fled their country since 21 October 1993.
For Rwanda, instability in Burundi poses a threat to the
peace process set in motion by the Arusha Peace Agreement
signed on 4 October 1993 between the Government of
Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front. Hence, we
reiterate the firm commitment of the Government of Rwanda
to the implementation of the Arusha Peace Agreement and
to the democratic process under way in Rwanda; at the same
time, in the face of this new situation, we stress the need to
consolidate the machinery provided for
in the Peace
Agreement, in order to maximize the chances of success for
the peace process in Rwanda.
At
the summit,
If peace, harmony and stability are to be restored in
Burundi, vigorous regional and international action must be
taken. On the regional level, let me inform the Assembly of
the results of the 28 October 1993 summit meeting held at
Kigali at the invitation of the President of the Republic of
Rwanda. Along with the Head of State of Rwanda, the
other participants were the First Vice President and Prime
Minister of the United Republic of Tanzania, the Prime
Minister of the Republic of Zaire and the Prime Minister of
Rwanda; also present were a special representative of the
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, current Chairman
of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), and, as an
observer, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, Secretary-General of the
Organization of African Unity.
the
representatives of those countries and the representative of
the Organization
their
condemnation of the military coup d’état against Burundi’s
democratic institutions as running absolutely counter to the
development of democracy on the African continent. The
summit reaffirmed the firm commitment of the countries
participating and of the OAU to do everything possible to
assist in the restoration of security and legality in Burundi.
Specifically, the Kigali summit stressed the urgent need for
the United Nations, in consultation with the Organization of
African Unity, to set up an international force to restore
confidence and security in Burundi.
It appealed to the
international community to take concrete measures to put an
end to the massacre of innocent people in Burundi and to
help the people of Burundi to put a final end to its recurring
tragedies. It also appealed to the international community to
provide urgent assistance to the hundreds of thousands of
refugees in countries around Burundi and to displaced
persons within the country.
of African Unity
reiterated
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
restore peace and order.
Rwanda is therefore pleased today to hail the collective
commitment demonstrated by the international community in
the draft resolution before the Assembly today. That draft
resolution,
if adopted and effectively implemented, will
manifest our common determination to help the people of
Burundi
The international
community must not leave the field open to the perpetrators
of the coup, who are greedy for power. To stop the
suffering and sacrifices endured by the people of Burundi,
the United Nations must act, and act swiftly and effectively.
Rapid action by the Organization would show that it is
urgent to stop the blood-bath and put an immediate end to
the confrontations and threats and intimidation to which the
people of Burundi are subjected.
We must act effectively also to ensure that those who
have usurped power in Burundi are thrown out of office and
that the people of Burundi will be given the reliable and,
above all, lasting guarantees provided by an army and new
security structures established on a basis that would make all
sectors of Burundi’s society feel confident.
their barracks and submit to the authority of the civilian
Government.
We note with satisfaction that the coup attempt has
apparently failed and several suspected coup plotters have
been arrested or have fled the country. Prime Minister
Kinigi and other members of
the cabinet have taken
important measures to reassert control over the country. We
applaud the bravery of the Prime Minister,
the Foreign
Minister
and other Government officials who have
persevered throughout the crisis and are now working to
consolidate the government’s control over the situation.
The United States joins the rest of the world in
condemning the murder of President Ndadaye and other high
Government officials. This reprehensible action violates the
most fundamental principles of law and morality. We
extend our sincere condolences to the late President’s wife
and family and to the families of those who were killed or
injured or who have disappeared.
In that context, the Government of Rwanda considers
that
the statement adopted by the Security Council on
25 October 1993 condemning the coup d’état in Burundi
must be followed up by concrete, urgent action to stabilize
the situation in that country. That is why, mindful of the
gravity of the situation in Burundi, which has adverse
regional consequences and is even a threat to international
peace
its disturbing
the
humanitarian implications, my Government urges
international community, and the Security Council
in
particular,
to follow up on the recommendations of the
Kigali summit by taking urgent measures to help the people
of Burundi regain peace and security and restore legality and
constitutional order in their country.
and mindful of
and security,
Mr. Bull (Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Hence, our Organization has the immense responsibility
of finding urgently a lasting solution to the situation in
Burundi.
If we do not act immediately, we put at risk the
hope engendered by the democratic process in all nations of
the world that cherish peace, justice and democracy.
I can assure the Assembly that Rwanda will spare no
effort and use every ounce of its energy to help restore
peace and democracy in Burundi.
Mr. GELBER (United States of America): The United
States strongly supports the African initiative to condemn the
action by elements of the military against the democratically
elected Government of Burundi. We have demanded and
continue to demand that the elected Government be restored
to full power and that all elements of the military return to
reveal
The United States reiterates its demand that
those
responsible for perpetrating the action against the Burundi
Government
the whereabouts and fate of all
Government officials and others who may have been taken
prisoner or disappeared during this action. We support the
Government’s right to prosecute to the fullest extent of the
law those responsible for murder,
rebellion and other
offences against the Government and the people of Burundi.
We are shocked and deeply saddened by the violence
and mounting casualties in Burundi. We urge all sides to
refrain from violence and respect the authority of the elected
Government.
We salute the freely elected Government and the people
of Burundi who remain committed to consolidating their
country’s democracy. The adoption of our draft resolution
today will send a clear signal to all that the international
community is unanimous in its support of Burundi’s
democratic transition and will condemn any attempt
to
reverse it.
(interpretation
Mr. SAMASSEKOU (Mali)
from
French): The Government of the Republic of Mali learned
with acute concern of the putsch carried out in Burundi on
21 October by a military group against
the country’s
democratic institutions. This challenge to that country’s
established order is a blatant act of defiance of the legitimate
aspirations of the people of Burundi to democracy and is
also a threat to all new democracies and to all peoples who
are fighting for democracy.
The election last June of President Melchior Ndadaye,
which crowned the democratic process in Burundi, was
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
21
hailed by the entire world. The people of Burundi have
proven their deep commitment to democratic principles and
their readiness to forge their own destiny by turning out
en masse for the various elections organized during the
transition period, elections deemed free, democratic and
transparent by the international community.
Unfortunately, the people of Burundi now sees itself
stripped of its right to determine freely its future. This
situation has already engendered death and hatred and has
forced thousands of people into exile.
long in coming.
The reaction of the people and the Government of Mali,
concerned about respect for law and democratic legitimacy,
was not
In a declaration issued on
21 October 1993, my Government voiced its acute concern
over the military coup, which brought about, on the one
hand, the rupture of the democratic process in Burundi and,
on the other, the overthrow of the Government and of the
legitimate institutions of the country. The Government of
Mali condemned this unacceptable situation and invited all
the political forces of Burundi to give priority to dialogue
with a view to restoring respect for the legal status of the
Republic and to reinstating the democratically established
institutions. The Government and the people of Mali also
voiced their solidarity with all the democratic forces that,
stood up against this situation of fait accompli in many cases
making the supreme sacrifice.
In addition, the Bureau of the National Assembly of
Mali, when it met on 21 October, on behalf of all Malian
parliamentarians, vehemently protested the situation and
unreservedly condemned the military coup d’état in Burundi,
while declaring its unwavering support for the legitimate
Government and democratically elected Parliament of
Burundi. The communiqué issued after that meeting reads
as follows:
"The Bureau of the National Assembly learned
with consternation of the coup d’état that took place
today, 21 October, in Burundi against the people and
democratic institutions of that friendly country.
"In the face of the upsurge of perils threatening
democracy in general and in Burundi in particular, the
Bureau of the National Assembly on behalf of all
Parliamentarians, voices its vehement protest.
"The National Assembly unreservedly condemns
the military coup d’état
in Burundi; declares its
unwavering support for the legitimate Government and
the democratically elected Parliament
in Burundi;
urgently appeals to the Union of African Parliaments,
the Inter-Parliamentary Union and all interparliamentary
institutions to support the Parliament of Burundi in its
ordeal; and invites the international community to use
international coercive machinery against the putschists,
as has been done in the catastrophic case of Haiti, so as
to restore to power those who were given power
through the will of the sovereign people of Burundi."
Mali’s Head of State, for his part, brought the matter
before the current President of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU), the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and the current President of the Conference of French-
speaking Countries so that they might envisage whatever
radical measures are required by circumstances to restore
legality, reinstate all democratic institutions and put an end
to the civil war in Burundi.
Since the events of 21 October, the situation in Burundi
has deteriorated. Over 10,000 people have been killed, and
600,000 have fled to neighbouring countries, particularly to
Rwanda. Even as we speak, massacres are continuing.
Members of Burundi society are killing each other. This
genocide must be stopped.
The international community must be mobilized, along
with the democratic forces within Burundi,
to restore
democracy and legality. The Government of Mali feels that
the following urgent steps must be taken by the international
community:
reaffirmation of the condemnation of the
military coup d’etat in Burundi; the total isolation of those
who carried out
imposition of
political and economic sanctions; the dispatch of a United
Nations peace-keeping force, composed mainly of Africans;
the provision of humanitarian aid to help displaced persons
and the civilian victims who remain where they were.
through the
the putsch,
The events in Burundi cry out to the conscience of the
entire international community at a time when Africa must
better equip itself to face the continent’s many problems.
Mr. MONGBE (Benin): Allow me first, on behalf of
the delegation of Benin,
to thank the President of the
General Assembly, Mr. Samuel Insanally, for his diligence
in organizing on Friday 29 October
the moving
ceremony during which the General Assembly, which he is
leading with such wisdom, paid an impressive tribute to the
late President Melchior Ndadaye.
last
The night from 20 to 21 October 1993 was a long one
for Burundi, Africa and the civilized world, that is, the world
It was with great shock and
of democratic forces.
indignation that we learned in the
early hours of
21 October 1993, by radio transmissions and the reports of
news agencies, the surprising news of the shameful military
coup d’etat which had taken place in Bujumbura.
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
For an entire day we laboured under the illusion that
those responsible had enough human feeling and decency to
spare the lives of the political authorities they had arrested
at
the time of their unexpected crime. But, alas, our
astonishment grew even greater and our indignation turned
to disgust when we received details that were even more
grim than the news we had learned on the first day: former
political figures who had been granted amnesty assassinated
in cowardly fashion the authorities the people of Burundi
had in full sovereignty elected,
transparent and
democratic elections, in June 1993 - the first elections this
fraternal country held had ever in the 31 years since it
gained its independence.
in free,
The President and Vice-President of the Republic, the
President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, the
Minister of the Interior, the Head of the Presidential Security
Service and the wife of the Minister for External Affairs and
her baby were among the victims cruelly cut down by those
responsible for the putsch. This barbarous act, reminiscent
of another age, cynically perpetrated by military figures
motivated by some unknown demon, cannot
leave any
human being indifferent. This is why the international
community unanimously condemned the putsch,
"which could be a regrettable brake to the progress of
the sister Republic of Burundi and an obstacle to the
establishment of a state of law for the people of
Burundi",
as was stated in a communiqué issued by the Government of
Benin when it learned this incredible news.
"The Government and people of the Republic of
Benin deplore the fact that, at a time when Africa, and
especially sub-Saharan Africa, is called upon by history
to take up the challenge of political, economic and
socio-cultural development, anachronistic concerns are
tainting the hopeful prospects of the people of Burundi
and opening up a new era of violence, exclusivity and
insecurity instead of democratic security,
the first
requirement for development.
"The Government and people of the Republic of
Benin urge the army of Burundi to respect the freely
expressed choice of its people, of all ethnic groups
combined, and to understand that its interests can be
served only through democracy and mutual respect
among all members of Burundi’s society, for under
democracy and a state of law any form of minority may
make itself heard and have its rights respected.
"The Government and people of the Republic of
Benin affirm the irreversibility of African democracy
and urgently appeal to all democratic forces the world
over to take every appropriate step to restore the rights
and freedoms of the people of Burundi."
My delegation joins the Ambassador of Algeria,
Chairman of the Group of African States for the current
month, who has just spoken on behalf of the Group in
support of the draft resolution (A/48/L.16), introduced by the
Ambassador of Burundi, in asking for the understanding and
unanimous backing of the General Assembly, which are
necessary for concrete and urgent action to assist the people
of Burundi.
that
The fact
this incident was condemned by all
African Governments and by the Organization of African
Unity shows the progress that democracy has made on the
continent. The time has passed when a few adventure-
hungry corporals or a handful of ambitious and arrogant
officers, thinking they had magic cures for the real problems
of the African people, seized power by force of arms.
Africa must not turn its back on history.
It must
henceforth understand that the way to its economic and
social development, and consequently its good health, is the
difficult but noble path of democracy. Those responsible
for the putsch of 21 October 1993 wished to turn the history
of the people of Burundi around, taking it in the opposite
direction from the welcome progress of the people of South
Africa.
The delegation of Benin must therefore reiterate here its
Government’s stern condemnation of the military coup d’etat
in Bujumbura:
47th meeting - Tuesday, 2 November l993
23
My delegation urges the international community to
bear in mind that the revival of the demons of inter-ethnic
extermination in Burundi and the uncontainable flow of tens
and even hundreds of
into
neighbouring countries will not serve to guarantee peace and
security in Central Africa.
thousands of
refugees
The delegation of Benin welcomes the declaration by
the President of the Security Council, condemning the
violent coup d’etat carried out by the perpetrators of the
putsch in Burundi, and the prompt dispatch of a high-ranking
envoy to Bujumbura by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations to find a solution to the confusion reigning in that
capital.
We highly appreciate the visit by the Secretary-General
of the Organization of African Unity to Burundi and warmly
thank the French authorities who courageously saved the
lives of members of the legal Government of Burundi,
including the Prime Minister, by offering them asylum and
protection at the French Embassy in Bujumbura. The Benin
delegation wishes to express its sincere respect for may all
the diplomatic missions in Bujumbura that
took in and
protected peaceful citizens of Burundi who were in danger
of being cut down by the perpetrators of the putsch.
In conclusion, my delegation believes that the best
tribute the General Assembly could pay to President
Ndadaye and his companions, who died for democracy and
human dignity, would be to adopt without a vote the draft
resolution, which unreservedly condemns the coup demands
that the perpetrators lay down their arms - we hope that they
will be brought to justice; requests emergency humanitarian
assistance - to help refugees and displaced persons; and
demands the immediate restoration of democracy and the
constitutional regime.
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to propose that the
list of speakers in the debate on this item be now closed.
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at l p.m.
