United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President:
INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
ADDRESS
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
BY MR. MELCHIOR NDADAYE,
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Burundi.
Mr. Melchior Ndadaye, President of the Republic of
Burundi, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic
of Burundi, His Excellency Mr. Melchior Ndadaye, and to
invite him to address the Assembly.
President NDADAYE (interpretation from French): It
is with genuine pleasure that we speak from this United
Nations rostrum and join previous speakers in sincerely
congratulating you, Sir. I do so on behalf of the people and
the Government of Burundi and on our own behalf. It is in
recognition of your distinguished qualities that the Assembly
has chosen you to preside over its work at this session. We
are convinced that your wisdom and your political and
diplomatic experience will enable you to guide the work of
the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly in a
masterly, successful way.
14th
PLENARY MEETING
Monday, 4 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
We also congratulate the other members of the Bureau
of the General Assembly.
We wish also to pay a well-deserved tribute to your
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the skill
and vision with which he guided the work of the Assembly
at its forty-seventh session.
our
gratitude
to
express
Further, we
the
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l , H i s
E x c e l l e n c y
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the vision with which he has
guided the Organization and for his tireless efforts to ensure
the maintenance of international peace and security.
The Republic of Burundi warmly welcomes
the
countries that have recently joined the United Nations
family; we welcome the representatives of
the Czech
Republic,
the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco
and the Principality of Andorra.
The people and the Government of Burundi join the
rest of the international community in conveying sincere
condolences to the Government and the people of India on
the earthquake that has struck their country and that has
caused the death of some 20,000 people. We assure the
people and the Government of India of my country’s
sympathy and moral support in this harsh ordeal inflicted by
Nature.
The people of Burundi, through me, is honoured and
pleased to send a message to the international community
represented here in the General Assembly. That message,
which is being delivered on the morrow of the victory of
democracy in our land, is one of peace, friendship, fraternity
and solidarity.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86728 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.14
20 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The beginning of
that
this century was marked by
devastating wars
led to the crystallization and
bipolarization of international relations. The ensuing cold
war, with the two major ideological and military blocs in
confrontation, was reflected in many countries by the
establishment of totalitarian power. Africa, which was at the
same time emerging from the long night of colonialism,
found itself unwillingly involved in the dynamics of that
rationale. Peoples who had theoretically been freed from the
colonial yoke nevertheless found themselves, to their great
consternation, confronted with authorities that had been
imposed upon them or established by force, and that were
devoid of any legitimacy, just like the colonial order that had
theoretically been brought to an end.
In that context the rights and freedoms of the human
person were openly flouted. The State based on law became
a mirage, the right to life and the growth of the human spirit
a utopian ideal. In their concern to consolidate their power,
which lacked any popular base, some leaders inflamed and
exploited inherent differences based on ethnicity and
regionalism, which they imbued with political significance.
Our country did not escape that state of affairs. The
past 30 years have been marked by ethnic upheavals that
have traumatized our people.
In truth, the history of the
people of Burundi is replete with tragedies. Political forces
have exploited ethnic differences with impunity and have
fought to control the State for their own interests.
Outright crimes against humanity have been committed
by individuals and by organized groups, some of which have
enjoyed the protection and blessing of the State, which lent
itself to the perpetration of such base actions. That sowed
mistrust and suspicion among the ethnic groups in our
country, thus traumatizing the people and creating unease
about the future. So violent did the tragedy become that
there were those who wondered how Burundi would ever
manage to emerge from the toils of the violence in which it
had become enmeshed.
Burundi’s recent political development demonstrates its
people’s ability to shake off those toils and to rid themselves
from their fears.
The ideology of human rights and its corollary,
democracy in the management of public affairs, have taken
the place of violent, repressive and exclusionary measures to
such a degree that the people of Burundi have gradually
come to realize that in order to solve their problems they
must
transcends differences,
divisions and hatreds.
turn to a democracy that
We made a choice. Today, we are more than ever
convinced that that choice was a good one. The people of
Burundi embarked upon this process, at first hesitant but
confident, with of course the inevitable ups and downs, and
they succeeded in holding free, just and open elections.
Today,
the people of Burundi are proud, proud of
having managed to overcome the many difficulties and
obstacles strewn on their path towards democracy and proud
too of being able to take full control over their history in an
open, just and equitable way.
The date of 1 June 1993 will remain a memorable one
in our country’s history. On that day, for the first time in
Burundi’s history, free, pluralist and open elections were
held, designed to give the country truly democratic
institutions. The positive manner in which the various
protagonists have accepted the people’s verdict demonstrates
that the people of Burundi are henceforth convinced that the
path of democracy - and especially in its electoral aspect, in
which the people’s will
is expressed and legitimacy
conferred - is the only proper way to resolve the problems
entailed in the access to and exercise of power.
Further, the legislative elections of 29 June 1993 were
to confirm the will of a people desirous of living henceforth
in peace.
We should like to take this opportunity to extend
heartfelt thanks to all who, from near or far, supported our
country in its march towards democracy. We have greatly
appreciated the material, technological and financial support
provided by friendly countries and international and
intergovernmental organizations that have enabled us to
organize in a suitable manner Burundi’s first free, pluralist
elections.
The democratic administration of a society we are now
in the process of undertaking cannot be viewed as an end in
itself. Rather,
to
strengthen confidence among the various components of our
nation and to accelerate the economic, social and cultural
development to which all men aspire.
is a means to consolidate peace,
it
Today,
therefore,
the Government of Burundi
is
bending every effort to achieve the gradual elimination of all
the obstacles that have paralysed or retarded the Burundi
people’s drive towards growth and overall development. We
are working towards this end, and we are convinced that
with the support of the international community we can meet
the challenge.
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
3
henceforth
be
It is at present our most heartfelt hope that the people
of Burundi will
from ethnic
confrontations. We want no more blood shed in ethnic
confrontations anywhere in the land, in the homes, in the
hills,
in schools and barracks.
Never again! That is the watchword of the whole of the
people of Burundi.
in towns and provinces,
safe
We also want the people of Burundi to accept their
history as it is. Mistakes have naturally been made, and
there are other serious problems that continue to weigh on
our democratic process. Nevertheless,
they must not
obstruct or paralyse us. Setbacks and problems exist to be
overcome. Mistakes must be recognized as such and
corrected. That is one of the basic tenets for a new Burundi.
Yes, we must accept our history the better to face the
future. We want that future to be a safer and securer one
for all. Thus, the Government we formed following the
elections last June is an open Government.
In it, we have
brought together people from every ethnic group, from every
region of the country and of different political persuasions.
All those people from every social background and
differing political persuasions are working together with
might and main to ensure that the process of democratization
in Burundi will be irreversible. We consider that to be the
best way to reach our goal, namely, to reconcile the people
of Burundi with themselves and with their State the better to
commit themselves to the battle for their economic, social
and cultural development.
Guided by that will, the Government has just proposed,
and the National Assembly has ratified, an amnesty law
under which more than 5,000 of our compatriots - 70 per
cent of our country’s prison population - are to regain their
freedom and thereby take part in building a democratic
Burundi, confident and more integral.
We wish to tell the world that through that amnesty law
the people of Burundi mean to make a new start towards a
better development of their destiny and the installation of
peace in the subregion.
While granting amnesty to those who, at home or
abroad, have derogated from the fundamental rights of the
people of Burundi as a whole and of individual members of
that people in particular, we want to accept our history
without thereby becoming its prisoners. Through a national
pardon, we want to establish a context of security for all
those in Burundi who, in their hearts or in the eyes of the
nation, are responsible for acts committed in the course of
past tragedies. Indeed, given the tragic acts our people have
known, sometimes the result of shared responsibilities but
often arising out of imprecise causes, we must wipe the slate
clean. We must view the future with greater clarity,
confidence and serenity. That is a solid basis for domestic
it can also contribute to the restoration and
peace, but
optimum consolidation of
security and peace in our
subregion.
another
The happy outcome of democracy in our country has
thus become an unprecedentedly powerful catalyst in the
settlement of
thorny problem affecting our
subregion.
I refer to the question of refugees, of whom
there are some 200,000. These compatriots who are victims
of tragedies of the past three decades and who have been
forced to stay in exile, seeking refuge in neighbouring
countries here and there throughout the world, have had their
hopes rekindled. For them - and they are perfectly right -
the triumph of democracy has removed the essential reason
for their leaving their country. Today they have chosen to
return to their homeland, which welcomes them with open
arms.
Before talking about the conditions that will have to be
met before these compatriots can be assured of a safe return,
I should like first to discharge the duty of thanking all
countries, particularly our neighbours Tanzania, Rwanda
and Zaire, and all the international organizations, especially
those in the United Nations system, and in particular the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR),
that for some 20 years have enabled them to continue to feel
like human beings.
The Government of Burundi must now continue this
process by ensuring the happy return and the effective and
dignified reintegration of these citizens into the country’s
economic, social and cultural life. To succeed, we shall
have to mobilize many material and financial resources to
meet emergency needs and satisfy long-term requirements.
We make an earnest appeal to the international community
to provide such support as we engage in this highly
humanitarian process.
We are faced with a massive and spontaneous return of
Burundi refugees from neighbouring and distant countries.
We are honoured and filled with joy at the confidence and
spontaneity of our compatriots. At the same time, lack of
the means and the infrastructure that we need to cater for
them causes us deep concern. We are now identifying in
detail all the steps that will have to be taken if we are to
organize, before next December, a conference to inform
sponsors to help finance this large-scale operation.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In the meantime, we are using the modest means at our
disposal, while relying on national solidarity and, especially,
on the laudable intervention of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, to whom we again express our
deep gratitude. Pending the establishment, in the receiving
areas, of a medium-term plan for the gradual repatriation and
integrated
reabsorption of these returnees into a global,
development programme, we have just published
an
emergency plan to deal with the arrival of 50,000 people
between now and February 1994. The latter, because of the
precariousness of their conditions, are returning right away.
This will enable us, having secured the necessary means, to
alleviate their suffering and to accord them the dignity to
which they are entitled.
In the economic field, our major concern is to ensure
a just and appropriate link between human, natural and
financial resources so that we may provide the goods and
services to satisfy the constantly increasing needs of our
population. Development of the rural sector will require
special attention from the public authorities, given the fact
that more than 90 per cent of our population live in the
countryside. We want to modernize the rural economy, and
the spirit of enterprise, self-improvement, research and
creativity will play a very important part in the economic
approach of the new era.
A conference of donors to help finance Burundi’s sixth
five-year economic and social development plan will be
organized in the near
the
international community will give us its usual support and
that the resources necessary for implementation of the plan
will be forthcoming.
future. We believe that
In the social and cultural field, we shall promote the
work ethic and ingenuity and, thereby, commit ourselves to
positive values, in keeping with our traditions and culture.
As we have already pointed out, democracy in Burundi
is a living reality that has to be consolidated. This new
political situation will change relations between Burundi and
its foreign partners. That is why, henceforth, my country’s
foreign policy will be based on the following guiding
principles: good-neighbourliness and effective cooperation;
non-interference
the
consolidation of peace through respect for and the promotion
of the rights and freedoms of the human person; mutually
advantageous
on
interdependence and solidarity between peoples and nations;
regional integration against the background of the emergence
of free-trade zones in which there is no place for selfish
national purposes; and, finally, integration of the Burundi
economy into the world economy.
affairs of other States;
international
in the
cooperation
based
We believe that respect for these principles will not
only strengthen the determination of the Government of our
country to implement a foreign policy in keeping with the
demands of its domestic policy but also foster harmonious
relations with our foreign partners.
Democratization is
We realize that, without development, there can be no
healthy democracy.
therefore a
continuing process, a process that never ends - to the extent
that it is not enough to create or reform political institutions;
that it is especially necessary to resolve substantial problems,
particularly those related to health, nutrition, education,
housing and people’s general well-being.
Moreover, the Government of Burundi will pursue the
structural adjustment programme, with the support of the
World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund.
Development of the private sector will be encouraged, and
non-strategic public enterprises will be progressively
privatized, either in terms of property or in terms of
management.
Solutions must be found for these problems, but at the
same time we must confront challenges linked to them - for
example, population growth, the steady drop in the prices of
raw materials, the poor performance of our economies, the
weight of external debt, natural disasters and endemic
disease, especially malaria and AIDS, which have become a
real scourge, principally in Africa.
Within the framework of liberalization of the Burundi
economy, the Government will reinforce the free-trade zone
for the purpose of diversifying exports. We invite investors
who are so inclined to come and operate in Burundi, where
the current political and social environment, the free-trade
zone and the investment code are very favourable to
business.
The survival of democracy on our continent will depend
on our achieving a just balance in international economic
relations. The security and stability that are indispensable if
sound democracy is to be guaranteed will remain under
threat so long as the problems of debt and hunger - in a
word: development - are not attacked head on.
The international community would therefore be failing
in its duty were it to permit the gap between the prosperous
countries of the North and the poor countries of the South to
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
5
Thus, we appreciate the various
remain indefinitely.
initiatives to reduce the burden of foreign debt on the
developing countries. We believe that economic recovery in
Africa will be achieved, in particular, when external debt is
substantially cancelled and additional financial resources
provided.
Is it right that financial flows from the South to
the North should be greater than those from the North to the
South, as is the case today? This is a bitter reality, which
requires of us profound changes. Thus, the United Nations
must do all in its power to rethink cooperation machinery,
with a view to coming up with a solution that will reverse
the tendency towards the impoverishment of Africa in
particular.
Despite the problems we have just mentioned, we must
not allow ourselves to be discouraged. Our efforts at
democracy and development go hand in hand with a sincere
search for regional solidarity, in the first place, and then for
international solidarity. We know full well
that, while
imposed choices are intolerable, it would be an aberration if
we were to fail to act together.
It is by combining and
harmonizing their forces that States can make the best of
their advantages. Burundi must not stand aside from this
movement towards solidarity.
In our subregion, Burundi
will commit itself to the promotion of various types of
cooperation with its neighbours.
such as
that cooperation,
We intend to strengthen existing instruments in the
context of
the Economic
Community of the Great Lakes Countries, the Kagera River
Basin Organization and the Preferential Trade Area, with a
view to the gradual establishment of a free-trade zone. The
Government of Burundi will spare no effort
to spark
subregional cooperation aimed at increased well-being for
our peoples.
It is high time that we in the third world engaged in
some self-examination. It is high time that we grew out of
looking only outwards. We must explore our own capacity
for self-development: development directed at ourselves and
maintained by ourselves. We must learn to plan and manage
better. Above all, we must learn to work better, to work
profitably:
all of us, from the humblest peasant to the
loftiest dignitary. Africa is overflowing with wasted or
unexploited potential. We must contemplate a development
for ourselves, a development adapted to our needs and
making use of our assets.
International solidarity can be
effective only in the radically new context where we take
responsibility for ourselves and where exchanges are
mutually advantageous.
The world is radically changing. Peoples aspire to
greater freedom and dignity. Mankind needs to make
enormous efforts to overcome the obstacles on its path:
poverty, war,
the
These are all challenges
environment, overpopulation.
facing our planet.
the destruction of
famine, sickness,
it
possible
The detente and the will for peace that characterize
relations between the major Powers following the cold war
security,
can make
understanding and cooperation;
the need for
political settlements of the conflicts that have broken out in
many parts of the world. Burundi advocates dialogue and
joint efforts to end disputes, and we can only welcome these
positive developments in international relations.
achieve
they affect
to
global
But internationally speaking we are at the turning point
between two eras. The era of the cold war and a bipolar
world has ended. But today the world is newly assailed, and
the inevitable seismic shock waves are shaking the global
village. Peoples and nations everywhere are seeking new
guidelines for building the new world order that has been so
late in coming.
Ancient rivalries we thought had been overcome are
again rising to the surface and are disturbing balances
achieved at great cost. On the threshold of the twenty-first
century, Europe has been jolted by separatist nationalism.
The plan to build a communal supranational political entity
is not exempt from the harsh test posed by the eruptions
taking place in the multinational States of the long-standing
democracies. The situation in the former Yugoslavia speaks
unfortunate volumes in this regard.
Africa is being undermined by areas of disturbing
destruction. It has been all the more marginalized since the
end of the division of the world into two blocs because it is
no longer a bargaining chip. Where else in the world are
there so many countries without State authority, without
social organization? Where else are there so many
fratricidal wars with no solution in view? Somalia, Liberia,
Angola, Mozambique and Rwanda are all loci of tension
where instability threatens Africa as a whole, as well as
world peace.
Burundi firmly supports the resolution of conflicts in
the framework of regional and subregional organizations.
Hence, we praise the efforts of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) and subregional organizations in Africa to
arbitrate conflicts and help the parties to find negotiated
solutions to their disputes.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
In connection with the prevention of conflicts and with
confidence- and security-building among the States of our
subregion, we have established a permanent consultative
committee on security questions in Central Africa, with the
cooperation of the United Nations.
In the committee
meetings already held, a common determination has emerged
to establish a confidence-building machinery, and to limit
weapons in order to benefit the development and well-being
of the peoples of the subregion.
Moreover, Burundi welcomes United Nations action,
which despite many difficulties continues to play a role and
to achieve success. A recent example is that of Cambodia,
where a Government of National Unity has just been formed
after a long process carried out under United Nations
supervision. The United Nations is doing all it can to
restore order in Angola, Somalia and the former Yugoslavia.
We urge the United Nations to proceed on this path.
We hail
the historic agreement recently signed at
Washington between the State of Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization. This development is an important
milestone in the settlement of the Palestinian problem.
Burundi attaches great significance to this event, which
without question will set its stamp on the end of the century.
Closer to home, in Rwanda, Burundi hails and supports
action taken by the United Nations in cooperation with the
Organization of African Unity to guarantee our Rwandese
brethren a climate favouring genuine national reconciliation.
The deployment of a neutral international force, as requested
by the two parties, should be arranged as quickly as
possible. Such a force is among the prerequisites for the
consolidation of peace in Rwanda, and hence throughout the
subregion - especially in Burundi, where similarities in
ethnic, linguistic and cultural matters place us in a delicate
position with respect to the Rwandese political conflict.
Burundi also welcomes the positive developments in the
situation in southern Africa. Negotiations under way among
the various political players in South Africa have already
produced encouraging results that are strengthening mutual
trust. The Government of Burundi was pleased by the
decision of the Conference for a Democratic South Africa
(CODESA) recognizing that Walvis Bay and the surrounding
area belong to Namibia. That decision marks the total
independence of Namibia and is in keeping with the
consolidation of peace in the region.
That is true also of the decision in South Africa to set
up a Transitional Executive Council open to all political
groups; this will lead to elections next year.
Burundi enthusiastically welcomes the recent events in
South Africa that enabled the historic leader of the African
National Congress of South Africa (ANC), Mr. Nelson
Mandela, to call for the lifting of economic sanctions against
his country. Burundi considers that those events are the
culmination of the first phase of a process that will lead to
the emergence in South Africa of a democratic regime free
of racial discrimination.
Burundi hopes that the Transitional Executive Council
will be able to complete negotiations on the transition to
democracy. That would open new prospects not only for
southern Africa but also for the entire continent, which in
recent years has followed with special attention the obstacles
preventing all
the daughters and sons of Africa from
enjoying their national rights, thus compromising the entire
network of mutually advantageous relations that could be
developed between South Africa and the rest of
the
continent.
Concerning the difficulties facing our Organization, it
is an open secret that we are facing financial adjustment
problems. The number of peace-keeping operations, the
frequency of
the diversity and the
complexity of prevailing situations all call for greater
responsibility in the payment of assessments due the
Organization.
special missions,
Burundi also encourages the current restructuring of the
United Nations system, which will allow it to measure up to
the numerous new tasks awaiting it and enable it to have an
image which is a true mirror of the present world.
Our country praises the exceptional courage and self-
denial demonstrated by the staff of the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
It goes without
saying that refugees and displaced persons endure the most
painful sufferings because of conflicts. The United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees constantly gives them hope
by providing them with the basic necessities.
Burundi, as a country that has been sheltering refugees
but that also has citizens of its own living in exile, can
testify today to its convictions and achievements on the
question of refugees. We are convinced that only the
repatriation and reinstallation of refugees and displaced
persons can remedy the problem, which has become
worldwide in scope and difficult to overcome.
We would be
the
non-governmental organizations of the world, which, through
remiss not
to congratulate
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
7
their actions, have lessened the suffering of millions of men,
women and children in distress.
own needs and priorities. Burundi is represented in Tokyo
at a high level, and it will make its contribution to achieving
the goals of that Conference.
In order to be lasting and irreversible, the democratic
reforms chosen by our populations must have international
support, because, indeed, democracy against a backdrop of
social unrest, unemployment and poverty runs the risk of
being just a caricature.
From this rostrum, in the same way that we called on
the
international community to witness our democratic
institutions, we would like to ask it to support our efforts
through international cooperation based on interdependence
and solidarity among peoples and nations.
The economic situation in the world today constitutes
for us a subject of deep concern. The developed countries
have been hit by a recession, and it is not easy to overcome
it. After years of more or less favourable economic
conditions, growth in their economies is now slowing down.
Short-term projections are not very encouraging either.
Unemployment has reached disturbing proportions, thereby
causing a resurgence here and there of xenophobia and
micronationalism, victims of which are for the most part
foreigners who have become true scapegoats for the ills that
are distressing the societies in the developed countries.
The developing world is the most severely affected in
terms of the well-being of its population. While South-East
Asia and Latin America have positive economic indicators,
we must note that Africa is going through a difficult period
and that the stakes are high. The drop in export earnings,
linked to the undervaluing of raw materials, weighs heavily
upon the external debt that today so hinders the freedom of
action of most African countries. The outlook for recovery
and growth in the short term will likely remain bleak for the
African continent.
We would like to recall, however, that there have been
delays in the implementation of the New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the General
Assembly two years ago. Similarly, progress achieved in
implementing the New Agenda for the 1990s in favour of
the least-developed countries
still not up to the
expectations of our populations.
is
The International Conference on African Development
is currently being held in Tokyo. We sincerely thank the
organizers of that meeting, especially the Government of
Japan. We wish that Conference success, and we also hope
that it will lead to concrete commitments on the part of the
donors to help us recover and to develop on the basis of our
Obstacles to healthy international economic cooperation
are still numerous and of many kinds. The external debt
crisis remains a major hindrance to the recovery of our
economies. The main creditors must make greater efforts to
ease the weight of this debt, the servicing of which is a
heavy burden on the meagre export earnings of our
developing countries. At this time, we would like to express
our deep gratitude to friendly countries which have already
undertaken measures - or are in the process of so doing - to
reduce or cancel the debt which we owe them. We ask them
to take relevant measures to give a strong boost
to
development financing, the drying up of which concerns us.
financing,
In this regard, Burundi places great hope in traditional
sources of
the funds for which have been
increased. But we also place great hopes in the Global
Environment Facility. Our delegation would like from this
rostrum to repeat
the need for rapid conclusion to the
negotiations on the restructuring of that fund so that it may
reflect its true world calling with regard to its composition
and to transparent management and democratic management
in its functioning. Similarly, it is also important for the
Commission on Sustainable Development to move from
rhetoric to an operational phase.
The series of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) negotiations ought to have been concluded in 1991,
but
they continue to run up against a number of
disagreements which are causing major concern in the world
economy, in particular with respect to the future of the
multilateral
to the
principal protagonists to show political will sufficient to
bring about a favourable ending to the Uruguay Round. The
international community would in no way benefit from a
trade war. There would be no winner and no loser in that
war.
trading system. We urgently appeal
Each
year
enjoys
that
the United Nations
greater
participation at the level of Heads of State and Government.
This is due to the fact
they firmly believe in the
irreplaceable role of this Organization in respect of the
balance and functioning of the world. We firmly believe in
this Organization, and therefore we permit ourselves the
liberty of hoping for
international
cooperation which takes account of the diversity of each
country and which is committed to complementary actions
with shared and fully assumed responsibility.
the promotion of
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The United Nations indeed is an Organization of
powerful countries and weaker countries. Here, therefore,
we find the principles of justice, transparency and solidarity
in international affairs as
something which must be
respected, so that no State need feel excluded or bullied
because of its size. Rather, each State should feel protected
against insecurity and arbitrariness, against hunger, against
poverty, against epidemics of all kinds.
It is true, and we strongly emphasize this, that the
weaker countries must not always put
forward their
weakness as a pretext to demand or to call for protection or
assistance from the international community. They too must
take charge of their own destinies. They must organize
themselves in such a way that the United Nations or other
organizations would intervene only to give them support for
a self-centred and self-supported development programme.
It is our deepest wish that this world Organization that
we share would continue to pursue its ideals and to achieve
its goals. We would wish that international solidarity might
be a genuine reality and that the relations among States
might henceforth be based on a more just and more
equitable economic and political order.
It is our hope to see our Organization help the poorest
populations on our planet avoid hunger, poverty and wars.
Long live the United Nations!
Long live international solidarity!
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Burundi for the statement he
has just made.
Mr. Melchior Ndadaye, President of the Republic of
Burundi, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 127 (continued)
S C A L E O F A S S E S S M E N T S
F O R T H E
APPORTIONMENT OF THE EXPENSES OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (A/48/414/Add.4)
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to draw the General
In a
Assembly’s attention to document A/48/414/Add.4.
the Secretary-General
letter contained in that document,
informs me that, since the issuance of his communications
dated 21, 24, 27 and 29 September 1993, the Central African
Republic has made the necessary payment to reduce its
arrears below the amount specified in Article 19 of the
Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes note
of this information?
It was so decided.
PROGRAMME OF WORK
The PRESIDENT: Before calling on the first speaker
in the general debate this morning, I should like to draw the
attention of the General Assembly to document A/INF/48/6,
which contains a tentative programme of work and schedule
of plenary meetings for the month of October. I should like
to point out that this schedule was prepared with a view to
ensuring that the relevant documentation would be available
to delegations ahead of the discussion of any given agenda
item.
The lists of speakers for all
document A/INF/48/6 are now open.
the items listed in
I will
in due course announce the dates of
the
consideration of other agenda items as well as keep the
General Assembly informed of any additions or changes.
I should like to remind members that, while the
Assembly fixed Monday, 19 September 1994, as the date for
closure of the forty-eighth session, it also fixed Tuesday,
21 December 1993, as the date on which the Assembly will
recess until next year.
I hope to keep as close as possible to this schedule so
that the Assembly can discharge its responsibilities in an
orderly fashion.
I therefore appeal to those representatives
submitting draft resolutions to do so sufficiently in advance
of the dates fixed for consideration of items in order to give
members adequate time to examine them.
I should also like to remind representatives that at its
3rd plenary meeting, the General Assembly took note of the
fact that, depending on the type and complexity of proposals
involving changes in the work programme and additional
expenditures, the preparation of a statement of programme-
budget implications by the Secretary-General could take a
few days and that, in addition, the Advisory Committee on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Fifth
Committee would need adequate time to review the
programme-budget implications of a draft resolution before
the latter could be acted on by the Assembly.
to feed the hungry, $10 are spent on the maintenance of
military operations in that country?
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
9
Further, the Assembly took note of the fact that it was
therefore desirable that Member States submit proposals
involving statements of programme-budget implications in
sufficient
time to avoid cancellation of meetings and
postponement of the consideration of items.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. ROBAINA GONZALEZ (Cuba) (interpretation
from Spanish):
I come from a free, small and sovereign
island in Latin America. My ancestors were able to shed the
yoke of a colonial empire and achieve an independence that,
since the moment of its birth, has been burdened by the
interventionist impositions of a foreign power.
I belong to
a people that was able, for several generations, to forge an
authentic revolution, which also opened the path to hope for
other peoples of the Third World.
For these reasons, and as a Caribbean people, we are
doubly proud of having you, Mr. President, presiding over
this session. Because you are a son of that South that makes
us brothers, we are convinced that that world and its hopes
will not be ignored once again.
In that just aspiration you
will certainly find Cuba’s support.
Conditions in the world have radically changed in less
than five years. Bipolar balance is being replaced by
unipolar hegemony. The world is increasingly plagued by
still insuperable contradictions between words and deeds.
While it is said that the threat of a nuclear holocaust has
disappeared, the poverty and underdevelopment that cause
misery and death are continuing. Millions of men, women
and children die every day, with no possibility of being
It is said that the arms race between the super-
saved.
Powers has ended but,
there is a rush to
develop new weapons systems and even to introduce them
to outer space.
increasingly,
Today, the warlords aspire to rule the skies without
having resolved many of
the problems on Earth.
Paradoxically, they argue that they lack the resources to do
so, while the world today is becoming increasingly
ungovernable because of them. The total budget of the
World Health Organization equals the expenditures caused
by three hours of the arms race. How can hunger in
Somalia be alleviated, for example, if for every dollar used
The existence of treaties on a partial ban of nuclear
tests and on a moratorium, or on the non-proliferation of
such weapons, is not enough. A single agreement would
suffice, one providing for general and complete disarmament
and for the use of the enormous resources that would thus
cease to be squandered for the final resolution of our
planet’s serious problems.
Regrettably, the end of the cold war has not resolved
any of the fundamental problems facing humankind; instead,
it has created many others.
The sacred principles of
independence and national sovereignty are being shredded to
pieces, and are guaranteed only to a few powerful countries
whose views prevail even in this lofty Organization. The
United Nations was created, among other objectives, for the
achievement of a lasting peace,
justice and equality in
international relations. Some things have been done, but
much remains to be done for the benefit of human beings
and of peoples.
While the longstanding problems of the Third World
persist and become more acute, aggravated by stagnation in
development assistance, what peace can we speak of? While
unequal exchange, external debt and the transfer of resources
from developing to developed countries - to mention but a
few examples - still persist, will there truly be peace? While
protectionist and discriminatory practices in international
trade prevail, and the terms of trade of developing countries
continue to deteriorate, will we honestly be able to achieve
justice?
Only
through
effective
cooperation,
radically
restructuring present international economic relations, would
poor nations be allowed to develop and to grow. The
initiatives adopted by the Organization by consensus are
countless yet we continue to be ignored by the most
powerful countries.
The
order,
economic
new international
three
international development strategies, four United Nations
development decades, at least four special sessions of the
General Assembly, a number of conferences on population,
environment,
the Rio de Janeiro
Conference itself exemplify hopes placed by peoples the
world over in the United Nations, but without
tangible
results. The selfishness and lack of political will faced by
the poor of this Earth, the children of colonialism, racism,
plundering and foreign intervention, are truly disappointing.
habitat,
and
even
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
On the other hand, neo-liberal doctrines are now
rampant in the assistance programmes of the Organization,
proclaiming only the virtues of the market and of private
enterprise. Defending only these options means separating
populations of developing countries from the real production
of wealth. This accentuates the inequalities, attacks true
democracy, social development and the right of human
beings to achieve a productive and dignified life.
Attempts are made to say that the majority of violations
of human rights originate in the impoverished countries of
the South, while an overwhelming majority of their accusers
come from the affluent countries of the North. It seems that
those who claim to be the resolute defenders of certain
individual freedoms, also include among those freedoms, and
with equal ease, the violence that increasing neo-fascist and
racist currents are unleashing in their own societies.
We the countries of the South are no more than
statistics to the North. Meticulous studies are carried out to
determine that we will be born in greater numbers, that more
of us will fall to disease and that more of us will die.
Has that North not been the source, and now more than
ever, of discrimination against migrant workers, against the
increasingly dispossessed strata of society and against
national minorities?
The quality of life of the generations that have been
born and have died while I speak would demand that those
bulky files where tragedies are noted in detail, would also
have the power to feed and heal the needy. Simply knowing
that we are dying in the countries of the South on this planet
will not prevent us from being buried.
The surviving third world has once again placed its
hopes in the preparation of an agenda for development and
is awaiting with interest the Secretary-General’s report on
the subject. A new frustration would be a luxury for which
we would never be forgiven by this suffering humanity.
The World Summit for Social Development to be held
in 1995 will also provide us with a new opportunity to place
human beings at the centre of the United Nations efforts, and
to give this subject the priority it deserves in the work of the
United Nations.
The world we live in is condemned to a gradual
destruction that can only be stopped by our collective
wisdom. The right to life, the most basic of human rights,
is constantly threatened by the progressive deterioration of
the ozone layer, by the pollution of the environment and its
underground and surface waters, by the exhaustion of arable
land and by the constant increase in the legions of the
undernourished and underemployed. This dehumanizing
cruelty is
is mistakenly called
contemporary industrial civilization. Together with these
lacerating realities, humanity is facing other challenges
which, though different, are no less complex.
result of what
the
Recently,
the World Conference on Human Rights
concluded by reaffirming the universality, interdependence
and indivisibility of those rights. That Conference rightly
reiterated that the issue must be dealt with in an objective,
impartial and non-selective manner.
Who are the main beneficiaries of the trade in human
organs? Where are the deviant practices of pornography and
child prostitution, of drug addiction and the sale of minors,
most common? Are these by chance the individual freedoms
they defend with such zeal? Why are they not equally
intransigent in defence of the right to eat, to work, to learn,
to live a healthy life, to not suffer discrimination by reason
of sex or race, in other words the most basic rights of a
human being?
We all recognize the responsibility of the United
Nations in the field of the promotion of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in accordance with the United Nations
Charter.
There are United Nations bodies that can
adequately carry out this responsibility if attempts are not
made to assign them functions with which they are
incompatible, if they are allowed to work objectively and
without political conditions, and if they are based on
cooperation and not imposition. This role must not and
cannot be distorted. Thus, the idea of creating a high
commissioner for human rights should be considered with all
necessary care and without undue haste, which we could in
the future regret.
In a similar context, those who reap benefits from the
existing international order are introducing into it their own
ideology.
They are trying to impose those norms of
political, economic and social organization most likely to
preserve that order and irrationally defend their
ideas
regarding the links between democracy, human rights and
the market economy, a new trilogy that masks the sufferings
of millions of persons.
It is necessary firmly to reject any and all attempts to
decide unilaterally on these issues of vital interest to all
peoples, and avoid their becoming new sources of conflict,
new obstacles to international cooperation and the unifying
role that humanity today expects of the United Nations.
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
11
In order to fulfil the purposes enshrined in the United
Nations Charter and to allow the Organization to contribute
to ensuring peace, cooperation and development, it is urgent
to democratize the United Nations.
This would facilitate the finding of solutions to the
malformations with which the United Nations was born and
with which it developed, and its transformation into an
Organization devoted to truly strengthening cooperation
among peoples. It is not acceptable that at the dawn of the
twenty-first century, the United Nations continues to respond
to the interests of a handful of Powers.
The United Nations has not been and is not democratic.
A veto privilege linked with the might of States is
inadmissible, above all if the Security Council can become
a docile instrument in the hands of a few Powers, a risk
which is present now more than ever before. There is
nothing more insecure in this world, and I say this in all
sincerity, than the Security Council.
The full democratization of the Security Council would
require, among other measures, that all its members be
subject to periodic democratic elections, as is now the case
with non-permanent members.
It would also require the
elimination of the veto privilege and the establishment of a
single category of members, which would be consistent with
the principle of the sovereign equality of States that must
become, once and for all, the cornerstone of the activities of
the Organization.
We are, nevertheless, conscious of the obstacles that at
present prevent us from achieving that objective, and we
consider it not only feasible, but indeed indispensable, to
progress in that direction.
The number of peoples present in this Hall has almost
quadrupled since 1945. It is therefore necessary to institute
a new order in the United Nations.
that
Cuba favours an increase in the membership of the
Council to reach a proportion, with respect to the total
membership of the United Nations,
is as close as
possible to that existing in 1945, and favours also a tripling
of the number of permanent members so that Latin America,
the Caribbean, Africa and Asia would have more than two
seats in that category, as is now the case for Europe.
Suffice it to say that more than 3,700 million inhabitants of
those continents, that is, two thirds of humankind, do not
enjoy that privilege.
It
for
is also essential
the principle of equitable
geographical distribution to be ever present in the Security
Council, and not only among the non-permanent members
but among the totality of its membership. By so doing, we
would be advancing one step farther towards democratization
of the Council’s membership.
It
thereby
informal
consultations,
is also indispensable to modify the operational
mechanisms of the Council and eliminate the practice of
so-called
increasing
transparency in the work of the Council. This is a need that
the Secretary-General recognizes in his latest report on the
work of the Organization. By the same token, it is not
permissible for the Council to go beyond its mandate and
interfere in fields that are not within its purview.
The adoption of measures to ensure greater participation
by the General Assembly on issues to do with the
maintenance and strengthening of international peace and
security, as a means for achieving the necessary balance
between the Assembly and the Security Council, cannot be
postponed. We cannot disregard the fact that, under the
Charter, the General Assembly is the only truly universal
body in the United Nations and that this gives it special
responsibilities. The Security Council acts on behalf of all
the Member States
represented in this Hall and is
accountable to them. This accountability should therefore be
implemented through substantive and analytical reports from
the Council to the General Assembly that would allow the
Assembly not only to systematically consider and assess the
Council’s activities, but also to formulate necessary
recommendations.
There is undoubtedly a general will to revitalize the
Organization, but this objective should be achieved through
the fullest and most transparent consultations, guided, above
all, by the decisions taken by Member States.
Certain recent initiatives that, without any consultation
or mandate whatsoever, attempt to reinvent the priorities of
this Organization are cause for concern. There are even
proposals that seem to consider the United Nations as a
supranational body with a Secretariat acting as a universal
government, and implementing actions that not only lack an
appropriate
also confer on it
prerogatives that are far removed from its legitimate nature.
We call the Assembly’s attention to the dangers involved in
these attempts because, if their acceptance is forced through,
they would cause serious conflict that could endanger the
very integrity of the Organization.
legislative basis, but
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to
be
also
called
should
Attention
the
implementation of certain new ideas and mechanisms in the
United Nations. Even if the resolutions regarding the report
entitled "An Agenda for Peace" were adopted unanimously
in this Hall, their implementation is not free of dangers that
could jeopardize the most sacred principles of the United
Nations. Nothing in those texts can justify violations of the
sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of States
or interference in their internal affairs.
The
excessive multiplication in the number of
peace-keeping operations and related procedures is also
cause for increasing concern. The proliferation in this type
of operation is no indication that the United Nations is
functioning better today than in the past; quite the contrary.
In any case, it is a symptom of the grave dangers that
threaten world peace and stability.
The resulting financial burden that is falling on the
shoulders of Member States is reaching unsustainable
proportions. Hence, we must prevent this increase from
becoming even more onerous for Member States, and in
particular for those of the third world.
In the last decade of
the millennium, our world
nevertheless does show some rays of light. One of these is
that shed by the Ibero-American Summits, the most recent
of which was recently held in the Brazilian city of
I mention this as a valid example of
Salvador da Bahia.
fraternal discussion,
in which, without anything being
imposed by any party,
issues of common interest were
defined and coordinated.
Recently also, the world learned of the signing of the
Declaration that, as a preliminary measure,
recognizes
Palestinian autonomy over part of the occupied territories.
We hope that this development constitutes an effective step
towards the restoration of
the
Palestinian people to have their own State, in their own
national territory, and towards the definitive withdrawal by
Israel from the other occupied Arab territories, including
Jerusalem. This would be an important contribution to a
definitive solution to the Middle East conflict and to the
establishment of a just and lasting peace in that troubled
region.
the legitimate right of
Only a few days ago, in the Special Committee against
Apartheid, my delegation had the honour of hearing
Nelson Mandela. We are encouraged by his confidence in
the future, and we hope that the process of dialogue now
under way will be conducive to the establishment of a
united, democratic and non-racial South Africa. We are
ready to contribute, with our modest efforts, towards that
end.
In my country, a genuine revolution succeeded. Since
the outset, it has faced hostility from its neighbour but,
against all odds, it has been able to carry out, in solidarity,
its humane task. We have continued our endeavour even
now that international circumstances have radically changed.
Cuba is inserting itself into the world economy and is
opening up to foreign investment, but without the loss of any
of its principles.
In order to continue to safeguard the
development of our people, we are also making profound
changes
our
independence and the gains we have already achieved. We
are indeed facing serious problems as a result of an inhuman
blockade, but we nevertheless continue to hold a prominent
place in the fields of health, education and social security,
which are guaranteed for all even in the midst of all our
difficulties.
these efforts have been
recognized this year by the United Nations and by the
United Nations Children’s Fund.
The results of
preserving
concept
based
the
on
of
Attempts are being made to crush this dream. The
General Assembly, at its last session, adopted resolution
47/19, regarding the necessity of ending the economic,
commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United
States of America against Cuba.
The resolution was
welcomed by international public opinion. Since then, there
has been an impressive rise in world-wide solidarity towards
our country, from every part of the world, from the most
diverse sectors and creeds, even in those wide swaths of the
population of the aggressor country that reject the measures
taken by their own Government. Sympathy has increased
for a people that for more than three decades has managed
to resist a ferocious siege by a huge, neighbouring Power,
with admirable gallantry in the midst of unimaginable
deprivation. Nevertheless, in open defiance of the decision
taken by the General Assembly and in defiance of world
opinion, the blockade has been reinforced during the last few
months by means of regulations cruelly implementing to the
utmost the same laws rejected by this forum less than a year
ago.
The extra-territorial nature of
the blockade has
increased, and the pressures are on the rise. Actions have
multiplied to impede or affect the links with Cuba of private
and public economic entities in third countries. They aspire
to defeat by hunger and disease the exemplary nation which
they have not been able to vanquish by force or by siren
songs.
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
13
It must be difficult for the illustrious representatives of
that great northern nation still to sustain today the thesis that
their actions constitute a bilateral embargo, in the face of the
irrefutable evidence that in fact those actions constitute a
blockade.
We have provided the Assembly with irrefutable
evidence of their ambition not only to maintain but also to
strengthen the blockade,
to economically strangle my
homeland, to undermine the sovereignty of third States and
to violate the freedom of trade and navigation,
to the
detriment of the most fundamental principles of international
law.
But there is more: if this is a case of bilateral relations,
then there are two blockaded peoples, that of Cuba and that
of the United States. North Americans are denied an
economic opportunity that would benefit them; they are
denied access to the scientific advances that already
guarantee the prevention and cure of diseases such as
meningitis, retinitis pigmentosa, hepatitis B and vitiligo,
among other achievements of our science. The right to
travel freely to any place, which their Constitution confers
on all citizens, is also infringed upon.
The blockade’s effect on my people is even more
inhuman. We are prevented from purchasing drugs essential
for health; our ability to acquire resources to meet the needs
for our material and social well-being is curtailed; our peace
and daily life is threatened. The generation to which I
belong was born and grew up under the blockade’s siege.
To live in a sovereign and steadfast country is a crime for
which two million children may have to pay with their lives.
We affirm before the peoples of the world that there
will be no possible absolution for those who commit or
this genocide, because "to condone a crime is
support
tantamount to committing it".
If against all logic our right
were to be denied, if aggressive forces were to prevail over
reason, Cubans will nevertheless always maintain their
unshakeable faith in victory. We love life, and life is
freedom, independence, sovereignty. We demand that the
path we have chosen be respected. It is not our desire to be
a model
for anyone, but we will never accept either
imposition or force.
I know that my words will be understood in different
ways, but I have said what our conscience as free human
beings dictates. My words may be applauded as a matter of
solidarity, courtesy or obligation, but I know that there are
many who wish us to be successful, for that is what they
hope for themselves.
To you, Mr. President, I am thankful for having
allowed me to express the feelings of a worthy people.
Mr.
AL-NUAIMI
(United Arab
Emirates)
(interpretation from Arabic): On behalf of the delegation of
the United Arab Emirates, it gives me great pleasure to
extend to you our sincere congratulations on your election as
President of
the General
Assembly. We are fully confident that your vast experience
in the area of international relations will enhance the
Organization’s role and promote its goals.
the forty-eighth session of
I also wish to express our appreciation of the tireless
efforts undertaken by your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev,
in his judicious and capable management of the previous
session.
It also gives me great pleasure to extend our sincere
thanks to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General
of the United Nations, for his dedication to the important
responsibilities with which he has been entrusted and to
commend his efforts aimed at enhancing the Organization’s
role in addressing the issues that concern the international
community and in devising peaceful and just solutions to the
problems of development and peace as well as the issues
involved in maintaining regional and international security.
I should like also to welcome the countries that have
acceded recently to the membership of the Organization and
to wish them success and prosperity. There is no doubt that
their presence among us accentuates further the universality
of the United Nations and will contribute positively to the
realization of our common goals and interests in consonance
with the Charter.
On this occasion, I should like, on behalf of the people
and Government of the United Arab Emirates, to extend our
sincere condolences and profound sympathy to the people
and Government of friendly India over the tragic loss of
thousands of lives as a result of the recent earthquake.
This forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is
convened against the backdrop of new political realities that
have wrought dramatic changes in both regional and
international relations. The most notable changes have been
the diminished threat of nuclear war and an end to the
problems that had plagued the international community since
the creation of the United Nations as a result of the era of
influence.
bipolarity and competition over spheres of
Although these changes have had a positive effect,
the
international arena has witnessed several new regional
conflicts that have been generated by ethnic bigotry,
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
religious fanaticism, expansionist tendencies and the spread
of the phenomenon of terrorism, which is still sweeping over
some parts of the world and which continues to pose a threat
to peace and security at the regional and international levels.
Given the existence of such a situation, it is incumbent on
the international community as a whole to address these
problems and to find effective solutions thereto in the
interests of stability, development and abiding peace and in
order to lay the foundations of the new world order to which
all the countries of the world aspire so that they may be able
to face up to the many major challenges that have come to
confront humanity as a whole.
The role and responsibilities of the United Nations and
especially those of the Security Council have expanded,
since the end of the cold war, particularly in the areas of
development and the maintenance of international peace and
security. There is no doubt that the adoption by the General
Assembly of the "Agenda for Peace" and other measures
aimed at restructuring and revitalizing the Organization in
the areas of economic and social development constitute a
constructive, positive step towards the shouldering by the
international community of its immense responsibilities in
this regard. This will enhance the credibility of the United
Nations and increase its ability to become a truly effective
multi-purpose
existing
international issues.
dealing with
instrument
in
In restructuring the Council,
We believe that within the new context of international
relations, the restructuring and reform of the United Nations
should embrace the Security Council as
the organ
responsible for the maintenance of international peace and
security.
the principle of
equitable geographical representation of all regional groups
should be taken into consideration so that it may reflect the
changes and transformations that have taken place in the
international
and
transformations call for a new approach in addressing the
issues of peace, security and development at the international
level.
Such an approach should stem from a sound
understanding of the realities of an interdependent world so
that
it may enable the international community to find
solutions that would go to the roots of old and new problems
alike.
political
changes
Those
arena.
In this regard, we wish to stress that the issues of
peacemaking and peace-keeping at both the regional and
international levels in the context of preventive diplomacy
should be
into
consideration the historical, geographical, political, social
and cultural characteristics of each and every State.
In so
doing, the international community should keep in view the
addressed in a manner
takes
that
importance of coordination and cooperation between the
United Nations and regional organizations, in the search for
peaceful and commonly agreed solutions for existing
conflicts and disputes, on the basis of international legality
and the Charter of the United Nations.
The recent events in the Gulf in the wake of the
liberation of the sister State of Kuwait have produced a new
political reality which reinforced the belief in the importance
of settling disputes by negotiation and other peaceful means
as prescribed by the Charter of the United Nations and the
principles of international law, in the interests of building
mutual trust and consolidating peace and security, as well as
promoting stability, coexistence and good-neighbourliness
between the States of the region.
Given our adherence to these principles in our relations
with other States both regionally and internationally, the
United Arab Emirates has declared its readiness and sincere
desire to conduct a direct dialogue with the Islamic Republic
of Iran with regard to Iran’s occupation in 1971 of the three
islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, which
belong to the United Arab Emirates. From this rostrum,
where many peace calls have been made, we appeal once
again to the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond positively
to our call for dialogue and to start negotiating an end to this
occupation and to return the three islands to the sovereignty
of the United Arab Emirates.
The United Arab Emirates works jointly with other
States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council, within a
framework of cooperation and solidarity in defining its
policies and its regional and international relations on the
basis of existing geographic, political and economic realities,
and in a manner that is consistent with its national interests
and its Arab and Muslim identity.
In their recent Summit
meeting held in Abu Dhabi in December 1992, the leaders
of the Gulf Cooperation Council affirmed the importance of
resorting to dialogue and negotiation as a principal
instrumentality for settling disputes between States by
peaceful means, in consonance with the tenets of Islamic
Sharia as well as the commitment of the Gulf Cooperation
Council to the Charter of the United Nations and to the
norms and principles of international law.
Mrs. Osode (Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The Gulf Cooperation Council also affirms
the
importance of respecting the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of States, and non-interference in their internal
affairs. We believe that every State is entitled to choose its
own political system and to exercise sovereignty over its
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
15
natural resources in line with its development objectives and
environmental policies. We reject the use of force, or the
threat of the use of force as a means of settling disputes.
We hold that resorting to peaceful means in the settlement
of disputes would enable the States involved to harness their
resources
and economic
development.
interests of
in the
social
a
still
The
Iraqi
policy
regime
pursues
of
procrastination with regard to the implementation of all
In view of this, the
relevant Security Council resolutions.
international community must oblige that
regime to
implement those resolutions to respect the political system,
sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State of Kuwait
and to refrain from reiterating its expansionist aims.
Security Council resolution 833 (1993) relating to the
demarcation of boundaries between Kuwait and Iraq,
guarantees the inviolability of the international boundaries
separating the two countries in accordance with Chapter VII
of the Charter. The resolution is a positive step and a
fundamental
international contribution towards achieving
regional and international peace and stability.
We also urge the international community to pressure
the Iraqi regime to abide by international humanitarian law
and release immediately all Kuwaiti and non-Kuwaiti
prisoners of war and detainees. An end should be put to this
human tragedy which violates
the basic norms of
international humanitarian law.
At the same time, we should like to emphasize that it
is imperative to maintain the unity and territorial integrity of
Iraq and declare that the suffering and hardships endured by
the Iraqi people are the responsibility of the Iraqi regime
because of its refusal to implement fully all relevant Security
Council resolutions.
The positive international developments resulting from
the end of bipolarity and the collapse of military alliances
were bound to produce their effects in our Arab region.
Today, dialogue and cooperation between the big Powers,
and the peaceful settlement of regional disputes, have
replaced the confrontations of bipolarity.
The United Arab Emirates welcomed the convening of
the Madrid Peace Conference and the holding of bilateral
negotiations. It also welcomed the multilateral negotiations
in which it participated.
it welcomed the
declaration of principles concluded between the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel as a positive
beginning and a first step towards a just, comprehensive and
Likewise,
durable settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the
Question of Palestine, on the basis of international legality
as reflected in the relevant United Nations resolutions, most
notably Security Council
and
338 (1973), as well as the "land for peace" principle. Such
a settlement should enable the Palestinian people to exercise
their national
including the right of
self-determination, and bring about a total Israeli withdrawal
from the occupied Arab territories, including the Holy City
of Jerusalem and the Syrian Golan.
resolutions 242 (1967)
inalienable rights,
We support the sustained efforts undertaken by the
Lebanese Government to extend its national sovereignty over
all the Lebanese national soil. In this regard, we call for the
full
implementation of Security Council resolution 425
(1978). This will contribute to the consolidation of peace
and stability and to the creation of the conditions necessary
for the social and economic development of the States and
peoples of the region.
My
is
over
country
extremely
concerned
the
deterioration of the security situation in the sister State of
Somalia, which has resulted in many injuries and fatalities.
We support the efforts undertaken by the United Nations and
regional organizations aimed at alleviating the suffering of
the people of Somalia and creating a secure environment
conducive to the continuation of aid and humanitarian relief
programmes and the rebuilding of national infrastructures,
particularly
economic
development.
relating
social
those
and
to
In view of the strong historical ties between our people
and the people of Somalia, the United Arab Emirates has
extended humanitarian and financial assistance to that
country, in addition to its participation in United Nations
peace-keeping forces. We sincerely hope that all Somali
factions, taking into account the interests of the people of
Somalia, will cooperate, unite and reconcile in order to
facilitate the United Nations mission in Somalia and resume
negotiations and dialogue for the sake of achieving stability,
peace and security in that country.
The people and Government of
the United Arab
Emirates have followed with deep sorrow the tragedy that
has beset the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina for well
over 18 months. My country has also condemned the acts
of killing, displacement, ethnic cleansing, genocide and rape
perpetrated by Bosnian Serbs and Bosnian Croats who are
supported by the regular army of Serbia and Montenegro.
The victims of such atrocities have been largely the Bosnian
Muslims. My country supports the Security Council and
General Assembly resolutions relating to the trial and
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
punishment of the perpetrators of war crimes in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The implementation of these resolutions will
go a long way towards demonstrating that the international
community honours its obligations and that
the United
Nations lives up to the Charter and principles of international
law.
The partition plan recently proposed in the Geneva talks
for the settlement of the dispute in Bosnia and Herzegovina
lacks fairness and justice because it legitimizes aggression
and "ethnic cleansing" and rewards the aggressors by
allowing them to annex the territories they have conquered
by force. In the face of this tragic situation, the international
community bears the historical and moral responsibility of
defending a State Member of the United Nations and
preserving its independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity
and enabling it
right of
self-defence.
to exercise
legitimate
its
in
the
The
recently
progress
achieved
recent
negotiations between the political parties of South Africa,
which culminated in a decision to form the Transitional
Executive Council,
represents a positive step towards
establishing an interim Government and finalizing the
arrangements for the elections to be held early next year.
This progress may also be a significant step towards the
formulation of a permanent constitution, which would lead
to the establishment of a democratic and a united State free
of racial discrimination.
that
still
One of
the great challenges
face the
international community is the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons. This poses
a grave threat to international peace and security; hence, it
is the responsibility of the international community to
encourage the adoption of confidence-building measures on
levels to create a secure
the regional and international
international environment. We believe that
the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty is the key to strengthening all
international efforts and regional
initiatives aimed at
preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and
removing the dangers that continue to threaten both regional
and international peace and security.
In this regard, we welcome the positive steps recently
taken in the field of disarmament, including the Convention
on the Prohibition of
the Development, Production,
Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction, which was signed by the United Arab Emirates,
as well as by a majority of the States of the world. We
should also like to reaffirm the importance of establishing
zones free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass
destruction, including the Middle East.
Despite the progress achieved in the case of certain
international political and social problems, we are yet to
witness any noticeable improvement
in the international
economic environment. The gap between North and South
is getting increasingly wider, and living conditions in many
developing countries are constantly deteriorating under the
heavy burden of foreign debt, the continuing decline in the
price of commodities, and the terms of trade as well as the
negative impact of protectionist policies on those countries’
balances of payments. Given this situation, it has become
the collective responsibility of the international community
to restructure the existing international economic relations in
that would ensure effective cooperation in
a manner
promoting economic development
in many countries,
especially in the developing world, and thereby to improve
their living conditions.
Economic cooperation has expanded to new horizons,
especially in the areas of development and environment.
That was underscored by the forty-seventh session of the
General Assembly through the creation of the high-level
Commission on Sustainable Development. This indicated
that the international community is well aware of the nature
of existing international problems and the importance of
regional and international cooperation in achieving the goals
of peace and development.
The member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council
(GCC) have played an active role in the field of regional and
international economic cooperation through the constructive
and practical positions they have adopted and through their
contributions and assistance to the developmental efforts of
many third world countries. This stance stems from the
Gulf Cooperation Council countries’ belief in the principles
of economic cooperation between States, and especially with
the sisterly Arab and Islamic States. When measured against
the gross national product, the percentage of aid extended by
the GCC countries to developing countries is greater than
that provided by the developed countries, even though the
economies of the GCC countries are based primarily on oil,
a depletable resource. These contributions have been made
despite the need of all our countries to devote all their
energies to the process of rebuilding and maintaining their
social and economic infrastructures that have been adversely
affected by the wars and disputes of the last two decades.
The spirit of tolerance and commitment
to human
values and to the principles and purposes of the United
Nations Charter should guide us on the road to the better
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
17
future that we all aspire after - a future that looks more
attainable than ever before, in view of the regional and
international changes that have taken place over the past few
years. All States, big and small, developed and developing,
must seize this historic opportunity to build on the
momentum of change in order that peaceful dialogue may
prevail, consolidating the foundations of
regional and
international peace and security and peaceful coexistence.
Mr. AL-SHARA (Syrian Arab Republic) (interpretation
from Arabic):
It gives me great pleasure on behalf of the
delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic to congratulate
Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of
the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I take this
opportunity also to commend the role of his friendly country
in the Non-Aligned Movement and the positive contribution
to the United Nations made by the friendly countries of
Latin America.
I should also like on this occasion to voice our esteem
to the President of the Assembly at its forty-seventh session,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the success he achieved during that
session. We extend to him and to the friendly country of
Bulgaria all best wishes for progress and prosperity.
I wish also to welcome the new Member States that
have joined our international Organization.
It is our hope
that they will make a contribution to the work of the United
Nations with their active input.
The end of the cold war has faced the international
community with immense challenges and substantive
questions most of which have remained without satisfactory
answers while others have been left to the judgement of
history and to the vagaries of time.
It has become clear to
many people in various parts of the world that facing up to
these new challenges has not been an easy task for any
individual country, regardless of its power or wisdom.
The international climate has been rendered yet more
complex and difficult by the reactions of those who have
considered themselves to be the victors of the cold war.
Their
reactions have reflected their narrow short-term
interests rather than the elements of the new reality which
would have served better both their long-term interests and
those of other countries - or which, in the very least, would
not have done harm to those interests.
This is one of the basic reasons which, to date, have
It was not
prevented the emergence of a new world order.
reasonable to expect the countries and peoples of the world
to support a system in which they have no say and from
which they have no tangible expectations. This might
explain why from one day to the next and year after year
there has been less talk and lower expectations of the
emergence of a new world order on the ruins of the old
order.
On today’s international scene we see little construction
and few new breakthroughs; we see many ruins, much chaos
and numerous unanswered questions. Has the world of
today become more secure and stable? Have the causes of
social
tension and the many forms of regional conflict
receded? Has the number of refugees and displaced persons
decreased? And has the life of ordinary people in the South,
and even in the North, grown more prosperous or
comfortable?
These are legitimate questions, but detailing the answers
before this Assembly will not be a source of joy or comfort
to many of us, especially in view of conflagrations in
various parts of the world which warn of increased human
suffering, ranging from killing and deportation to "ethnic
cleansing", and real hunger. Of such things, world public
opinion knows but very little. Suffice it to say that the
number of conflicts which figure on the agenda of the
United Nations is far smaller than those which are queuing
up in the wings.
When we say this, however, we do not wish to give the
impression, by such a graphic objective description of the
new international situation, that the past was better than the
present. Far from it. For such is not the logic of my
country, Syria. Nor is it the logic of life, itself which, we
believe, tends to move towards the better, inevitably and as
a matter of necessity, even if it sometimes stumbles here and
there or appears to be static at certain times.
real
Our
aim in describing the post-cold-war
international situation is to attempt a serious assessment that,
we truly believe, we share with many other countries which
aspire to correct the course of international relations in both
the political and the economic spheres, in order to make
them more democratic and equitable.
In this context, we find no better framework than the
United Nations to promote international dialogue and
cooperation. In order for such dialogue to have positive and
fruitful results in the interest of all concerned, it is necessary
to introduce democratic reforms that would restructure the
decision-making process in the Organization so that it may
reflect the views of the majority.
It is not reasonable, for
instance,
to allow the United Nations machinery to be
manipulated, sometimes, in order to intervene in the internal
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
affairs of countries under one pretext or another, before the
Member States themselves are given the chance to introduce
the necessary reforms that would restructure the United
Nations
equitable
representation in its main organs and prevent the use of
selectivity and double standards in addressing the issues that
are of vital importance to Member States.
in such a way as
to guarantee
But how can the majority of Member States expect that
such needed reforms of the structure of the United Nations
would be introduced at a time when some countries that
pride in ending the cold war resort to launching covert and
overt cold wars against countries which would preserve their
independence and stand up for their national sovereignty?
We feel it is our duty to draw attention to the fact that
failure to introduce the required reforms will render the
United Nations incapable of addressing the regional conflicts
that multiply daily.
It is to be feared is that the important
role of this international Organization might change in the
course of time to one of dealing with the problems of tens
of thousands of United Nations soldiers entrusted with the
mission of preserving a lost peace. This would drain the
Organization’s resources and distract it from the many tasks
with which it is entrusted.
The multifarious feelings of concern prevailing among
most peoples in the world, particularly in developing
countries, are deeper than might at first be apparent. We, as
Arabs and Muslims, might well have become more sensitive
than others recently regarding what seems to be designed to
undermine our interests and distort our history, which,
during its most glorious phase, was never
racial or
aggressive towards other peoples and religions. Rather, it
was humane and civilized, as all objective Western historians
attest.
We have the right to wonder about the reasons behind
the ongoing unjust campaign against the Arabs and Muslims,
who are slandered merely because some individuals have
allegedly committed a terrorist act against Western targets,
while not a word is uttered against those who are truly
responsible for terroristic acts against thousands of Arab
victims both in the occupied territories and southern
Lebanon. The time has indeed come for an awakening of
the Western conscience and for addressing objectively the
sensitive issues which affect the dignity of peoples and the
sovereignty of States. The objectivity of the strong cannot
possibly be interpreted or understood, by any ethical
standard, as a concession offered to the other party. Rather
it often promotes the strong’s status and prestige.
It is well known to everyone in the world that the
Arab-Israeli conflict is one of the oldest, most complex and
most dangerous conflicts in the world. That is why the
United Nations has been seized of it since it first started. It
is also no secret to anyone who follows developments in the
region that Syria, under the leadership of President Hafez al
Assad, maintained for 20 years its deeply rooted belief in the
necessity of establishing a just and comprehensive peace in
the region on the basis of United Nations resolutions and
international legality.
they
proposed
the
solutions
Although many peace initiatives were put forward
during the 1970s and 1980s in an attempt to address the
Arab-Israeli conflict, Syria objected to those initiatives only
because
lacked
comprehensiveness and because they ignored participation by
the Palestinians and lacked the guarantees that would
safeguard their national rights. Once it received American
guarantees for the participation of the Palestinians and a
comprehensive solution on all fronts in accordance with
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425
(1978) and the land-for-peace formula, Syria has played a
positive and fundamental role in the long and arduous
negotiations with the United States over the convening of a
peace Conference in Madrid.
By responding positively to the American initiative,
Syria, as the whole world has acknowledged, made the
convening of a peace Conference possible.
In so doing,
Syria acted on the basic of its deep conviction that, or order
for peace to be acceptable to our peoples, it has to be a just,
comprehensive peace that would result in returning return all
the Arab occupied territories and ensuring stability and
security for the whole region. Without such elements, peace
can neither survive nor become a true and stable peace in
which and with which the people of the region can coexist.
For any peace to receive broad and continued popular
support, it must be honourable for us as well as for the
others. The sons and mothers of our martyrs must feel that
their dear ones who fell in the battlefields also contributed
to establishing this peace on the basis of right and justice,
and that with their sacrifices and blood they saved the nation
from being forced to capitulate.
Syria, which consistently believed in a just and
comprehensive peace and demonstrated its earnestness and
determination to reach such peace through the Washington
talks and the constant coordination with the Arab parties and
co-sponsors, is, in fact, more serious and keen in its efforts
to achieve peace than those who deviated from the path of
Arab coordination and through their unilateral signing
opened the doors of the region to all kinds of options.
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
19
Unless serious and urgent efforts are made to achieve
substantive and tangible progress on the Syrian and
Lebanese tracks, peace might be the weakest of those
options.
We in Syria do not exaggerate the value of this
Palestinian-Israeli agreement because each and every one of
its provisions needs new negotiations. At the same time, we
do not underestimate its probable repercussions, especially
on the Palestinian arena, where it has created sharp
divisions. Regardless of all this, however, we think that the
most serious threat the peace process faces lies in Israel’s
attempts to give the impression that the signing of this
agreement has achieved peace in the region, and that the
international community, and particularly Arab countries,
must behave accordingly.
The judgement of history on the Palestinian-Israeli
agreement since the secret Oslo talks has become the
responsibility of the Palestinian people and their institutions.
No one should think that Syria is going to obstruct this
agreement, nor does Syria need to do so. But at the same
time, no one should expect that Syria is going to prevent the
Palestinians from criticizing the agreement, while the Israeli
Prime Minister has not been able to prevent
Israeli
opposition from doing so despite his repeated assurances that
he has made no concession to the Palestinians.
Yet in spite of all this, Israel still claims that it needs
enough time to digest the Israeli-Palestinian agreement in a
blatant attempt to evade the serious follow-up of the peace
process launched in Madrid two years ago. In the meantime,
the international community, the United States at the fore,
has seen the necessity of capitalizing on the momentum
generated by this agreement to continue the peace process on
other tracks, particularly on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks.
The Arab States have also stressed, in the communiqué
issued at the meeting of their Foreign Ministers in Cairo on
20 September 1993, that this first step:
"must be completed by urgent steps on all tracks and
must guarantee the withdrawal of Israel from all the
occupied Syrian Golan and from the Lebanese lands ...
for the Arab League Council believes that, for peace in
the Middle East to be lasting, it has to be just and
comprehensive and must be based on Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and
on international legality."
Peace cannot be built on lands under occupation, nor
can it be achieved through the usurpation of the rights of
others. Those who are trying to make people believe that
the Middle East has suddenly been transformed into an oasis
of peace and prosperity know better than anyone that peace,
stability and prosperity cannot possibly coexist with
occupation, arrogance and the denial of the rights of others.
It is about time Israel stopped misleading world opinion
and portraying itself as a victim.
Is it reasonable that a
country should continue to claim that it is the victim while
it continues to produce and stockpile the most sophisticated
of weapons,
of
mass-destruction, and continues to occupy the lands of others
by force, in defiance of United Nations resolutions?
of weapons
including
kinds
all
My country, Syria, which declares its positions candidly
and clearly to the whole world without fear of blame, will
not give up an inch of its occupied territories.
is
committed to continuing the peace process in earnest and is
also committed to doing all
in
compliance with Security Council resolutions 242 (167) and
338 (1973), as well as the "land for peace" formula. Syria
will also continue to work with the co-sponsors of the peace
process with a view to achieving a genuine,
just and
comprehensive peace so that the Middle East may indeed
become an oasis of peace, stability and prosperity.
is required of it
that
It
Mr. VELAYATI (Islamic Republic of Iran) (spoke in
Persian; English text furnished by the delegation): I should
like, before making my statement, to express the deepest
condolences of the people and the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran to the people and the Government
of India on the catastrophic earthquake that has caused
untold human suffering.
at
to
the
outset,
express
Allow me,
sincere
congratulations to Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on his
well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly
at its forty-eighth session. His personal qualifications and
diplomatic experience are valuable assets, which must be
utilized fully and seriously to further the purposes of the
I wish to assure the President of my
United Nations.
delegation’s unreserved cooperation in this
common
endeavour.
I should like also to welcome the new Members of the
Organization and to express the hope that their participation
in this body will enhance its universality and strengthen the
spirit of universality and international cooperation. As
international relations are currently undergoing tumultuous
and decisive change, the presence here of representatives of
the overwhelming majority of nation States provides the
General Assembly at this session with a unique opportunity
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to shape a better future and an international environment
more in keeping with the purposes and principles of the
United Nations.
understanding and the fostering of mutual confidence at the
international level.
Of course, such a rare opportunity is accompanied by
a grave and historic responsibility for every one of us. We
must acquire a full understanding of the transitional nature
of international relations in the world of today, and, relying
on our vast collective resources and potential, we must
prevent the resurgence and prevalence of the crises, wars,
injustices and human misery that have marred the first
50 years of the United Nations.
If, on the eve of its fiftieth anniversary, we are to
ensure a more dynamic and successful
the
Organization, we must undertake a sober reassessment of our
record and identify our achievements as well as our
shortcomings and obstacles. Regrettably, five years after the
end of the cold war, some of that era’s most negative
characteristics are still evident in international relations.
future for
Expansionism and the urge to dominate, disregard for
the material, cultural and moral values of nations,
the
suppression of democracy and of democratic institutions, and
the triumph of the short-sighted interests of the dominant
few over the interests and aspirations of the majority and
over human rights and the United Nations Charter and
international law continue to impede international affairs
and, most regrettably, international organizations. This has
presented the United Nations with a historic challenge:
to
maintain and enhance its perceived role and its credibility
following the Persian Gulf crisis. Moreover, despite the
cessation of military rivalry between major Powers, many
complex and grave threats - including those arising from
ethnic tensions, the lack of development, poverty, economic
and social inequality and degradation of the environment -
have taken humanity to the edge of the abyss.
During the era of the cold war, relations between East
and West - and, consequently,
international relations in
general - were founded on misconceptions, mutual mistrust
and a total lack of confidence. These factors played a
central role in the creation of an unsafe world, in which the
United Nations was deprived of any opportunity to realize its
vast potential for the maintenance of international peace and
security.
Therefore, our first and foremost obligation is to
identify and root out
the causes of crisis and mistrust
inherited from the cold war and to take appropriate steps to
create the conditions necessary to the promotion of
This should begin with an all-out campaign of steps to
restore world confidence in the United Nations. A balanced,
objective and far-sighted approach to various international
political, economic and cultural crises and challenges, based
on justice and on the common principles and objectives
enshrined in the Charter,
fundamental
requirement for the restoration and enhancement of the
credibility of
the Organization, and can also play a
significant role in securing long-term stability and trust. In
this context, the identification, definition and deepening of
shared values
facilitate
understanding and ensure international cooperation.
and common interests will
is
the most
Should we fail in adopting such an approach, countries
will be forced into a security dilemma created by
unacceptable survival options: namely, either to strengthen
their military capabilities and thus precipitate an arms race
or to succumb to expansionist Powers and their whims.
In
the world will plunge into a new era of
either case,
insecurity and turbulence.
The Security Council plays a determining role in either
heightening such a dilemma or reversing it. In other words,
the Council may either exacerbate tension and distrust or
encourage understanding, confidence and respect for the rule
of law in inter-State relations.
If the behaviour of the Security Council signifies an
unequivocal commitment to uphold justice and the principles
of the Charter, to combat aggression and to come to the help
of the victims, and if the Council exhibits the political will
to cease the application of double standards, then we can
hope that potential aggressors will be deterred, international
instability and insecurity will be curtailed, and the immense
human cost of wars and hostilities will be avoided.
On the other hand, when, owing to political
calculations, some aggressions and international crimes meet
with the indifference and acquiescence of the Security
Council; when the criteria for resort to forcible measures
envisaged in Chapter VII of the Charter are the short-lived
political interests of Powers; when aggressions and attempts
to annihilate an entire nation do not receive a forcible,
resolute response, while in other cases there is a rush to
resort to force before attempting to understand and deal with
the root causes of a conflict; and, finally, when some
decisions of the Council are enforced with vigour and
determination while others remain dead letters for years;
then no one can expect potential aggressors or possible
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
21
foreign expansionism to form a reliable
victims of
expectation with regard to the reaction of the Security
Thus, having removed the credibility of the
Council.
deterrence factor, we should expect nothing but
the
persistence of aggression and expansionism and the
the ensuing horrific human tragedies,
exacerbation of
inevitably leading to undesirable implications for
the
authority and credibility of the United Nations.
and
avoided
aggression
expansionism and
The failure of the Security Council squarely to face the
Palestinian crisis and the constant aggressions against the
Palestinian people, Lebanon and Syria, not to mention its
intentional failure to enforce its own resolutions, are a sad
illustration of the prevailing preference of political interests
over peace, security, international law and equity. Relying
on the support of a number of powerful States, Israel has
with impunity totally disregarded pertinent Security Council
resolutions, unabatedly pursued a militaristic policy, persisted
in
any
commitment
to international nuclear non-proliferation
regimes. It is the only possessor of nuclear weapons in the
region.
It has systematically and grossly violated the most
elemental human rights of
the Palestinian people and
employed terrorism in all its forms as an official policy.
These are facts, borne out by history and solidly based on
objective international observations and internationally
documented
orchestrated
misinformation campaign against others and its attempts to
fan the flames of discord, distrust and division among States
in the region cannot conceal these facts, nor should they
legitimize the unrealistic, short-sighted and imposed plans as
solutions or mechanisms to return peace and stability to the
region.
Israel’s well
evidence.
In our view, peace, stability and mutual confidence can
return to the Middle East and to the Holy Land of Peace and
Revelation only through a serious and even-handed treatment
of these realities and the full restoration of the inalienable
rights of the Palestinian people. Based on these objective
historical realities, the recent accord, notwithstanding the
international fanfare, does not present a realistic solution to
the root causes of the conflict, does not promise restoration
of Palestinian rights, and thus cannot establish justice, which
is the only foundation of a lasting peace. And no one can
cede Palestine on behalf of
the Palestinian people or
Al-Quds Al-Sharif on behalf of the Muslims. We consider
the signing of this accord as a conspiracy against Islam and
Palestine, and we disagree with it.
The
unfolding
and
Herzegovina is yet
the
consequences of the Security Council’s acquiescence in
human
in Bosnia
further disturbing evidence of
tragedy
the Security Council,
aggression, and failure resolutely to tackle the causes of the
abhorrent attempt to annihilate an entire nation. In the face
of aggression, genocide, rape and indiscriminate murder in
Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ignoring
repeated calls by the General Assembly, has failed to fulfil
its international responsibility and has even deprived the
victims of the means to defend themselves. The Council,
prevented from action by the illusions and imaginary
interests of a number of
its permanent members, can
certainly not justify this approach by hiding behind the
convenient excuse of the existence of civil war. That excuse
is unacceptable, at the least because of the fact that the very
same Council, in a much more complex situation of civil
strife in Somalia - where the identification of victim and
culprit is far more difficult - has not only acted but has
practically given total management of a United Nations
operation to a single country, which, motivated by its own
perceived interests, has undertaken massive operations whose
main victims are, ironically, the same innocent and deprived
people for whose help and protection the operation
ostensibly started.
Now that, owing to the lack of serious action by the
international community, the Bosnian Muslims have been
forced into unbalanced negotiations under military and,
unfortunately, diplomatic duress, it is imperative for the
Assembly and the Security Council
to take appropriate
measures to guarantee the viability of the Government and
Muslim people of Bosnia. The lifting of the arms embargo
against
the Bosnian Government and strengthening the
defensive capabilities of the Bosnian Muslims are, in our
view, the most effective guarantees for the durability of any
peaceful settlement and the prevention of future aggressions.
Furthermore, reiteration of the principles which should
underlie any peaceful settlement in Bosnia and Herzegovina
is necessary to induce or,
the
aggressors to participate seriously in negotiations for a
lasting and acceptable solution.
They include, most
particularly, the establishment of a durable cease-fire; the
lifting of
to
humanitarian assistance;
the rejection of acquisition of
territory by force or ethnic cleansing; the necessity for the
evacuation of territories thus occupied; the recognition of the
right of the people and Government of Bosnia to seek and
receive compensation and reparations; the honourable and
safe repatriation of refugees; and individual responsibility for
war crimes.
the siege of cities; unhindered access
if necessary,
to compel
In the light of these recent unfortunate experiences and
in order to enhance the credibility of the United Nations,
particularly in the crucial area of peace and security, it is
the behaviour,
imperative
to review and reconsider
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
operational framework and rules of procedure of the Security
There should be no room for undemocratic
Council.
practices, hidden agendas, a lack of
transparency or
indifference to the views of the international community, as
reflected in the General Assembly.
It should never be
forgotten that it is the entire membership - represented only
in the General Assembly - which, to quote Article 24 of the
Charter,
"In order to ensure prompt and effective action by
the United Nations ... [has conferred] on the Security
Council primary responsibility for the maintenance of
international peace and security".
The Council acts,
in the words of Article 24, on
Its powers emanate from that
"behalf" of the membership.
role and not from any inherent right. Therefore,
is
accountable to the entire membership gathered in the
In today’s international climate, the
General Assembly.
primacy of political
tendency to
overshadow the interests of the public has generated grave
concerns about the Council’s ability to take "prompt and
effective action". The General Assembly must therefore
fully and deliberately exercise its prerogatives in this regard
as the highest organ of the United Nations.
interests and their
it
Confidence-building measures by the United Nations
should not be limited only to the realm of international peace
and security.
Indeed, a multi-dimensional approach is
necessary to root out the seeds of tension and mistrust sown
In this context, it is most important to
in the previous era.
take positive, comprehensive and objective steps
for
international promotion and protection of human rights and
democratic
controlling and reducing
armaments, for combating the drug menace, for protecting
the environment, for eradicating poverty, for improving the
deteriorating economic plight of
the South and for
engendering sustainable development. Success in these areas
would not only enhance the credibility and authority of the
Organization, but would also remove the most
tangible
causes of mistrust and tension in the world at large.
institutions,
for
In spite of significant achievements in the international
campaign to promote respect for the exalted worth of the
human person and the realization and attainment of the
moral and material rights of that masterpiece of creation,
formidable challenges continue to persist in the task of
ensuring respect for the most basic rights of millions of
human beings:
the right to life and the right to a minimum
of moral and material welfare. The World Conference on
Human Rights, recently held in Vienna, provided a valuable
opportunity for the world community to take stock of its
achievements and shortcomings in the quarter of a century
following the first such conference, held in Tehran in 1968.
The Conference addressed vital issues, such as respect for
the moral, cultural and religious values of all nations, the
indivisibility of all human rights, and the rejection of
selectivity, application of double-standards and the political
manipulation of human rights. While not ideal, the work of
the Conference can play a constructive role in enhancing
international protection and promotion of human rights and
the progressive development of human-rights norms.
In the logic of the divine religions - and particularly
Islam, which pioneered the campaign to respect and value
the exalted worth of the human being as God’s Vice-Regent
on Earth - human rights are vested in the human nature
bestowed upon mankind by the Almighty Creator. Hence,
not only are they universal and independent of geographical
and temporal boundaries, but they do not have their origin
in conventions. Therefore, their definition, codification,
implementation and international promotion and protection
cannot be considered the private domain of the few who
enjoy temporary political and military superiority. That is
particularly true as those States do not have a shining record
in internal or external protection of human rights and do not
offer in their own social experience a suitable moral and
material environment for the welfare of human beings.
If
violence and crime, which deprive the most vulnerable
segments of society of their right to life and dignity - I refer
here to the drug menace, prostitution, pornography, rape,
violence and other
the
disintegration of families, profanity and vulgarity as well as
debasing of social relations - are at least the byproducts of
the human-rights model advocated, or indeed imposed, by
that group, then others certainly have the right to examine
the prototype critically before importing it.
forms of abuse of women,
The universality of human rights is the very opposite of
arrogating to oneself the task of setting the standards for
human rights and of judging their observance by others,
particularly since even these standards are not promoted
universally and across the board, but are, rather, resorted to
when and if the exigencies of foreign policy and economic
and security interests require it.
Human rights and the inherent worth of the human
person are too important to be subjugated to short-lived
political considerations and interests or used as a lever for
political or cultural pressure or for maintaining the inequity
between the South and the North. That can only erode their
credibility and universal acceptance. We hope that political
will and responsible behaviour by all countries, specifically
the countries of the North, will preclude a selective approach
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
23
to the Vienna Declaration and enable the international
community to employ its collective potential
to reach
common understanding in this area and initiate a truly
universal campaign for the promotion and protection of
human rights.
Another vestige of the cold-war era, which constitutes
an elemental cause of international mistrust and a general
lack of confidence, is the arms race and the development,
production, build-up and use of weapons, particularly
weapons of mass destruction - all in the misplaced hope of
enhancing national security.
The conclusion of the comprehensive Convention on
chemical weapons, notwithstanding its shortcomings, was a
historic achievement.
Iran, the most recent victim of the
large-scale use of chemical weapons, actively contributed in
the drafting process, was among the sponsors of the relevant
resolution in the General Assembly, and was among the first
signatories of this important international instrument. The
effectiveness and universality of the Convention will be a
function of the way in which it is implemented and of the
degree of commitment of its signatories.
Naturally, with the conclusion of this Convention, the
existing informal
regimes which impose discriminatory
barriers on free trade in the chemical industry have lost their
raison d’être and must be dismantled. The lingering of
these regimes not only violates the spirit of the Convention
and the understandings reached during the process of its
finalization, but also nullifies the positive incentives for
acceding to that instrument. The same applies to unilateral
and illegal measures such as the disruption of the free
navigation of the Chinese vessel Yinhe, in the Persian Gulf,
on the pretext - subsequently proven false - that it was
carrying prohibited chemical substances. Such actions can
only lead to the erosion of the authority and credibility of
the Convention.
International efforts to prevent
the proliferation of
nuclear weapons face a similar danger. Politically motivated
and unfounded accusations against signatory States which are
committed to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons simply undermine that important instrument and
lead to international mistrust and the escalation of the arms
race. Before any decision on the extension of the Non-
Proliferation Treaty in 1995, the process leading to the
Review Conference should be fully utilized in order
seriously to assess the Treaty’s record during the past two
decades in the light of its overall objective of totally
eliminating nuclear weapons.
The shortcomings and
obstacles hindering progress towards this goal should be
identified and dealt with during the Conference in 1995.
global
and
disarmament
strengthening
Among the most essential and useful strategies for
the
attaining
non-proliferation regime is the creation of zones free from
nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in various
parts of the world. In the light of the constant support of the
United Nations for the establishment of a nuclear-free zone
in the Middle East, an idea initiated by Iran in 1974, it is
necessary to take constructive and practical measures
towards establishing such a zone. The institutionalization of
regional confidence-building measures, including placement
of all
the safeguards
mechanism of the International Atomic Energy Agency and
accession by all
international
disarmament instruments, particularly the Non-Proliferation
Treaty and the chemical weapons Convention, constitute the
most important elements for the establishment of a zone free
from nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the
Middle East.
facilities and installations under
regional States
to all
Furthermore,
the reckless build-up of conventional
weapons has not only devoured much needed resources, but
also reinforced the atmosphere of mistrust and anxiety.
Different areas have, as a result, become fair ground for
political, economic and commercial exploitation by countries
and companies that manufacture weapons. The decision of
the General Assembly
of
Conventional Arms Transfers constitutes a positive first step
which should be strengthened and further refined.
a Register
establish
to
However, it is evident that transparency in armaments
cannot by itself control horizontal or vertical proliferation of
conventional weapons in the world. Therefore, what is
really necessary, globally and particularly in the Middle
East, is serious and genuine international cooperation for the
comprehensive, non-selective, non-discriminatory, balanced
and effective reduction of conventional arms. This may be
realized, inter alia, through the reduction of military budgets,
of weapons procurement and of the presence of foreign
forces in different regions. The Islamic Republic of Iran has
been cited by impartial international sources as the country
with the lowest defence budget in the region and the fewest
weapons purchases. As such, Iran is naturally prepared to
engage
and
non-sensational collective effort in this regard.
constructively in any serious, practical
Above and beyond all these steps, it is most essential
to generate the necessary political will to formulate and
direct national policies geared towards
fostering an
international atmosphere of mutual confidence. This can be
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
To ensure peace and stability in Central Asia and the
Transcaucasus, it is necessary to encourage trade with the
countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, create the right
conditions for economic development
in each country,
reinforce regional commonalities and complementarities, and
improve the opportunities for these countries to participate
more profitably in world trade. The efforts of the members
of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) to achieve
these goals
to regional
development by consolidating mutual cooperation and
fostering cooperation with other countries and international
organizations will contribute positively to regional and
international peace and security.
Formal collaboration
between ECO and the United Nations, which requires
approval by the Assembly of ECO’s request for observer
status, will also expedite the realization of these objectives.
and to overcome obstacles
The vital
importance of the Persian Gulf for the
security and economic development of the Islamic Republic
of Iran is self-evident.
Iran, with the longest coast on the
Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman, has historically equated
its own national security and economic prosperity with
security, stability, tranquillity and the free flow of oil and
international commerce in the Persian Gulf area.
It has
thereby acted as a force for stability.
In this context, we
have also proposed the establishment of regional security
and cooperation arrangements in the Persian Gulf, whose
outline I presented to the forty-fifth session of the General
Assembly. The experience of two devastating wars in the
Persian Gulf region within one decade clearly illustrates the
fact that baseless territorial claims lead to the erosion of
understanding and confidence, only furthering the interest of
foreign Powers.
realized only by basing national policies on a commitment
to the rules and principles of international law, particularly
respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of others;
the inviolability of internationally recognized boundaries;
rejection of the threat or use of force for the settlement of
disputes; non-interference in the internal affairs of others;
and refraining from advancing unfounded claims against the
territory of other States. The positive impact of such an
approach
relations,
encouraging regional cooperation and the enhancement of
security is self-evident.
good-neighbourly
on
promoting
Consistent with its national and strategic interests, and
cognizant of its heavy responsibility in this region,
the
Islamic Republic of Iran has historically acted as the force
for stability in the Persian Gulf region. Domestically, the
greatest part of the national budget has been allocated to
economic, social and cultural development projects and
reconstruction. The policy of converting military industries
to civilian use and employing the armed forces in the
reconstruction sector has been vigorously pursued. Thus,
despite serious obstacles, fundamental progress has been
achieved in across-the-board development of the country and
reconstruction of war-damaged property. Similarly, in order
to help foster regional confidence and trust, and in spite of
sensitive regional conditions and the bitter experience of a
recent foreign aggression against the Islamic Republic of
Iran, we have allocated a mere 1.5 per cent of the national
budget
for defence and have had the lowest military
purchases in the entire region.
Externally, Iran has formulated its policy with a view
to encouraging and promoting security and stability in the
region, as well as expanding political, economic, cultural and
scientific cooperation between the countries of the area. The
position of principle adopted by Iran in the course of the
Persian Gulf crisis; our constant effort to prevent the spread
of violence in the region; our even-handed and consistent
emphasis on international understanding and compromise in
Afghanistan and Tajikistan; our attempts to secure a peaceful
settlement in the Caucasus; our being host to the highest
number of refugees in the world; and the humanitarian
assistance extended by Iran to victims of crisis in the region;
these are all consistent with our policy of strengthening
stability, preventing tension and mitigating the human
suffering of the crisis victims in the region. We firmly
believe that
these efforts, along with
consultations and cooperation between concerned States and
international organizations, is required to contain and settle
these conflicts and alleviate their ensuing human tragedies.
the pursuit of
Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993
25
The
cultural, historical
common religious,
and
commercial heritage of the countries of this region provide
a good and solid foundation on which initiatives to reinforce
mutual trust and develop multilateral cooperation between
these States can be founded. The Islamic Republic of Iran
has taken the initiative by manifesting its political will and
adopting practical measures in order to strengthen political
ties and further develop and consolidate commercial,
economic and cultural cooperation with our neighbours in
the Persian Gulf. In turn, we would welcome and respond
accordingly to any positive step from our neighbours.
Let me conclude by reiterating that recent international
developments and emerging challenges have placed the
United Nations at a critical and historic crossroads. Success,
in our view, will depend on a sober understanding of the
causes of tension and mistrust during the cold war, followed
by resolute steps to root them out.
Joint effort is also
needed to develop and put into motion multidimensional
confidence-building measures and techniques, consolidate
and expand international cooperation, and bring about
conditions
common
aspirations of humanity, particularly justice, security and
balanced development. The Islamic Republic of Iran is fully
prepared to intensify its efforts in cooperation with other
States in this Assembly and in other bilateral and multilateral
environments for the attainment of these objectives.
attainment of
conducive
to the
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
