United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President:
INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
the outset, Sir,
the forty-eighth session of
Mr. CARDOSO (Guinea-Bissau) (spoke in Portuguese;
interpretation from French text furnished by the delegation):
Allow me at
to offer you my warmest
congratulations on your well-deserved election to the
presidency of
the General
Assembly of the United Nations. Your presence at the head
of this Assembly clearly attests to the commitment of your
country - Guyana -
to the defence of peace and the
promotion of multilateral diplomacy. Your skills and your
experience on the international scene, acquired over many
years, will, we are certain, ensure the successful conclusion
of our deliberations. My country, Guinea-Bissau, wishes to
assure you of our fullest readiness to cooperate with you.
Our congratulations and thanks go to your predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the remarkable and
constructive job he did in steering the work of the forty-
seventh session. We wish also to express our gratitude to
His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, for the way in which he is
directing the work of the Organization in this new context.
We hail the advent of new Members to the great family
of the United Nations: Andorra, Monaco, Eritrea, the Czech
27thth
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 12 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
Republic, Slovakia and The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia.
I am particularly honoured to have the privilege of
speaking on behalf of my country, Guinea-Bissau, at the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly at a time when
an increased worldwide consensus seems to be emerging, in
that significant and encouraging changes are taking place in
the global political and economic landscape.
How many questions, expectations and, indeed, how
much skepticism underlie that assertion?
The end of the bipolar domination of international
relations and the cessation of the cold war, which affected
all continents, constitute an event that is of manifest political
significance and of great historical impact - first, because it
has led to the dismantling of an international order that
prevailed for half a century and divided the world into
hostile blocs; secondly, because it has cleared a space for the
development of certain processes whose free evolution was
impeded because of the political discipline imposed, within
each bloc, by the demands of the conflicts between the two
super-Powers.
The world power pattern has changed. This has led to
a shift in certain countries’ relative positions in the economic
and political hierarchy. The very nature of the relations
between these countries is changing. However, the rules and
practices
the new
international order have not yet been defined.
that will constitute the basis of
As happens in periods of history marked by great
changes - especially unpredictable changes - we are now
witnessing the emergence of factors that give rise to both
integration and disintegration, to the order and disorder that
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86855 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.27
3 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
are alternating in international behaviour and in the conduct
of international affairs. The new and old orders are fighting
for primacy in the development of an international system,
and it is no longer easy to distinguish between the past and
the future.
it
For example,
The new international context gives rise to considerable
anxiety, especially as it poses several questions that have not
yet been answered.
is not clear how
political hegemony can be exercised in a system that has
become multipolar; strong tendencies towards globalization
and towards regionalization are emerging on the international
scene, and one wonders how these can be reconciled; the
nation State’s decision-making capacity is limited by
transnational players, and its prerogatives of sovereignty are
being ceded in order that it may be incorporated into broader
political and economic entities, even as ancient ethnic groups
are claiming the right to be regarded as nation States; one
sees increasing capitalist competition in a situation in which
economic interdependence imposes new parameters for the
settlement of conflicts of interest; one is witnessing a world-
wide heightening of awareness of the responsibility of us all
with regard to ecological matters, and, at the same time, one
has to deal with the means of sharing responsibility between
the various countries.
This is hardly an exhaustive list, but it is sufficient to
demonstrate the extent to which the international agenda is
being broadened and made more complicated. The future of
many countries will depend on the items on that agenda and
on our capacity to organize our approach to them.
Given this situation, it is absolutely vital that the closest
possible contact between nations be maintained by means of
the exchange of information, joint thinking and discussion,
so that awareness of the changes that are under way and of
their possible impact on a continent such as Africa may be
deepened.
At the beginning of my statement, I mentioned the
emergence of a universal consensus that has stemmed form
the changes in the international system. The wide prospects
that have opened up, in terms of the peaceful settlement of
conflicts and the elimination of tension in regions such as
southern Africa, western Africa,
the Maghreb, Central
Europe, Eastern Europe and Asia, lead us to believe that this
process, which is marked by the strong resolve of the
international community to achieve lasting peace, will not
turn out to be a short-term symptom of a world in upheaval.
The situation prevailing in Angola is still a matter of
major concern to Guinea-Bissau. My Government welcomes
the unanimous adoption, by the Security Council of the
United Nations, of resolution 864 (1993), which is a logical
follow-up to earlier resolutions that aim at the restoration of
peace to Angola. We are convinced that only dialogue can
lead to a lasting solution that will result in the return of
peace to that country. The parties to the conflict should
comply in full with the obligations resulting from the
agreements that have been signed and from the Security
Council resolutions. This is the only possible way to end
the suffering of the Angolan people and to respond to their
legitimate desire for peace and democracy.
With regard to Mozambique, we should like to express
our concern at
the slowness with which the Peace
Agreement is being implemented. We encourage the parties
concerned to continue their efforts to strengthen peace and
national unity.
the international
community to continue its support for that process.
Further, we exhort
In South Africa, the abolition of the legislative pillars
of apartheid is a positive step.
It is now important that the
last obstacles, including those caused by the climate of
violence, be removed to make possible negotiations towards
the creation of a non-racial and democratic South Africa.
W e
s a t i s f a c t i o n
President Nelson Mandela’s appeal concerning the lifting of
sanctions against South Africa.
h a v e w e l c o m e d w i t h
The tragedy that, daily, besets the Somali people gives
us reason for great anxiety. We urge all
the parties
concerned to end the hostilities and to commit themselves to
negotiation. We are convinced that
the peace-keeping
activities in Somalia, within the framework of the United
Nations Operation in Somalia (UNISOM II), should, above
all, serve the interests of the Somali people and strengthen
the fragile process of national reconciliation that is under
way.
We happily welcome the positive developments in
Liberia - in particular, the signing, at Cotonou, of the Peace
Agreement, including the provision for the establishment of
a central transitional Government. However, we regret the
widespread adverse effects the Liberian war has had on the
territory of neighbouring countries. We express the hope
that all the protagonists on the Liberian political scene will
persevere in the consolidation of peace by making every
effort towards reconstruction of their country.
In the Maghreb, the constructive position taken by the
Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front makes it
possible to be optimistic about developments in the situation
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
3
in Western Sahara and about the prospects for organizing a
referendum under United Nations auspices.
Guinea-Bissau watches with concern the conflict that is
laying waste the territory of the former Yugoslavia. We
believe that only an agreement acceptable to all parties
involved in the conflict will put an end to this bloody
episode. My Government regrets that the latest Geneva talks
on peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina did not yield the
expected results. We hope that the parties will adopt more
flexible positions with a view to bringing about the signing
of a peace agreement.
that
Guinea-Bissau believes
the solution to this
fratricidal conflict must be sought by peaceful means. That
is why we continue to support the United Nations and the
European Community’s negotiating effort and welcome the
Security Council’s adoption of resolution 827 (1993) on the
establishment of an International Tribunal.
In the case of East Timor, we urge the Secretary-
General to continue his efforts with the parties concerned
aimed at finding a peaceful, negotiated solution to this issue.
In the Middle East, peace is now possible thanks to the
rapprochement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization. We greet the Washington agreement with
satisfaction and renewed hope. We encourage the parties to
continue negotiations with a view to establishing a lasting
peace throughout the region.
the Chinese people.
The reunification of China is in essence the sole
concern of
the
international community should turn its attention to the need
to recognize the fundamental
the 21 million
inhabitants of the Republic of China.
In our opinion,
rights of
The poverty and social injustice that are the sorry lot of
a large portion of humankind are amongst the underlying
causes of the conflicts that constantly threaten the world’s
peace and stability. The ideological tensions of the cold war
seem likely to be replaced by new tensions,
this time
economic in origin, if adequate precautions are not taken.
The United Nations must of course strengthen its structure
for maintaining world peace and security, but it must also
play a leading role in helping to build a stable economic
system and promoting the development of the developing
countries, particularly that of the least developed countries.
This is without question the best and most effective form of
preventive diplomacy.
The economic situation in Africa is becoming more and
more worrying. Today, on the eve of the twenty-first
century, incomes in sub-Saharan Africa average $490 per
person per year, in other words, they are the lowest in the
world. The average figure masks great disparities between
countries: Africa is the only region in the world where the
number of people living in poverty is likely to increase
markedly before the year 2000.
Trends in the world
economy lead us to predict that the situation will get worse.
relations.
Black Africa’s share of world trade has plummeted
from 3.8 per cent in 1970 to 1 per cent now, which has
entailed Africa’s being relegated to the sidelines
in
international
labour and
investment opportunities, direct investment from the most
industrialized countries is in flight from the least developed
countries towards the advanced economies. Sub-Saharan
Africa receives about 6 per cent of direct investment, which
is profitable essentially for those few countries with oil
and/or strategically important minerals.
Despite plentiful
Restrictions on international trade as a result of various
protectionist practices and of subsidy policies for
the
industrialized countries’ agricultural products are imposing
severe limitations on the underdeveloped countries’ export
opportunities. In this regard, can we hope that the Uruguay
Round negotiations, if they succeed, will spare humankind
the possible unpleasant aftermath of discriminatory practices
on the part of the trading blocs?
We wish to make an appeal that the next round of
negotiations be planned to have all the relevance that the
situation requires.
In the meanwhile, it is painful for us to
see how those who recommend to us that we should
liberalize trade if we want to get our economies moving
again can, in the blink of an eye, become fervent defenders
of protectionism when they are convinced that they are
defending their own interests that way. Liberal policies in
the countries of the South have not a hope of succeeding
unless the countries of the North systematically dismantle
their protectionist barriers and open up their markets.
further
from the
buttressing
The transition to effective and lasting market economies
international
requires
community. Most of
the underdeveloped countries,
particularly in Africa, have recognized the errors that were
committed in their post-colonial economic management.
They have therefore embarked, with the assistance of the
international
financial organizations and other partners
abroad, on radical economic reforms aimed at laying the
foundations
economic growth and development.
Enormous political and social costs have had to be borne in
for
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
carrying out these reforms, but the will to succeed is still
there despite all the odds against it.
Unfortunately, these efforts have been overwhelmed by
the massive reductions in financial assistance from the
industrialized countries and the multilateral organizations.
The target set by the United Nations for official development
assistance (ODA), 0.7 per cent of gross national product
(GNP), has scarcely been complied with at all. At the
moment, only an infinitesimal fraction of ODA is being
allocated to the poorest countries and even less than that to
the priority sectors
likely to trigger
development. ODA must be restructured if the problem of
poverty and lasting development is to be tackled. We must
take the risk and have faith in a renewed Africa with a new
economic management mind-set.
that are most
Judging by the number of international conferences and
meetings on Africa that are held each year and the feeble
way they make available finance to root out the evils they
deplore so much, we could be right in saying that we live in
a real consumer society for intellectual products, that is.
People are at last beginning to wake up to the fact that these
international meetings, although they sometimes do succeed
in making world public opinion aware of one or another
aspect of underdevelopment, have not contributed very much
at
of
underdevelopment itself.
eliminating
towards
scourge
all
the
great
Not only does the way economic and financial
opportunities are being distributed throughout
the world
provide the less developed countries with piffling amounts
of resources, even worse than that
is the way colossal
amounts are being clawed back from them, particularly
through those notorious debt-servicing costs. Total debt as
a percentage of GNP stands at over 100 per cent, and debt-
servicing costs are over 20 per cent and even 50 per cent in
some cases. As a result, several African countries are
unable to maintain the infrastructures for production or the
social services that are vital to development.
Traditional approaches to solving the debt problem,
while they have granted some countries a few months’
breathing space, would none the less appear
to have
exacerbated the problem, since Africa’s debt burden has
gone on growing, by about 10 per cent over the last decade.
This is extremely worrying.
How can we allot more financial
to
involving women in
developing our human resources,
development and protecting the environment if at the same
time the donors are mounting pressures to have the debt paid
resources
back, operate unfavourable trade policies and cut back their
assistance? My country believes that major steps absolutely
must be taken if we want the low-income countries not to
miss the boat for economic modernization and development.
The Trinidad conclusions, which propose canceling two
thirds of the eligible debt coupled with a rescheduling of the
remainder over 25 years and an additional five-year grace
period, offer a promising and encouraging approach to
easing the debt burden. However, the Trinidad conclusions
should also be applied to multilateral debt, which now
accounts for one third of debt servicing costs.
If our planet is to have lasting security, there must be
a collective effort to combat the endogenous and exogenous
factors that nowadays condemn the majority of the world’s
population to absolute poverty.
If this poverty persists, its
consequences will ultimately spill over borders in the form
of migration, terrorism, drugs and crime of all kinds.
it
is clear
Africa’s economy is worsening to such an extent that
we must break with routine thinking and devise new
instruments and methods in order to understand and properly
respond to the needs of a continent which is economically in
anguish. Unfortunately,
technological
advances, which should contribute to improving the human
lot everywhere, are actually creating an increasingly greater
gulf between those who have mastered that technology and
those who are trying to enter into the technological age. The
development of science and technology ill-suited to our
needs is contributing to a reduction in the demand for
commodities and is consequently further worsening the terms
of trade.
that
Given all these issues, does this Organization not have
a role to play in mitigating the negative effects on the least-
developed countries of the rapid globalization of production
and sophisticated technological systems? This is the very
foundation of the preventive diplomacy that
the United
Nations has advocated.
The prospects for development are also threatened by
the staggering pace of the degradation of the environment.
The degradation of natural resources and ecosystems poses
a major threat to humankind.
For Africa, which still depends on natural resources for
its survival, this situation involves grave consequences likely
to hamper medium-term economic recovery programmes if
urgent measures are not taken and the appropriate means
mobilized. With national budgets already truncated, African
countries will find it very difficult to face these challenges
unaided in the absence of an increase in international
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
5
assistance, properly programmed and managed so as to
ensure the rational development and regulation of
the
environment.
The economic difficulties faced by most of
the
countries of the South have markedly diminished their ability
to act together and in a coordinated manner. Domestic
economic challenges, instead of promoting the mobilization
of forces and resources in a regional or subregional context,
often lead to a tendency by these countries to turn inward.
This tendency has been compounded by structural adjustment
programmes designed and executed in a strictly national
context, with the aim of upgrading short-term indicators of
macroeconomic and financial performance. The chances for
sustainable development in the developing countries and
particularly in the least-developed countries could be
increased by strengthened programmes of regional and
subregional integration and cooperation.
In this respect, we welcome the efforts of the European
Economic Community, in the framework of the Lomé IV
Convention,
to lay the foundation for closer economic
cooperation between the five Portuguese-speaking countries
of Africa, despite the fact that they are not geographically
contiguous.
In this context, strengthening the ties of
friendship and cooperation with Portugal and Brazil will
make it possible to develop a special kind of relationship
between these countries, all of which use the Portuguese
language.
It has now been clearly acknowledged that the active
participation of peoples in political, economic and social life
is an essential prerequisite for releasing creative energy and
enriching cultural values and people’s ability to take control
of its own destiny. Mindful of this fact, Guinea-Bissau, like
other countries of our continent, has opted for democracy as
one of the means to mobilize its full human and physical
potential in the struggle against underdevelopment.
In this
respect, the appropriate legal and institutional machinery has
been established, with a view to promoting a political system
based on consensus and the rule of the majority and on a
transparent and effective public administration.
The democratic process, to be credible, must mesh with
the socio-cultural heritage of a region or a country.
Virtually everywhere in Africa, we are witnessing the
emergence of new forces for change which are in the
vanguard of democracy: civilian societies, especially free-
association and cooperative movements; non-governmental
organizations; and civic associations.
Despite some short-term obstacles, political pluralism
in Guinea-Bissau is, without the shadow of a doubt, an
irreversible process. One of its stages will culminate in the
holding of the first multi-party elections, scheduled for 27
March 1994. To ensure the greatest possible transparency in
these elections,
the steps
necessary to prepare for them, with the support of its foreign
partners.
In this context, international observers will be
invited to assist in the organization of the elections, and we
look forward to receiving increased support
from the
international community at the appropriate time.
the Government
is taking all
Sustained support for these new forces of change is
absolutely vital if we wish to bolster new democracies and
explicitly affirm our commitment to the protection of human
rights.
The challenges facing the United Nations in terms of
maintaining international peace and stability while at the
same time promoting economic and social development in a
rapidly changing world require that profound changes be
made in its structure. These changes should take into
account the interests of all the components. More than ever,
international cooperation has become an opportunity to
create lasting peace, to strengthen protection for the dignity
of human beings everywhere, and to safeguard the rights,
profound aspirations and well-being of present and future
generations.
For its part, Guinea-Bissau, faithful to the principles
enshrined in the United Nations Charter and determined to
make its contribution to the maintenance of international
peace and security, solemnly reaffirms its firm commitment
to pursue this course. We are convinced that the task of
maintaining
a
responsibility incumbent on the whole of the international
community, on all countries large and small, in conformity
with the principle of the sovereign equality of States.
international
security
is
peace
and
It
is against
this backdrop that my country has
presented its candidacy as a non-permanent member of the
Security Council, and we ask all Member States to support
us.
Guinea-Bissau is admittedly a small country, but its
firm resolve to contribute to the attainment of the objectives
of this Organization is widely known. Our presence at this
time - in the framework of United Nations Missions - in
Angola, Mozambique, Liberia, Cambodia, Haiti and in the
former Yugoslavia, in both the civilian and the military
spheres, is a clear illustration of this assertion.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. YOUNG (St. Vincent and the Grenadines):
Mr. President,
the delegation of St. Vincent and the
Grenadines welcomes your election to preside over the work
of the General Assembly at this its forty-eighth session. By
your elevation to this exceedingly demanding position, the
General Assembly has acknowledged your well-known
personal merits, proven ability and professional skills. I am
confident that you will guide this session to a successful
conclusion of the business before us.
Your country, Guyana, shares a number of common
interests and affinities with St. Vincent and the Grenadines
and other sister States in the Latin American and Caribbean
region.
It is therefore with a deep sense of pride that we
congratulate you on your unanimous election and pledge the
full cooperation of the delegation of St. Vincent and the
Grenadines throughout the difficult and challenging period
ahead.
St. Vincent and the Grenadines was pleased to be in the
Chair in August 1992 when the Group of Latin American
and Caribbean Countries (GRULAC) unanimously endorsed
the Caribbean candidature for the Presidency of the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
It was the first time
that the Group had so acted, and I wish to congratulate all
those who were involved in the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) effort, and to thank all member states of the
GRULAC for their cooperation. We in CARICOM are
steadfast in our commitments, and this demonstration of
hemispheric
continued
strengthening of our ties, not only in placing candidates in
important positions in the international arena, but even more
critically in promoting and securing the best interests of our
member countries in the post-cold-war world.
augurs well
solidarity
for
I wish to take this opportunity to express our deep
appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, former
Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, for the able and inspired
manner in which he guided the work of the General
Assembly at its forty-seventh session .
also
to
I wish
the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the extraordinary role he is
playing in shaping the future of the international system.
thank
St. Vincent
the United Nations, namely,
and the Grenadines welcomes
the
representatives of the States newly admitted to membership
of
the Czech Republic,
Slovakia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Eritrea,
the Principality of Monaco, and Andorra. We
particularly wish to congratulate the people of Eritrea on
winning the long battle for their self-determination, and we
their diligence in the pursuit of
express the hope that
political independence will be combined with an appropriate
strategy for economic achievement.
The admission of a nation to this body always marks a
significant event in the international arena as it takes us
another step forward towards the objective of universal
representation.
in the world,
Adherence to the purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter and the right of the world’s peoples to self-
determination are the main barometers used in the admission
of States to membership of this body of nations. However,
the Republic of China on Taiwan, a nation of over
21 million inhabitants, which today has one of the most
is excluded from
vigorous economies
membership of the United Nations.
In this post-cold-war
era, when a number of countries which once had a single
identity and representation in this Organization now find
ready admission as separate and sovereign members, it is
appropriate that all States capable of maintaining such
sovereign identity be so recognized. Moreover, the Republic
of China on Taiwan has demonstrated its capacity to be in
the forefront of world economic development and should be
provided with an opportunity to participate in, and contribute
to, the programmes of the United Nations.
My delegation heralds the signing of
the United
Nations- brokered Governors Island Accord last July by
President Aristide and the military-backed Government of
Haiti, headed by General Raoul Cedras, as an historic
opportunity for the Haitian people, the hemisphere, and the
principle of democratic rule. The interim period until
President Aristide’s return to Haiti on the 30th of this month
must be a time for healing and laying the groundwork for a
smooth take-over, and for a concerted rehabilitation process
aimed at bringing some measure of economic and political
stability to that long-suffering country.
My delegation takes this opportunity to reiterate our
solidarity with the Haitian people, who have struggled over
the past months amidst persistent and blatant human rights
abuses and political repression. We hail the efforts and
initiatives taken by the United Nations, the Organization of
American States, and the Government of the United States
of America in bringing the usurpation of authority to an end.
Let us pray that the clear message from the resolution of the
Haitian crisis by international
the
ambitions of the various military aspirants there.
response will halt
As
to perform its
peace-keeping, peacemaking and peace-enforcing roles in
the United Nations moves
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
7
many troubled areas around the world, harassment, beatings
and murder of its personnel, both civilian and military, are
on the rise. Earlier in the year a number of United Nations
personnel in the Middle East and Cambodia were slain.
These killings followed the murder of a nurse working with
the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) in Gaza and of a
United Nations driver in Afghanistan. This year the world
has also been shocked by the deaths of a number of
Pakistanis, Italians, Moroccans, Americans and nationals of
other countries serving in the United Nations Operation in
Somalia (UNOSOM).
My Government takes this opportunity to express its
condolences to the Governments and peoples of those
countries whose nationals paid the ultimate price in their
desire to bring peace and deliver humanitarian assistance to
the suffering peoples of the world. We also wish to express
our sympathy to the bereaved families of all those United
Nations personnel who died in the line of duty. Member
States must be reminded of their responsibility to protect
United Nations workers and of their obligation to act
promptly and effectively to deter, prosecute and punish all
those responsible for violence.
We salute the courage and commitment of
those
dedicated people who continue to accept considerable
personal risks in order to carry out United Nations missions.
The international community must take appropriate steps to
protect its members and we eagerly await the submission of
concrete proposals designed to enhance the safety and
security of United Nations forces and personnel.
It is evident that the perceived disarray in the United
Nations military operation in Somalia is fuelling instability
in the country and detracting from the achievement of the
original goals of restoring peace and security and ensuring
the distribution of humanitarian relief, thereby paving the
way for the re-establishment of civil society in the country
at large. Naturally, these objectives cannot be achieved
unless the international community continues to work in
earnest to ensure that disarmament is achieved throughout
the country in conformity with the provisions of the Addis
Ababa agreement of March 1993, to which all factions are
signatories.
In this regard, my delegation is of the view that
appropriate measures must be taken against
those who
continue to impede disarmament, in direct contravention of
Security Council
and the Addis Ababa
agreement. My delegation welcomes signs of a willingness
to negotiate on the part of rebel forces.
resolutions
From this point on all actions by the United Nations in
Somalia should be aimed at winning the trust of the Somali
people as a prerequisite to the re-establishment of peace and
security, national reconciliation, restoration of the Somali
State and the reconstruction and development of the country.
My delegation congratulates the Palestine Liberation
Organization (PLO), under the leadership of Mr. Yasser
Arafat, on concluding an agreement with the Rabin
Government of Israel to end hostilities among their peoples.
We see this as a significant first step that will fail unless it
leads to the implementation of the resolutions long agreed to
in the United Nations on the territories occupied by Israel
and the acceptance by the United Nations of Palestine to
membership. Just as my delegation has persistently endorsed
the right of Israel to exist within secure borders, we assert
the same right for Palestine. At the forty-fifth session of the
Assembly, when we were discussing the invasion of Kuwait,
my delegation called on this body to demonstrate consistency
in responding to its resolutions, and we do so again.
We wish to congratulate the Government of Norway on
the pivotal and historic facilitating role they played in the
process of mediating in the Palestinian/Israeli conflict. We
admire the dignified manner of
their contribution and
subsequent response.
The rapidly deteriorating situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina cries out for urgent resolution. The state of
affairs cannot be tolerated much longer. Immeasurable harm
in both human and material terms has already been done,
and the Serbs and Croats appear
to be bent on the
dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina through border
changes, by force and by ethnic cleansing. The international
community cannot agree to a solution dictated by the Serbs
and Croats at the expense of the Bosnian Muslims. We also
cannot accept any territorial solution unless it has the
agreement of the three parties. My delegation wishes to
state unequivocally that the measures necessary to bring
about a reversal of the Serbian aggression must include the
immediate immobilization of heavy weapons, placing them
under effective international control, and the effective
enforcement of comprehensive sanctions on the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia until all
the conditions in the
resolutions are met. My
relevant Security Council
delegation calls on all those with the resources to influence
a return to normality in this part of the world to honour their
moral responsibility.
The end of the cold war has resulted in a new spirit of
Ongoing
erstwhile
enemies.
cooperation
between
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
restructuring of the world body is designed to enhance the
capacity of the Organization for preventive diplomacy,
peace-keeping and peacemaking. Regrettably, these changes
do not mean the end of bloody regional conflicts. The strife
in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Nagorny Karabakh and Liberia
continues.
In Angola, Sudan, Afghanistan and Tajikistan
there is conflict and distress.
The demands on the United Nations for peace-keeping
and peace-building are increasing daily in the number of
operations and personnel as well as in the scope of their
mandates. But in order to bring peace and security to these
troubled areas the international community must redouble its
efforts to bring about a resolution of their conflicts.
One of my country’s most
important priorities is
support for the right of all peoples living under colonial or
alien domination and/or
foreign occupation to self-
determination and independence. Stressing our commitment
to the goal of the complete eradication of colonialism, we
once again pledge to strengthen our solidarity with all those
countries facing aggression or intervention or interference in
their internal affairs.
Consistent with this position, we strongly condemn the
continuous efforts of certain segments of South African
society to perpetuate the system of apartheid. At the same
time, we welcome the recent progress
the
establishment of a non-racial democracy, paving the way for
the first non-racial elections, scheduled for April 1994, and
the
country into the
international political and economic community.
reintegration of
towards
eventual
that
We welcome the adoption by acclamation on Friday, 8
October, of the General Assembly resolution in support of
Mr. Nelson Mandela’s call for the immediate lifting of
sanctions against South Africa.
the Independent Electoral Commission,
The delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is
particularly pleased that four vital pieces of legislation,
setting up,
the
Independent
Independent Media Commission,
Broadcasting Authority and the Transitional Executive
Council have been adopted by both the Negotiating Council
and the South African Parliament, and are in the process of
being enacted into law.
the
With the changing world environment the Organization
has been catapulted into new prominence and there has been
renewed hope, and high expectation, as well as new ideas on
the functioning of
The same
importance in the
movement of change is also of vital
the General Assembly.
Security Council and in the economic and social fields. Let
us not lose the momentum in our quest to give new life to
the Organization.
The General Assembly is a body that has been
functioning below the capacity envisaged by its founding
fathers. On the other hand, we have a Security Council that
has expanded in scope and power without a corresponding
increase in its membership or a reorganization of
its
functions.
The need has also been established for
strengthening the role of the Economic and Social Council
through a better distribution of
functions and a
rationalization of its activities.
its
My delegation is of the view that at a minimum the
Security Council should be expanded to allocate permanent
seats to Japan and Germany and up to six new rotating seats
to be filled on a regional basis in order better to reflect the
increased membership of
the United Nations and the
changed international situation. Certainly, we do not grant
to Japan and Germany the recognition they richly deserve.
is a blueprint
The Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit was about nations
joining together in common resolve to do a better job in the
future and to offer our children the hope for a brighter
tomorrow. The centrepiece of this international effort,
Agenda 2l,
for our planet which the
Governments of the world adopted by acclamation. With the
creation of a Commission on Sustainable Development and
the restructuring of the economic and social functions of the
United Nations, we now have the institutional arrangements
in place to ensure that the measures prescribed by Agenda
21 are adequately addressed.
In the interim between Rio and the convening of the
first substantial session of the Commission on Sustainable
Development, it appeared to many that the spirit of Rio was
beginning to fade away, due in part to the failure of the
industrialized countries to make firm financial commitments
to the programme approved at UNCED. There is, however,
renewed hope because, since the June session of
the
Commission, machinery has been firmly put in place to
follow up on pledges made at the Rio Summit.
The establishment by the Commission of two working
groups to tackle the thorny issues of financial flows and
technology transfer to the developing countries of the South,
in addition to reviewing mechanisms for innovative financing
of Agenda 21 and for analysing conditions that determine the
flow of financial and economic resources, such as debt
relief, terms of trade and commodity prices, is a positive
approach,
to the
should give new impetus
and it
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
9
implementation of the global plan which the Rio Summit
adopted to protect the world from environmental degradation
through the twenty-first century. We wish to thank those
who have contributed to the Global Environment Facility,
which makes grant funding available to poor countries so
that they may properly shoulder their share of environmental
responsibilities in our global community.
As we observe new trends in the world economy, it is
noteworthy that
there is potentially greater capacity for
growth of real consumption in developing countries than in
the developed ones. Those of us who live in small island
States have limited options in response to the international
economic environment. The banana industry, which is the
lifeline of our economies
in Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines and the other countries of the Windward Islands,
is currently under threat of extinction. My delegation wishes
to record, at this session of the General Assembly, our
gratitude to the European Economic Community for its
support for this vital component of our economies.
in all
interest. Development
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is a small developing
archipelagic State, with all
the generic circumstances
associated with small size, limited resources, geographical
dispersion and relative isolation from markets. Naturally we
also have advantages, which we continue to exploit in the
its forms is of
national
paramount national importance to us.
In this regard, we
look forward with enthusiasm to the World Summit for
Social Development in 1995, the International Conference on
Population and Development
in 1994, and the Global
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island
Developing States, which is scheduled to convene in
Barbados in 1994.
the
international
special
characteristics and developmental needs of this category of
countries, which have not changed in the new configuration
of world politics. We pray also that there will be tangible
benefits following the conclusion of these Conferences.
fervent hope that
recognize
community will
is our
the
It
has
1993
for
designated
The United Nations
the
the World’s Indigenous People.
International Year
Forced off their ancestral lands by settlers and colonizers,
indigenous peoples in many parts of the world have faced
untold discrimination and poverty and are often afforded
little say in their political future. It is no surprise, therefore,
that they are increasingly seeking to exercise their full range
of human rights. The world’s communities are urged to
treat minorities and indigenous peoples, and persons
belonging to them, on the basis of equality, and to take
measures
full
that would,
inter alia,
facilitate
their
participation in all aspects of the political, economic, social,
religious and cultural life of the society.
My delegation is proud to state that in Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines the indigenous people, the Caribs, are
fully integrated into Vincentian society and are beneficiaries
of all rights and freedoms under our Constitution. They
participate fully in the political process, and today an active
representative in the House of Assembly is a descendant of
Joseph Chatoyer, the Paramount Chief of the Caribs and a
national hero of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Our
Government has also taken specific steps, through its land
reform and distribution policy, to empower the Caribs, who
are the main beneficiaries of the Government’s acquisition
of the area formerly occupied by Orange Hill Estates, and
the subsequent distribution, with title, of economically viable
plots to them.
My Government will ensure that our indigenous people
continue to participate fully in national society and that their
views are solicited and taken into consideration in
decision-making processes that affect them and the nation as
a whole.
for Foreign Affairs
My delegation is proud to co-sponsor a draft resolution
the Standing Committee of Caribbean Ministers
of
the Caribbean
Responsible
the annual observance of an
Community calling for
International Day of Indigenous Peoples.
I hope that this
draft resolution, when brought before this body, will be
adopted by acclamation and will
receive unanimous
follow-up support from Member countries.
of
The Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
welcomes and values highly the deepening of relations
between the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and Latin
America in general. We are also encouraged by the degree
of
cooperation which is being developed between
CARICOM and Central America.
In the increasingly
competitive world environment, which is gradually being
dominated by large trading blocs, it is imperative for our
countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to forge closer
ties through economic and other
functional
cooperation.
forms of
My Government totally condemns the illicit production,
trafficking in and consumption of drugs. These harbingers
of violent crime and corruption pose a serious threat to the
health and well-being of our economies and our people,
endanger our democratic institutions and jeopardize national
and regional security.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
regional and international cooperation.
We are firmly convinced that only integrated regional
and international efforts can effectively address the drug
problem, and, accordingly, we stress the need for increased
local,
Greater
emphasis should be placed on programmes that generate
employment and income for persons attracted to drug
production and trafficking as a means of livelihood. These
should be pursued concurrently with programmes for the
prevention of drug use and the rehabilitation of drug users.
The appropriate measures must also be taken to strengthen
our judicial institutions to ensure that the perpetrators of
drug abuse and related crimes are brought to swift and
effective justice.
We in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are closely
observing the evolution of democracy in the States of
Eastern Europe and the territories of the former Soviet
Union, as well as its consolidation worldwide. We agonized
with freedom-loving peoples when the Russian constitutional
crisis threatened to "put democracy under a shade." We
regret the loss of life that resulted from the struggle for
control, and we hope that the emergence of a full- fledged
system of democracy, with the ultimate power residing in the
hands of the people, will not be impeded by any self-serving
acts on the part of major players.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines welcomes the
constitutional resolution of the political impasse in Pakistan.
As a member of the Commonwealth, we welcome Mrs.
Benazir Bhutto back as Prime Minister of her country and
look forward to meeting her in Cyprus at the Commonwealth
Heads of Government meeting.
its
journey,
to reiterate
constitutional
My delegation wishes
resolute
commitment to the democratic ideal and the concomitant
free enterprise system. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
like the other countries of CARICOM, has gone through a
historic
from Crown Colony
Government, with its limited franchise,
to full political
independence under universal adult suffrage. We have
adhered to the principles and practice of participatory
democracy and the market economy, even when these ideals
were not as pervasive and mandatory as they are today. We
have stayed the course, by choice and conviction, and our
people have reaped the benefits. They will have it no other
way.
In this post-cold-war era we are determined to maintain
the gains of our democracy which we have accumulated over
the years, even as we face the increasing difficulties
associated with the marginalization of small States in the
face of bloc consolidation and other emerging trends of our
time.
ORGANIZATION OF WORK
The PRESIDENT: I should like to draw the attention
of the Assembly to document A/INF/48/6/Add.1, which
contains a tentative programme of work and schedule of
plenary meetings for the months of October, November and
December.
document
A/INF/48/6.
addendum supersedes
This
I should like to point out that this schedule is being
issued as early as possible in order to assist delegations in
planning their work.
the Secretariat will
endeavour to ensure that the relevant documentation will be
available to delegations ahead of the discussion of any given
agenda item.
For its part,
I should further point out that there are still a few
agenda items for the consideration of which no dates have
been indicated.
the
consideration of those agenda items in due course and
sufficiently in advance.
I will also keep the Assembly
informed of any additions or changes.
I will announce the dates
for
The list of speakers for each of the agenda items listed
in document A/INF/48/6/Add.1 is now open, and I draw
members’ attention to that.
As I mentioned last week, I hope to keep as closely as
possible to the schedule so that the Assembly can discharge
its responsibilities in an orderly fashion. I therefore appeal
again to representatives who intend to submit draft
resolutions to do so sufficiently in advance of the dates fixed
for consideration of items to give members adequate time to
examine them. I should also like to remind representatives
again that additional
those draft
resolutions involving changes in the work programme or
additional
the
preparation of a statement of programme-budget implications
by the Secretary-General.
time is needed for
expenditures,
they will
require
since
Committee
Furthermore,
the Advisory
on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Fifth
Committee will need adequate
to review the
programme-budget implications of a draft resolution before
it can be acted on by the Assembly. The Assembly’s
attention to these matters would be appreciated.
time
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
11
GENERAL DEBATE
ADDRESS BY MR. TOFILAU ETI ALESANA,
PRIME MINISTER AND MINISTER FOR
FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF THE INDEPENDENT
STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign
Affairs of the Independent State of Western Samoa.
Mr. Tofilau Eti Alesana, Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Independent State of Western
Samoa, was escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the
Independent State of Western Samoa, His Excellency The
Honourable Tofilau Eti Alesana, and inviting him to address
the General Assembly.
Mr. ALESANA (Samoa):
It is always an honour and
a great pleasure to address the General Assembly. My first
task, a happy one, is to congratulate you, Sir, most warmly
on your election as President of the forty-eighth session of
the General Assembly. We know that in your hands this
will be a session of accomplishments.
Let me also thank your able predecessor, His
for his
Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria,
outstanding service during the forty-seventh session.
I would next express our concern and sadness over the
recent disastrous earthquake in India and extend to the
Government and, especially, to the families affected our
profound sympathies.
Two years ago, when I last stood here, there was a
sense of high expectation, for we were witnessing the drama
of political changes to a new world. Many new nation
States emerged from that process. We welcome the newest -
and some of the smallest - Members of our global family
who joined us this year: the Principality of Andorra, Eritrea,
the Czech Republic, the Principality of Monaco, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the Slovak Republic.
As a small State itself, Samoa is particularly pleased to add
its welcome, assured of the contribution these new Members
will make to our common effort.
Let me also pay a tribute to the Secretary-General and
express to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali our
deepest admiration and appreciation for the spirit of reform
and quality of leadership he brings to the work of the
Organization.
With one voice we in this Hall have hailed the ending
of East-West tensions. We are right to do so.
It has
brought about deep and positive changes. Now, as never
before, the international community has real opportunities for
cooperation and peace. In Washington, barely a month ago
today, leaders of two great peoples, men of magnificent
courage and foresight, seized such an opportunity for the
In our global village there is an
Israelis and Palestinians.
imperative to secure a comprehensive,
just and durable
solution to the overall Arab-Israeli conflict.
In turn, that
peace effort needs to be able to draw sustenance - moral,
political and financial - from the whole family of nations.
Most warmly we applaud the courage and vision of this bold
step. From our distance, and no matter how inadequate, I
pledge to the people of Israel and to the Palestinians
Samoa’s entire support.
But the new opportunities for cooperation in this post-
cold-war era are being severely challenged by conflicts that
rage in many lands and by the human misery they cause.
Tragedy and carnage are seemingly endless in Bosnia, in
Somalia, and in territories of the former Soviet Union.
In
other areas, too - far too many - we witness daily the most
shocking violations of
the human person and wanton
disregard for the rule of law. This year alone, there have
been close to 25 substantial conflicts in the world.
And war is not the only scourge. For we have not
freed our world of hunger, poverty or illness. Millions of
people have fled from internal strife and persecution, famine
and natural disasters. Millions more are migrating for
economic reasons.
In my part of the world, island communities now live
under the constant threat of ecological disasters. A rise in
sea levels and destructive tropical cyclones are particular
dangers. The evidence we have is that these are the global
and adverse effects of induced climate change. They prey
on the natural vulnerabilities of many lands and their
peoples, and severely undermine the national livelihood and
economic development efforts of many Governments.
My purpose is not simply to catalogue misery and the
negative, but rather to point to the vastness of our task.
There is no scope for retreat - we must advance with
resolve. The world cries out for responses and solutions.
And the fact is, the world is now looking more and more to
the United Nations. We do not, for a moment, delude
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
ourselves about the complexities of these conflicts or the
depth of longstanding animosities - least of all,
in the
territory of the former Yugoslavia. But I am compelled to
say that the horrors being perpetuated in Bosnia offend
common decency and almost every principle for which this
Organization stands.
That is why we feel that the international community
has not been swift or decisive enough in taking action to end
the calculated brutality in Bosnia and avert the devastation
of so much that is sacred in that land. We pray for the
speediest possible settlement, one that is comprehensive and
has realistic prospects for the lasting peace and economic
prosperity of all concerned. There should be no reward for
aggression.
The grim outlook for many troubled areas of the world
should not, however, cast a shadow over the hope typified
by the Palestinian-Israeli peace accord. Cambodia is a high
point
in peacemaking, and we rejoice in this special
accomplishment for the people of that ancient country and
for the United Nations, as we do in the announcement in this
Assembly by Nelson Mandela of the imminent demise of
apartheid. South Africa’s move towards a multiracial and
democratic society is the attainment of a dream we have all
shared for so long. We pray for the peaceful success of the
announced general elections in April 1994.
We are indeed at a turning-point - a point at which
we should now turn to the healing process. We must put
behind us the divisiveness and acrimony which have
characterized the debates and the decisions of past years.
Almost every speaker in this debate has focused on
peace-keeping and the unprecedented demands being made
of the United Nations. Our support of United Nations
peace-keeping operations is total, as is our acceptance of
preventive diplomacy as fundamental to "An Agenda for
Peace". We have no military resources or experience, and
we have been able to assist only by way of our assessed
contributions. But it is clear to us that failure to provide
adequate financial and other resources undermines both the
peace effort and the authority of the United Nations.
It seems to be generally acknowledged that, in the
space of some two years, the cost of United Nations peace-
keeping has quadrupled to a level currently four times larger
than the United Nations regular budget.
In our humble
opinion, peace-keeping at such a level cannot possibly be
sustained without adequate and improved financing and
financial management. Above all, peace-keeping objectives
and mandates need to be clearly identified and managed.
There is everything to be gained by the application of the
principles of accountability, consistency and transparency.
Peace-keeping at current levels has compounded the
tragedy of war through the loss of United Nations staff and
personnel.
In the strongest terms, we condemn the attacks
and deliberate targeting of United Nations peace-keeping
forces wherever they occur. We support early and effective
international measures and necessary arrangements within
the United Nations system for the full protection of United
Nations personnel and forces, as well as action against those
who commit acts of violence against our messengers of
peace.
In all this, the Security Council is the vital link. We
now have a proposal before the Assembly to take a closer
look at the arrangements and strengthening of the Security
Council. We also acknowledge the useful report
the
sent us on the various views
Secretary-General has
expressed. Our own concern is for
the efficacy and
effectiveness of the Council. So long as these are assured,
Samoa would support the required reforms to the Security
Council. But, no doubt, we should all take sufficient time
to ponder these matters.
In the wider aspect, we believe that no amount of force
and no measure of peace-keeping can sustain peace and
security without attention to the root causes. The general
experience is that human misery, brought about by poverty
and the denial of human and democratic rights, is the real
and fundamental problem. We therefore uphold the belief
expressed by many leaders from this rostrum that socio-
economic development and democratic reforms areessential
to the prevention of political and social crises. We think this
should remain a major preoccupation of the United Nations.
We believe deeply in the underlying importance of
human rights in all United Nations activities. In this respect,
we welcome the Declaration and Programme of Action
produced by the World Conference on Human Rights in
Vienna and the acknowledgement in unquestionable terms of
the universality of human rights. The results of the Vienna
Conference constitute a significant advance in the promotion
and protection of human rights, not least in the recognition
that development has a true claim to be considered a human
right.
We agree with and support the proposal to establish a
United Nations high commissioner for human rights. Such
an office could serve as a strong focal point for coordination
of the currently fragmented branches of the United Nations
human rights system and could help to ensure that human
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
13
rights are integrated into the work of all United Nations
programmes.
The very basis of human rights is the right of peoples
to determine their own future and governance. This is
fundamental, and it is something very close to our hearts,
given our experience and the political evolvement of our
own State. The South Pacific Forum has continued to call
on the metropolitan countries to take into account the wishes
of the people in the Territories and to respect their right to
self-determination.
constructive
intervention of
We welcome the ongoing dialogue between France and
all parties in New Caledonia regarding the future of the
Territory. The peaceful evolution towards self-determination
in New Caledonia is in accordance with the principles of the
United Nations Charter. Its attainment was made possible by
the
the United Nations
decolonization Committee and by the willingness of the
Government of France, the parties in New Caledonia and the
South Pacific Forum to show restraint
to give full
consideration to each other’s concerns and sensitivities.
What we see in New Caledonia today stands as a testament
to the cooperative spirit characteristic of the Pacific region
and as a true example of peaceful and preventive diplomacy
at work.
At the same time, we acknowledge and respect the
views and interests of those Territories that wish to continue
with the status quo.
Peace, stability, security and the preservation of our
environment are crucial to the South Pacific region. Our
commitment to these objectives is unwavering, and Samoa,
together with its regional partners, will continue to call for
a permanent end to nuclear testing,
to the dumping of
chemical and toxic wastes and to the transportation of these
materials in our waters. The South Pacific Forum countries
have continued to urge the remaining nuclear-power States
to heed our concerns and to accede to the Protocols of the
South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty. That Treaty is the
paramount symbol of the region’s strong feeling about and
commitment
to a nuclear-free environment. We are
encouraged by recent indications from some of these States
that they will reconsider their current positions on the Treaty
and on other nuclear-related issues that are of concern to the
region.
Samoa is particularly pleased about the extension of the
nuclear-testing moratorium. However, we are deeply
distressed to have learned last week of a breach of that
moratorium.
I have cause to believe that substantial
numbers in the Assembly share our concern and our earnest
prayer that no further tests will be carried out and that other
nuclear Powers will not
resume their nuclear-testing
programmes.
It is our dearest hope that such testing will
one day cease - permanently. We also urge all Member States -
the nuclear Powers in particular - to work towards the early
conclusion of a comprehensive test ban treaty.
We welcome the unique opportunity offered by the end
of the cold war to focus and develop comprehensive-nuclear-
disarmament initiatives. We stand ready to do what we can
in support of these. We should say, however, that the
prospect of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and - worse -
of their acquisition by unfriendly parties is of major concern
to us, as, of course, to the world community as a whole. It
underscores the urgent need for the control, reduction and
eventual elimination of
The
Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is a vital part of
the
disarmament process must be extended indefinitely when it
comes up for review in 1995.
these deadly weapons.
We look to the nuclear-weapon States to take the lead
in the nuclear-disarmament process and, at the same time, to
illustrate with concrete action their full commitment to our
collective goals and objectives. The South Pacific region
cannot continue to be a testing ground for nuclear devices;
or to be a dumping ground for chemical wastes; or to be
exposed to contamination by toxic wastes and other
environmentally threatening substances.
the South Pacific.
Environmental security is crucial to Samoa and other
countries of
The United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio
in 1992, provided us with an opportunity to put our global
house in order - an occasion of promise, of rising hopes.
The setting of Agenda 21 and the establishment of the
Commission on Sustainable Development are only first steps.
Implementation is the difficult task - the true test.
Like other places, our small island States and low-lying
atolls face a host of constraints.
Isolated and ecologically
fragile, small island States like my own are amongst the
most vulnerable to external economic, trade and climatic
factors. Without international cooperation, and without an
integrated approach, the outlook is not promising.
The Global Conference on the Sustainable Development
of Small Island Developing States - to be held in Barbados
in April 1994 - will provide a first opportunity to implement
Agenda 21 and to reaffirm commitments made in Rio. We
firmly believe that international attention, focused at next
year’s global conference, will provide valuable guidance
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
It
towards a sustainable-development effort worldwide.
seems to us that if there is failure to secure sustainable
development for small island States, there will be no real
chance of success elsewhere.
respond efficiently and effectively to present and future
priorities. To this purpose, Samoa supports all remedial
reforms to the United Nations system to ensure optimum use
of scarce resources.
The work of
But
the Preparatory Committee remains
incomplete.
for
inconclusiveness, so a resumed preparatory session before
the Barbados Conference is essential.
stakes
high
too
the
are
the domestic level.
I should say that our call for international cooperation
is fully matched by our resolve to do what is necessary and
possible at
As a country, we
acknowledge and accept primary responsibility for our
environment and development.
To this end, we have
completed a national environment-management plan, have
put in place the necessary legislative framework and have
taken steps to adhere to the appropriate international
Conventions.
In all of this, we have had the fullest cooperation of the
South Pacific Regional Environmental Programme - an
organization established by the Pacific region and partner
countries to coordinate not only national and regional
activities but also the region’s participation in world-wide
initiatives on the environment. This underlines our basic
belief that the total efforts of all nations, acting responsibly
and in concert, will be crucial if we are adequately to protect
our environment and our planet.
I should note the general satisfaction of my delegation
with the world-wide debate, which is now under way, about
the future of development - and, thus, about our common
future. The United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development was a special landmark. A few months ago,
contrary to predictions, the Vienna World Conference on
Human Rights registered important accomplishments. Next
year, we shall see the particularly crucial Conference on
Population and Development; thereafter, the Conference on
women, and then the social-development Summit.
Yesterday, we heard Papua New Guinea’s initiative on
opportunity and participation. We consider this a pertinent
proposal, and that it is an important element in the overall
effort to involve citizens and to enhance, in particular, the
economies of developing countries.
These global conferences and initiatives will map out
new priorities and courses of action requiring from States
and ordinary citizens the highest degree of commitment and
cooperation. Meantime, we will need to concentrate on
strengthening and revitalizing our Organization if we are to
Next year has been declared, by the Assembly, the
International Year of the Family.
In two years’ time, the
United Nations will mark its fiftieth anniversary. This gives
us all reason to move ahead with our work, resolved to
improve the condition of our world and the well-being of
our global family.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Independent State of Western
Samoa for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Tofilau Eti Alesana, Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Independent State of Western
Samoa, was escorted from the rostrum.
Mr. ALEXIS (Grenada):
It is with profound pleasure
that my delegation conveys greetings and best wishes from
the Government and the people of Grenada to the United
Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
is
to
My
extend
pleased
delegation
sincere
congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly during this forty-eighth
session. We are especially pleased because you create
history by being the first person from the region to which
Grenada belongs to hold the prestigious post of General
Assembly Presidency, coming as you do from our sister
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) country, the Republic
of Guyana.
My delegation takes this opportunity also to commend
Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria for the excellent manner in
which he conducted the Assembly’s proceedings at its forty-
seventh session. My Government also wishes to extend its
c o m m e n d a t i o n s
S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l ,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his indefatigable efforts in
the service of the Organization.
t h e
t o
The Grenadian delegation is pleased to extend a warm
welcome to the six new Members of the United Nations:
the Czech Republic;
the Republic of Slovakia, Eritrea,
Monaco, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and
Andorra.
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
15
The problems of developing countries are still daunting.
Every country must try to help itself. My Government
continues to pursue its own economic structural adjustment
programme, with which the people of Grenada have shown
great understanding and cooperation.
But prolonged
difficulties in the economic sector can give rise to attitudes
and conditions that can adversely impact upon social
development and administrative capacities, and so my
delegation calls on the international community to show
greater flexibility in assisting the adjustment process of
Grenada
experiencing economic
countries
conditions similar to Grenada’s.
and other
Poverty, debt, inadequate resources, marginalization and
the lack of secure markets for our products deal serious
blows to social, economic and political stability. Further, the
impact on small, undiversified economies from liberalizing
trade regimes and regional trading blocs has been shocking.
The fact is that free trade is not always synonymous with
fair trade: factors of size, resource endowment and levels of
development must be duly considered in settling trade
relations. This is particularly so with small, open, primary-
producing economies, where one serious natural disaster,
such as a hurricane, can devastate all the fruits of our
national labour invested in bananas, cocoa and nutmeg.
In this scenario, concessioned trade is very much
needed to produce anything like a level playing field.
Developing countries will not progress on sympathy; they
require equity. Small countries such as Grenada cannot do
it all alone. We need assistance for diversification, for
development of our human resources
the
implementation of sustainable development.
and for
The United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development (UNCED) has placed before the world a wide
range of challenges for managing the environment in a
sustainable way. Developing countries, in particular small
island nation States,
like Grenada, are anxious that all
Governments should move faster to effect the programme
laid out by UNCED’s plan of work on sustainable
development, Agenda 21.
Greater emphasis needs to be placed by donor agencies
on training, as well as on technical and financial assistance
to developing countries to aid in sustainable forestry and
agricultural practices. My delegation is convinced that the
problems of the environment cannot wait. Grenada is
particularly pleased with Agenda 21’s special recognition of
the peculiar difficulties confronting the development of small
island developing States and with the Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States (SIDS), arising from that recognition, that will be held
in Barbados in April and May 1994.
It is Grenada’s sincere hope that that Conference will
serve to generate a better understanding of the challenges
and predicaments confronting small island developing States,
and that
it will produce the necessary partnership and
establish a sound path to their sustainable development.
Much of the important negotiations preparatory to the
Conference remains incomplete. My delegation is concerned
that
the Barbados Conference may be
jeopardized unless an intercessional mechanism is arranged
to provide for the advancement of the negotiations prior to
April 1994.
the success of
Grenada joins the rest of the world in rejoicing over the
success of diplomatic perseverance in Afghanistan, El
Salvador, Nicaragua, Cambodia and Haiti. Grenada is,
however, highly disturbed by the renewal of politically
motivated violence in Haiti. Grenada will continue to rally
behind the United Nations and the Organization of American
States in their efforts to restore democracy and stability to
Haiti. Grenada welcomes the Governors Island negotiated
settlement aimed at
the legitimate
Government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. We
support the establishment of an international constabulary
force in that country. We call on all in Haitian society to
give democracy and peace a chance.
restoring to Haiti
Grenada wishes to record its satisfaction over the
historic attainment of formal recognition between Israel and
the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). We further
applaud the signing of the Palestinian autonomy agreement
between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. It
is a long-awaited peace initiative which will pave the way
for the continued peaceful negotiation of tougher issues.
Such a step will, in the long term, contribute to making the
Middle East and the world a more peaceful place.
Grenada welcomes the peace agreements initialled
between Israel and Morocco and between Israel and Jordan
as steps in the right direction.
Grenada welcomes the finalization of the demarcation
of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq, which was
accomplished by the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation
Commission on 20 May 1993. We also welcome the
its
adoption
the
resolution 833 (1993),
the
inviolability of the boundary between the two States and
called for respect for that resolution.
of
guaranteed
by
Security
in which
Council
it
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
My Government is, on the other hand, perturbed by the
continuing wars in other parts of the world, such as the
former Yugoslavia, Liberia, Somalia and Angola. We are
alarmed at the lack of respect for United Nations peace--
keepers and aid workers, and call upon all sides in such
conflicts to turn to peaceful negotiation and respect for
human lives.
My delegation welcomes
the establishment of a
criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. It is with great
concern that
the world has witnessed men, women and
children being massacred in that region in the name of
ethnicity and religion. Grenada takes this opportunity to
encourage the establishment of similar tribunals in areas
where they may be necessary.
in the near future,
The promotion of democracy and the enhancement of
human rights must be vigorously pursued. The process of
democratization has to be entrenched. My delegation,
looks forward to welcoming to the United
moreover,
Nations,
the Republic of China on
Taiwan. With its 21 million people, the Republic of China
on Taiwan, has, over
the past 20 years, progressed
economically, socially and democratically to the point where
it can no longer properly be kept out of the United Nations.
The Republic of China on Taiwan has established diplomatic
relations with a number of countries and has significantly
contributed to the uplifting of the struggling economies of a
great number of countries and the development of their
peoples. Surely, these impressive achievements eminently
qualify the Republic of China on Taiwan for admission to
this Organization.
Peace and democracy reaching areas new to them has
noticeably been resulting in the deflection of aid to them, at
the expense of traditional stable democracies. That newly
emerging democracies have to be given due attention cannot
be denied, but this cannot be wholly at the expense of the
old democracies. The peace dividend accruing from the end
of the cold war and the halting of the arms race should be
expansive enough to nurture new democracies without
abandoning old ones to unnecessary and far-reaching social
and societal conflicts. After all, the issue of development is
no less important than the issue of peace.
as
illicit drug production,
Such cooperation as the world is seeing today in
restoring democracy and civil and political rights to citizens
of warring countries ought to be extended to the field of
international criminal activities. Grenada stands ready to
collaborate with other countries in putting a halt to such
activities
trafficking and
consumption and money-laundering and their associated ills.
These tend to decay the moral fibre of a society and drain
already scant resources in efforts to combat the menace, thus
frustrating national development processes. Grenada has
accordingly enacted legislation giving effect to the United
Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances, of 1988, providing for the
forfeiture and confiscation of
the proceeds of crime,
outlawing moneylaundering and promoting bilateral and
multilateral cooperation in the fight against these menaces.
Grenada is very pleased that
the South African
Parliament has agreed to establish a Transitional Executive
Council, which is expected to allow the black majority to
participate in the governing of their country. We received
with joy the news that 27 April 1994 has been set as the
date for the election of a Government in South Africa in
which South Africans of all races, colours, beliefs and
genders will participate. We applaud the efforts that have
been made by the Government of President De Klerk and
the African National Congress of Nelson Mandela to usher
in genuine democracy in South Africa. We encourage all
South Africans to give full support to that progress.
emphasis
on
continuing
International peace presupposes domestic quietude in
the States making up the community of nations. This
requires
human-resource
development and the enhancement of cultural and social
amenities in such areas as education, health and housing. In
this regard, Grenada insists on the protection of the rights of
the child, enhancement of the rights of women and the
strengthening of the family unit. The pursuit of the human
race must be the nurturing of peace by the ending of
discrimination and the enhancement of equality, whether
between sexes or races, or with regard to social origins,
religion or whatever other differences might have been
created through ignorance or arrogance. As we in Grenada
say "A child is a child".
Throughout the world, people are looking towards the
United Nations for solutions to their political, economic,
ethnic and social problems. The freeing of the United
Nations from ideological tensions has made this possible; but
we are aware that
the United Nations must now be
restructured, the better to meet these ends. The composition
of the Security Council should be re-examined, with new
permanent seats on that Council being allotted to such
countries as Japan, without current permanent membership
being affected. Also, additional seats should be added.
Further, an appropriate mechanism is needed to establish
adequate oversight and accountability in the United Nations.
The
to conduct
peace-keeping should be enhanced and rationalized.
the United Nations
capability of
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
17
World security requires all of us, nations great as well
as small, to make extra efforts to attain and maintain peace
and democracy for development. As a community of
nations, let us therefore work diligently and tirelessly to
attain these goals.
Mr. MBEKEANI (Malawi): The Malawi delegation is
pleased to join other delegations in congratulating you, Mr.
President, on your election to preside over the business of
the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Guyana is
a sister country which is held in high regard and admiration
by Malawi. You are an illustrious son of Guyana and are
highly qualified and fully prepared to lead and manage the
enormous tasks which must be accomplished at this session
of the General Assembly. My delegation wishes your
presidency great success.
At
its forty-seventh session the General Assembly
considered important and, in some cases, intractable issues.
This would not have been possible were it not for the
painstaking patience, efficiency and diplomatic skills of its
President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, a distinguished international
jurist and former Foreign Minister of Bulgaria. The Malawi
delegation congratulates him on a job well done.
My delegation wishes to express its profound sorrow
for the considerable suffering, loss of life and destruction of
property caused by the earthquake which occurred on 29
September 1993 in the Indian state of Maharashtra. The
heartfelt and sincere condolences of the Government and the
people of Malawi unreservedly go to the Government and
the people of India as they struggle to alleviate the painful
after-effects of this tragedy.
We are thankful to God for giving Malawi good rains
in the season just ended. The drought experienced in the
last two seasons was severe and devastating in its effects.
All of southern Africa suffered terribly from this scourge.
Malawi’s economy was seriously affected by the drought,
beginning in February 1992. In 1991 economic growth was
7.8 per cent in real gross domestic product.
It declined in
real terms by 7.9 per cent during 1992, which represented a
precipitous fall in real income for the people. The volume
of maize, our staple food, was only 600,000 tonnes in 1992,
down from the 1991 production level of 1.6 million tonnes.
In 1993 Malawi had a good harvest of close to 2 million
tonnes of maize. However, complete recovery from the
drought will take some time.
My delegation would like to take this opportunity, on
behalf of my Government and the people of Malawi, to
thank the United Nations system and,
the
in particular,
in
Department of Humanitarian Affairs, which were the major
catalysts
the United Nations -southern African
Development Community drought relief programme. We
also thank the bilateral donors and the non-governmental
organizations which, together, saved the day for Malawi and
the whole southern African region with massive imports of
food, medicines and other humanitarian assistance supplies.
However, the Malawi economy continues to be confronted
by a major balance-of-payments deficit problem arising from
the large volume of maize imports during the drought.
Malawi has been hosting a large number of refugees
from Mozambique, who started entering Malawi in large
numbers in 1986, and by 1992 the refugee population in the
country had soared to about 1.5 million people. The Office
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the
World Food Programme, non-governmental organizations
and many other interested parties that have throughout been
intimately involved in this humanitarian task will agree that,
despite the severe adverse impact of hosting such a large
number of people, Malawi is managing one of the most
successful refugee programmes in the world, thanks to the
prevailing peace, which is due to stable political leadership,
good and reliable security structures and a fairly efficient
administration.
Mr. Martini Herrera (Guatemala), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
The problem of the Mozambican refugees in Malawi,
which was a consequence of the civil war between the
Government of Mozambique and RENAMO, will come to an
end as all protocols of the Rome General Peace Accord are
implemented in full. Malawi, which was represented at the
historic signing of the Peace Accord on 4 October 1992,
commends President Chissano
of
Mozambique and Mr. Dhlakama, President of RENAMO, for
signing the Peace Accord. We strongly encourage them to
continue to work closely together and with the United
Nations to ensure that peace and political stability are firmly
established in Mozambique. This is a prerequisite for the
reconstruction of
that great and beautiful country to
commence and for progress to be realized in all areas of
development. My delegation is therefore fully supportive of
Security Council resolution 863 (1993) and calls on all the
parties to implement it speedily.
the Republic
of
The Government and people of Malawi wish to see the
uninterrupted repatriation of their brothers and sisters to their
homes in Mozambique in safety and security. We therefore
call
the de-mining
programme, the demobilization of the armed forces and their
the specific prioritization of
for
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
in the designated assembly areas, and the
placement
finalization of discussions on the draft electoral law. The
people of Mozambique demand this, and it is also in the
vital interests of Malawi, which has suffered tremendously
from the adverse impact of
in
Mozambique.
the 16-year civil war
land;
My delegation wishes to stress that the cost of hosting
over 1 million refugees not only is very high but, for
Malawi, has reached a crisis point. This cost is paid in the
displacement of Malawians from agricultural
in
over-grazing, deforestation and environmental degradation;
in tremendous pressures and strain on the Government
administrative infrastructure, budgetary and human resources;
and, not
in the strain on the socio-economic
infrastructure such as schools, hospitals, roads, bridges and
water supplies. My delegation is taking this opportunity to
appeal to the donor community for assistance in all these
areas, which are crucial
the country’s sustainable
development.
least,
for
The General Peace Accord in Mozambique is close to
the heart of Malawi.
I therefore wish to reiterate that
Malawi will continue to collaborate with Mozambique
closely - at the bilateral level, between the Governments of
the two sister countries; through the Tripartite Commission,
whose members are Malawi,
the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and
Mozambique; and through the Malawi-Mozambique Security
Commission - until the peace process has been consolidated.
Peace and the return of normal life in Mozambique will
guarantee Malawi the use of its traditional, and shortest,
routes to the sea via the ports of Nacala and Beira. The
reopening and full use of
represent
considerable savings through highly reduced transport costs
and in limited foreign exchange resources.
these ports will
My country undertook the most historic event since
independence by holding, on 14 June 1993, the national
referendum which was initiated by our President, His
Excellency Ngwazi Kamuzu Banda in order to give the
people of Malawi
the opportunity to choose between a
one-party and multi-party system of government. My
delegation is pleased to report to this Assembly that by all
accounts, including those of the United Nations, it was a
peaceful, free and fair exercise. Sixty-three per cent of the
population voted for a multi-party system of government.
Their decision was respected and accepted by my President
in a landmark statement on 17 June 1993, which included an
announcement of his intention to amend the Constitution to
allow for the formation of political parties, to call for a
general election in a year’s time and to declare a general
amnesty to enable political exiles to return home and
participate in the political process.
a
resounding
referendum exercise
My delegation takes this opportunity to convey to the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the gratitude
of my Government and the people of Malawi for the
assistance the United Nations system provided in making the
national
success.
Intergovernmental organizations such as the European
Community and other bilateral donors also provided Malawi
with invaluable assistance during this period. My
Government is most grateful to all of them. What has
happened in Malawi demonstrates beyond question the
repeatedly stated commitment of my President and his
Government to peaceful reforms, good governance, human
rights and democratization. Those who did not believe in
the seriousness of this commitment have been proved totally
wrong.
For the last 29 years of its independence, Malawi has
been preoccupied with socio-economic development, which
is rural-based in its reality, as a matter of sustained and
deliberate Government policy. The country had no other
choice because it is completely agricultural, with a large
small-holder agriculture component as its backbone. The
political leadership consistently and untiringly preached the
doctrine of respect for the land and farming to the ordinary
people in the villages throughout the country. This has paid
off in the disciplined commitment the Malawi people have
to farming. As a consequence, over the years a large
proportion of donor financing has focused on the agricultural
sector.
Allow me to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf
of my Government, all the multilateral donors - the Bretton
Woods institutions and the African Development Bank,
among others - and the bilateral cooperating partners for the
unremitting assistance they have given Malawi, enabling it
to implement successfully its agricultural programmes and
projects over these past years. Without this assistance, it
would not have been possible to achieve the sense of
discipline and respect for farming that is now consolidated
in the people of Malawi, which confirms a vision that the
Malawi leadership has carried out with practical zeal and
tenacity.
Regrettably, in the very recent past, Malawi’s modest
achievements in the agricultural sector and the economy in
general have had to go through severe and unpalatable
shocks well beyond the Government’s control, such as the
drought and refugee problems. But, more than that, the
economy has had to cope in the past year with the sudden
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
19
suspension of donor assistance by the Government’s
developed partners. Consequently, the country’s balance-of-
payments financing requirements were badly affected and
this disproportionately imposed considerable negative results
on the economy’s performance. For example, private-sector
firms performed far below capacity and the financing of
almost all agreed development projects stopped suddenly and
completely. Malawi is small, poor and landlocked.
It is
also in the category of least developed countries, with a
population of only about 9 million. Malawi could therefore
hardly sustain or cushion this kind of massive damage to its
economy. Its external debt burden soared, its terms of trade
deteriorated badly and the livelihood of the ordinary men,
women and children in the villages was badly affected.
The issues of human rights, good governance and other
conditionalities that were behind these actions by the donor
community have now, I am happy to say, been dealt with
decisively, each one in an irreversible manner and, where
applicable, by Act of Parliament. For example, due process
of law is firmly established and in practice in Malawi.
There are no political detainees in any of its prisons. The
International Committee of the Red Cross is workinq closely
with the Government, and has already visited all prisons and
made recommendations for improvements where this has
been found to be necessary. There is freedom of expression
in the country. As I speak, over 20 newspapers and
magazines are in circulation. So far, six political parties
have registered and are bracing themselves
the
forthcoming general election.
for
Party,
has
At present
the Malawi Congress
the Malawi Congress Party, which is
continuing to rule the country until the people elect a new
government, has, together with other political parties in the
country, established the National Consultative Council and
the National Executive Committee, which have clearly
defined powers to oversee the transitional process in the run-
up to the general election. Each of the political parties,
including
equal
representation on the National Consultative Council and the
National Executive Committee. Those institutions ensure
and guarantee that there is dialogue between and among
Malawians, who discuss and resolve whatever differences
may exist on the issues affecting the transition. Those
institutions replace the President’s Committee on Dialogue
and the Public Affairs Committee, which were established
immediately after the referendum and,
in addition, are
designed to work closely with the Government and the
National Parliament.
The United Nations, particularly
through its Electoral Assistance Unit in the Secretariat here
in New York and through the Centre for Human Rights in
in this whole transitional
Geneva, has been a catalyst
process. My Government is therefore most encouraged,
being convinced that the peace and stability that have existed
since the holding of the national referendum will continue
until and after the forthcoming general election, which is
expected to take place some time in May 1994.
These positive and irreversible developments I have
described give my Government the confidence that all its
bilateral- development partners and its major multilateral
donors will fully resume development assistance flows and
balance-of-payments support to Malawi. This, we hope, will
be done without further delays, in the interests of reviving
the economy quickly and reducing the severe damage it has
sustained and the unnecessary continued suffering of its
people.
its Fifth Country Programme.
The Malawi delegation is grateful to the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), in particular, because it
was the first to confirm, in a report to its Governing Council
at its fortieth session, in June, that there existed in Malawi
an enabling political, economic and social environment to
implement
The Malawi
Government has no need to prove its abiding commitment to
development. Allow me, therefore, to take this opportunity
to appeal to the donor community not to reduce its pledges
of funding to the UNDP. To do so would have catastrophic
effects on the whole democratization process, on the ongoing
field programmes and projects and also on the successful
projects being implemented under
the Fifth Country
Programme.
At
this juncture the Malawi delegation wishes to
reaffirm its unwavering support of the recently adopted
Tokyo Declaration on African Development, which
represents the first concrete action and commitment of the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s. Malawi, a least-developed country, would also
like to take this opportunity to lend its unwavering support
to the Programme of Action for Least-Developed Countries,
which found its expression in the Declaration issued by the
Ministers of Foreign Affairs of least-developed countries
when they met here in New York on 30 September 1993,
and to the Declaration of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of
the Group of 77 that was adopted on 5 October 1993. We
hope that the donor community will respond positively and
act accordingly on these specific problems affecting the
developing countries. Their decisive resolutions are pivotal
to the role of the United Nations in development and integral
to the call issued in General Assembly resolution 47/181 for
the Secretary-General to prepare a comprehensive report on
an agenda for development and for the Assembly to discuss
it in its preliminary form at this current session.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Malawi
is not oblivious of
is affecting international
the wider political
atmosphere that
relations and
causing serious problems with regard to peace and security.
The desperate situation and horrendous scenes of the civil
war in Bosnia and Herzegovina represent one such example.
It is the strong conviction of the Malawi Government that
peace is the only answer to the unending violence we are
witnessing in the Balkans. There is an extremely urgent
need to end the suffering of the people there - innocent men,
women and children. My delegation strongly supports all
efforts of the United Nations and the European Community,
and those of other parties, to resolve the problem through the
ongoing negotiations in Geneva and elsewhere. The problem
is a human catastrophe, notwithstanding its tragic, historical
roots.
to
sovereignty.
reaffirm its
With regard to Somalia, my Government is of the view
that the Somalis should resolve their problems themselves.
However, the prerequisite for realizing that objective is to
establish and consolidate peace throughout Somalia and to
help create processes that will make it possible for the
country
Tremendous
humanitarian-assistance achievements have already been
made to alleviate the plight of the Somali people, who are
suffering from hunger, starvation and death in the midst of
mayhem, anarchy and the complete collapse of civil
The United Nations and the international
authority.
community,
through the contributions of selfless non-
governmental organizations and all nations - particularly the
United States, which has contributed troops under the United
Nations flag - deserve to be thanked for bringing Somalia
back to life.
In the view of my delegation, it is imperative
that the United Nations and the international community be
allowed to complete this wholesome task by establishing
conditions for peace and civil authority based clearly on the
Addis Ababa agreements of 27 March 1993. The Malawi
delegation fully supports the present United Nations role in
Somalia.
Similarly, it is the strong conviction of my Government
that the present situation in Angola calls for strong and
dramatic action by the international community. The United
Nations has been selfless in what it has done in Angola,
where the untold suffering of women, children and the
elderly goes on unabated and is
indeed completely
inexplicable and totally unnecessary. The Malawi delegation
calls upon the Organization of African Unity, the United
Nations and the signatory Powers to the Bicesse Peace
Accords to compel the UNITA leadership to come to the
negotiating table with the Angola Government to establish
peace, security and stability in the country. My Government
fully supports Security Council resolution 864 (1993), which
has now been put into effect. Dr. Savimbi and the UNITA
leadership must not ignore international concerns and the
content of that resolution. They must honour and respect the
results of the United Nations-supervised general election,
which by all accounts was free and fair.
With regard to the situation in South Africa, the Malawi
delegation wishes to put on record its complete support for
the historic agreement by the Multi-Party Negotiating
Council
in Johannesburg, whose successfully negotiated
transitional institutions have now been enacted into law by
the parliament
Those institutions are
designed to oversee and control the influential factors in the
run-up to the general election on 27 April 1994.
I refer in
particular to the Transitional Executive Council and to the
Independent Broadcasting Authority, the Independent Media
Commission and the Independent Electoral Commission.
in Cape Town.
My delegation takes this opportunity, on behalf of the
Malawi Government, to congratulate all the parties on the
Negotiating Council and, in particular, the African National
Congress and Mr. Nelson Mandela, its President, and the
President of South Africa, Mr. Frederick de Klerk and his
National Party.
It has been a very long haul to reach this
historic stage, and the imperative is therefore clear, namely,
that all possible assistance by the United Nations,
the
Organization of African Unity, the European Community,
the Commonwealth Secretariat and friendly Governments
and people of good will must now be intensified in order to
remove all forms of violence, ensure that the general election
takes place on 27 April 1994 and that a non-racial,
democratic government is installed in South Africa, based on
the will of the majority of its people.
My delegation welcomes the historic agreement on
mutual
recognition between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) which was signed on 13
September 1993 in Washington, D.C.
It provides a
framework for lasting peace in the Middle East, and in the
view of the Malawi delegation, it deserves all the support it
can receive from all well-disposed sources. History dictates
that this should be so. This agreement is a prerequisite to
international peace, security and political stability beyond the
Middle East.
The PLO/Israel peace agreement
is yet another
demonstration of the dramatic changes in international
relations that have taken place in the last three to four years,
following the collapse of communism and the end of the
cold war.
It is in this context, that my Government is
optimistic that
international
political issues will be similarly dealt with, issues such as
the still unresolved major
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
21
the problem of North and South Korea and that of the
People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China on
Taiwan. In the view of the Malawi delegation, the time has
now come for serious consideration to be given to the
eligibility of the Republic of China on Taiwan to become a
Member of the United Nations. We cannot
talk about
human rights and the universality of the United Nations
while in the same breath ignoring the existence of over 20
million people in the Republic of China on Taiwan.
Finally, allow me to make observations on two
pertinent issues. First, my delegation welcomes the recent
pronouncement by the United States delegation on
supporting the membership of Japan and Germany in the
Security Council. This announcement is definite recognition
that the time has come for representation in the Security
Council to reflect the changed international political scene
and reality as well as geographical balance. The Security
Council must not only be transparent in its decision-making;
it is a political necessity that it also reflect what the world
is today, and not what it was 48 years ago. There is no
other organ in the United Nations today which makes such
momentous decisions affecting international peace and
security. My delegation is therefore strongly of the view
that Africa equally deserves to have a permanent seat or
equal and balanced representation of some kind,
in the
Council. The Malawi delegation looks forward to the
expected deliberations on this issue, which will inevitably go
beyond the life of the forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly.
Representation on governing councils of the respective
United Nations agencies and bodies is another important
subject before the General Assembly at this session, in the
context of the reform, restructuring and revitalization of the
United Nations in all its aspects. My delegation supports a
negotiated approach to the points of disagreement between
the developing countries and their partners in development
as a whole. The only way forward is for the two groups to
work together and arrive at a consensus by the end of
November 1994. My delegation will support the view taken
by the Group of 77 on this issue, when it comes to a
conclusion in due course.
I wish you, Sir, and the Assembly fruitful deliberations.
Mr. ALIYEV (Azerbaijan)
from
Russian): Allow me first
to congratulate Mr. Samuel
Insanally on his election to his responsible post, and to wish
him every success in his work.
(interpretation
Allow me also to express gratitude to the President of
our last session, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his able guidance of
our work, and to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-
General, for his dynamic, tireless work to restructure the
Organization and enhance its effectiveness, given the
qualitative changes occurring in the system of international
relations.
I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the
new members of the United Nations:
the Czech Republic,
the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra.
The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is
taking place at a momentous time. The twentieth century,
which has experienced two of the most destructive wars in
the history of mankind, as well as the cold war and the arms
race, which have depleted natural and financial resources,
the intellectual and moral potential of civilization,
is
nevertheless ending on an optimistic note. Totalitarian
regimes have fallen, scores of countries have gained
independence and universal values of democracy and the
market economy are now finding new advocates throughout
the world.
We are proud that our small country, which straddles
Europe and Asia, a country with an ancient culture and a
proud history, has not been left behind in the truly universal
historical process of the triumph of democracy and national
and economic revival. Azerbaijan regained its independence
less than two years ago. The path travelled by our country
over these 22 months has not been without difficulties and
has been marked by contradictions and tragic events.
Nevertheless, we are convinced that the young State of
Azerbaijan is following the only true path leading to genuine
independence.
This has been borne out by the results of the recent
presidential elections held at the beginning of October, when
the overwhelming majority of the people of Azerbaijan voted
for Mr. Heydar Aliyev, an experienced politician and
recognized leader of our country, who is firmly committed
to the idea of building a democratic, secular society with a
market economy.
Unfortunately, the natural historical process of the fall
of empires and the acquisition of
independence and
statehood by their peoples is often accompanied by excesses
of extreme nationalism. Many attempt
the
democratization of the social and political life of young
independent States to undermine their internal stability.
to exploit
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Nationalist separatist movements are often used as a way to
achieve these ends.
Unfortunately, Azerbaijan has fallen victim to such acts
of provocation. For six years now the Republic of Armenia
has been waging an undeclared war against Azerbaijan to
fulfil its territorial claims. The sad facts of Armenia’s
aggression are as follows: 20 per cent of the territory of
Azerbaijan is now occupied by Armenian troops, and
1 million of our country’s civilians have no homes or means
of survival. The economic infrastructure of the Azerbaijani
Republic’s occupied region has been destroyed. Unique
historical and cultural sites of Azerbaijan have been
destroyed. And all this is occurring under the cover of an
ongoing propaganda campaign and alleged non-involvement
by the Republic of Armenia in the aggression.
Azerbaijan has often proclaimed, and continues to
proclaim, its commitment to the principle of the peaceful
settlement of disputes. We welcome and commend the
efforts of the international community, the United Nations
and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
(CSCE) as well as the efforts made by individual States -
Russia, the United States, Turkey, Iran and Kazakhstan - in
recent years to achieve a peaceful settlement of
the
Armenia/Azerbaijan conflict.
Azerbaijan welcomed the Security Council’s adoption
of resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993) calling for the
immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the
occupying forces from Azerbaijan territory that had been
seized. Azerbaijan also welcomed the initial timetable -
worked out within the framework of the Minsk Group of the
CSCE - of urgent steps to implement Security Council
resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993), several revised drafts
of which, however, were aborted because of the Armenian
side.
Azerbaijan stresses its commitment
to the initial
approach of the CSCE - that is, that the Minsk Conference
should be preceded by the
liberation of
Azerbaijan’s occupied territories. This was stressed in
particular by the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan,
G. A. Aliyev, yesterday during the reception for CSCE
representatives who are now visiting the region.
complete
We are confident
that, despite certain difficulties -
sometimes substantive - in the approach to the terms of the
peaceful settlement of the conflict, the political realism and
the sense of responsibility for the fate of our people shown
by the Azerbaijan side will be appreciated by our negotiating
partners.
Azerbaijan, which is richly endowed with a variety of
natural resources and which has a fairly well-developed
industrial potential, has all
the conditions necessary to
overcome our objective difficulties in this transitional period
towards a market economy.However, since one out of every
six inhabitants of our country has been forced to leave his
home and now has no means of survival, as a result of the
hostilities and occupation of one fifth of our territory, the
humanitarian assistance provided by various international
organizations that have enormous experience in this area is
assuming great importance for our country.
the United Nations High Commissioner
In this difficult period for my country, Azerbaijan - and
primarily the people of Azerbaijan, who have suffered most -
has been given all round support and assistance by the
Office of
for
Refugees, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the
United Nations Children’s Fund,
the World Health
Organization and the International Federation of Red Cross
and Red Crescent Societies. On behalf of my people and
Government, I take this opportunity to express profound
gratitude to all
international organizations, humanitarian
institutions and specialized agencies and the peoples and
Governments of many States that have responded to the
suffering of the Azerbaijan people who have fallen victim to
aggression.
The Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan also
expresses profound gratitude to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for having established a United
Nations - United Nations Development Programme Interim
Office in Azerbaijan. We are deeply convinced that the
activities of this Office will help to strengthen and expand
the comprehensive relations between our Republic and the
United Nations system. We are convinced, also, that this
cooperation will be mutually advantageous in view of the
initial
interaction between the Republic of
Azerbaijan and the system of specialized agencies of the
United Nations, the majority of which our country joined in
1992 and 1993.
results of
We attach overriding importance to international
cooperation in the field of the environment and sustainable
development and also to the comprehensive expansion of
world trade and the elimination of all barriers that restrict
that process.
Azerbaijan welcomed the decision to convene a World
Summit for Social Development and is prepared to take an
active part in preparing for that Summit, the successful
convening of which we believe will lay the basis for an
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
23
effective global development strategy for the twenty-first
century.
Our country is taking an active part in the preparations
for the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(Habitat II), which will take place in 1996 in Istanbul.
Thus despite the objective and subjective difficulties
encountered by my country, Azerbaijan, during the past year
has been taking decisive action to integrate itself fully into
the world community. We are convinced that integration
into the world’s political, economic and humanitarian
process is possible only by increasing cooperation between
States at the bilateral and multilateral levels.
Our country shares the general conviction regarding the
need to reduce the threat of the use of weapons of mass
destruction and subsequently to destroy them, has acceded to
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and
is taking an active part in the preparatory work for the
Review Conference that will take place in 1995. Azerbaijan
supports the indefinite extension of that Treaty and believes
that it should be made universal. We are convinced that the
non-proliferation Treaty is an instrument that strengthens all
international efforts and regional
initiatives that seek to
prevent any proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and
to eliminate obstacles that threaten international and regional
peace and security.
In this connection we welcome the positive steps taken
recently in the area of disarmament, including the adoption
of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and
on Their Destruction, which was signed by Azerbaijan and
the majority of countries of the world.
One outstanding example of our progress towards
building a democratic,
lawful State was Azerbaijan’s
accession to the basic instruments of international law in the
area of human rights, such as the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the
Rights of the Child, the Convention relating to the Status of
Refugees (1951) and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status
of Refugees, and some others. Our country is very
interested in the various initiatives being taken in the area of
protecting human rights. The idea of establishing, within the
United Nations system, a new post of high commissioner for
human rights, reflects an intention to enhance international
cooperation in this area. We are prepared actively to
participate in the discussions on this question.
Another pressing issue, one that requires urgent and
constant attention, is that of refugees and displaced persons.
It is time for the international community to draw up proper
rules and standards to govern massive, forced migrations
which could help overcome their main causes and
consequences.
Desirous of making a worthy contribution to the various
areas of the activities of the United Nations, Azerbaijan
the
submitted its candidacy for, and was elected to,
Commission
the
Intergovernmental Committee on Science and Technology
for Development. We are convinced that the great scientific
potential and practical experience of our specialists will help
these commissions to do effective work.
on Human
Settlements
and
In 1995 the United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth
anniversary.
In the almost five decades that have elapsed
since the United Nations was created, its historic meaning
and universality have become strikingly clear. Today it is
time for serious, meaningful changes, changes commensurate
with the needs of our rapidly changing world. We believe
that, given the new context of international relations, the
restructuring of the United Nations, and particularly of the
Security Council, must meet
the great expectations of
Member States.
Expansion of the membership of the
Security Council, the need for which is the subject of serious
discussion, should help the Council continue effectively to
discharge its primary task,
that of the maintenance of
international peace and security.Of course the role and
responsibility of the Secretary-General will shift towards
enhanced peacemaking and diplomatic activity.
In conclusion, we look to the future with optimism, to
a future where peace and cooperation will prosper. We call
upon States Members of the United Nations to make every
effort
to promote the establishment of a safe, secure,
common home. We are sure that constructive discussions
and debates at
session will make an important
contribution to the building of a better world in the coming
century.
this
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): I call
on the representative of Albania, who wishes to speak in
exercise of the right of reply.
May I remind members that statements in exercise of
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and five for the second and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
As regards the Greek allegation,
that
the Albanian
Mission misrepresented
... by the CSCE High
"the content of a letter
Commissioner on National Minorities",
(Official
Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session,
Plenary Meetings, 19th meeting)
Mr. van der Stoel’s report is realistic and objective and
exposes as artificial the noise made by Greece about the
situation of the Greek minority in Albania.
I
Mr. DUMI (Albania):
regret having to speak
again in exercise of the right of reply, but, the statement
made last week by the representative of the republic of
Greece,
in exercise of his right of reply, requires the
following clarifications.
The representative of Greece called on the Republic of
Albania to respect the right of national minorities in the
same way as Greece does. As a country newly emerged
from dictatorship, Albania has much to learn and to put into
practice as it progresses towards application of the most
advanced European common values. Indeed, it is doing so.
However, although we gave a friendly welcome to the Greek
suggestion, I must point out that my country is not prepared
to adopt the Greek practice: denial of the existence of the
national minorities within its borders.
It is well known that there are several ethnic minority
groups living in Greece, arbitrarily unrecognized and
persecuted by the Greek authorities. I shall just focus on an
important large one - tens of thousands of Muslim Albanians
living in Chamiria. Beginning about 50 years ago, they have
been subjected to forced deportation to Albania and Turkey,
forced to leave their ancestral
land and abandon their
property. Moreover, for many decades the Orthodox Chami
people and the old Albanian community in Greece, known
as Arvanitei, have been subjected to different assimilation
They are denied all rights - even the most
practices.
the right to declare and develop
fundamental human right:
their national identity.Their
in
international
law, must be restored and scrupulously
respected.
rights, as provided for
This question should be considered in parallel with that
of the rights of the Greek minority in Albania, since the
principle of reciprocity applies equally to all States and
nations. We have already presented our views to the Greek
authorities. Albania will continue to work, bilaterally and
multilaterally, on this issue, and we are confident
that
common language can and will be found.
Dialogue and understanding must prevail in dealing
with issues concerning the treatment of minorities. To this
end, Albania has shown good will and a constructive spirit.
However, the use of pressure and of related tactics, such as
the Greek authorities’ recent forced expulsion and ill-
treatment of more than 20,000 Albanian migrants, is not the
way to solve these problems, nor is it in accordance with the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
process.
Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993
25
Finally, I am authorized to reiterate the statement made
here by Albania’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the
Albanian democratic Government
"is determined to build a modern State and a civilized
society, based on respect for the human rights of all
exception or
strata of
discrimination."
the General
Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Plenary Meetings, 5th
meeting)
the population without
(Official Records of
No doubt this will be made a reality through deeds rather
than words, but, as an old saying goes, Babylon was not
built overnight.
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
