United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 32
COMPLETE WITHDRAWAL OF
FOREIGN
MILITARY FORCES FROM THE TERRITORIES OF
THE BALTIC STATES
(a) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
(A/48/501)
(b) DRAFT RESOLUTION (A/48/L.17/Rev.2)
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear a
statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia,
His Excellency Mr. Valdis Birkavs, in the course of which
he will introduce draft resolution A/48/L.17/Rev.2.
Mr. Valdis Birkavs, Prime Minister of the Republic of
Latvia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia, His Excellency
Mr. Valdis Birkavs, and inviting him to address the General
Assembly.
Mr. BIRKAVS: The draft resolution that I have the
honour to introduce addresses the most important and urgent
matter now confronting Latvia and the other Baltic States:
the continued illegal presence of the military forces of the
Russian Federation on the territories of Latvia and Estonia.
55th
PLENARY MEETING
Monday, 15 November 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
The matter of the complete withdrawal of foreign
military forces from the territories of the Baltic States is
being discussed by the General Assembly at the same time
as the Republic of Latvia is celebrating the 75th anniversary
of the Declaration of its independence. The State of Latvia
was proclaimed in 1918, and by 1920 it was recognized by
the world community. When celebrating an anniversary like
this, every nation remembers the severe battles it had to fight
in order
The
realization that every effort will be made to retain this
independence becomes more acute.
to gain and protect
its independence.
Unfortunately, following the period of growth and well-
being before the Second World War, the Baltic States and
their peoples were tried in a very severe way. At the
beginning of the 1940s, as a result of an agreement between
two totalitarian Powers, the independence of the Baltic States
was lost, and for 50 years independence was only a dream.
The actions of their peoples, the end of the cold war and the
collapse of communism gave the three Baltic States the
opportunity to re-establish their
independence. We
immediately embraced that opportunity and restored our
independence in 1991.
Many representatives know that only after
the
establishment of independence in their own countries did the
most difficult period of their development begin. Since the
re-establishment of our independence in 1991 much has been
achieved. However, much remains to be done. We have to
strengthen our independence and make every effort to ensure
that we never lose it again. Our efforts are made especially
difficult by the presence of foreign military forces stationed
on our territory without our consent.
I believe that this audience in particular, containing so
many representatives of States which gained their
independence quite recently, understands how important
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-87177 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.55
26 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
sovereignty is to every nation. To secure it, we have to
overcome many obstacles. The main obstacle to successful
development and the most potent factor of instability in the
Baltic region still remains the presence of Russian troops on
the territory of two sovereign States, Latvia and Estonia.
The removal of this problem from Lithuania is a positive
development. However, the last 3,000 troops that recently
departed from Lithuania represented only 12 per cent of the
total of Russian Federation troop strength in the Baltic
States.
Since the Soviet Baltic military district was
headquartered in Latvia, my country had the heaviest troop
concentration of all three States.
The present Russian Federation North-West Military
Area Group still has its headquarters in Riga and retains
control over 22 intelligence and counter-intelligence units,
211 military facilities, including air and naval installations,
and over 96,000 hectares of the territory of Latvia. Of over
18,000 Russian military personnel stationed in Latvia, about
one half are officers.
In terms of sheer numbers, fewer troops have been
removed from Lithuania and Poland, and, eventually, will
have been removed from Estonia, than remain based in
Latvia.
I should like to detail the efforts made by my country
to deal with the situation of foreign military forces stationed
on its territory without its consent. Latvia has been seeking
a reasonable solution to this problem through bilateral
negotiations. After our parliamentary elections in June of
this year, the first - and I stress, the first - order of business
was the formation of a new delegation to the negotiations.
Two rounds of talks have already taken place, and the third
round is under way at this very moment in Jurmala, Latvia.
Having solved a number of
secondary
removal-associated problems, both parties have exhausted the
limits of compromise without reaching agreement on three
fundamental
the early, orderly and complete
withdrawal of Russian Federation military forces from our
territory.
technical or
issues:
In spite of General Assembly resolution 47/21, adopted
on 25 November 1992, and paragraph 15 of the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) "Helsinki
Document 1992 - the Challenges of Change" and in spite of
calls by many Governments for the early, orderly and
complete withdrawal of Russian Federation troops, there has
not been significant progress on the part of the Russian
Federation in fulfilling these requirements.
In fact, the
Russian Federation has put forward several conditions and
acted in contradiction to the requirements of - again, I must
stress - an early, orderly and complete withdrawal.
First, a year after the adoption of resolution 47/21 on
this issue, an agreement on troop withdrawal has yet to be
signed; thus,
the requirement for an early withdrawal has
not been respected. Secondly, although some forces have
departed, an inspection of vacated military facilities in
Latvia, revealing ransacked buildings and rusting hulks,
demonstrates that withdrawal has not been orderly. Thirdly,
the requirement
that withdrawal be complete has been
subverted by the Russian Federation’s demands to maintain
some facilities in Latvia until the turn of the century.
The Russian Federation has demanded social guarantees
for its retired military personnel and housing for its military
personnel withdrawn from Latvia. Recent statements by the
Russian Federation’s Minister of Defence demonstrate that
the Russian Federation could again resort to the so-called
human-rights issue in order to halt troop withdrawal from
Latvia and Estonia.
The use of the Russian-speaking
to achieve
population in Latvia and Estonia as a tool
political or military-political goals
the
Russian-speaking population in the position of hostages,
benefiting neither party.
in fact puts
the people of Latvia.
Another difficult issue on the negotiations agenda is the
question of
the so-called strategic facilities which the
Russian Federation is seeking to keep in Latvia for many
years. This issue is burdened, in part, by the negative
historical experience of
These
"strategic" facilities are perceived as military bases which
could once again serve as a pretext for the occupation of
Latvia, as was the case in 1940. Latvia will extend the
deadline for the relocation of these facilities only if real
international security guarantees and a reasonably tight
internationally controlled schedule for relocation are given.
We categorically reject the Russian Federation’s request to
maintain these facilities for an extended period of time.
However, within the boundaries I have just mentioned, we
are willing to compromise.
Rhetoric regarding the Russian-speaking population and
the desire to retain some military facilities leaves room for
doubt as to whether the Russian Federation has the political
will
to remove its troops from Latvia. This gives the
impression that the Russian Federation still wants to keep its
military presence in the region.
community.
Clearly, Latvia cannot solve all its problems by itself,
and it depends greatly on the involvement and support of the
international
the
acknowledgment that no State can expect the international
community to solve all of its problems. But can the mouse
be expected to conduct bilateral negotiations with the cat on
the subject of the removal of the mousetrap?
Just
as
clear
is
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
3
In this respect, we believe that the repeated adoption of
General Assembly resolutions on this issue will reassure us
about the sincerity of the Russian Federation’s intentions and
will help Russian leaders adopt a political decision which
would solve once and for all the issue of the withdrawal of
Russian Federation troops in the Baltic States.
More weight will be attached to these resolutions if they
are adopted by consensus.
It is our hope that the Russian
Federation will effectively pursue the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 47/21, the draft resolution now
under consideration and the CSCE Helsinki Document.
We are well aware of all the difficulties the Russian
Federation is confronting in its efforts to build democracy
after long years of totalitarian rule. Latvia supports the
ongoing democratic processes in the Russian Federation.
However, none of Russia’s problems or difficulties can be
solved at the expense of the independence or statehood of its
neighbours.
the
primary
responsibility
The United Nations is an Organization entrusted by its
Member States with
of
maintaining international peace and security. Though the
main responsibility in this field rests on the Security
Council, the General Assembly has its own competence as
well, and it has been successful in exercising it, especially
when possible steps by the Security Council
towards
international peace and security were hindered by the cold
war between the super-Powers.
Now that the cold war and the bipolarity of the world
have ended, contradictions between the big Powers no longer
constitute the main threat to peace and security in the world.
The security of small States gradually comes to the
foreground.
These States are particularly interested in
strengthening the international security institutions and
making the most effective use of them.
The nature of conflicts in the modern world has
changed; hence, the instruments for dealing with them have
changed
the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, has rightly pointed
out that the most desirable and efficient use of diplomacy is
to ease tensions before they result in conflict.
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
as well.
If
Ironically,
it succeeds,
the use of preventive diplomacy is not
always rewarding.
there may not be
demonstrative results, while, if it fails, the conflicts which
emerge attract the attention of the world. The removal of
the Russian Federation troops from the Baltic States can
serve as a good example of preventive diplomacy in action,
yielding evident results. Measures taken within the United
Nations framework, in particular resolution 47/21, have been
a notable contribution, as a result of which the Russian
Federation has completely pulled its troops out of Lithuania.
If a flight from Riga, Latvia, to New York takes nine
hours, should not the return flight from New York to Riga
take nine hours as well? When one ponders this question,
it must be remembered that in 1940 Soviet troops, in gross
violation of international law, entered and occupied the free,
independent Baltic States in a matter of days.
Since
Moscow had clearly formulated its decision to occupy the
Baltic States,
technical
difficulties in implementing its plan. However, now that 50
years have elapsed, it is high time to do away with the
consequences of this gross violation of international law. It
appears that two years have not been enough to remove the
troops or even to agree upon the time by which they will be
removed.
the Army had no practical or
But, in fact, that is time for decision. We thank the
Secretary-General for his efforts to implement resolution
47/21. The appointment of a Special Envoy, Ambassador
Tommy Koh of Singapore, who headed a good-offices
mission to the Baltic States and the Russian Federation, led
to greater international understanding of this issue. The
good-offices mission was of the type envisaged by the
Secretary-General
in his report "An Agenda for Peace"
(A/47/277) and should serve as an example of cooperation
and early prevention enhancing transparency and the
peaceful settlement of disputes.
However,
the Member States and the international
community should not stop there;
the process of early
prevention must continue. We urge the Russian Federation,
the other Member States and the international community to
continue to work toward the early, orderly and complete
withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of
Latvia and Estonia - for early prevention, for regional and
international peace and security, and for justice.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the
Republic of Latvia for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Valdis Birkavs, Prime Minister of the Republic of
Latvia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Mr. OSVALD (Sweden): I have the honour to speak on
behalf of the five Nordic countries: Denmark, Finland,
Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
The withdrawal of Russian troops from the Baltic
countries is an issue of major
It will
substantiate the independence of the Baltic States and
strengthen security and stability in the Baltic Sea region.
More than a year has now elapsed since Russia made its
importance.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
commitment concerning a complete withdrawal of troops
from the Baltic countries.
It is more than two years since
Russia recognized the re-established independence of the
Baltic States.
The Nordic countries have regarded it as an important
task to try to assist - together with other countries - in
accelerating the withdrawal of Russian troops from the
territories of the Baltic States. The demand for an early,
orderly and complete withdrawal of Russian troops from the
Baltic States - in accordance with the Final Act of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
Helsinki Summit - still stands.
The continued stationing of
foreign forces in the
territory of independent States without their agreement is
unacceptable. The Russian military forces in Estonia and
Latvia have been reduced in numbers, but the remaining
troops must be withdrawn in the immediate future.
We welcome the withdrawal of troops from Lithuania
as a positive step towards the fulfilment of the Helsinki
Final Act. We believe that it is of the utmost importance
that the countries concerned agree as soon as possible on a
date by which the withdrawal should be completed. The
demand for such a withdrawal cannot be linked to the
solution of any other political issue.
The Nordic countries understand the practical, social
and economic problems Russia faces in connection with the
withdrawal of troops, and we realize that outside assistance
to alleviate some of these difficulties could be helpful. We
have already made, or are prepared to make, contributions to
solving various practical questions,
including housing
problems of
this will
contribute to the rapid completion of the withdrawal of
troops from Estonia and Latvia. We urge other countries to
take similar measures to this end. Also, we urge the Russian
Government not to use the question of such assistance to
delay the withdrawal process, which could be completed in
practice very soon.
the returnees, and assume that
The Nordic countries consider a completion of the
withdrawal of Russian military forces from all the Baltic
countries an important step on the road to improving
relations between the Baltic countries and Russia. Good and
trusting relations between these countries will increase the
conditions for intensified cooperation in the North European
area as a whole.
The Secretary-General’s report (A/48/501) on the issue
of troop withdrawal from the Baltic States is a good
summary of the present situation and the problems that
remain to be solved. The Special Envoy, Ambassador
Tommy Koh, has been faced with a very complicated issue.
We welcome the Secretary-General’s readiness to provide
his good offices to facilitate the process of withdrawal.
the draft
The Nordic countries support
resolution
(A/48/L.17/Rev.2) put forward under this agenda item by the
Baltic States following successful consultations with the
Russian Federation. We view it as a sign of good will on
both sides that a consensus agreement was reached also this
year. The adoption of this draft resolution would underscore
once again the importance the international community
attaches to the withdrawal of these troops in compliance with
the principle of international law as expressed, inter alia, by
the CSCE: the presence of foreign troops on the territory of
a sovereign State requires the consent of that State.
Let us hope that when the Secretary-General submits
his report on this issue at next year’s session of the General
Assembly, he will be able to report that all foreign troops
have been withdrawn from the territories of all the Baltic
States.
Mr. VORONTSOV (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): The Russian Federation is making active
efforts to build full-fledged good-neighbourly relations with
Latvia and Estonia and is doing its utmost to ensure the
earliest possible settlement of the problems existing in our
relations.
Unfortunately, a number of problems remaining from
the past still exist in the relations of Russia with Latvia and
Estonia. We are trying to resolve them through common
efforts, in a spirit of mutual respect and on the basis of
understanding the sources and substance of those difficulties
which our States are experiencing at
this historically
important period of their development.
the
continuing,
One
such problem is
although
considerably reduced, presence of military forces of the
former Soviet Union in Latvia and Estonia, which Russia
had to take under its jurisdiction as the successor State of
the Soviet Union. The full withdrawal of troops from
Lithuania within the agreed-upon time-frame, despite the fact
that the agreements finalizing legal aspects of the withdrawal
have not been completed, would constitute reaffirmation of
Russia’s good will and its determination to solve this
problem.
Since the consideration of this question at the forty-
seventh session considerable progress has been achieved in
the withdrawal of Russian troops from Latvia and Estonia.
On Latvian territory their numbers have been reduced from
57,000 at the beginning of the withdrawal to 17,000 today -
that is, to less than one third.
In Estonia, their number has
dropped from 25,000 to 4,000, a reduction to less than one
sixth.
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
5
The problem of the withdrawal of the Russian troops
still deployed in Latvia and Estonia is not political. Our
country has taken a clear and unequivocal decision on the
complete withdrawal of these troops from the territories of
the Baltic States. Moreover, we are attempting to complete
that withdrawal as early as is technically possible. Russia
has no intention of delaying the withdrawal of Russian
troops from Latvia and Estonia or of using the issue to exert
pressure with regard to other aspects of bilateral relations.
In particular, in the course of the negotiating process with
Latvia and Estonia we are not
linking the issue of
withdrawal with the decision on such vital issues for us as
the protection of
the Russian-speaking
population in those countries.
the rights of
Unfortunately, work on the agreements to provide a
legal basis for solving the set of problems related to troop
withdrawal, including the legal, social, material and financial
issues involved, has been excessively drawn out. For this,
we believe, the Russian side is not to blame. We regret the
delay because in our relations with other States of Central
and Eastern Europe such issues, when raised, were quickly
resolved in a spirit of cooperation and compromise. In this
connection, we note a certain imbalance in the provisions of
the draft resolution, in that it deals with the "delay" in the
troop withdrawal, but does not mention the real and complex
problems, whose solution would contribute to a speedy
agreement on withdrawal.
We note with satisfaction that in the most recent rounds
of bilateral talks between the State delegations of Russia,
Latvia and Estonia certain signs of progress in resolving
these problems were seen. In particular, in the last round of
Russian-Latvian talks it was possible to agree on a set of
important provisions regulating issues of troop withdrawal.
Nevertheless, such key issues as the date of completion of
the withdrawal, the fate of certain strategic installations and
the problems of ownership and mutual settlement of
payments remain open. But here, too, certain positive shifts
are beginning to occur.
One serious obstacle to a speedy completion of troop
withdrawal from Latvia and Estonia, as the Secretary-
General recognizes in his report, is the problem of building
the necessary housing in Russia for troops and family
members returning from Latvia and Estonia.
In this
connection, we welcome the intention expressed by the
Government of the Republic of Estonia to seek resources for
the construction of housing in Russia, which would enable
us to consider the possibility of the withdrawal of troops
from that country earlier than the date we had outlined - that
is, before the end of 1994. We also welcome the statement
we have just heard from the representative of Sweden that
the Nordic countries also intend to assist with regard to
building housing. We consider that this would also be of
great assistance in accelerating troop withdrawal.
It would help set a mutually acceptable timetable for
troop withdrawal from Latvia if the Latvian side were to pay
compensation for housing now occupied by Russian military
personnel in that country. Those funds would make it
possible to build or acquire housing in Russia. The Russian
military personnel themselves cannot privatize or sell their
houses because of discriminatory Latvian legislation, as
distinguished from the situation in Lithuania.
The Secretary-General’s report pays well-deserved
attention to the problem of retired Russian military personnel
and family members permanently residing in Latvia and
Estonia, who today number approximately 90,000. It is clear
from the report that the current situation in which they find
themselves can only be described as tragic. Under the terms
of the Law on Aliens adopted by the State Assembly of the
Republic of Estonia on 8 July 1993, they are deprived of the
right to obtain residence permits and are obliged to leave the
country, even though the overwhelming majority of them
have no housing in Russia.
In addition, there have been
instances of forced cancellation of the residence permits of
retired military personnel, of their being fired from jobs and
of threatened deportation from Estonia. The Estonian side
has not yet accepted the recommendations of the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) High
Commissioner on National Minorities with regard to the
need to provide this category of the population with the right
to obtain residence permits. There are signs that a similar
situation may evolve in Latvia as well.
We share the conclusion of the Secretary-General’s
report, with regard to the issue of the status and social
benefits of retired military personnel, that
"a reasonable response to Russian concerns would be
for Estonia to accept CSCE and United Nations
suggestions with regard to the decree that is being
formulated to implement
the Law on Aliens".
(A/48/501, para. 22)
We also share the Secretary-General’s call on Latvia to take
into account the opinions and recommendations expressed by
the missions sent to that country by the United Nations, the
Council of Europe and the CSCE, and to take positive and
urgent measures with regard to the issues concerning retired
Russian military personnel. We expect
this acute
humanitarian aspect of the problem will soon also find a
civilized solution in the negotiations on troop withdrawal, on
the basis of the norms and principles of international
humanitarian law.
that
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
like
to
I
should
In conclusion,
reaffirm our
determination to settle all problems in Russia’s relations with
Latvia and Estonia in a spirit of cooperation and good-
neighbourliness, responsibility and constructiveness. We
note with satisfaction that in general during the consultations
on the draft resolution between our delegation and the
delegations of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia a spirit of
cooperation prevailed, ultimately allowing us to arrive at the
consensus text which is now before the General Assembly.
Mr. NOTERDAEME (Belgium) (interpretation from
French):
I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the
European Union on the agenda item dealing with the
complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the
Baltic States.
47/21
resolution
Under General Assembly
the
Secretary-General sent his Special Envoy, Mr. Koh, to the
Baltic States in late August and early September last.
Mr. Koh’s mandate was to offer his good offices in
connection with the question of the withdrawal of Russian
troops from the Baltic States. The report he prepared on the
outcome of his mission offers us grounds for optimism and
for disappointment.
We have grounds, in the first place, for optimism,
because the complete withdrawal of Russian units from the
territory of Lithuania, which was concluded on 31 August
last, opened the way to complete normalization of relations
between Lithuania and the Russian Federation.
The
European Union welcomes this successful outcome and we
call on Lithuania and the Russian Federation to resolve
definitively matters that are still pending.
July 1992 -
We have grounds for disappointment because, although
the Russian Federation has already proceeded to repatriate
some of its troops, no agreement has yet been reached on
complete withdrawal from the territories of Latvia and
Estonia.
In keeping with the Helsinki Summit Declaration
of
"The Challenges of Change" - which
emphasized that the Russian Federation had an obligation to
withdraw its troops from the Baltic States, the European
Union once again calls on the States concerned to continue
their efforts with a view to concluding the bilateral
agreements needed for the early, orderly and complete
withdrawal of Russian troops from Estonian and Latvian
territory, without
to any other
problems.
linking that withdrawal
the conclusion of
It should be possible for
the
agreement between Lithuania and the Russian Federation to
serve as an example of how to resolve the continuing
disputes with Latvia and Estonia. Without disregarding the
practical difficulties facing the Russian Federation in
withdrawing its troops from Latvia and Estonia,
the
European Union cannot agree that these difficulties should
be allowed to jeopardize the implementation of the principle
of international law that the presence of foreign troops on
the territory of another State requires its consent.
Once again the European Union expresses the hope that
the States involved will continue efforts with a view to
settling their disputes definitively so that they can open a
new era of peaceful and mutually beneficial relations and put
an end to the distrust inherited from the past. Against this
background, the European Union reiterates its support for the
efforts being made by Mr. Koh, the Special Envoy of the
Secretary-General, and for his good offices.
For those reasons, the European Union supports the
draft resolution now before us.
The PRESIDENT: I wish to announce that the list of
speakers for item 32 is now closed.
Mrs. FRECHETTE (Canada): Canada, Australia and
New Zealand are pleased to support the draft consensus
resolution before the Assembly on the complete withdrawal
of foreign military forces from the territories of the Baltic
States.
Last year we adopted a resolution on this question along
much the same lines as the text before us. Some progress
has been made: we welcome the withdrawal of troops from
Lithuania, completed on schedule last August. We regret,
however, that one year since its adoption, and two years
after the independence of the Baltic States was recognized
by the international community, this issue still remains to be
resolved.
With regard to the foreign troops remaining in Estonia
and Latvia we encourage the parties to continue their
dialogue and look forward to an early resolution of their
differences. We urge all parties to show flexibility and a
greater recognition of the challenges faced by others in
fulfilling this objective.
We reiterate our belief
that progress on troop
withdrawal cannot be linked to other non-related issues. At
the same time, we recognize that a host of social and
environmental problems connected to the long-standing
presence of foreign troops on Baltic soil exists and must be
solved in a spirit of cooperation.
We thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive
report and welcome his active engagement in this process.
Good-offices missions, such as the one undertaken by the
Secretary-General’s Special Envoy, Mr. Koh, are particularly
helpful.
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
7
(spoke in French)
the
and
role Member States
We have taken note of the Secretary-General’s call
concerning
regional
organizations might play in helping to resolve the remaining
questions. We believe regional organizations may be able to
help all the parties to reach an understanding on this issue
and on others related to peace and stability in the Baltic
region.
The draft resolution before us reaffirms the efforts made
by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
(CSCE) to help the parties. We support the decisions of the
CSCE at its Helsinki and Stockholm meetings in 1992. We
welcome the information on troop withdrawal regularly
provided in the CSCE context by all the parties.
The CSCE also contributes to regional stability through
long-term preventive-diplomacy missions to the region: one
has operated for some time in Estonia and one will shortly
be established in Latvia. Such initiatives serve to lessen
tensions
and promote greater understanding between
communities.
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have made great strides
in consolidating their sovereignty and independence. An
early, orderly and complete withdrawal of foreign troops
from Estonia and Latvia will contribute to security and
stability in the region and to good-neighbourly relations, and
will serve as an example for the international community.
Mr. GHAFOORZAI (Afghanistan):
The Afghan
delegation reiterates its principled policy on the item under
consideration - that is, our conviction that the inadmissible
and unjustifiable presence of foreign military forces in the
territory of another State without the consent of the State in
question is inadmissible and unjustifiable. The continuing
presence of foreign military forces on the territories of
Estonia and Latvia cannot be an exception. However, the
withdrawal from Lithuania of the last Russian combat unit
on 31 August 1993 has been a positive development since
the General Assembly considered the item last year.
Unfortunately, it must be noted that no agreement on the
terms of the troop withdrawal from other Baltic States has
been reached in the meantime.
While we see a desire on the part of the Russian
Federation to abide by the call of the last session of the
General Assembly to - inter alia - conclude without delay a
timetable for the early, orderly and complete withdrawal of
their forces from the territories of Estonia and Latvia, the
objective has yet to be fully achieved.
the mandate which the General Assembly entrusted to the
Secretary-General to use good offices to attain the objective
of the early, orderly and complete withdrawal of foreign
forces still stationed in Estonia and Latvia.
The technical and practical problems involved and
presented as reasons for delayed withdrawal will never be
understood by world public opinion. These practical issues
should in no way delay the complete, orderly and early
withdrawal of the foreign forces from the territories of all
Baltic States.
We believe that continued cooperation, as well as the
taking of immediate and practical steps by the Russian
Federation towards the implementation of General Assembly
resolution 47/21 of 25 November 1992, including an early
date for
troop withdrawal, would create a positive
atmosphere of good will and trust under which all the issues
that are impeding the implementation of that resolution
would be peacefully and expeditiously resolved.
No foreign military force is a pleasant phenomenon in
the mind of a nation. It is a logical conclusion, therefore, to
believe that the presence of the foreign troops in Riga, the
capital of Latvia, and Tallinn, the capital of Estonia, is
offensive to the peoples of these two countries.
To Afghanistan, as the victim of foreign military
aggression not
too long ago, which feels the pain and
suffering of the people in those countries that are still
experiencing the presence of foreign military forces in their
territories, the continued delay in completing the withdrawal
is a matter of concern. It jeopardizes and threatens the early
establishment of normal and good relations between the
Russian Federation and the Baltic States.
It violates the
sovereignty of Estonia and Latvia and contributes to the
intensification of
Therefore the
immediate and complete withdrawal of the forces is in the
interest of
the Russian Federation and other States
concerned, in the interest of peace and tranquillity of the
region, and in the interest of an atmosphere of understanding
conducive to the attainment of the ideals for which this
Organization has fought since its inception.
tension in the area.
The Afghan delegation is of the opinion that
the
continued endeavours of regional organizations, such as the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the
Council of Europe, as well as the commendable practical
assistance of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Denmark, Norway
and the United States, will enable our Organization to mark
the early and complete withdrawal of foreign military forces
from the Baltic States.
We commend the efforts of the Secretary-General and
his Special Envoy, Ambassador Tommy Koh, to discharge
We salute the determination and perseverance of the
freedomloving nations of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
towards seeing their beloved homelands completely free
from foreign domination. The Afghan nation shared their joy
and pleasure when they celebrated their independence.
trust and good will essential
to the
atmosphere of
constructive continuation and successful conclusion of the
talks.
integrity.
independence and territorial
We believe it is a moral responsibility to ensure that
each Member State benefits from an atmosphere of trust and
understanding brought about by the end of the cold war and
of world polarization. Let us leave aggression to the past and
build new relations based upon respect for each other’s
sovereignty,
Let
animosity belong to the past, and let us build new roads
towards sincere friendship. Let others believe that we have
faith and trust in dialogue and negotiations as the only way
to solve our problems. And let us prove to our future
generations that our dedication to peace and human rights
laid down the foundation of world relations under which
they will live with no fear of the use or threat of use of
force, the dangers of war or violations of human rights. Let
us enable our sons and daughters to enjoy their human
dignity and collectively strive for the peace and progress of
their environment.
It is our determination that will make
such ideals a reality.
Mr. ERDÖS (Hungary) (interpretation from French):
to resolution 47/21, adopted by the General
Pursuant
the item on the complete
Assembly just one year ago,
withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of
the Baltic States remains on the agenda of the Assembly,
which is to be kept
informed of progress towards its
implementation. We note with satisfaction that following
talks,
the armed forces of the Russian Federation were
completely withdrawn from the territory of Lithuania in
August 1993; and, despite the remaining problems,
this
provides impetus to the talks now under way between the
Russian Federation and the two other Baltic countries. This
achievement demonstrates eloquently that disputes between
States can be settled if there is the true political will to
succeed, if both sides are willing to compromise, and if each
side takes account of the legitimate interests of the other.
We feel sure that if this spirit prevails in the talks, then the
matter before us today can quickly be cast aside and
disappear once and for all from the agenda of the General
Assembly.
The Secretary-General’s excellent report on this item,
based on information collected by Ambassador Koh, Special
Envoy of the Secretary-General, provides an overview of
developments, and is generally positive as to the outcome of
the talks and as to the contribution the United Nations can
make in dealing with this dispute and in preserving
international and regional peace and security. The question
of the complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from
the Baltic countries is a very complex issue.
It requires
from all of the parties concerned patience, perseverance,
political wisdom and special efforts
to establish the
Hungary knows from its own experience how important
it is to have a responsible and flexible approach, to take
account pragmatically of the interests at stake, and to avoid
rash statements or actions; without these positive elements,
the talks will be impeded by even more difficult obstacles.
This is an approach that we feel can lead without undue
delay to the conclusion of appropriate agreements, including
a timetable on the early, orderly and complete withdrawal of
foreign military forces from the territories of Estonia and
Latvia. In this undertaking, the Conference on Security and
Co-operation in Europe is called upon to play a primary role,
and this will no doubt help to ensure that any outstanding
issue can be resolved in ways acceptable to all parties
involved on the basis of sovereign equality and in the spirit
of good-neighbourliness.
that
In this context, we note that all the parties are fully in
agreement on the need for the withdrawal of the armed
forces of the Russian Federation from the territories of the
Baltic States. We believe, however,
the talks on
implementing this goal must be continued with dynamism
and consistency, for the persistence of the present situation
is becoming increasingly anachronistic in a Europe which
has now freed itself from old political and ideological
constraints. We hope that the countries involved will rise to
the occasion and conclude, as soon as possible, bilateral
agreements on eliminating one of the last vestiges of a
bygone era.
The draft resolution is in keeping with the expectations
of the international community and suggests the path to be
followed. Hungary is happy that once again all delegations
concerned support it and that it will therefore be adopted
without a vote.
Mr. SIMUTIS (Lithuania): The Lithuanian delegation
has the honour to be among the sponsors of draft resolution
A/48/L.17/Rev.2, entitled "Complete withdrawal of foreign
military forces from the territories of the Baltic States",
under item 32 of the agenda of the forty-eighth session of
the General Assembly.
Lithuania is one of the Baltic States, and it is a source
of great satisfaction to me to report to the General Assembly
that last year’s resolution on this subject, resolution 47/21,
has been fulfilled as far as Lithuania is concerned. During
1992 and 1993, Lithuania and the Russian Federation
conducted long and intensive negotiations in an attempt to
reach a comprehensive agreement on the withdrawal of the
military forces of the Russian Federation from Lithuania.
The two sides could not reach an agreement on all aspects
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
9
of the withdrawal and issues connected with it; hence, a
comprehensive withdrawal agreement could not be achieved.
However, on 8 September 1992, a detailed timetable for
departure of the Russian troops was agreed upon and signed.
The timetable set 31 August 1993 as the final date for the
withdrawal of those troops from Lithuania.
In spite of many difficulties and disagreements, which
in the final few days led to a suspension of the withdrawal,
the final date specified in the timetable agreement was met.
Fifteen minutes before midnight on 31 August 1993, the last
combat unit of the Russian armed forces crossed the border
and left the territory of Lithuania.
The withdrawal of the Russian troops has resulted in a
marked improvement in relations between Lithuania and the
Russian Federation. It dissipated the mutual resentments and
suspicions that had influenced actions and positions of the
two sides while the foreign military forces were stationed in
Lithuania. The people of Lithuania had perceived these
forces as troops of occupation since 1940, when they
marched in uninvited, and they stayed for half a century.
Their presence and their armed might enabled the Soviet
Union to annex our country illegally, and to carry out
arrests,
and massive deportations of our
population to Siberia and other harsh regions of the former
Soviet Union. Under the cover of the army of occupation,
great suffering was imposed on our people. Now that the
army has left, the process of healing can begin again.
executions
The continued presence of armed forces of the Russian
Federation in Estonia and Latvia raises troubling questions
about their ultimate purpose. Particularly troubling is the
demand of the Russian Federation for military bases and
facilities in Latvia. This is completely unacceptable, since
the presence of military bases and facilities forces that
independent country into Russia’s military sphere without its
consent and thus violates its sovereignty and independence.
Lithuania suffered the same long years of Soviet
occupation as Estonia and Latvia, and shared with them the
joy of liberation and the restoration of our independence.
Lithuania fully supports the demand of Estonia and Latvia
for the early, orderly and complete withdrawal of the
military forces of
the Russian Federation from their
territories. Maintaining foreign military forces on the
territory of another State without its consent is contrary to
international law.
Therefore, Lithuania appeals
to the international
community to uphold international law and to support the
draft resolution, which calls for an early, orderly and
complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from Estonia
and Latvia.
agenda
Mr. JAAKSON (Estonia): The Latvian Prime Minister,
in introducing the
item entitled "Complete
withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of
the Baltic States", dealt primarily with aspects of this
problem that I do not intend to dwell on. They apply
equally well
to the situation in Estonia, except for the
number of troops remaining and the number of bases
occupied. Rather, I would like to point out the historical
context
the Russian
its troops from our soil so
Federation’s removal of
threatening to our security and to international peace.
I
would like to add that, although I shall speak about Estonia,
the situation I shall describe applies equally well to Latvia
and Lithuania.
procrastination
that makes
in
Estonia established its independence after a solemn
declaration by the Soviet Russian Government on
15 November 1917 that all nations had a right
to self-
government and could separate from the Tsarist empire. Our
independence was proclaimed on 24 February 1918. No
sooner had independence been declared than Estonia was
attacked by both the Soviet and the German armies.
the attackers did not prevail and Soviet
Fortunately,
Commissar
for Foreign Affairs Georgi V. Chicherin
proposed negotiations, which led to the cessation of
hostilities and to peace. The Peace Treaty of Tartu was
signed on 2 February 1920. Article 2 of the Treaty states in
part that:
"... Russia
unreservedly
the
independence and autonomy of the State of Estonia, and
renounces voluntarily and forever
rights of
sovereignty formerly held by Russia over the Estonian
people ...".
recognizes
all
This solemn treaty provision was honoured for four
years. On 1 December 1924 the Soviet Government massed
troops on the Estonian border and incited an uprising against
the democratically elected Government. The uprising failed
miserably, and the long hand of Russian complicity was
exposed.
In 1932 Estonia signed a non-aggression Treaty with
Moscow which stated, among other things:
"The High Contracting Parties mutually undertake
to abstain from any act of aggression against one
another ..."
This Treaty was honoured until 1939 when, in collusion
with Hitler, Soviet Russia was given a free hand in the
Baltic area. The Nazi-Soviet Protocol states:
"In the
rearrangement
event of
territorial or political
in the areas belonging to the Baltic
a
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the northern boundary of Lithuania shall
States,
represent the boundary of the spheres of influence of
Germany and the USSR."
For the Soviet Union, the Nazi-Soviet pact represented
a disavowal of
the principles underlying every major
international agreement concluded by the Soviet Government
with its neighbours since 1917.
About a month after the Nazi-Soviet pact was signed,
Estonia was presented with an ultimatum by Moscow
demanding its accession to a "mutual assistance" pact, under
whose terms Estonia was compelled to hand naval and air
bases over to the Soviet Union and provide for a garrison of
25,000 Soviet troops. Estonia was given less than eight
hours to respond to this ultimatum. When Estonia acceded
to the Soviet demands, its fate was sealed. The bases and
troops were used to launch an aggressive war against
Finland and to undermine Estonian sovereignty; within a
year, this led to Estonia’s annexation by the Soviet Union.
In 1988 the Supreme Soviets of the then Estonian,
Latvian and Lithuanian SSRS declared the Nazi-Soviet pact
void of any legal standing. A similar conclusion was
reached by the Congress of People’s Deputies of the Soviet
Union in 1989. However, sufficient steps have not been
taken to eliminate the consequences of that pact. Four years
have elapsed since this historic admission was made by the
Congress of People’s Deputies. The time has come to honour
that admission.
If it were not for these bitter historic lessons of broken
treaties and the subversion of our independence through the
stranglehold of Soviet Russian bases, we might be more
lenient and understanding about the stationing of Russian
Federation troops on our soil. However our memories are
too vivid.
Fifty years of oppression resulted from our
agreement to permit the stationing of foreign troops on our
soil. The trials and tribulations of our people are too great
to recount on this occasion.
Estonia now asks the Russian Federation, as a successor
State to the Soviet Union, to honour the peace treaty Estonia
had concluded with Soviet Russia and to respect our
sovereignty and international law. Is that too much to ask?
It is easy to say that we should not worry too much
about the remaining troops on our soil and that the troops
will eventually leave Estonia and Latvia as they recently left
Lithuania. The Russian side has repeatedly said that the
deadline for troop withdrawal is basically related to housing
for the troops. This argument lacks any legal content and
cannot be considered the reason to keep forces on the
territory of another State without the consent of that State.
However, we recognize that this is a problem to be solved.
We are concerned that
the Russian Federation is
looking for excuses to keep its troops in Estonia as long as
possible by attempts to link the troop withdrawal to the
situation of the "Russian-speaking population" in Estonia.
In a statement made here on 28 September it was said:
"Russia has made peacemaking and the protection of
human rights, particularly those of national minorities,
the priority of its foreign policy, first and foremost in
the territory of the former USSR." (Official Records of
the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Plenary
Meetings, 6th meeting, p. 15)
The danger of this logic for Estonia is in considering us a
part of the former Soviet Union, without recognizing our
continued statehood, established in 1918.
Estonia is also accused of violating the human rights of
the "Russian-speaking population" in Estonia, despite the
fact that no human rights violations have been found by
many expert missions of the United Nations, the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and the
Council of Europe. According to this logic, it would appear
that troops in Estonia may become useful for peace-keeping
purposes.
The Russian Federation has implied that it would need
a clear mandate from the United Nations and the CSCE for
the better accomplishment of its peace-keeping activities. As
long as the Russian Federation claims special rights in the
"near abroad" its impartiality is questionable. Therefore, we
cannot really speak of traditional peace-keeping. As long as
the troops of the Russian Federation remain on our soil, we
have reason to feel insecure.
Mr. NOBILO (Croatia): The date 17 September 1991
was one of the great and important days in the history of the
United Nations, when the new political and old historical
realities in the Baltic States were finally and justly
recognized by the granting of
full United Nations
membership to the Republics of Latvia, Lithuania and
Estonia.
It was a giant step towards the new post-cold war order,
and a harbinger of independence and sovereignty for many
other nations. Eight months later, the Republic of Croatia -
together with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia - also
became a Member State of the United Nations.
There is not
that
the slightest doubt
the territorial
integrity, sovereignty and independence of Latvia, Lithuania
and Estonia must be fully respected and if necessary
protected by the world community. Without the approval of
the host State, no foreign troops can be situated within its
internationally recognized boundaries. The Baltic States
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
11
cannot be an exception to this rule, which is the pillar of
regional and global stability. Therefore, Croatia supports the
complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the
territories of Latvia and Estonia.
Any serious delay in this process, contrary to the agreed
timetable, would jeopardize the basic principles for which
this Organization stands. Croatia therefore calls for the
precise implementation of the timetable for the withdrawal
of these troops. The positive experience of the withdrawal
of foreign troops from other Eastern European countries
should serve as a guideline to the Baltic States as well.
Parallel to the problem of a foreign military presence in
the Baltics, some serious questions relating to the protection
of human rights in that area are emerging. It is our opinion
that these two problems must be dealt with separately and
cannot be considered in the same context. All the existing
human rights questions in the Baltic States, especially the
minority problems, must be considered and resolved without
rattling military sabres. The presence of foreign troops
within the territories of sovereign States, in the name of
protecting the social, cultural, ethnic, linguistic or religious
rights of minorities, cannot justify any effort to promote
human rights. These questions have to be resolved through
the internal political process and legislation with full respect
for international norms and standards with regard to human
rights and in close cooperation with the relevant international
institutions and bodies.
Croatia firmly supports the view that preventive
diplomacy is the most desirable and effective means of
easing tensions and achieving just and lasting solutions.
Unfortunately, preventive diplomacy failed in the Balkans on
the territories of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. History has recently taught us the
cruel lesson of how horrible crimes can be committed in the
name of protecting someone’s human rights. We must not
forget Serbia’s unfounded statement
the rights of
Serbian people in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina
were being violated or its use of its military presence on the
territories of these two States Members of the United
Nations to launch a brutal act of aggression designed to
seize as much of their land as possible.
that
Easing tensions that could create a new regional crisis
or expand existing ones is today one of the major goals of
the work of the United Nations.
In the light of that effort,
two major principles must be fulfilled. The first one is full
respect for, and protection of, human and minority rights.
The other is the full and unconditional withdrawal of
uninvited foreign military forces from the territories of
sovereign States Members of the United Nations. The
violation of one of these principles cannot justify blocking
the fulfilment of the other.
By supporting this draft resolution, we are urging all the
parties - the Baltic States and the Russian Federation - to
proceed in the direction of finding mutually acceptable and
peaceful solutions without linking two different processes,
thus helping to strengthen European and global stability.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/48/L.17/Rev.2. May I take it that the Assembly
wishes to adopt the draft resolution?
Draft
resolution A/48/L.17/Rev.2 was
adopted
(resolution 48/18).
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda
item 32?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 151
UNITED NATIONS INITIATIVE ON OPPORTUNITY
AND PARTICIPATION:
DRAFT RESOLUTION
(A/48/L.19)
The PRESIDENT:
Affairs of Papua New Guinea, Mr. John Kaputin,
introduce draft resolution A/48/L.19.
I call on the Minister for Foreign
to
Mr. KAPUTIN (Papua New Guinea): I am pleased to
open the debate on agenda item 15, which bears the title
"United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation".
It is only a little more than a year since I had the
honour of proposing the initiative in this Hall. Though I
was - as I remain - convinced that the proposal deals with
issues of global concern, I was able at that time to speak
only on behalf of Papua New Guinea. Today, I address the
Assembly in the knowledge that the proposal enjoys the
support of many other Governments,
and
international organizations, groups of United Nations
Members and non-governmental organizations.
regional
In the Asia-Pacific region alone, the proposal has been
formally and unanimously endorsed by the South Pacific
Forum, the Melanesian Spearhead Group and the Association
of South-East Asian Nations.
It enjoys the backing of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries as well as of members
of the Group of 77, the Forum of Small States, the Alliance
Island States and regional groups in widely
of Small
scattered parts of the world.
It has been discussed and
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
favourably received not only in developing but in advanced
industrial countries.
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), which acts as a
guardian for future generations.
In UNICEF’s words,
The proposal is being supported in practical ways by
the United Nations Development Programme, which has
provided assistance for a regional workshop on opportunity
and participation.
It is being encouraged by a large and
growing number of non-governmental organizations.
In addition, I am pleased to announce the recent receipt
of a letter welcoming the initiative from the European
Co-President of
the African,
Caribbean and Pacific Group of States and the European
Community.
the Joint Assembly of
As the size of the book distributed to all delegations
outlining the origins, nature and evolution of the proposal
suggests, the idea that the United Nations should sponsor a
study of practical options for increasing opportunity and
participation
a
well-illuminated - and, I believe, illuminating - idea.
from a
glimmer
has
grown
into
As far as the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) is concerned, the theme embodied in the Papua
New Guinea Government’s proposal has become a beacon
for efforts to grapple with what the Human Development
Report 1993 describes as "the central issue of our time":
development of, for and by people.
We are debating the proposed United Nations initiative
on opportunity and participation at a time when the issues
affecting the economic future of significant parts of the
world are about to be determined. Within hours, the fate of
the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) may
be decided. A few days later,
leaders from countries
involved in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)
forum are due to meet. In exactly a month, the deadline for
completion of the Uruguay Round of negotiations on the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) expires.
Although the Governments of developing countries are
generally not key players, the decisions which will be made
- or will not, as the case may be - are of the greatest
importance to their economies and their peoples’ welfare.
Whatever the outcome, a serious effort to review options for
maximizing opportunity and participation, particularly,
though not exclusively, for citizens in the economies of
developing countries, will be required if the current decline
in the economic prospects in and of many developing
countries is to be halted, let alone reversed.
The world is going through a phase which has been
aptly described as a time of extraordinary change in world
affairs. The particular aptness of that description arises from
its having been included in a report prepared by a body, the
"much of the developing world is today facing the
worst financial famine of the modern era. ...
"But despite ... [the] problems, the prospects for
progress have been profoundly improved by the
enormous ... upheavals of recent years". (The State of
the World’s Children 1993, p. 20)
There is, so UNICEF believes, "new hope for world
development".
If certain situations can be avoided, then
"there is real hope of achieving sustained economic
growth".
(ibid., p. 11)
But what is the basis for that hope? As the number,
seriousness and variety of items on the General Assembly’s
agenda suggest, more of the world is changing - more
dramatically and in more ways - than at any time in the
previous 48 years of the United Nations experience.
As the late 1980s have turned into the 1990s, and the
current decade has advanced, so previous - once seemingly
permanent - international alignments have collapsed or been
disbanded. Many orthodox ideas have met, or face, a similar
fate. Much that seemed certain during the cold war has been
left behind. Old uncertainties have re-emerged. New
uncertainties continue to arise, to grow and to spread.
Despite a number of obvious successes, particularly in
and by newly industrializing countries, the difficulties and
prospects facing many developing countries seem not only
to be getting worse, but to be doing so at an ever increasing
rate.
In most parts of the developing world - or, should I
say those parts of the world where development is needed
and wanted, though not necessarily attained - there is what
the report of the South Commission described in 1990 at
page 79, as
"a deep awareness of
limitations of past
development strategies and a growing conviction that
the way out of the present crisis does not
lie in
returning to those strategies".
the
The Human Development Report 1993 makes much the same
point in similar terms.
As regards the international community’s approach to
conditions, including needs, plans and aspirations, in many
developing countries, I can do no better than to repeat the
observation made in the Secretary-General’s latest annual
report on the work of the Organization:
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
13
"A new, workable and widely agreed concept of
development still eludes us." (A/48/1, para. 8)
fatalism about the prospects for significant change in many
developing countries.
The hope for improvement is real enough, but the basis
for hope is less than clear.
The Secretary-General’s gloomy conclusion applies
even in countries like Papua New Guinea, where gross
national product per head of population is currently rising at
more than 9 per cent a year. Put quite simply, not enough
is being done, and not enough is known, about the most
effective options for increasing or, even more importantly,
linking opportunity and participation.
In proposing the initiative embodied in the draft
resolution on opportunity and participation, the Papua New
Guinea Government is not claiming that it has already found
the concept which the international community seeks. But
we believe that a comprehensive, systematic and thorough
study of practical options for maximizing opportunity and
participation, with particular reference to the citizens and the
economies of developing countries, can help in the search.
It can, we believe, make a potentially valuable contribution
towards the improvement of conditions in countries where
development is a widely shared need and goal, if not yet an
actual achievement.
In line with our commitment to the United Nations,
development and sustainability, we believe that such a study
can serve interests which are shared across differences
between developed and developing countries, national and
regional boundaries, and generations. We certainly think
that the composition, work and recommendations of the
panel that carries out the study should be consistent with
such widespread interests. We strongly believe that an
acceptable and practical report must be based on genuine
commitment, and be directed to furthering common interests.
The outcome should be a globally relevant contribution
to a global concern that ought to be regarded as a global
responsibility:
a practical addition to processes of
sustainable development in which human beings, regardless
of individual, ethnic and socio-economic differences, are, as
the Rio Declaration says they should be, at the centre.
Concepts and words that are widely employed in
relation to developing countries by States Members and
specialized agencies of the United Nations suggest a certain
weariness with discussion, failure in practice and exhaustion
I refer, in particular, to the widespread use of
of ideas.
terms
and
"revitalization".
"reconstruction",
"recovery"
such
as
Not only language but
thought and, even more
importantly, what is being done, about development seem to
be in urgent need of what is being widely described as
reactivation.
At the same time, needs, pressures and openings for
scarce resources continue to grow around the world,
including in countries whose economies are in transition
from State control to markets. As a result, development in
and of many developing countries depends on more being
done with less, at least for the foreseeable future.
The interests of everyone involved in or with
developing countries will be better served if opportunity and
participation are maximized, or at least increased, and then
sustained for the benefit of succeeding generations. The
mutuality of these interests extends from the people and the
Governments of the developing countries themselves to aid
donors, commercial and concessional lenders, investors and
trading partners, as well as neighbours and other concerned
human beings. In fact, only if opportunity and participation
are both increased and linked can the
sustainable
development of our planet become a realistic goal.
In short,
the Government of Papua New Guinea
believes that adoption of the draft resolution before us serves
a common world-wide and inter-generational interest.
It is
on the basis of such a belief that we originally proposed the
appointment of a panel of distinguished expert and
experienced
the
international community, to identify options for increasing
opportunity and participation, with particular, though not
exclusive,
reference to the economies of developing
countries. It is on exactly the same basis that we now seek
the General Assembly’s support for the draft resolution’s
adoption.
representative
persons,
broadly
of
In many parts of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the
South Pacific, including Papua New Guinea, many people
are still looking for ways of entry into the cash economy.
Others are trying to increase their involvement.
While the particular combination of features in some
areas may be unique, the overall situation is not. Many
difficulties are either identical or similar to problems faced
by people seeking opportunities to participate in the
economies of other countries. Experience at other times and
in other places may help in the identification or application
of local, national and regional solutions.
Increasing aid fatigue, so-called,
in the advanced
industrial countries seems to have a counterpart in a growing
Markets are widely regarded as almost automatically
The
offering opportunities for economic participation.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
transition from State control to markets is often expected to
produce just as automatic an increase in the size, number
and variety of economic openings.
to overcome.
But problems can be difficult to identify; they can be
even more difficult
Practical means of
bringing about the improvement and effective use of access
Securing a link between
can frequently be elusive.
opportunity and participation is vital
for meaningful
development to occur.
independence.
Possible methods
In many countries,
limits on opportunity and
participation have been inherited, imposed or in some other
way imported from abroad, often before, and sometimes
after,
reducing,
removing or otherwise overcoming their effects can
sometimes be found, or adapted from approaches which have
been tried abroad.A thorough understanding of
relevant
problems, a systematic analysis of possible options and a
comprehensive exchange of experiences and ideas are likely
to be necessary, helpful and productive.
for
Members of many delegations will be familiar with the
sorts of problems that citizens of developing countries have
in capitalizing their resources. They will be aware of the
inability - verging on unwillingness - of many financial
institutions to lend on the basis of personal promise,
education, skill or land held under traditional tenure systems.
They will know of obstacles that lie in the way of attempts
to vest ownership, management or control of commercial
enterprises in traditional kin or ethnic groups and to
safeguard traditional
inheritance rules. They will have
observed the operation of policies and procedures which
favour and further entrench already established interests, thus
hindering prospective new entrants
from competing
effectively in some markets. Many will be aware of
difficulties such as the way in which even specialized
agencies of
for
aid-funded projects which are either so large or subject to
such technical specifications that local firms simply cannot
compete.
the United Nations call
tenders
for
Though relevant authorities in developing countries are
often themselves committed to change, many find it hard to
let alone to implement, alternative methods of
identify,
avoiding,
removing or otherwise countering
unwelcome, unnecessary and unfair limitations on citizens’
opportunities for meaningful participation.
reducing,
But
are
there
alternatives
close
consideration. The manner in which villagers in my home
area in Papua New Guinea have gathered coconuts and
traditional shell-money to buy shares in a locally owned
corporation is a case in point. The way in which close kin
deserving
of
can be given responsibility for repayment of small loans to
would-be entrepreneurs in Indonesia is another.
Though it cannot avoid addressing external factors, the
ad hoc panel proposed in the draft resolution is likely to find
itself concerned primarily with difficulties which can be
removed and options which can be expanded as a result of
local, national and regional action. Much of its work may,
in practice, take the form of a global information exhange:
an active example of world-wide collective self-reliance,
involving North-South,
and
interregional cooperation.
South-South,
regional
But I am predicting, not prescribing.
The principal purpose of the project is to learn, share
experiences, and explore ideas.
It is, in fact, precisely
because relevant obstacles, options and answers often have
still to be identified that a panel of the kind outlined in the
draft resolution is required.
The proposal which forms the basis of
the draft
resolution is intended to ensure that the United Nations itself
take the initiative on an issue of the greatest importance to
many Members and, as I have already argued, of potential
benefit to all. The first and second preambular paragraphs
draw attention to circumstances of and in many developing
countries, which the initiative is intended to address.
The third implicitly recognizes the need to avoid
duplication and encourages members of the proposed panel
to see themselves as paving the way, providing a
complement and giving assistance, by way of elaboration, to
the Secretary-General’s efforts in preparing an agenda for
development.
The fourth preambular paragraph acknowledges the
responsibility and role of the United Nations in promoting
development in all parts of the world.
The next preambular paragraph makes it plain that the
proposed initiative is focused on developing countries, while
being relevant and offering potential benefits to other parts
of the world.
The sixth preambular paragraph is designed to direct the
panel’s attention to documents which help to explain the
origins, development and intended purpose of its task while
respecting its independence and not instructing it in exact
detail on what to do.
The remaining paragraphs in the preamble - the seventh,
eighth and ninth - are intended to place the initiative in the
context of other United Nations activities, plans and
resolutions of particular relevance to developing countries.
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
15
Operative paragraph 1 acknowledges the work being
carried out in relation to development problems elsewhere in
the United Nations
the
Secretary-General.
particularly
system,
by
In order to avoid duplication or the creation of further
ongoing institutions, the following paragraph makes it clear
that the proposed panel is to be set up to perform a specific
and important task. The range of experience and expertise
on which it draws should be diverse.
Operative paragraph 3 asks the Secretary-General to
assume responsibility for selecting the panel’s members in
consultation with Members of the United Nations, including
It specifies when its work should begin.
regional groups.
It sets a firm limit on its duration.
It is intended to keep
costs to a minimum consistent with achieving the desired
result, by encouraging the Secretary-General to recruit from
existing sources of appropriately skilled and informed
advice, while allowing him to draw on others, including
bodies which are either not named or under-represented on
current lists.
Consistent with recognition of the financial constraints
within which the entire United Nations currently functions -
constraints reflected in operative paragraphs 3 and 4 - I
should like to draw the General Assembly’s attention to the
commitment which I have already announced on behalf of
the Government of Papua New Guinea to make a special
donation of 100,000 Kina - approximately $102,000 - to help
fund the panel’s work.
for
Economic Cooperation
I should also like to reinforce the recommendation
made by the Non-Aligned Movement’s Standing Ministerial
Committee
other
Governments and interested parties consider making special
donations of their own.
In fact, the Government of Papua
New Guinea thinks the overall project is so vital to our
national interests that we are prepared to consider providing
other forms of assistance, including hosting such meetings as
might be appropriate for the panel to hold in our region.
that
Operative paragraph 5 is intended to ensure that efforts
to identify and implement options
for maximizing
opportunity and participation will not be limited to one effort
within the United Nations system. Other bodies will be
encouraged to contribute what they can.
The first Global Conference on the Sustainable
Development of Small
the
International Conference on Population and Development,
the World Summit for Social Development and the fourth
World Conference on Women come readily to mind.
Island Developing States,
The overall effect of the paragraph is to direct attention
towards extending the consideration of
issues
beyond the ad hoc panel in time, through other bodies, and
to activities which complement and might play a part in
giving effect to its recommendations.
relevant
Operative paragraph 6 provides for transparency and
accountability by asking the Secretary-General to see that the
General Assembly is kept informed of the panel’s work.
The final paragraph ensures that Members can review -
and comment on - the panel’s work.
As I have said in the introduction to the book
Opportunity and Participation, both
"... are near-universal human aspirations. Linked, as in
practice they must be for meaningful development to
occur, they are important objectives for policy-makers
in Governments, non-governmental bodies, as well as
regional and international organizations, in almost every
part of an ever-more interdependent world."
The initiative which will result from the adoption of the
draft resolution is intended to advance global interests.
I therefore commend the draft resolution to all Members
it be adopted by
of the United Nations, and ask that
consensus.
It gives me great pleasure to conclude by drawing the
General Assembly’s attention to the diversity of the draft
resolution’s original co-sponsors.
In doing so, I have the
honour
to acknowledge with deep appreciation the
co-sponsorship of the delegations of Algeria, Bahamas,
Barbados, Benin, Fiji, Grenada, Indonesia, Israel, Marshall
Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Namibia, Samoa,
Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands and Vanuatu. I
a l s o
acknowledge with appreciation the co-sponsorship, formally
given only after the text of the draft resolution had been
issued, by other delegations, including Belize and Mongolia.
resolution.
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to inform members
that there is a correction to the text in the English version of
the draft
In the third line of operative
paragraph 3, the word "may" is replaced by the word "will",
so that the phrase now reads: "so that they will commence
their study in January 1994". Other language versions will
be adjusted accordingly if need be.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. BLANEY (United States of America): The United
States welcomes this opportunity to address the General
Assembly
and
participation, and is pleased to support the spirit of the draft
resolution put forward by the delegation of Papua New
Guinea.
opportunity
expanding
economic
on
My delegation believes that the draft resolution before
us is of great relevance to the economies of all Member
States, especially the economies of developing countries and
countries in transition. True economic development depends
on the participation of individuals in their economy, and by
extension of countries in international economic relations;
opportunity is a key to participation at all levels of economic
development.
the
effect of
can have
Certain long-standing, inherited or externally imposed
interests
impeding market
mechanisms. Therefore, the ability to maintain successful
economic conditions and to create new opportunities within
developing countries and economies in transition is greatly
hampered, with the sum effect of impeding participation in
development. By joining consensus on this text, Member
States will have agreed to address impediments to economic
opportunity and participation.
My delegation recognizes that this initiative draws much
strength from the consensus outcome of the activities of the
and
United Nations Conference
Development, Agenda 21
on
Sustainable Development.
the Commission
Environment
and
on
Therefore, my delegation is pleased to note that the
draft resolution makes use of the Commission on Sustainable
Development’s
the purpose of
assembling this study panel.
roster of experts
for
pay
It would
economic,
administrative,
The panel, balanced in its representation of members,
would address this initiative in the light of the current
regulatory
international
environment.
to
interrelationships between economic development issues and
issues commonly associated with social development -
poverty, human resource development and health. Social
realities have a direct bearing on economic development, and
neither can be improved at the expense of the other. Finally,
we must take great care to account for the least developed
countries’ interests in implementing the initiative before us.
attention
close
It calls for the close
challenge of the utmost importance.
attention of the international community, and we would
welcome further work to identify practical options to
increase opportunities for, and participation of, local business
and all social sectors in developing countries.
At the launch of this initiative in the debate at the
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, the Foreign
M i n i s t e r
t h e
the initiative was in
Honourable John Kaputin, said that
some respects
P a p u a N e w G u i n e a ,
o f
"the economic counterpart to ’An Agenda for Peace’".
(A/47/PV.30, p. 22)
strongly supports
Australia
the Papua New Guinea
Government’s view that enhanced economic security is a
major contributing factor to enduring peace and stability.
Indeed, Australia’s Foreign Minister, Senator Gareth Evans,
in his book Cooperating for Peace, introduced in this Hall
in October, paid much attention to the need for social and
economic development in the development of peace-building
strategies.
We further note the view of the Papua New Guinea
Foreign Minister, expressed at the forty-seventh session, that
the Papua New Guinea economic initiative should be seen as
a practical contribution to the agenda for development. As
the United Nations approaches its fiftieth anniversary, we
face an urgent need to reassess the role of the Organization -
and of the whole international community - on the pressing
issue of development. Australia strongly supports the aims
of an agenda for development and looks forward to the
Secretary-General’s
in its
preparation.
interim report on progress
of
issue
rationalization
Senator Evans also devoted much attention in his book
to
the
of United Nations
administration and resources. Australia attaches particular
importance to enhanced coordination within the United
Nations system and to the effective use of its limited
resources. In this light, and in view of the links between the
underlying objective of the Papua New Guinea initiative and
related United Nations activities, Australia favours the
exploration of ways in which the initiative could be
harmonized with other processes currently under way, such
as an agenda for development.
Mr. BUTLER (Australia): Australia supports what we
see as the major objective of the Papua New Guinea
economic initiative, which is to mobilize untapped domestic
resources and create economic opportunities for local people.
The need to improve economic opportunities for, and the
participation of, people in developing countries remains a
The potential institutional and budgetary implications of
establishing a new expert panel suggest the need also to
explore whether an appropriate existing panel could pursue
the objectives of
the Papua New Guinea initiative.
Discussion on this matter would need to take place in the
context of further information on estimates of the likely
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
17
budgetary impact of the initiative, and on the mandates of
existing expert panels.
The United Nations currently has three panels of
the
experts with a mandate to address development issues:
High-Level Advisory Board on Sustainable Development, the
roster of experts attached to that Board and the Committee
for Development Planning.
the latter
Committee in fact remains to be resolved.
The future of
Australia welcomes the intention of the Papua New
Guinea Government to make a financial contribution to the
realization of its initiative.
Australia has studied with interest
the background
documents circulated by Papua New Guinea in support of its
proposal:
the proceedings of both the national Papua New
Guinea and the regional workshops hosted by that country
during 1993 to develop the initiative. Australia would like
to see clarified what we understand to be suggestions that a
more protectionist approach, or raising economic barriers
rather than lowering them, may be part of the answer to the
problem of linking opportunity with participation for local
people.
It is Australia’s strong view that reducing, rather
than raising, the barriers to trade between economies will
enhance economic opportunity and participation.
Mr. GEORGE (Federated States of Micronesia): For
a newly-emerged island country such as the Federated States
of Micronesia there can be no higher priority than
development, and we are not alone.
It is the most widely
and constantly discussed subject here at the United Nations.
The world itself is divided in many ways, but in no way
more familiar to us than between developed and developing
countries, or as it is often put, between North and South.
One hundred and twenty-seven of
the United Nations
Members, more than two thirds, devote the bulk of our
energies here to one thing - development.
This is not surprising, because the United Nations, in
concept, is largely about securing the future, and without
development most of the people of the world face a very
grim future. But, for all the focus up to this point on what
is surely a most central concern of mankind, results have
been very uneven. Huge sums have been spent, and in some
developing countries great progress has been made, while in
others it seems that all the expert analysis, all the planning
and all the conferences have made little difference. Even
where progress has occurred, too often we see it impacting
favourably upon the lives of only limited groups within
societies, while thousands, even millions, of others wait in
vain for the fruits of development.
reaching those who are not
reached by the
and of
development process. The draft resolution to launch the
United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation
addresses that need, in the view of my delegation, in a most
appropriate way. Accordingly, I take this occasion to
reiterate the strong support of the Federated States of
Micronesia, which was
by
Secretary Resio Moses during the general debate. We are
proud to co-sponsor the draft resolution and are grateful to
the Government
to
Minister John Kaputin and to Ambassador Lohia for their
vision and untiring efforts in bringing this matter forward.
Papua New Guinea,
expressed
here
of
My country is one of many that stand to benefit
enormously by the process called for in the draft resolution.
My people have for a number of years had access to various
forms of assistance, primarily from the United States, both
as inhabitants of a Trust Territory and, more recently, as
citizens of an independent country. We now also receive
increasing aid from several of our neighbours in the Asia-
Pacific region. As a United Nations Member, we are
working with the Asian Development Bank and the World
Bank group, and we are participating to the extent we can in
the many ongoing processes of this body aimed at
all
encouraging development.
Finally, we participate in a
number of Pacific regional organizations, where we join with
our
island brothers to address common developmental
problems.
But with all this, the pace of development has been and
remains very slow in my country. While it is true that today
visitors are struck by the advances made in several of our
urban centres, much of the rest of the country is little
different, and for a great many of our people life is largely
unchanged. Worst of all, those people have little prospect
of becoming part of the process of advancement.
Is it
because they lack ambition? No -
thanks to modern
telecommunications,
they are very much aware of their
position. Do they lack energy? Certainly not - survival at,
or near, subsistence level is hard work. Are they oppressed
by their
leaders? Again, no. Ours is a thoroughly
democratic society, and our strong, extended-family system
makes our leaders, if anything, even more accountable.
We would already have become very discouraged had
we not known that most other developing countries are in
much the same condition. But just knowing that does not
make us better servants of the people.
It does not address
the ineffectiveness of our utilization of development
assistance. It does not give us the insight needed to unlock
the great potential that exists in broader participation by our
citizens in the advancement of their country.
In other words, there is a need to find ways of making
more efficient use of increasingly scarce assistance dollars,
What we do gain from this awareness of similar
developmental profiles among developing countries is the
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
realization that many of the fundamental obstacles we are
experiencing are probably not attributable to inadequacies
unique to us. Thus, through the United Nations initiative on
opportunity and participation we are given a powerful new
resource to gain an understanding of our difficulties and to
chart a more effective course for the future. The work
carried out through the initiative will significantly enhance
the outcome of the great developmental efforts now under
way and will, in particular, go far towards facilitating the
fullest possible implementation of Agenda 21.
its
towards
implementation.
Paragraph 4 of the draft resolution invites Member
States and international organizations to contribute on a
voluntary basis
Foreign
Minister Kaputin has placed us even more deeply in his
country’s debt by announcing that Papua New Guinea is
making a very generous contribution. The Federated States
of Micronesia also wishes to demonstrate its appreciation
and support
the
appropriate time, we will contribute to the voluntary fund a
sum that will confirm our recognition of its importance to
us.
the initiative and,
therefore, at
for
We join the sponsors of the draft resolution in calling
for its adoption by consensus.
sincere
Mr. SOEGARDA (Indonesia): Allow me at the outset
to express my delegation’s
appreciation to
Mr. John R. Kaputin, the Foreign Minister of Papua New
Guinea,
thought-provoking
introductory statement on this agenda item. My delegation
the serious
believes that all of us here will give it
consideration such a proposal on this important
issue
deserves.
informative
and
his
for
the backdrop of
We gather here today to consider this item on the
United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation
against
the international community’s
relentless search for ways and means to improve the human
condition. Such a search is driven by the need to redress the
major economic problems confronting the developed and
developing countries alike, as well as the need to take
advantage of the opportunities and challenges presented by
the post-cold-war era.
We therefore believe the time is opportune for
initiatives to accelerate development, eradicate poverty and
revitalize the global economy. Within that rubric there is a
definite movement, both at the conceptual level and with
regard to consensus building. The concept of development
is increasingly seen as broad based and centred on people,
as has been clearly demonstrated at
the tenth Summit
Meeting of the countries members of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries last year and, time and again, by the
Group of 77. To this end the South Commission, in its
the International Development Strategy,
report, "Challenge to the South," has emphasized the priority
goal of meeting the basic needs of the majority of the people
and a firm commitment
to the removal of poverty and
hunger.
The concept has also evolved to encompass
sustainability and is adapting to the provisions of Agenda 21.
So too,
the
Declaration of the eighteenth special session of the General
Assembly and the commitments of the eighth session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD VIII) have helped to reorient and broaden the
concept and indivisibility of
the social, economic and
political dimensions of development and make them more
fully accepted.
to
the
need
achieve
Moreover,
people-centred
development requires increasing focus on human-resources
development and national-capacity building. We believe that
each of those aspects of development, among others, should
be integrated in the proposed agenda for development.
In
this context we can appreciate the timeliness and relevance
of
increased sensitivity to the need to strengthen the
availability of opportunities for people in development and
their increased participation in charting their own destinies.
In that light, and in keeping with the concept of people-
centred development, it is important that Governments define
their national development strategies so as to embrace the
objectives
and
participation for all people in development.
opportunity
increased
access
of
to
It is within this framework that my delegation supports
the Papua New Guinea proposal to bring its initiative to the
attention of the international community.
In this vein, we
believe that it is essential to make a serious effort to achieve
consensus on the draft resolution on the item before us.
The PRESIDENT: I wish to announce that the list of
speakers for item 151 is now closed.
Mr. HOROI (Solomon Islands): On behalf of the
people and Government of Solomon Islands, I should like to
congratulate the Papua New Guinea Government on
proposing a United Nations initiative on opportunity and
participation.
In line with agreements reached by the Melanesian
Spearhead Group, as well as by all members of the South
Pacific Forum, we are pleased to offer the proposal our
support. As my country’s Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister for Foreign Affairs told the General Assembly a
month ago, we welcome the Papua New Guinea proposal.
Sharing many interests, including needs and aspirations, with
the country from which the proposal comes, we are proud to
be one of the sponsors of the relevant draft resolution
(A/48/L.19).
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
19
Having been represented at the Regional Workshop on
Opportunity and Participation, we are gratified at the way in
which other Members and specialized agencies of the United
Nations have adopted the proposal, as well as the theme, as
their own.
Like people in other parts of the developing world,
many Solomon Islanders are still
looking for ways of
supplementing, or even replacing, subsistence activities by
entering the cash economy for the first time. Others are
already much more immediately concerned with increasing
the scope, number and diversity of their involvement in
income-generating activities. Realization of the commitment
to sustainable development made by the people and
Government of Solomon Islands means that opportunities for
participation must not only grow but be maximized, and,
above all, linked.
"Opportunity and Participation" is not just the name of
a particular initiative proposed for and by Members of the
United Nations. It is a goal to which people in every part of
the world aspire, to which Governments state that they are
committed, and to which various other bodies, including the
United Nations Development Programme, claim to adhere.
In countries like mine, where economic development
barely keeps pace with rising population and costs,
increasing opportunity and participation is an important key
to equity, growth and national self-reliance. The difficulties
which lie in the way of attaining such goals are often
substantial and quite diverse. They include problems such
as traditional land-tenure systems, which prevent resources
which the people undoubtedly own from being used in order
to raise capital for investment or to secure loans. T h e y
extend to legal regimes which do not provide adequately for
traditional modes of property ownership or inheritance.
They also embrace shortages of relevant education, training
and skills. As in other newly independent countries, some
of these difficulties have foreign origins. The causes of
others are clearly home-grown. What often appears to be
lacking is effective access to ideas about means, including
the availability of appropriate technology, through which
such difficulties can be overcome.
The ad hoc panel on opportunity and participation
proposed in the Papua New Guinea draft resolution offers a
promising, progressive and, above all, practical approach. If
we are to make good use of its findings, then we must
maximize them and adopt such approaches and solutions as
seem suitable for ourselves. The project is, moreover, one
to which I believe that those of us with practical experience
of development in Solomon Islands can also make effective
and sometimes original contributions to development in our
own and other regions.
In reading through the draft resolution, I am pleased to
note the sensitivity it displays to the diverse circumstances
of different countries. While it focuses on the particular
needs of developing countries,
it also takes account of
others’ needs. It adopts what might accurately be described
as a genuinely global approach. The draft resolution also
displays a welcome awareness of the financial and other
resource constraints which limit the ability of the United
Nations to undertake additional responsibilities, even when
they are as widely welcomed - and as economical - as the
proposed panel study and report on opportunity and
participation.
The Papua New Guinea Government’s offer to make a
special donation to assist in implementing its proposal is to
be warmly and highly commended, as is the effort which it
has put into ensuring that the proposal fits in with other
development-related activities undertaken by the Secretariat
and specialized agencies of the United Nations.
The ambitiously close deadline set for completion of the
ad hoc panel’s task should help to ensure that costs are kept
in check.
It also means that the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations will - quite appropriately - have something
to offer specifically to all who are interested in the problems
and prospects of a significant part of the global community:
the citizens of developing countries. The proposal allows
the United Nations itself to assume credit for the initiative,
and this modest approach deserves applause.
The official motto of Solomon Islands is "To lead is to
serve". In similar fashion, I would suggest that to participate
in the national economy is to contribute to national
development - both directly, through purchases of goods and
services, and indirectly, in various other ways, including
taxation. Maximizing opportunities for participation not only
provides for those who are directly involved but sets an
example for others to follow, and, if they can, exceed.
While openings should be as widely and readily accessible
as possible, we cannot always realistically expect uniform or
equal outcomes.
The Government of Solomon Islands feels that the
emphasis which the United Nations is putting on the human
aspects of development is exactly what countries like ours
need. We look forward to its elaboration as the work of the
proposed ad hoc panel on opportunity and participation
proceeds.
I have both the honour and pleasure of stating, on
behalf of the people and Government of Solomon Islands,
that
the proposed United Nations initiative and draft
resolution on opportunity and participation enjoy our strong
support, and we urge the adoption of the draft resolution by
general consensus.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. SENILOLI (Fiji): My delegation wishes to express
its strong support for the proposal before the General
Assembly today for the implementation of the United
Nations initiative on opportunity and participation.
We
commend His Excellency The Honourable
John Kaputin, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Papua New
Guinea, and his Government for the foresight, diligence and
commitment
they have demonstrated in bringing this
initiative to the attention of the Assembly.
We would like to thank, in particular, the Permanent
Representative
of Papua New Guinea, Ambassador
Renagi Renagi Lohia, and his delegation for the background
documents that they have provided. Their efforts have
certainly been helpful in enriching our understanding of the
initiative.
contribution that
At the same time, we would like to acknowledge the
the United Nations
very valuable
Development Programme (UNDP)
is making to the
international debate and to focusing world attention on
increasing opportunities for the participation of people at all
levels of development. We are particularly grateful
to
UNDP for the assistance that it is providing to the countries
in our region in the preparation of our regional Pacific
human development report.
While the concepts of opportunity and participation may
be highly complex, they are nevertheless very relevant to the
work the United Nations is doing in its continuing efforts to
establish world peace, social progress and better standards of
living in larger
freedom through genuine international
cooperation and participation. The world today is becoming
increasingly interdependent
time,
increasingly integrated. Moreover, it is on the verge of a
major transition. We must do everything possible to ensure
that
this globalization will not widen further the ever-
increasing gap between the developed and the developing
countries.
same
and,
at
the
An equitable system of international order is urgently
needed to ensure that developing countries, and especially
the smaller nations that are included in this category, do not
for ever remain in a position of dependence that could
continue to prevent them from effectively participating in
important matters affecting them. Due attention needs to be
given to increased opportunities for dialogue between
to trade,
developed and developing countries, access
development finance and transfer of technology.
In this
context of rapid changes in the world social, economic and
political situation, we believe that a global initiative such as
the one that is currently being mooted is both timely and
very necessary.
People everywhere today have an increasing urge to
participate fully in all events and processes affecting their
lives and living conditions. It is widely recognized that it is
only when people set their own goals, develop their own
approaches and take their own decisions that human
creativity can best be realized and that
the results of
development are more likely to be self-sustaining.
The pioneering studies undertaken by UNDP provide a
rather gloomy picture of the extent to which people today
are able to participate in the decisions that affect their lives
and of the opportunity they have to put their capabilities to
full use for the betterment of their lives.
Allow me briefly to highlight some basic facts from
these studies, as they provide an important backdrop against
which we must view our support for this initiative on
opportunity and participation.
The Human Development Report 1993 points out there
are more than 1 billion people today living in abject poverty,
despite the fact that the world is producing enough food for
all of its 5.7 billion people. The richest fifth of the world’s
population enjoys more than 150 times the income enjoyed
by the poorest
The bottom
20 per cent receive only 1.4 per cent of the world’s income;
it has a share of only 1 per cent in world trade, 0.2 per cent
in world commercial
lending and 1.3 per cent of world
investment.
the population.
fifth of
Furthermore, because of
trade restrictions, global
markets are denying as much as 500 billion dollars worth of
market opportunities every year to developing countries and
poor people. This, as we know, is equivalent to almost
10 times more than the foreign assistance the developing
nations are receiving. The situation is even more worrisome
when widening disparities in higher levels of education,
technology and information systems are added to the picture.
Enrolment
in tertiary education in the developing
countries is only one fifth that of the developed countries.
Research and development expenditure is only 4 per cent of
that of developed countries and the number of scientific and
technical personnel
is only one ninth of the number in
developed countries. The UNDP report stresses that these
widening human development gaps have a telling impact in
our world today, where technological progress is taking
centre stage and where it now accounts for from one third to
one half of the increase in national output.
The report goes on to stress further that
the full
participation of people in defining their own lives and their
own future can be achieved only where non-governmental
organizations, entrepreneurs, women, and indeed all people
are empowered to take initiative and participate in open
55th meeting - Monday, 15 November 1993
21
markets and effective government, where pluralism prevails,
and where human rights and access to information of all
types are guaranteed.
transfer. The initiative should support and complement the
ongoing process initiated by the Secretary-General last year
for the preparation of an agenda for development.
My country attaches the utmost
importance to the
participation of people in all development efforts. Our
strategic plan is the blueprint by which we are making all
possible efforts to build a society that offers ample
opportunities for our people to improve their conditions of
life. We are, at the same time, strongly committed to
providing community care for those who are less able to
help themselves. Our national policies recognize that, when
people have the opportunity to work, they are best able to
raise their living standards.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate my delegation’s
support for the draft resolution on the United Nations
initiative on opportunity and participation. We are pleased
to be one of its sponsors. My delegation considers this
initiative to be fully supportive of the commitment of the
United Nations to world peace, freedom and social and
economic development, as enshrined in the Charter.
The draft resolution has benefited greatly from the wide
consultations that have been undertaken by the
We in Fiji are convinced that productive employment
gives people a real sense of purpose and self-respect.
It
enables them to look after themselves and their families.
Without growing employment, more and more people will
become dependent on government, which, in turn, will then
be less able to apply the resources needed for capital
investment in the provision of infrastructure to support and
generate development activities and in the construction of
public utilities such as schools, hospitals, water supply and
housing.
While our national policy is critical
to increasing
opportunity and participation, we believe that efforts at the
international level are also of vital importance. Our own
efforts alone will not solve this problem. The United
Nations initiative on opportunity and participation must, in
this context, ensure that an independent and objective
assessment of the global social and economic imbalances is
undertaken.
We trust
that
this assessment will be helpful
in
identifying the difficulties that are being encountered in
widening opportunities
and participation both within
countries and at the international level. We hope the panel
in
of experts that will be appointed will be successful
recommending
for
and
maximizing opportunity and participation.
increasing
practical
options
My delegation appreciates the particular focus that the
initiative will give to the concerns of developing countries
and to the particular circumstances of the small
island
countries. We also appreciate the consideration that the
initiative will give to the rights of women, children,
indigenous people and other disadvantaged groups.
In the preparation of
the report, we hope full
consideration will be given to the need for more enlightened
dialogue on new patterns of development cooperation and on
more equitable access to global opportunities, especially in
the fields of trade, development finance and technology
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
delegation of Papua New Guinea in a true spirit of
cooperation and compromise, and with the interests of all
countries in mind. I hope that this initiative will be a source
of inspiration to all of us; my delegation urges all Member
States to join in adopting it by consensus.
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
