United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 112 (continued)
INTERNATIONAL DRUG CONTROL
HIGH-LEVEL PLENARY MEETINGS TO
EXAMINE THE STATUS OF INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION AGAINST THE ILLICIT
PRODUCTION, SALE, DEMAND, TRAFFIC AND
DISTRIBUTION OF NARCOTICS AND
PSYCHOTROPIC SUBSTANCES:
DRAFT
RESOLUTION (A/48/L.12)
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the first speaker in
the
the representative of
this meeting,
the debate for
Marshall Islands.
Mr. HEINE (Marshall Islands):
I have the honour to
speak today on behalf of those members of the South Pacific
Forum that are also Members of the United Nations, namely,
Australia, the Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, New
Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Republic of the Marshall
Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands and Vanuatu.
At the Summit Meeting of the Security Council held
last year leaders of many of the world’s largest and most
powerful nations declared that international drug trafficking
represented one of the most serious non-military threats to
international security. They placed the problem in the same
category as the grave threat of poverty. Unlike poverty,
however, the problem of drug trafficking is not concentrated
in either developed or developing countries but impacts on
39th
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 27 October 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
all nations of
therefore, that nations work together for solutions.
the global community.
It
is essential,
as
such
crack
The experience of the Pacific area reflects the global
nature of
the international drug trafficking problem.
Although we in the Pacific islands have been spared the
most dramatic images resulting from trafficking in illicit
narcotics
and
narco-terrorism, the sad reality is that we are neither immune
to nor isolated from this scourge. Today large quantities of
illicit narcotics find their way even to our most remote
islands. Tragically, our youth are being introduced to
substances about which they have little information. Often
they are not aware of the potentially deadly effects of these
narcotics.
houses,
fields
coca
A number of our nations are composed of many small
islands spread over vast areas of ocean. Some, such as the
Federated States of Micronesia, span an area almost as large
as the continental United States. These geographic features,
combined with the growing importance of the Pacific region
as a shipping lane between Asia and the West present an
attractive avenue for international drug traffickers.
However,
Naturally, the Governments of our region are committed
to stopping all illicit drug shipments from ever reaching our
shores.
financial,
technological and human resources hamper our ability to
deal with this problem. Notwithstanding the will of our
Governments, we suspect that these limitations have often
resulted in shipments passing through the region undetected.
region’s
limited
our
Our Governments commend the successes enjoyed in
to address the
other regions of the world in the effort
problem. We have observed nations with highly advanced
technologies and sound economies taking direct measures -
with some success - to eradicate the trade in illicit narcotics
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86982 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.39
12 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
and its associated activities, such as money laundering.
Ironically, successes in other regions may have a negative
effect on the Pacific islands, as effective measures elsewhere
cause drug traffickers to look for new fields of operation.
To these international criminals the Pacific region, with its
resource limitations, represents fertile ground for their grim
trade.
It
is essential
that our nations ensure an effective
exchange of
information, both within the region and
intraregionally. Increased technical and financial assistance
to improve monitoring and interdiction in the small island
countries of the Pacific is especially needed.
Although the problem of drug consumption in the
Pacific has not reached the extreme that it has elsewhere, it
threatens to do so in the future.
Domestic drug-abuse problems are increasing in our
societies as illicit drugs become more widely available.
Education is the key to preventing this menace from
devastating Pacific island societies. Drug traffickers often
prey on an ignorance of the consequences of drug use.
Because of the historic isolation of Pacific islanders from the
problem,
the level of drug abuse education today is
struggling to keep up with the rapid pace of the threat from
illicit narcotics. With the help of
the international
community, effective programmes to raise awareness of the
dangers of drug abuse can be incorporated into formal
education curricula at all levels.
Our region has a well-developed framework that has
been utilized in the fight against illicit narcotic trafficking,
the laundering of funds generated by these activities, and in
the area of mutual judicial assistance generally. Specialist
bodies under the South Pacific Forum, such as the Pacific
Islands Law Officers Meeting (PILOM), the South Pacific
Chiefs of Police Conference (SPCPC), and the Customs
Heads of Administration Regional Meeting (CHARM) are all
working in the field. The South Pacific Commission is also
making a growing impact on the areas of demand reduction
and prevention via its health and education programmes. All
these institutions have the capacity to deliver additional,
well-targeted
drug-control
programmes to the island States of the South Pacific if
additional resources can be made available to them.
culturally
and
relevant
In this context, we have noted with appreciation the
report of the UNDCP mission to the Pacific in November
and December 1992.
The report’s conclusions, which
recommend some specifically targeted programmes for the
most seriously affected countries, as well as use of the
existing regional infrastructure to deliver some region-based
programmes in the areas of demand reduction and prevention
and of
interdiction and law enforcement, strike us as
appropriate and timely.
We welcome the decision of the UNDCP to implement
some of the conclusions, and we would encourage the
Programme to continue implementation of the additional
recommendations as resources permit.
Clearly, all nations - large and small - have a direct
interest in combating drug trafficking. International agencies
play an essential role in assisting nations in their efforts.
We welcome the heightened attention being given by the
United Nations to drug-control activities, and we commend
the work of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and of the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme. We
welcome all
increasing coordination
between United Nations agencies, and we look forward to
the report of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs on the
consolidation of United Nations drug-control activities. This
report is to be submitted to the high-level segment of the
Economic and Social Council in 1995.
initiatives aimed at
The allocation of these plenary meetings of the General
Assembly for a high-level discussion of the topic makes
possible a continued and fruitful exchange of views. We
fully endorse this year’s General Assembly draft resolution
on measures to strengthen international cooperation in drug
control, and we look forward to its adoption by consensus.
to full cooperation with members of
community to combat
Finally, our Governments pledge their continued
the
commitment
international
the problem of
international drug trafficking and associated activities. We
call on all States to join us in abiding by commitments and
in acting responsibly on this issue.
The PRESIDENT: I now call the representative of the
Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr. KHOSHROO (Islamic Republic of Iran): As it
approaches the fourth year of its Decade against Drug
Abuse, the United Nations, which is the forum best suited to
the purpose, has convened to examine the status of
international cooperation in this field. The success of the
various responses to the challenges posed by the widespread
drug menace will depend primarily on States’ political will,
which is the vital element of this sacred struggle.
The Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran
believes that drug abuse has become one of the world’s most
serious and widespread problems, threatening the human race
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
3
and destroying economic and social organizations steadily
and at an ever-increasing pace.
international
In view of the increase in the volume and misuse of
narcotics in various countries, on the one hand, and of the
advanced weaponry and the sophisticated distribution and
smuggling networks among narcotics dealers, on the other
hand,
anti-drug
conventions - especially the Convention of 1988 - must be
given serious priority by States. It is particularly important
to emphasize the need for full application of paragraph 6 of
article 3 of that Convention in order to deter drug-related
offenses.
instruments,
such
as
the Near and Middle East, in July 1991; the ministerial-level
Conference at the twenty-ninth session of that Subcommittee,
in October 1992; the meeting of the Group of Experts of the
Eighth Committee
Economic Cooperation
Organization, in April 1992. In addition, a meeting of heads
of national drug-law-enforcement agencies in Central Asia
and the Middle East is scheduled to be held in Tehran next
April.
the
of
signing of
Following the
the memorandum of
understanding between the Islamic Republic of Iran and
Afghanistan, another memorandum of understanding -
between Iran, Pakistan and UNDCP - will be finalized soon.
the
The Islamic Republic of Iran, as a party to the 1961
and 1988 Conventions, continues to take all possible steps,
at the national, regional and international levels, to promote
and implement
the Global
recommendations of
Programme of Action. We believe that
the adverse
consequences of the illicit production and sale of, demand
for, traffic in and distribution of narcotics and psychotropic
substances threaten the lives of millions equally in the
developing and in the developed countries. To prevent and
limit the destabilizing effects of drug misuse, we must pay
special attention to the areas known as the Golden Crescent
and the Golden Triangle, as well as to the Latin American
and Caribbean regions.
Representatives of several countries and international
organizations have observed the operations and witnessed the
measures undertaken by the Islamic Republic of Iran in its
battle against drugs in recent years. Almost all these groups
have praised such plans and measures. The UNDCP group
visited the eastern border of the Islamic Republic of Iran in
July 1991 and, following a thorough inspection, filed a
report, from which I should like to quote one paragraph:
"Based on its observations,
the Mission would
venture to estimate that, as a developing country, Iran
is very close to, if not at, the top, in terms of per capita
investment in anti-narcotic efforts."
South-West Asia is one of the world’s leading areas of
narcotics production. Owing to its geographical location
and - more important - to political developments there in
recent years, this is a highly sensitive region. With an
annual output of 3,000 to 3,500 tons, South-West Asia is a
major producer and supplier of drugs at the international
level. A considerable percentage of this output is smuggled
into the Islamic Republic of
is
transported to European markets.
from which it
Iran,
and
drug
Poppy
cultivation
production were
permanently eradicated in the first year following victory in
Iran’s Islamic revolution, and there is now no drug
cultivation or production of any kind in the country.
However, Iran is located on a major drug-smuggling route.
In view of the special, determining conditions in the region,
as well as the extensive efforts at the national level, many
sessions
and multilateral
cooperation involving various countries of the region, for the
purpose of securing effective measures to resolve problems
relating to drugs, have been held in Tehran.
and exercises
in bilateral
Among the most significant sessions, the following are
worth highlighting:
the
Subcommittee on Illicit Drug Traffic and Related Matters in
the twenty-eighth session of
In spite of the continuing demands of its first and
second five-year socio-economic programmes, the Islamic
Republic of Iran has embarked on a very costly campaign to
block the drug flow by initiating rigorous
security
countermeasures along its borders. Although we are fully
aware of the fact that the final destination of the drugs is
Europe, we continue to make every effort to fulfil our moral
and political commitment to the international community.
The fact is that the vital issue of controlling the influx of
drugs into Iran is a common responsibility and, as such,
must be shared by all countries and bodies concerned.
As this distinguished gathering addresses the issue of
international cooperation against drug abuse,
I must
regretfully point out that Iran’s current countermeasures to
curtail the inflow of drugs into and through Iranian territory
to Europe - measures requiring considerable financial investment -
have been a one-sided effort, in that Iran has not had the
practical cooperation of other countries or of the relevant
international agencies.
In view of Iran’s present economic
situation, I must indicate explicitly that, in the absence of
adequate technical and financial assistance for Iran and its
neighbours, continuation of those costly measures would
create serious problems.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Thus,
The comprehensive implementation of anti-drug
measures such as the Global Programme of Action (GPA)
and the United Nations System-Wide Action Plan (SWAP)
necessitates in-depth analysis, updated priorities and a
long-term pragmatic approach. In order to achieve practical
results, it is particularly necessary to deal equally at the
regional and country levels.
the review of the
implementation of the GPA and SWAP, as well as the
consideration and evaluation of
recommendations and
activities presented in documents A/48/286 and A/48/329,
must adhere to a set of objective standards, including the
importance of the geographical location of a country; its
political will to eradicate drug abuse; its budget devoted to
anti-drug activities; the existence of a comprehensive legal
system to counter drug problems;
the application of
socio-economic remedial measures; its success to date in
controlling narcotic drugs;
in regional and
subregional cooperation; and the extent of cooperation with
concerned United Nations bodies. Setting such standards
constitutes an appropriate framework for UNDCP and
responsible countries to assist technically and financially the
front-line States in their struggle against the drug menace.
involvement
In this connection, we are encouraged by the adoption
by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs of the resolution
entitled "Tehran Declaration", on the subject of
that
Declaration, which encourages States
into
to enter
arrangements similar to the Declaration in order to take
appropriate action to combat drug abuse. The Declaration
also proposed the establishment of a regional bureau of
UNDCP in south-west Asia. Its establishment would enable
UNDCP to ensure the smooth implementation and effective
monitoring of programmes in south-west and central Asia
and facilitate and promote cooperation between countries in
the region and organizations and agencies of the United
Nations system, as well as international and financial
institutions.
Allow me to conclude by reiterating my Government’s
firm commitment
regional and
international cooperation aimed at eliminating the drug
scourge from society at large.
to participate in all
dated
1993
26 October
The PRESIDENT: Before calling on the next speaker,
I should like to inform the Assembly that I have received a
letter
from the Permanent
Representative of New Zealand, on behalf of the Group of
Western European and Other States, requesting that the
Assembly hear in plenary meeting a statement by the
Observer of the Holy See during this debate.
Members will recall
in accordance with the
established practice of the General Assembly, observer
that,
non-Member States may normally make statements only in
the Main Committees. However, following consultations,
and taking into account the importance attached to the issue
under discussion, it is proposed that the General Assembly
take a decision to hear the Observer of the Holy See in the
course of the debate in plenary meeting on this important
issue.
May I take it that there is no objection to this proposal?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Canada.
Mrs. FRECHETTE (Canada)
(interpretation from
It is with a great deal of interest that Canada
French):
addresses the Assembly on the subject of international
control of narcotics, an issue that requires constant vigilance
on the part of the international community.
Because of its nature, this problem requires especially
vigorous international cooperation. We are very pleased to
note that this cooperation is growing stronger and more
effective on all fronts. The number of delegations on the list
of speakers demonstrates the importance attached to the
issue of illegal narcotic substances. We firmly believe that
only by effective joint action will we be able to bring to an
end the scourges of narcotics consumption and abuse.
Global international cooperation, with the participation of
every nation, supported by a strong national will, is the key
to success.
We must take advantage of these special meetings of
the General Assembly to continue our effort to reduce the
demand for drugs and put an end to drug trafficking. This
is an excellent opportunity to review the cooperative
mechanisms established to achieve these goals. A draft
resolution to be presented on the initiative of the Mexican
delegation contains many positive elements that we support
wholeheartedly. The Government of Mexico should be
proud of its initiative.
We are convinced that the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) must take the lead in
coordinating international projects. It is important to ensure
that the UNDCP’s programmes are well planned and well
managed. We must remember that
they cannot all be
implemented at once. That should be borne in mind when
evaluating the results.
Allow me quickly to summarize the measures that have
been taken in Canada. The Canadian anti-drug strategy was
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
5
established in 1987, with an initial budget of 210 million
Canadian dollars, originally for five years; that period was
extended for another five years in 1992. The strategy was
carefully designed to reduce both supply and demand. Some
65 per cent of the resources allocated for this strategy are
used for demand reduction, while the other third goes to
Police and Customs programmes to combat drug trafficking.
part of the social fabric that only a long-term, multifaceted
approach will produce solid results. Canada is firmly
committed to this
struggle and intends
to continue
cooperating actively at the international level.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Australia.
Our approach encompasses the entire population of
Canada and covers a wide range of activities and substances:
alcohol abuse, overconsumption of medicines, doping in
sports, inhalation of toxic vapours, the consumption and
production of cannabis and the consumption of cocaine,
heroin and other drugs. This multifaceted programme has
required the participation of numerous Federal government
departments. Through our cooperative efforts, we have
obtained some very satisfying results. However, we cannot
become complacent in our success, and we are keenly aware
that much remains to be done.
(spoke in English)
Mr. BUTLER (Australia): It is a sorry fact that in the
last decade of the twentieth century virtually all nations are
threatened by the use of and trade in illicit narcotic drugs.
This threatens the lives of human beings, the fabric of
societies and, in some cases, the very security of the State
itself. We are all affected by this dreadful reality, and so it
is right that the international community should address
together the problems of the production, trafficking in and
consumption of illicit narcotic drugs. In this context, it was
very important that in its Summit communiqué of 31 January
1992 the Security Council embraced the concept of major
non-military threats to security, and identified among those
threats the illicit drugs trade.
Canada also cooperates fully with its international
partners. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police work with
their foreign counterparts, providing courses and seminars.
The Customs section of our federal Revenue Department
works with its Caribbean colleagues on the Caribbean
Customs Law Enforcement Council. Canada also takes part
in the Financial Action Task Force to counteract
the
laundering of illicit profits.
It
is three and a half years since the Assembly
addressed the illicit drugs issue at its seventeenth special
session, in February 1990.
It is time that we do so again,
because such sessions provide an opportunity for us to take
stock of United Nations efforts to curb the illicit drugs
threat, to exchange relevant national views and experience
and then to determine, together, what needs to be done in
the future.
Canada has played an active part in various multilateral
organizations to achieve the objectives of
the Global
Programme of Action. We have provided voluntary funds
to the UNDCP and to the Inter-American Drug Abuse
Control Commission, attached to the Organization of
American States.
We salute the considerable efforts made by some
countries to reduce supply. However, we do not feel that
such efforts can be effective unless accompanied by demand-
reduction efforts. Dealing with demand strikes at the root of
the problem and is, we feel, far more effective in the long
run.
In addition, an appropriate legal environment, free of
corruption, supported by a strong political will, is essential
to combating drug trafficking. Reducing the demand for
drugs is also achieved through programmes of education,
prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. A society must
provide alternatives in order to minimize the attraction of
drugs.
We know that there is no easy solution to drug abuse
and its attendant problems. These problems are so much a
There have been a number of important developments
since the seventeenth special session. Undoubtedly the most
important has been the establishment of the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), charged
with the exclusive responsibility for coordinating and
providing leadership for all United Nations drug control
activities. The Programme came into being on 1 March
1991, and while that was only a short time ago Australia
believes that UNDCP has made a very impressive beginning
to meeting the challenge. The United Nations now has a
focal point
its illicit drug control efforts and an
organization with the necessary status to provide effective
leadership to that effort. So Australia compliments the
Executive Director of UNDCP and his dedicated staff on
their achievements and reiterates its high-level political
commitment to and continued support for and cooperation
with UNDCP and the United Nations system in the fight
against the proliferation of illicit drugs.
for
The United Nations already has an impressive array of
policy instruments at its disposal - the Global Programme of
Action, adopted at
the
the seventeenth special session,
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
System-Wide Action Plan and the international drug
Conventions. These constitute an impressive framework
guiding the efforts of the Organization and Governments in
their fight against the threat posed by illicit drugs. The
critical challenges at this stage are to fill in the policy gaps
and to fill out the detail and, where necessary, to breathe life
into that framework. The UNDCP has already undertaken
important work in this regard.
From our perspective, the critical areas which require
further emphasis are the development of additional detailed
operational blueprints to implement UNDCP’s regional and
subregional strategies; greater emphasis on the development
of balanced national drug control plans; and support for
UNDCP’s
of
comprehensive alternative development strategies for those
countries most seriously affected by the scourge of illicit
narcotics.
encourage
evolution
effort
the
to
Australia recognizes the need for other United Nations
organs
to support UNDCP in the development and
implementation of comprehensive alternative development
strategies, particularly for
the most seriously affected
countries. We urge all organizations contributing to the
System-Wide Action Plan to give the highest possible
priority to their contribution to the international drug control
effort.
of
on
the
The
report
Secretary-General
the
implementation of the United Nations Global Programme of
Action (A/48/286) is the major background document for our
work during these meetings. The Global Programme of
Action, together with the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary
Outline, should guide Government action at the international,
regional and national
levels. The report, based on the
responses of Member States, makes a large number of
recommendations for future action, and all of them warrant
careful study.
to
and
encourage
programmes
But we would note, in particular, the need for States to
reaffirm the higher priority given to drug-prevention and
drug-reduction
the
mobilization of public support,
including support from
non-governmental organizations, in the development and
execution of such programmes; the need for flexibility in the
development of appropriate treatment and rehabilitation
programmes, particularly in the face of the AIDS pandemic;
the need for States to draw up master plans defining their
priorities and objectives and to determine the steps to be
taken in implementing their national drug-control strategies;
the need for States to work to promote regional and
subregional cooperation in forging effective strategies to
contain the threat posed by illicit narcotics; and the need for
Governments to work in the governing bodies of all the
relevant specialized agencies and international financial
institutions involved in providing technical assistance to
ensure that the illicit drugs dimension is taken fully into
account in programming decisions.
As the Global Programme of Action makes clear,
responsibility for developing an effective national narcotics
control strategy lies with Member States. Therefore, in
seeking to identify sticking points impeding more effective
action we should not overlook the critical ingredient, namely,
the political will of Member States to implement existing
policy arrangements. Indeed, it is greater political will and
additional resources, rather than more policy documents, that
will make the difference between success and failure in the
years ahead.
As part of its contribution to this debate and action,
Australia is distributing today to all delegations a copy of its
National Drug Strategic Plan for 1993-1997. We believe
this Plan is a practical example of the link between national
activity and international drug control objectives within the
context of the United Nations Global Programme of Action.
We believe it is a practical illustration of the implementation
of a comprehensive demand reduction and prevention
programme, as part of a balanced national strategic plan of
the sort advocated by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at
its thirty-sixth session. We believe this Plan provides us
with an effective framework to mobilize all relevant sections
of the Australian community to work to minimize, to the
greatest extent possible, the harm caused by illicit drugs.
While it remains difficult to measure results precisely, we
will rigorously evaluate our performance against the detailed
objectives of this Plan.
In this initial phase, we willingly share the fruit of our
efforts with other delegations as a contribution to the
enhancement of international cooperation in this field.
I should also like to announce at this time that, in order
to underline the importance Australia attaches to enhanced
regional cooperation and the development of balanced
national drug control strategies, Australia will host a regional
conference on drug abuse in February 1994. The primary
objectives of that conference will be to assist countries in
Asia and the Pacific region to identify the principles and
steps necessary to develop balanced drug control strategies
and to enhance regional cooperation and networking in the
fight against illicit drugs.
The decision to hold these plenary sessions in itself
signifies
the international
community at the threat posed by illicit narcotics. To do
the continuing concern of
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
7
justice to that concern, the conclusions of our debate should
be substantive in nature and must show the way forward.
The decisions taken by the plenary should reinforce not only
the political importance of the issue and the coordination and
leadership role of the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme, but also the determination of the
international community to intensify its cooperation in
seeking remedies to the threat posed by illicit drugs.
We are dealing with a real threat to people and to
States. We must act vigorously and together to defeat that
threat.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Carlos Amat
Fores, Minister of Justice of Cuba.
Mr. AMAT FORES (Cuba)
(interpretation from
Spanish): My delegation would like to join preceding
speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election, and we
wish to express our willingness to cooperate with you. We
know that given your experience and wisdom these high-
level meetings will be crowned with success.
I should like to commend the work being done by
Mr. Giorgio Giacomelli, Executive Director of the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme, and Mr.
Herbert Shaepe, Secretary of the International Narcotics
Control Board.
The United Nations and its Member States have made
many efforts in the last few years to curtail or stop illegal
drug trafficking and its consequences. The special attention
given this item at this forty-eighth session is evidence of
this.
These efforts have led to the adoption of the following
international documents and instruments by United Nations
bodies:
the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline, the
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances of 1988, the Political Statement and
the Global Programme of Action adopted by the General
Assembly at its seventeenth special session. In addition, the
Assembly proclaimed the period from 1991 to 2000 the
United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse.
In another
resolution adopted in December 1990, it established the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP), which was set up in March 1991.
It has now become almost commonplace to describe the
dangers that drugs pose to health; their threat to social
stability and to the welfare of millions of people; the terrible
medical, ethical and moral effects of drugs, particularly
among young people;
the relationship between demand,
consumption, manufacturing, supply, trafficking and illegal
distribution of drugs and psychotropic substances and the
economic, social and cultural conditions of countries affected
by these activities; and the infiltration into and corruption of
many Government
the
ever-increasing economic power of the transnational criminal
organizations involved in the illegal trafficking of narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances. All
these factors
undermine social and economic development activities,
weakening cultural and human values and threatening the
very foundations of States.
structures
result
of
as
a
The most highly regarded international organizations,
non-governmental organizations and various countries of the
world have assigned to the drug problem outstanding
experts, Government officials and distinguished personalities
but, despite profound and comprehensive analyses, despite
the resolutions and recommendations adopted, and despite
the collective and individual actions taken by countries, the
drug problem becomes every day more acute and distressing
to all.
the
and the world-wide
In spite of the efforts, lately increased, by countries and
institutions,
consumption, production and illegal
trafficking of drugs have increased and spread throughout
the world. Related crimes have increased proportionately,
and the international community is becoming alarmed by the
growing threat
this
phenomenon. The situation becomes even more dramatic
when we see that more and more human beings are
becoming involved in the consumption, manufacturing and
distribution of drugs; that countries which heretofore were
not consumers are now having to face this new crisis; that
new geographic areas are involved in drug trafficking and
consumption; and that money laundering is damaging even
the healthiest of economies.
reach of
In fact, efforts at prevention and control have not been
successful enough, and in the case of the poorest countries,
the sacrifices that they have had to make are far beyond
their capabilities. There is a profound difference between
consuming and producing countries. Most of the demand
comes from, and the major consumers are,
the richer
countries. These, as a result of illegal drug trafficking, often
reap most of the economic benefits.
either
countries -
Likewise, when consumer countries offer assistance to
producing
through
international financial institutions - they force them to accept
conditions which at times result in a loss of sovereignty or,
at best, political submission. This sets a negative precedent
in regional and international relations.
bilaterally
or
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
As
far as my Government
is concerned, drug
consumption is the generating force in manufacturing and
trafficking. This is why we believe that the main emphasis
in our struggle against drugs should be on reducing demand,
if we truly want to achieve long-term goals.
We are aware that problems related to illegal drug
activities and the actions taken to combat such activities
concern every country of the world in one way or another;
if we are to win the battle, we must recognize that it is the
duty of the entire international community to fight this evil.
The fight must be waged with complete respect for the
sovereignty of States and absolute compliance with the
norms of international law, and without intervention or the
extraterritorial application of the internal laws of one State
under the pretext of combating drugs.
Joint action against drug trafficking must guarantee the
full sovereignty of every people or country, however small.
The powerful countries must not be given the right to lay
down guidelines and impose their will by force. No one can
lay claim to the leadership of this fight, or impose such
leadership with armies, agencies or unilateral measures.
As has often been repeated in international forums,
Cuba, because of its geographical position, is affected by the
consequences of international drug trafficking. With a real
political will, we have made serious efforts to combat it,
which have for the most part met with success.
Despite our difficult economic situation, aggravated by
the United States blockade, and made worse still by the
passage of the Torricelli law which, among other things,
prevents or hinders us from legitimately acquiring narcotics
and other medications needed for medical treatment and
research, our work in dealing with drugs that were being
illegally trafficked has produced manifest results.
Although drug consumption is not a social phenomenon
in Cuba, preventive activities are carried out to avoid drug
abuse, and we work daily to perfect existing controls and to
improve our knowledge of the matter so that our country
does not become a victim of the scourge of drugs.
At
the
international
continued
level, Cuba has
Several
negotiating and signing bilateral agreements.
accords have been signed with countries in our region, and
we are now in the final stages of signing new accords both
within and outside the region. We are also maintaining
mutually advantageous cooperation with other countries.
This year my Government submitted to the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP)
the Republic of Cuba’s master plan to combat illicit drug
traffic. Likewise, responding to the appeal by the United
Nations, we have prepared a plan for the Decade against
Drug Abuse.
In July 1992 we established the Cuban
National Committee, made up of agencies and institutions
involved in the fight against drugs, which is preparing
numerous activities.
We recognize the pressing need to continue improving
committed international cooperation. We must be objective
in analysing what has been done so far and what results
have been achieved. The 1988 United Nations Convention
against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances was an important step forward. However, my
delegation wishes to reiterate its well-grounded concern that
the precepts contained in article 17 of that Convention could
become the legal pretext for illegitimate action by one State
which in the field of drug trafficking is trying arbitrarily to
apply - and has already done so - the new and questionable
theory of "limited sovereignty", which flagrantly violates the
sacred principles of international law. There is no judicial,
political or any other reason that can justify the violation of
those principles. No one ever has the right to violate a
sovereignty,
country’s
an
international obligation.
non-intervention
and
is
One State’s malicious interpretations of article 17 have
opened the door to arbitrary actions, acts of piracy and
offenses against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
another State. This is extremely disturbing and completely
unacceptable to my country, which is therefore prevented
from ratifying the Convention until
there is a true
interpretation of article 17, which could constitute a true
guarantee for developing countries, allowing them to defend
themselves against the aggression of the more powerful. In
the terms in which it is stated, the fight requires open,
sincere and effective cooperation between States, as well as
dynamism and objectivity in the assistance offered for it.
Top priority must be given to the establishment of new
formal, genuine commitments
to reduce the demand,
production, sale, traffic and illegal distribution of narcotics
and psychotropic substances; the improvement of standards
of living through international cooperation for development,
as an alternative for those who produce and sell drugs
because of extreme poverty; a careful review by each
country of its national legislation on the various aspects of
the problem, in order to update and harmonize those laws -
we attach great importance to this, because the legal means
must be created to judge and punish criminal activities and
confiscate the illegitimate wealth they produce; strengthening
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
9
of the international fight against organized crime involved in
drug production and other illicit activities involving drugs,
as well as the illegal traffic in arms and explosives; the
establishment of international rules and standards allowing
for uniform treatment of crimes linked to drug trafficking.
We must update existing agreements and make them
fully effective. It would also be worthwhile to analyse some
aspects which have not yet been studied in depth and which
could at some point
for
example, money laundering and control of the use of
chemical precursors.
require international action -
Before concluding, my delegation wishes to reiterate
my country’s readiness to consider bilaterally with other
countries the possibility of cooperation on various aspects of
the problem so as to confront the drug phenomenon better,
and our readiness to sign the various relevant agreements to
give effect to our decisions.
This political will must also be present
Each country’s strategies and plans must be backed up
by a real political will to confront the complex phenomenon
of drugs.
in
international cooperation and concerted action by States.
This spirit, and not the use or threat of force in international
relations, must guide our common action so that it may
achieve successful results.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish):
I
now call on Mr. Arnaldo Velarde Ramírez, Head of the
Office Coordinating Joint Activities against Drug Trafficking
of Peru.
Mr. VELARDE RAMIREZ (Peru) (interpretation from
Spanish): The gathering that we are attending today is
designed to gauge the true dimensions and political
significance of the issue of the campaign against drug
trafficking on the overall agenda of the United Nations. We
are here to give fresh political impetus to the issue of drugs
within the General Assembly context.
We all recall the special session of the United Nations
held in February 1990, at which the overall comprehensive
approach to cooperation on a multilateral
level was
established. That approach was a result of clear agreement
on the principles contained in the political statement, among
which
and
international solidarity stand out. At the same time the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme was
set up, and the period from 1991 to 2000 was proclaimed the
United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse.
responsibility
principles
the
of
shared
the global
the components of
Let us consider what has been achieved in the period
that has elapsed since then. In practice, in the course of the
first three years of the Decade, it would appear that for
various reasons which need to be studied, we have not
addressed all
strategy
simultaneously and in an integrated way. The efforts that
we have made on the international level in that period have
been targeted towards combating the problem by means of
strategies aimed at reducing demand and efforts to reduce
illicit drug trafficking. Less attention has been given to
strategies designed to reduce supply, and thus we have lost
sight of
approach to which we
conceptually aspire and which we wish to see underlying and
bolstering our action.
the comprehensive
We need therefore to return to the intrinsic purposes
and significance of the comprehensiveness of our action, so
that regardless of whether our country is a producer, a
consumer or a country of transit, we may remain alert and
active in the face of all
the manifestations of drug
trafficking.
In these circumstances, drug trafficking has diversified
in means and forms, outstripping any of our best efforts.
Furthermore, there has been a multiplier effect, strangely
enough, because organized crime has responded to greater
interdiction and control with a greater
level of drug
production, stimulating an increase in illicit cultivation.
The Government of Peru has been constantly
endeavouring to control and eradicate illicit drug trafficking
and associated crime through interdiction measures, and at
the same time it has devoted substantial effort to finding
new approaches to the supply side, incorporating the social
dimension into its efforts to eradicate this scourge once and
for all. Hence the importance that we attach to perfecting
the components of a strategy of alternative development.
Certainly, there have been a number of attempts to give
effect to this concept in the Organization’s work, although
it needs to be said, in terms of concrete results, that the lack
of any overall vision has hampered the achievement of the
hoped-for results.
This has led us to seek points of
agreement on this aspect, and here we should pay particular
attention to the results of the meetings that were held in
Berlin and in Lima.
Indeed, this past September, the first
inter-American meeting of experts in alternative development
took place in Lima. For the first time, this regional forum,
which serves to pool inter-American efforts to combat drug
trafficking, embarked on the exploration of a possible
solution to the problem from an economic and social
perspective. This exercise, which centres on alternative
development, is not only a contribution to the doctrine on
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the subject, but is also a pragmatic step towards designing
new regional strategies.
the
strategy of
components of
This work has gradually led to a preliminary consensus
alternative
on the
development. This is a strategy designed to prevent or solve
the problems arising from illicit production. In essence, not
only does it propose crop substitution, but it also aims at
fully incorporating the social groups involved in such
activities into a lawful economy by means of plans and
programmes that put into effect an integrated system of
socio-economic development. Such a system would give
particular consideration to the central actors in the problem,
in an environmentally sustainable framework and with the
necessary support of transparent and less restrictive world
markets. The restoration and the preservation of the area of
the richest biodiversity in the world, that is, the Amazon
region,
is a genuine possibility with the strategy of
alternative development.
The message delivered yesterday on behalf of the
Secretary-General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, is in accord with
this approach. He indicated that the problem of drugs was
a global threat to the same extent as the damage inflicted on
the environment, AIDS and poverty itself.
is not a
question of adding yet another concept to those with which
the United Nations system already works. An alternative
development strategy, attacking as it does the roots of the
problem, offers greater promise of success in combating
drug trafficking in the present circumstances, since because
of its scope it is the most energetic response in combating
the activities of organized crime.
It
We are therefore gratified that
the draft resolution
(A/48/L.12) which we shall very probably be adopting today,
and which represents a relaunching of the multilateral effort
to combat drugs, contains as one of its basic tasks anti-drug
cooperation in programmes of alternative development.
The Government of Peru works in close cooperation
with the Organization through dynamic coordination with the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme.
Experiences in the field have provided a basis for shared
apprenticeship, which
the
effectiveness of cooperation programmes in various areas of
national priority. My country’s commitment at the highest
political level to continue enhancing that cooperation, as well
as the tireless work of Dr. Giorgio Giacomelli, are tangible
proof of the real progress that can be made in the immediate
future.
gradually
enhanced
has
Peru has given tangible proof of its sense of moral
responsibility to the international community in our work to
It should be noted that advanced
combat this scourge.
legislation which controls and punishes crimes associated
with drug trafficking - such as the diversion of precursors
and essential chemicals, trafficking in arms and explosives,
money-laundering, and in particular the dismantling and
eradication of the links between terrorist organizations and
drug trafficking are central parts of our policy. To this we
must add successful control of airports and the interception
of aircraft that are being used for illicit purposes.
The progress that has been achieved is the result of
close cooperation between public and private institutions,
with active participation on the part of the public in a
struggle in which our nation is daily becoming more and
more united.
At
the
time,
same
the Standing
Intersectoral
Commission is trying to coordinate approaches to achieve a
national master plan as soon as possible, harmonize national
anti-drug legislation and create an organic system to
implement national anti-drug policy.
No one here is blind to the challenges we face or the
daunting obstacles we must overcome if we are to achieve
total success. But the reality of these formidable challenges
should not dishearten us. Peru, as a country and a society,
has also faced considerable and sometimes discouraging
difficulties; but given a well-defined purpose it was able to
overcome them, demonstrating that where there is a firm
resolve anything is possible and the most cherished dream
can come true.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Amir Khasru
Chowdhury, Member of Parliament of Bangladesh.
Mr. CHOWDHURY (Bangladesh): The drug scourge
today is a global phenomenon.
It is an issue that threatens
both our present and future generations. The world-wide
consciousness and our collective drive against drug abuse
and narcotics trafficking are still far from driving a nail into
the heart of the issue.
In fact, the general disorganization
and degeneration that our societies are experiencing in
varying degrees are being exacerbated to a large extent by
drug trafficking and abuse.
What appears to be a matter for great alarm is the fact
that illicit drug trafficking is thriving despite the collective
will of the international community to thwart it.
Is it that
the traffickers are so powerful as to have the arrogance to
disregard the authority of national Governments and to test
the will of the international community? Or is it that our
combat strategies are somehow flawed, allowing traffickers
a false sense of security that they can pursue their evil
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
11
designs? These are aspects of the issue that merit our most
serious attention as we gather here to examine the status of
international cooperation in the fight against drug abuse.
One of the biggest incentives to illegal drug trafficking
is the immense profitability of the trade. Our primary effort
must therefore be to hit at this area. To put it more simply,
the trade will die only if we can ensure that there is no
market for it.
In this, we must mount a multi-pronged
offensive directed against the production, distribution and
consumption of illegal drugs.
principal criminal remains at large. To win this war of wits,
we must clearly be on top of the situation. Our intelligence
network and detection technology must surely be flawless,
constantly updated and improved. Because the combat is
being fought on a global basis, we cannot afford to leave
any one front less equipped than the other. But it hardly
needs to be emphasized that
the developing countries -
particularly the least developed among them - are at an
obvious disadvantage in this respect. There must be a
pooling of resources and sharing of technology if our global
offensive is really to succeed.
Political
the world’s
its enormous scale.
Because of its illicit nature, it is almost impossible to
estimate the exact extent of
total drug
production. But given the fact that it is being carried out on
a global basis and spreading across both hemispheres, there
is no reason to doubt
Poorer and
developing countries are often accused of being lenient
towards drug production because they have few other
meaningful economic options.
instability and
insurgencies are also viewed as ideal conditions for illegal
drug production. These are undoubtedly forceful arguments,
but there must be a larger dimension to the issue, since
illegal drug production is not limited to the so-called third
world countries alone. Whatever the source, the issue calls
for a concerted and collective approach.
If conditions of
poverty encourage drug production,
the international
let
community provide the necessary input to eliminate poverty.
If insurgency is a factor preventing enforcement agencies
from reaching the areas of drug production,
the
international
those
Governments to fight the insurgency.
community come
aid of
to the
let
Our efforts to eliminate drug production will not be
worth while unless we can crack down on the marketing and
distribution mechanisms. And here lies our most formidable
obstacle.
The trafficking of drugs is conducted by
syndicated cartels and drug lords who wield tremendous
power. They are a species that have no scruples, suffer no
conscience and have total disregard for human life and
dignity. They have created their own empires, have their
own private armies and enjoy a seemingly impregnable sense
of security.
of
The
to
chain involves
consortiums.
chemicals
The conduct of this heinous trade is done through
the
transnational
their
acquisition
transportation and distribution, and the laundering of profits
through financial institutions. Drug traffickers are constantly
developing new codes in their communications system and
novel tricks to avoid detection. The courier caught at the
port is merely a pawn in a game played by an unseen boss.
In most cases, the courier takes the punishment while the
produce
drugs,
and
consumers.
recreational
The horrors of drug abuse and its tragic consequences
find their manifestation in the
Drug
consumption and addiction are like a contagious virus
spreading in an epidemic. The tragedy begins with the next
Frustration from a lack of
generation, our youth.
alternatives,
facilities
employment
opportunities more often than not makes youth an easy prey
to the drug menace. Addiction breeds crime, terrorism and
violence and threatens a total breakdown of the social fabric.
The magnitude of drug abuse as it stands today has spared
no society. The campaign against drug abuse must therefore
begin early. Motivation has to be there right from the
elementary-school levels and children must be taught to
avoid drugs like the plague. Institutionalized support to treat
addicts
them into society must be
strengthened. The family institution, which serves as the
anchor of social integrity, must be involved in this effort.
For this, we must be prepared to provide whatever support
is necessary.
and reintegrate
The issue of drug abuse and illicit trafficking is a
matter of serious concern to Bangladesh. Given our
proximity to the so-called Golden Triangle and Golden
Crescent, our country is vulnerable to in-transit drug
trafficking. As a small nation beset with many problems we
are cautious not to allow drug abuse to add to our woes.
Our Government, under Prime Minister Begum Khaleda Zia,
is determined to address the issue on all fronts: national,
subregional, regional and global.
that
The fact
the issue has not yet assumed any
alarming dimension in Bangladesh is the result of certain
traditional and religious checks and balances ingrained in our
society. But social safeguards alone are not enough to
combat the drug issue in its entirety; it is a crime that can be
controlled only if we are prepared to be harsh in hunting
down the criminal. Our goal is not just to check drug abuse,
but to checkmate the drug trafficker. We in Bangladesh
therefore have stringent, punitive sentences
for drug
trafficking. We believe that such measures are appropriate
for those who profit from human life and misery.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the
cultivation,
production,
Our national Narcotics Control Act of 1990 strictly
prohibits
processing,
transportation, sale or possession of illicit drugs. The
administrative body set up in support of this law,
the
Narcotics Control Board, is the focal point for all anti-drug
activities in the country. On the curative side, we have set
up a central
The
Government is also addressing itself to the rehabilitation of
former addicts and their
reintegration into mainstream
society.
treatment centre for drug addicts.
We are happy that the Secretary-General, in his report
to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, has also
accorded the issue all due importance.
We trust that our deliberations in this special series of
meetings will provide valuable insights and clear guidance
to our ongoing efforts towards a drug-free world.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
Indonesia.
In cooperation with bilateral donors and the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme, a five-year
master plan on drug-abuse control has been undertaken,
beginning in January 1993. The major thrust of the plan is
on law enforcement,
treatment and rehabilitation, and
preventive education and information.
At the regional level, Bangladesh and the six other
member countries of
the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC) are addressing the issue
through active regional cooperation. The signing of the
SAARC Convention on narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances, which Bangladesh has already ratified,
is a
landmark in this direction.
Bangladesh is also actively involved in the international
efforts against drug abuse. Our efforts in this regard are
fully in line with the 1990 United Nations Political
Declaration and Global Programme of Action. Bangladesh
was among the very first countries to ratify the 1988
Convention against illicit drugs and psychotropic substances.
We are also party to the United Nations drug Conventions
of 1961 and 1971.
We trust
that further strengthening of the United
Nations efforts through a system-wide action plan and
coordination between the specialized agencies can effectively
complement national drives against drug abuse and
trafficking.
There is much truth in the saying that
prevention is always better than cure, and we wish to
underscore here that countries, such as Bangladesh, where
drug abuse has not yet become a major problem need our
urgent attention before it is just too late.
It is a matter of gratification to my delegation that
delegations here are unanimous in our desire to control drug
abuse. The statements of other representatives espousing
stronger integration in the international drive against drug
abuse, and support for national programmes, reassure us that
we are together in our cause.
Mr. TARMIDZI (Indonesia):
I should like to express
the Indonesian delegation’s deep appreciation to the
Secretary-General
and informative
by
message
Mr. Giorgio Giacomelli, Director-General of
the United
Nations Office at Vienna and Executive Director of the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme.
thoughtful
as
this Assembly,
delivered
for his
to
Let me also express our thanks to you, Mr. President,
for your opening statement, delivered yesterday.
Indonesia is greatly disturbed by the continuing threats
posed to virtually all countries by the international trade in
illicit narcotics and by drug abuse. Although this issue has
remained a top priority on the global agenda, the myriad
problems of
trafficking and drug abuse remain
undiminished, even though substantial initiatives have been
launched in many areas.
illicit
For some countries, the threats posed have become a
tragic reality, as institutions have become strained and the
capacity of national and local law enforcement have been
taken beyond their capacity for an effective response.
Health and social-welfare services have likewise been greatly
overburdened
and
rehabilitation of drug abusers, and for the associated health
problems.
providing
treatment
the
in
for
For the developed and developing countries alike,
narcotics trafficking and abuse have undeniably contributed
to a serious deterioration in social values, ethics and healthy
lifestyles.
The drugs dilemma has likewise retarded
development at all levels by substantially diverting urgently
needed resources,
This
haemorrhage of financial resources must be brought to a
quick end. As the drugs problem is global in dimension, we
have come to a collective realization and acknowledgement
that only global, integrated solutions will offer any remedy
of lasting value.
financial as well as human.
Thus
it was
that,
in 1987,
International Conference on Drug Abuse
the Ministerial-level
and Illicit
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
13
Trafficking was convened in Vienna and expressed the
political will and determination to address this problem in a
comprehensive and effective manner at all levels. That
Conference was a watershed event, with its unanimous
adoption of
a Declaration and the Comprehensive
Multidisciplinary Outline of Future Activities.
The mutual understanding between countries
-
producers, consumers and transit - has since been greatly
strengthened and firmly secured in their agreement that a
balanced approach is necessary, addressing the aspects of
both supply and demand. In that connection, my delegation
would like to underline the potential of rural-development
programmes that encourage legal cultivation and make it an
attractive prospect for farmers by offering them a fair return
for
the
destruction of illicit crops should be undertaken with due
regard to the environmental impact.
Furthermore, efforts aimed at
labour.
their
Nearly four years have elapsed since the seventeenth
special session of the General Assembly was convened,
during which a Political Declaration and a Global
Programme of Action were adopted with a view to
enhancing international drug-control strategy and activities.
A significant consequence was the integration of the United
Nations drug-control bodies into one single United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP). This was
a necessary and welcome restructuring effort to streamline
United Nations activities in this field and provide for the
optimum utilization of scarce resources. The special session,
moreover, reaffirmed the view that because of the tragic
international solidarity and the
nature of
concerted, collective and simultaneous action of
the
international community were required.
the problem,
In that connection, my delegation would like to
welcome and support the draft resolution that was well
prepared by the delegation of Mexico, and submitted by the
President
entitled
"International drug control", as yet one more concrete step
in strengthening international cooperation.
resolution A/48/L.12,
draft
as
to
continues
(ASEAN)
On the subregional level, the Association of South-East
Asian Nations
strengthen
collaboration amongst its members, implementing projects of
the group of ASEAN Senior Officials on Drug Matters in
such areas as preventive drug education,
interdiction,
research- and information-sharing,
law enforcement, and
treatment and rehabilitation. I should note that this is in line
with activities recommended by the Secretary-General with
reference to the implementation of the Global Programme of
Action.
Similarly, ASEAN continues to work in close
cooperation with other States in the region, as well as with
its dialogue partners, in a common search for pragmatic but
effective drug-control solutions.
strong, with such projects as
ASEAN cooperation with the European Community
the European
remains
Community technical assistance mission, which has reviewed
ASEAN’s needs in the areas of drug rehabilitation and drug-
abuse prevention.
In that connection, ASEAN Senior
Officials on Drug Matters held several working group
meetings
and
rehabilitation, law enforcement and research. ASEAN also
maintains close working relations with the United States and
anticipates the convening of an ASEAN-United States
conference on drugs in the near future.
prevention
education,
treatment
on
The United Nations ad hoc inter-agency meeting on
coordination in matters of international drug abuse control
pointed to the need to strengthen cooperative ties with
non-governmental organizations, which ASEAN has resolved
to do.
The twenty-sixth ASEAN Standing Committee
meeting, held on 27 and 28 May 1993, approved an
application by the group ASEAN Non-Governmental
Organizations for Prevention of Drug and Substance Abuse
to have a formal working relationship with ASEAN.
Likewise, Indonesia relies on the important contribution of
non-governmental
community
participation in such areas as education in drug prevention,
and in the important area of rehabilitation.
organizations
and
of
The strong cooperative arrangements that exist between
ASEAN and its various dialogue partners, as well as with
other States within its region, have strengthened the capacity
of its States members for effective response.
Such a
national, subregional and interregional structure could, in my
view, serve as one model for the promotion of international
drug control.
United Nations drug control
treaties have placed
effective juridical mechanisms at
the disposal of
the
international community, facilitating necessary cooperation
among nations in drug control. The 1988 United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances has made a strong addition by
addressing such crucial aspects as money-laundering and
mutual
legal assistance among States. As a signatory,
Indonesia will work with others to ensure its optimum
success.
In this regard, my delegation would like to note
that the UNDCP has been providing such assistance, and
should continue to render this important service.
Let me conclude by saying that, just as drug abuse
contributes to social deterioration, poverty and despair
provide a fertile ground for the sale and abuse of narcotics.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Therefore,
All countries, but particularly developing countries, have
experienced the negative effects of a poor global economy
and resource restrictions that have adversely impacted on
such crucial areas as the creation of productive employment
opportunities.
long-term solutions to social
welfare issues, and particularly to drug-abuse prevention,
must take into account the fundamental needs and aspirations
of society, and the progressive improvement of the human condition -
physically, ethically and religiously. This will require a
commitment by both North and South in areas of economic
cooperation, as well as their continued commitment to the
goals to be achieved during this United Nations Decade
against Drug Abuse.
The PRESIDENT: I call next on Mr. Alberto Lestelle,
Secretary of State for Programming on Drug Prevention of
the Argentine Republic.
Mr. LESTELLE (Argentina)
(interpretation from
I shall read out only portions of my written
Spanish):
statement, for the full text contains many things that have
already been said and that will be said again before the day
is over. I shall use the time allotted to me to share some of
my thoughts on this subject.
First of all, we would like to acknowledge this
important opportunity to participate in these meetings of the
General Assembly devoted to the important and serious issue
of drug control.
the draft
We thank the delegation of Mexico for preparing,
together with other delegations,
resolution
submitted by the President. Recognizing once more the
value of concentrating all the Organization’s efforts in the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme, we
take note of the important work being carried out by the
Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the International
Narcotics Control Board.
The circumstances of the so-called transit States are
unique and are not adequately reflected in the initiatives for
international cooperation. These countries, including my
own, require greater and increasing international aid to fight
successfully against this phenomenon. Hence, we would like
to see the international programmes of cooperation pay
increased attention to the special situation of the countries I
refer to.
Among other things, we need the adoption of the
necessary legal instruments to control drugs, adapting them
to the new modalities of this crime and reflecting in the
legal framework elements such as the undercover agent, the
informer and all
the modalities set forth in the United
Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances.
The repression of illicit drug trafficking should be
balanced with preventive aspects related to reducing demand.
This latter issue must be approached through comprehensive
prevention programmes including real and feasible plans for
alternative development, within which the programmes for
productive and profitable micro-enterprises should be the
axis of employment policies, a key preventive factor in
developing countries. We must pay special attention to the
causes of the problem:
the unfair terms of international
trade, which condemn farmers in developing countries to
face the alternative of either producing illicit drugs or opting
for humiliating subsistence conditions, must be analysed and
assessed in their true dimension.
We would like to state here that
the Argentine
Government is opposed to any initiative aimed at legalizing
any activity now considered illicit in the area of drugs. This
experiment has already been tried in several countries with
negative and traumatic results for the community.
Allow me now to refer briefly to the situation in
Argentina. In 1989, when it took office, the Government of
President Carlos Raúl Menem created within the purview of
the presidency a Bureau for Programming on Drug
Prevention and Drug-Trafficking Control. This does not
report to any single ministry, but develops policies under the
direct orders of the national executive branch.
In our view, this organizational structure is a new,
creative development that goes beyond those interministry
commissions that encounter difficulties in their operation and
functioning.
Here I should like briefly to comment on one point.
There is an action and a reaction in illicit drug trafficking
and related crime. Action is homogeneous, direct and the
same in all countries, whether the United Kingdom, the
United States, Argentina, Costa Rica, Panama, Australia,
Bolivia, or any other country. The action of the drug-
trafficking mafias is exactly the same in every country.
In
each country they produce drugs directly or
through
intermediaries; they operate illegally by smuggling precursor
chemicals;
they
promote drug consumption in all countries; they make young
people and street children sick with drugs and they bring
death in all countries, without exception. In other words, the
drug-trafficking mafias operate in a manner
is
consistent, organic, ongoing and always the same.
they launder money in every country;
that
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
15
How do we,
the Governments,
Unfortunately, we
respond to this
homogeneity?
respond with
heterogeneity. Quite reasonably, every Government wants
to establish a system to try to contain the phenomenon. One
Government may perfectly properly, for each is free to
choose, feel
the Ministry of Health can deal with the
problem, which is correct, because of course drug
dependency is a sickness. But another Government may feel
that action should be coordinated under the Ministry of
Finance which is also correct, because money laundering is
one of the most serious drug trafficking problems. Another
Government might give the job to the Ministry of Security,
another to the Ministry of Justice, another to Social Affairs,
and another to a personal representative of the President.
Without being hypocritical, perhaps I could say we are
trying to defend ourselves using the Keystone Kops.
in action.
Consistency is important
At another
international meeting a few days ago I was speaking with a
Health Minister who had the job of coordinating all aspects
related to this phenomenon, and I naturally asked him how
he coordinated transborder controls. He replied "Oh, that’s
a problem for the Ministry of Defence." I then asked how
he coordinated internal controls for internal security and he
said "That’s for the Ministry of the Interior." I then asked
what he did to establish a system whereby prevention was
part of the education programme, and he answered "That’s
a problem for the Ministry of Education." Dumbfounded, I
then asked him "Who coordinates everything?" because all
his answers were quite true. He answered "A Commission."
That
raised the obvious question of how often the
Commission met. I was told "Maybe once a month." Fine,
once a month. I then asked "Who coordinates the decisions
of the Commission?" The Health Minister said "Well,
sometimes it’s me, and sometimes it’s the Education
Minister, depending on what aspect is involved."
In fact, therefore, all those procedures being carried out
by Governments with considerable effort and sacrifice -
sometimes with great resolve, sometimes with less resolve -
mean that we do not have a homogeneous reaction to the
homogeneous action being carried out by the drug-trafficking
mafia, by which they are trying to attack our societies and
destroy our families. Therefore, without wishing to interfere
with the political decisions of Governments, perhaps my
country might offer
community a
description of its experience in this field and suggest to
Governments that national bodies be set up at the highest
possible level to implement the policies of the Executive and
to coordinate all the work relating to the problem so as to
achieve the best results.
international
the
As we see it, there is no alternative, after so many
meetings at the international level, we have been meeting for
months, for years trying to understand a phenomenon which
is becoming ever more complex. Without coordination at
the government level it seems to us unlikely we can find the
right remedy. Solutions are hard to find. We must become
fully aware of the overriding importance of this issue in the
United Nations and try at least to increase efforts and ensure
coordination. If we do not have coordination - and I am not
being pessimistic; I am being realistic - this increasingly
complex problem will result in an increasing number of
victims. Do representatives know what the real problem is?
It is that the victimizers - those who produce, who traffic,
who sell, who corrupt - are adults, but
the victims are
innocent: young people and children. We should think
about that.
I should like quickly to speak of what has been done in
my country. We have prevention programmes, public
awareness campaigns, national publicity campaigns, sports
programmes, preventive education programmes, training for
teachers, workers and community leaders. There are courses
on prevention, training leaders of society, sports people,
educators, parents, grandparents, young people - everybody,
including students in middle schools and primary schools.
We have an assistance plan, including help for families
in difficult situations; more than 2,000 are receiving help to
win their children back from this terrible scourge. We are
also trying to provide treatment for people in jail. We offer
public information services and support
for
governmental and non-governmental organizations.
services
We have draft
of American States
laws on psychotropic substances,
alcoholism, prevention, assistance and services.
Our
international cooperation projects include seminars on
community therapy co-sponsored by Daytop International,
the Organization
the
Inter-American Drug Abuse Control Commission (CICAD)
and the United States State Department; seminars dealing
with the control of precursor chemicals; a Latin American
plan for training in health, education and justice carried out
by the Argentine Government in Costa Rica, Guatemala and
the Dominican Republic;
on mobilizing
communities, conducted in cooperation with the University
of Oklahoma; and much, much more.
(OAS),
seminars
We must participate internationally in dealing with this
problem, which has become truly international, and in the
last four years we have signed agreements on cooperation to
prevent drug abuse with Bolivia, Costa Rica, Chile, Ecuador,
the United States, Guatemala, Nicaragua,
El Salvador,
Jamaica,
the Russian
Italy, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru,
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Federation, the United Kingdom, Uruguay, Colombia, Brazil,
Venezuela and the Dominican Republic.
resolution that
I should like to say, in conclusion, that my delegation
is before the
fully supports the draft
Assembly.
It is clearly a well-balanced text containing
specific guidelines for the organizations of the United
Nations system and setting out measures for a high-level
follow-up of the provisions of the plan of action. We trust
that the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on Mr. Augusto Durán
Martínez, Deputy Minister of the Presidency of Uruguay.
tends to undermine institutions,
Mr. DURAN MARTINEZ (Uruguay) (interpretation
from Spanish): The drug phenomenon is an extremely
complex problem - complex in that it has not just a single
cause but many causes: economic, social, ethical, political,
It is also complex in that it is not simply a
and so on.
health problem, but
to
corrupt society and, ultimately, to degrade the individual.
Another factor that makes it complex is that the links in the
chain of illicit drug trafficking, from cultivation to money
laundering, from the production and illicit marketing of
precursors and other chemical substances essential to the
production of drugs to the manufacturing and consumption
of and trafficking in drugs, are to be found in various
countries, giving the problem a transnational character. This
has led to a new type of criminality - organized crime,
which, apart from the fact that it is extremely dangerous
because of the vastness of the economic means available to
it, makes classical liberal criminal law inadequate.
Owing to its complexity, the problem is not capable of
being dealt with by means of a single response.
is
necessary to take repressive measures to combat criminal
activities;
the addict’s
reintegration into society; and, above all, educational
measures designed to reduce consumption. And reduction of
consumption is the key to solution of the problem.
supportive measures aimed at
It
These measures must not be taken in isolation; they
must be coordinated. They must not be taken on a local
basis; they must mobilize the entire international community.
Naturally, action must be taken within the framework of the
law and of respect for the sovereignty of States, and it must
take account of the special characteristics of each State. In
this regard, much has been done. However, despite the
excellent work of
the United Nations Commission on
Narcotic Drugs, and despite Mr. Giacomelli’s very effective
leadership, the drug problem, generally speaking, has not
lessened. On the contrary, it has increased. This obliges us
to redouble our efforts to try new strategies. Here - in the
United Nations - we have the ideal arena for an exchange of
opinions on the question and for expressions of support for
the excellent draft resolution that stemmed from Mexico’s
praiseworthy initiative.
Mr. Murthy (India), Vice-President, took the Chair.
is indispensable.
In the legal area,
In this area, international cooperation, by way of the
exchange of information and the coordination of police
investigations,
too,
to securing greater
international cooperation is vital
effectiveness in the prosecution and judicial processes.
In
the technological and economic areas also, it is vital to the
proper completion of various projects.
In addition, it is
obviously necessary that the trade barriers that impede or
alternative methods be
prevent
removed -
international
cooperation.
something else that calls
the development of
for
In all of this - apart from the bilateral activities that
may be engaged in - the action of international organizations
is extremely important. However, although international
cooperation is vital, it is not enough if it does not go hand
in hand with appropriate internal measures. Anyone who
does not show the necessary political resolve to tackle the
drug problem does not deserve cooperation, and there can be
no redemption for a country that cooperates at
the
international level but does not take the appropriate domestic
measures.
Uruguay is really a newcomer to this problem, and we
have therefore begun only recently to take action in this
respect. However, we accept that we have a real, legal
duty - not just an ethical responsibility - to engage in the
struggle against drugs. Indeed, we have recently been doing
this with very strong political resolve.
In accordance with
international recommendations, the Government set up the
National Board for the Prevention and Suppression of Illicit
Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse to draw up policies in this
area and to coordinate their implementation by the competent
bodies.
The Republic is a signatory to the 1988 United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances, but has not yet
ratified it.
However, ratification has been approved by the House of
Representatives, and we expect early approval by the Senate.
In any event, although the Convention is not in force in our
country, we have been following its basic guidelines.
Indeed, we have signed many treaties for legal assistance in
penal matters - with the United States, with Spain, with the
United Kingdom and with Brazil - and it is expected that
these will be ratified very soon.
In 1991 we signed
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
17
cooperation agreements with Chile, with Bolivia and with
Brazil, and these were ratified about a month ago.
The
executive branch of government has
also
introduced a draft law which has already been approved by
one of the Houses of our Parliament and which is designed
to update our penal legislation on drugs, with a view to -
among other objectives - criminalizing money laundering and
the illicit production and marketing of precursors,
in
accordance with the guidelines of the Model Law drawn up
by the Inter-American Commission for Drug Abuse Control.
We have adopted legislative standards that will facilitate
control by the Central Bank of Uruguay over the brokerage
houses, with a view to making money laundering more
difficult. Already, there is a large data bank, and studies
were carried out recently with a view to formulating policies
and putting them on sounder bases. Police work has been
improved, and significant efforts are being made to set up a
rehabilitation centre. Lastly, there has been a great deal of
progress in both formal and informal aspects of prevention.
All those measures - in addition to Uruguay’s active
presence in the most important international forums in this
field - clearly demonstrate its commitment to dealing with
this problem.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on Mr. Raul Del Mar,
Member of the House of Representatives of the Philippines.
Mr. DEL MAR (Philippines): I am privileged to speak
at the special high-level meetings of the General Assembly
on a subject of grave concern to the world.
Mankind has been troubled by various scourges that
have taken their toll in human life and suffering, bringing
disease, economic deprivation and social dislocation to
hapless populations. At no time in history, however, has
mankind faced such a problem such as drug abuse, for it is
a scourge that recognizes no boundaries. Indeed, drug abuse
is a transnational problem of such magnitude that
is
it
adversely affecting the growth levels of many countries.
My Government therefore welcomes this opportunity to
examine, together with the other States Members of the
international cooperation
United Nations,
against
traffic and
distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
the illicit production, sale, demand,
the status of
Aware of the grave threat posed by drug abuse to the
health and well-being of our people,
to the stability of
nations and to the political, economic and social structures
of societies, the Philippine Government has committed itself
to a total war against the problem.
trafficking continue
In the Philippines, the problems of drug abuse and
concern
illicit
There are two factors responsible for the
nationwide.
unabating drug problem:
first, the high population density
of bigger cities, coupled with rapid urbanization and,
secondly, the proximity of drug sources and supply.
to cause
serious
The Philippines’ national drug strategy consists of two
components: first, the legislative and regulatory programme
which takes care of the enactment of appropriate laws and
the formulation of rules and regulations to reduce the
availability of dangerous drugs, consistent with the legitimate
medical requirements of the country; and, secondly, the drug
law-enforcement programme, whose objectives include the
eradication of cannabis plantations;
the destruction or
neutralization of drug trafficking networks; preventing the
diversion of
illicit drugs from authorized outlets; and
controlling the importation of illicit drugs through rigid
enforcement of customs laws and expanded international
cooperation and coordination with foreign enforcement
agencies to identify, monitor and neutralize international
trafficking
treatment,
rehabilitation, preventive education, training and information.
syndicates.
covers
It
also
The national strategy hinges on two key concepts which
call for keeping abusers away from drugs and for keeping
drugs away from abusers. My Government has done much
work in prevention and rehabilitation.
The Philippine
Congress has passed a law integrating drug prevention and
control in intermediate- and secondary-school curricula and
in the non-formal, informal and indigenous learning systems.
The new law focuses on the ill effects of drug abuse, drug
addiction or drug dependency.
the ones we do have at
In the case of rehabilitation, we have a serious lack of
rehabilitation centres, but
the
moment have excellent performance records. Our Narcotics
Command Rehabilitation Centre has what appears to be the
lowest relapse rate in the world - only 19 to 20 per cent,
compared with the world rate of 40 to 50 per cent.
Treatment
is provided free of charge and is aimed at
discipline.
The national
fight against drug abuse has been
hamstrung by logistics, a problem shared by many countries.
The peculiar nature of our geography - we are a group of
more than 7,000 islands at
the maritime and strategic
crossroads of South-East Asia - renders an already difficult
problem more complex.
On a regional level, the Philippines has faithfully met
its commitments and obligations as a party to the
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
(ASEAN)
Association of South-East Asian Nations
Declaration of Principles on Drug Abuse Control.
It has
maintained an active level of cooperation with the
Governments and agencies concerned with drug matters
among the ASEAN dialogue partners.
Internationally, the Philippines is a State Party to the
1961 and 1971 Conventions on narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances and the 1972 Protocol amending the
1961 Convention. We signed the 1988 Convention against
Illicit Traffic
and Psychotropic
Substances, and appropriate steps have been taken towards
its ratification.
in Narcotic Drugs
Our programme and policies on drug abuse control are
based on the Comprehensive and Multidisciplinary Outline
of Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control, which preceded
the Global Programme of Action. We have consistently
supported initiatives on drug abuse control emanating from
both the General Assembly’s Third Committee and the
Economic and Social Council.
We are particularly encouraged by the introduction of
a "drug dimension" in the economic and sectoral work of the
World Bank, including its lending strategies. The inclusion
of such a facility, not only in the World Bank but in regional
banks as well, will provide countries which produce drugs
with a needed boost in developing planning through the
programming and implementation of activities to reduce
illicit narcotic crops. Within the context of rural poverty-
alleviation programmes in areas where narcotic drugs are
cultivated,
International Fund for
Agricultural Development should be maintained.
the work of
the
In the long term, the illicit cultivation of drugs must be
addressed within the context of integrated rural development
programmes which aim at providing rural communities with
an economically viable alternative to narcotic crops.
To help developing countries
implement more
effectively their respective national strategies under the
Global Programme of Action and to enable them to
participate more meaningfully in the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme, developed countries
must provide opportunities and terms of access
for
agricultural products and other products of importance to the
diversification of production from the growing of illicit
narcotic crops.
the international
There is also a pressing need for the sharing of relevant
level and for the provision of
data at
technical assistance to developing countries
to help
strengthen their enforcement capabilities. By strengthening
international cooperation and effecting a better coordination
of policies and programmes, the use of limited resources
available to Governments to implement domestic strategies
would be optimized.
While it is true that the global nature of the drug
problem warrants a global approach, the United Nations and
its member countries do recognize and appreciate the
national work done by intergovernmental organizations and
non-governmental organizations in the containment of the
problem.
the Philippine Government
recognizes the humanitarian role of non-governmental
organizations and volunteer groups in the prevention of drug
abuse, in the rehabilitation of drug addicts, and in inculcating
the ever-present danger of AIDS upon the consciousness of
drug abusers.
In particular,
My delegation commends the decision of the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme to call an
international forum of non-governmental organizations next
year to find ways of expanding cooperation on drug-demand
reduction.
The end of the cold war has ushered in a period of
deep uncertainty and change which exacerbates the drug
problem. The capacity of many States to take remedial
measures within their borders, as well as to act collectively
for the safety and well-being of the world community, has
been impaired by the upheavals of change. This situation
has engendered an increase in the number of people at
particular risk of drug addiction and abuse.
More than ever, the shared effort against illicit drug
production, traffic and consumption must be maintained and
strengthened. Towards this end, the Philippines will support
proposals or
and effective
implementation of the United Nations System-Wide Action
Plan on Drug Abuse Control and the Global Programme of
Action against illicit production, supply, demand, traffic and
distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
initiatives
for
the
full
Within its limited capacity, my Government wishes to
lend assistance in improving policies and programmes in
three specific areas:
first, in the creation and maintenance
of a readily accessible database of programmes carried out
and projected within the United Nations system and in
providing access to comparable systems maintained by
multilateral, regional and bilateral organizations; second, in
technical-cooperation activities
control,
particularly at the operational level in especially vulnerable
countries, such as those considered to be transit States and
those under attack from traffickers, so as to afford them easy
access to modern technology and thereby facilitate the
in drug-abuse
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
19
location and environmentally safe destruction of narcotic
drugs and, at the same time, maintain respect for the dignity
and sovereignty of the receiving State; and, third, in judicial
action with penal implications at the national level, and
possibly at the international level, to fight powerful drug
lords and cartels.
the
instruments,
As a State Party to the drug Conventions and other
relevant
its
commitment
to eradicate the drug
problem and hereby undertakes to participate actively and
judiciously in United Nations initiatives against the drug
menace.
to the global effort
Philippines
reaffirms
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the Permanent
Representative of Algeria, Mr. Ramtane Lamamra.
Mr. LAMAMRA (Algeria)(interpretation from French):
The scheduling by the General Assembly of high-level
plenary meetings to examine the status of and prospects for
international drug control marks an important advance in the
international community’s growing awareness of the global
nature of the narcotics scourge and of the need for a
constant improvement of the means and the cooperation
already established to confront it.
The Secretary-General’s introductory message, delivered
here by Mr. Giacomelli, Executive Director of the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP),
and the particularly eloquent reports that have been presented
paint a striking picture of the global status of drug abuse and
inform us that the transnational production-line of death and
decay has earned the drug traffickers at least $500 billion in
1992 alone.
Just as the disease has often been diagnosed, so too
have appropriate remedies been clearly identified and
prescribed. Among them, of course, figures the broadest and
most sustained international cooperation aimed at promoting
prevention and at achieving stronger control and suppression
through the coordination of national efforts and the
establishment of mutual assistance among nations.
In that
context the activities of the UNDCP over the past two years
are to be commended. The UNDCP has quickly become an
operational, non-bureaucratic instrument whose means and
resources must be strengthened.
The United Nations
Commission on Narcotic Drugs, whose meetings, which
assemble qualified professionals in all fields, are oriented
towards joint action and a useful exchange of experiences,
has become a promising arena for
imaginative and
trust-based international cooperation.
The African continent, on which the combined ravages
of man and nature have inflicted serious economic and social
instability, has been singled out by the drug traffickers as a
new and ideal launching pad for a large-scale expansion of
their criminal activities.
In less than a decade local drug
consumption in Africa has greatly increased, and the
continent has become an important centre for drug transit to
neighbouring high-consumption areas.
Obviously, Africa must be given an important place on
the list of UNDCP priorities, and its currently modest and
inadequate share of budgetary appropriations must be
radically augmented to a level that properly reflects a visible
commitment by the international community to Africa in a
struggle that requires strong and consistent support. The
existence of weak links in the chain of
international
cooperation to combat illicit drug trafficking would be too
deleterious to effective joint action for us not to give high
priority to Africa’s resource needs.
Because of its crucial geographical position and the
extent of its land and sea borders, Algeria has over the years
become a significant drug-transit country. A July 1993
publication of the Geopolitical Drug Observatory for the first
time lists Algeria among the transit and/or consumer
countries.
In fact, the responsible Algerian authorities, who are
most keenly concerned at the increase in drug transit through
the country, have noted, as a result of the seizures they have
effected, that that transit involves not only cannabis but hard
drugs as well, drugs that were unknown in Algeria until
recently. The Algerian people, whose entrenched values
have long shielded them from large-scale consumption, have
become residual but not inconsiderable recipients of drugs in
transit to the major markets of the northern hemisphere, a
transit that has, by contamination, helped to create a market
of local consumers.
and
tools
legislative
intersectorial
Given that situation, the Algerian authorities have taken
clear-sighted and determined steps to deal with the situation
by establishing a base of action that includes public health
and large-scale educational campaigns as well as the creation
coordination.
of
Multifaceted activities are being carried out
in the
framework of existing health-care and health-protection
legislation. A National Commission to combat drugs and
drug addiction has been created. A national steering
programme to combat drugs is at an advanced stage of
preparation.
A national prevention campaign aimed
primarily at young people has been launched and will
continue throughout this year. At the same time, greater
resources have been allocated to control at borders, ports and
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
airports and such control has been made more rigorous and
effective.
On the regional and international
levels Algeria is
playing an active role in specialized coordination with the
Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies
(HONLEA) in Africa and with other Arab and international
organs. A joint programme, which is about to end, has been
successfully carried out with UNDCP and the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization and has opened wider
and more ambitious prospects for an increased UNDCP
effort to provide meaningful support to Algeria’s determined
endeavours to combat the scourge of drugs, both for its own
sake and that of others.
In addressing the problem of illicit-drug trafficking at
this high level, the General Assembly’s intent has not been
merely to echo, albeit with greater conviction and stronger
resolve, a profession of faith that has already been voiced by
the international community, so sorely tried by the persistent
scourge. Nor should the Assembly be content with using
this debate as an attempt
is
destroying the health of countless human beings as it is
undermining the values of
the societies of which the
plague’s victims are a part.
to exorcise a devil
that
What
this "centre for harmonizing the actions of
nations" in pursuit of the common purposes articulated in the
Charter should do is to expand the approach to international
drug-control problems by making the requirements for
combating illicit drug trafficking an integral part of the
intrinsic components of human security.
From this
standpoint, the struggle against illicit drug trafficking will
undoubtedly require a sufficient level of resources, but it will
also and above all require an egalitarian concept of the
individual’s dignity and worth and the resolve to work for
that concept at all times and in all circumstances.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on Her Excellency
Mrs. Grete Knudsen, Minister for Social Affairs of Norway.
Mrs. KNUDSEN (Norway): With your permission, Sir,
I will divide my statement into two separate parts. First, I
shall speak on behalf of the Norwegian Government, and
then I shall make a brief statement on behalf of the
Pompidou Group.
The overall aim of the Norwegian illicit-drugs policy is
a society free from illicit drugs. Action against both the
supply of and demand for illicit drugs has been accorded a
high priority by the Norwegian Government ever since drug
abuse emerged as a new social problem among young people
in the mid-1960s.
Restrictive legal measures range from severe maximum
sentences for illicit trafficking to penalties for the possession
of illicit drugs for personal use and actual consumption as
well. At the same time, Norway tries to balance law-
enforcement measures with measures to reduce demand.
In line with the recommendations set forth in the
United Nations Global Programme of Action, Norwegian
policy is - as I see it - comprehensive, multisectorial and
multidisciplinary.
It comprises three major strategies:
First, a wide range of preventive measures are
promoted in order to strengthen the social networks in local
communities, where people live and children are brought up.
There are, however, clear limits to what can be achieved
through public efforts and funding. Much emphasis,
therefore, is put on encouraging local community members
to contribute towards making our communities drug-free and
better places to live in.
Secondly, we realize the need for maintaining a strong
public commitment and adequate public services at the local,
regional and state levels. We are thus aiming at maintaining
a net of effective and well-coordinated public services which
are able to adapt to the many changing aspects of the drug-
abuse phenomenon.
abuse
is
Thirdly,
since
indeed
illicit-drug
an
international problem, we regard increased international
cooperation to be of vital importance in our fight against the
illicit production of and trafficking in drugs. Substantive
progress can, in my opinion, be made also in the field of
demand reduction through increased systematic evaluation of
prevention and treatment programmes,
exchange of
experiences and systematic training of staff.
Although the problems we are facing may appear to be
overwhelming, I wish to make it abundantly clear that my
Government is opposed to any tendency toward resignation.
We strongly reject therefore any proposal aimed at legalizing
the non-medical use of drugs. Norway welcomes the very
clear and convincing way in which the International
Narcotics Control Board in its report has analysed the
consequences of legalization of the non-medical use of
drugs. Legalization would be contrary to existing provisions
of the international drug-control treaties.
I feel convinced
that it would at the same time lead to an expansion of
demand and that it would have a substantial impact on
public health and social well-being.
In a spirit of optimism, Norway will continue to
contribute substantially to international cooperation in the
field of drug-abuse control.
I would like to underline the
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
21
important role of the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme (UNDCP) in this respect as the focal
point for overall international coordination and as a global
resource centre. We look with keen interest
to the
involvement of the United Nations System-Wide Action Plan
and will consider how we can most efficiently support its
implementation.
I come now to the second part of my statement. As
current President of the Pompidou Group, I shall express
briefly some viewpoints on behalf of the Group.
The Pompidou Group is the Council of Europe’s
Cooperation Group to Combat Drug Abuse and Illicit
Trafficking in Drugs.
It comprises 25 European member
States and the Commission of the European Communities.
There are, admittedly, some real differences between
drug-abuse patterns and responses in the European countries.
We do, however, share a mutual and deep concern at the
continuing seriousness of drug abuse and illicit trafficking,
and the threat which they pose to society and to the health
and well-being of its citizens, most especially young people.
Europe is a diverse continent which is in a process of
continual change. We welcome the dynamic political,
economic and social changes that are taking place, but we
on
are
effective
collaboration,
these changes from leading to a further
increase in drug abuse and trafficking.
through more
preventing,
intent
The Pompidou Group provides at the European level a
forum where politicians, professionals and experts meet to
discuss how best to improve our understanding of the drug
phenomenon, its likely development and the action required
in response to it. Its work programme reflects the Group’s
multidisciplinary nature and approaches.
includes
activities in epidemiology in order to improve the data on
trends in drug abuse in Europe; activities in demand
reduction aiming at
translating into practical reality the
increased political importance attached to it; and action to
combat
trafficking with the objective of sharing
experience on the legislative approach to drug abuse and on
the functioning of the criminal justice system.
illicit
It
A major political priority of the Pompidou Group is to
bring the countries of Central and Eastern Europe into
participation in the Group’s activities, including those not yet
members of the Council of Europe, so as to help them
prevent the development of major problems related to the
large-scale production and trafficking of illegal drugs and
money-laundering in the region. We believe that the Group,
like the Council of Europe in general, has a vital role to play
in advancing dialogue and cooperation with these countries.
Acting on an initiative by the European Council in June
1990,
the Pompidou Group therefore convened the first
pan-European ministerial conference on cooperation on illicit
drug abuse problems in Oslo in May 1991. To review the
results and reinforce cooperation throughout Europe, the
second ministerial conference will be held in Strasbourg on
4 February 1994. By adopting a future programme of
activity, drafted in consultation with, inter alia, UNDCP, and
above all by reaffirming and strengthening the political will
throughout Europe to combat drugs actively, the Pompidou
Group can, we hope, provide a model
regional
cooperation in support of
the United Nations Global
Programme of Action.
for
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on His Excellency
Mr. Zbigniew M. Halat, Deputy Minister for Health and
Social Welfare of Poland.
Mr. HALAT (Poland): Never before in its 50-year
history has the United Nations faced so many pressing tasks
and formidable challenges
in every area of human
endeavour. Drug control is manifestly one of them. The
control system developed over the past century has so far
failed to produce the expected results. Drug abuse and illicit
trafficking pose one of the gravest threats to the world’s
for numerous reasons,
progress,
including the lack of
universal respect for international
the
legal
uneven application of control regimes and unstable political
and economic conditions in different parts of the world.
instruments,
At the same time, however, these negative phenomena
are accompanied by numerous manifestations of
the
determination and political will of States to give the highest
priority to combating this sinister threat. The present debate
in the highest organ of the United Nations is one such
remarkable manifestation.
Poland is vitally interested in participating in all
international actions aimed at
limiting and eventually
eliminating drug abuse and illicit trafficking. We firmly
believe that only the concerted action of all States, regardless
of their geographical location or the degree of their exposure
to the threats in question, can bring about the expected
results. We must
to all concerned to
strengthen international cooperation and redouble efforts to
broaden the areas appropriate for such cooperation.
therefore appeal
The United Nations
International Drug Control
Programme is particularly well equipped to act as a catalyst
for cooperative international effort. Established out of the
consolidation of the United Nations Division of Narcotic
Drugs, the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB)
secretariat and the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Control, it now ensures effective leadership for all United
Nations drug control activities. We offer our full support to
the Programme and its policies, which are designed to meet
the diverse needs of different regions. We hope that in view
of the growing problem of drug abuse and illicit drug traffic
in Central and Eastern Europe, multidisciplinary programmes
applied to our region will be vigorously pursued.
Task Force and the guidelines issued by INCB, practical
mechanisms have already been established in many
countries. Since most Governments have entrusted such
functions to agencies responsible for control of narcotic and
psychotropic substances, strengthening those agencies in
terms of personnel and financial resources has assumed
special importance.
to
The system created by international legal instruments,
particularly the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of
1961 and the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of
1971, has aimed at establishing a global equilibrium between
the demand for and the supply of narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances for licit purposes and at preventing
their diversion to illicit channels. It is therefore of primary
importance
the
international drug treaties. So far, the widest control has
been effected over narcotic drugs, and consequently their
distribution has been well protected from diversion into illicit
markets. However, control of poppy plantations, as well as
cannabis and coca bush plantations, remains the weakest
element of the system. The prompt
identification and
eradication of
illicit cultivation, as well as providing
substitute crops, are therefore extremely urgent tasks for the
global community.
adherence
universal
achieve
to
Because of the diversity of psychotropic substances and
their wide applicability, the control system instituted for that
group of substances has only begun to have a positive effect.
Visible progress in that area can be attributed both to the
larger number of States who are now parties to the 1971
Convention on Psychotropic Substances and to the fact that
control levels have been set at a higher ceiling than that
provided for by the provisions of that Convention.
Pursuant to Economic and Social Council resolution
1985/15, many countries have already extended the system
of import and export authorizations provided for in article 12
of the Convention to cover international trade in substances
listed in schedules III and IV of the Convention. Similarly,
resolution 1991/44 initiated a process of assessing annual
legitimate requirements for psychotropic substances. Once
the foregoing provisions
receive enough international
support, it will also prove possible to reduce diversion of
psychotropic substances to illicit
traffic, particularly to
developing countries.
The creation of monitoring and control systems to
prevent diversion of precursors and chemical substances
frequently used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic and
psychotropic substances would be another important step in
the process of establishing effective international control.
Following the recommendations of the Chemical Action
The 1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit
Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
introduced an array of new international control instruments
to combat illicit traffic by establishing principles of penal
responsibility, confiscation of proceeds derived from illicit
traffic and new forms of counteracting illicit traffic by sea.
Although the full effects of those actions will not be seen for
some years to come, we have to begin now to think of ways
to strengthen the effectiveness of
the law-enforcement
agencies and to utilize the existing structures, including
Interpol, the Customs Cooperation Council, the Heads of
National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies (HONLEA)
meetings and bilateral and regional agreements, for better
information exchange and more efficient cooperation in
combating illicit traffic. Judicial organs will have new tasks
not only because of the need for action on mutual legal
assistance in investigations and prosecution proceedings, but
also because of the complexity of the factual and legal
material of the cases to be examined. Special attention must
be given to the training of personnel at all levels.
international attention.
Control of the drug supply and the suppression of illicit
traffic have for many years been subjects of global concern.
The third element of the triad, demand reduction, seems to
have received the least
Our
knowledge of the epidemiological situation of drug addicts
and our
response to their growing numbers are still
inadequate. We therefore attach major
importance to
developing national systems of data collection in line with
the International Drug Abuse Assessment System. The
elaboration of any viable system of drug abuse prevention
and assistance to addicts is possible only on the basis of
credible indices which accurately determine the scope of the
problem.
of
The
treatment
processes
prevention,
and
rehabilitation differ greatly in individual countries. There is
no one effective system for approaching the problem of
addicts. Yet in this diversity of approaches, adapted to the
specific conditions of different countries, certain experiences
are worth sharing. We therefore offer our support to the
UNDCP initiative on the collection of information on
effective national action in that regard. The data thus
collected should be the backbone of the United Nations
strategy on demand reduction.
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
23
The United Nations has decided to devote the last
decade of the current century to action against drug abuse.
The decisions to be taken by the international community in
its struggle against drugs are therefore our responsibility.
Poland, too, wishes to contribute to the current debate its
own experience and achievements during our country’s
demanding time of political and economic transformations.
On 15 April of this year, President Lech Walesa signed the
ratification document of the 1972 Protocol amending the
Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961.
The
ratification process of the Convention against Illicit Traffic
in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances has been
considerably advanced;
the new Parliament should soon
adopt the ratification law on the Convention. Consequently,
Poland will have become party to all
instruments
currently binding the international community. This implies
that the system of national regulation will be fully adapted
to international standards.
legal
treatment,
Poland has been the first Central or Eastern European
country that has had to face problems of drug addiction. In
the course of the last several years, we have developed an
ambitious programme of
rehabilitation and
prevention of social pathologies. This has made it possible
to slow down the growing trends of drug addiction in the
late 1980s. As of late, health promotion, as an element of
early prevention, has been an important factor in the process.
Youth leaders have a special role to play in encouraging
lifestyles free from substance abuse.
To this end, a
Federation of Youth Leaders for Health Promotion has been
established.
Their functions consist of training health
promoters and training young people to adopt healthy
lifestyles.
Poland’s national programme on drug abuse
prevention is also supported by various professions,
including medical doctors, psychologists and social welfare
staff. We are ready to offer our experience to all interested
countries and organizations.
Drug addiction in Poland has developed on the basis of
raw materials available in the country, primarily poppy straw
from which heroine is obtained. In order to prevent its use
for illegal production of drugs, a new variety of opium
poppy has been developed.
It contains ten times lower
morphine content than the varieties used before. By the
decision of the Ministry of Agriculture, only the new variety
has been cultivated in Poland for the last two years to obtain
poppy seeds. We would wish to encourage other countries
to consider substituting new varieties for currently cultivated
poppy plants.
In recent years Poland has strengthened its cooperation
with the United Nations
International Drug Control
Programme. A special International Narcotics Control Board
(INCB) mission visited Poland last December. A month
ago, we jointly held with the INCB a Regional Training
Seminar for Drug Control Administrators from Central and
Eastern Europe, as well as from the Commonwealth of
Independent States. The participants in the Seminar adopted
a series of recommendations,
that
Warsaw become the venue of regular training meetings of
the kind for countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
including a proposal
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on the Permanent
Representative of Kazakhstan.
Ms. ARYSTANBEKOVA (Kazakhstan) (interpretation
from Russian): Today I have the honour to speak on behalf
of the countries that participate in the Commonwealth of
Independent States and Georgia and Moldova.
There is no country in the world that has not been
affected to some extent by the problem of drug addiction.
The summary of the report of the International Narcotics
Control Board for 1992, which we have before us,
emphasizes in this context that
"the world-wide drug abuse and trafficking situation
remained grim in 1992. Drugs have become available
for illicit purposes virtually everywhere in the world."
(E/1993/45, para. 2).
Drug trafficking is one of the most dangerous forms of
organized crime. The report of the Commission on Narcotic
Drugs on its thirty-sixth session states, inter alia, that
"drug-trafficking criminal groups were becoming more
professionally
ruthless, well-financed,
difficult
violence."
(E/1993/29, para. 22)
organized,
penetrate
to
and
prone
to
The discussion in the Commission revealed a close link
between drug trafficking and terrorist groups and the illegal
arms trade. Armed conflicts and political instability in
various countries and regions create favourable conditions
for illicit drug trafficking. There is, of course, a reverse
process as well:
illicit drug trafficking undermines law and
order, seriously impedes economic development, destabilizes
the situation and hampers democratic transformation and the
enjoyment of human rights and freedoms.
It seems that no country working alone is able to
reverse this negative trend of growing drug threat. To
achieve tangible results in this fight against "the global
epidemic", all members of the international community have
to join their efforts.
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
regard.
The United Nations, a focal point of the international
efforts to fight drug trafficking, has to make a unique
contribution in this
The Organization has
accumulated an impressive number of ideas and initiatives
in this area that should be implemented effectively at the
national level. We think that these efforts would be greatly
facilitated by the fundamental
restructuring of United
Nations activities in this area. This was seen, inter alia, in
the establishment of its drug control Programme.
The management of the Programme has done much to
turn it into an effective coordination centre dealing with all
drug control issues both within and outside the framework
of the United Nations. Supporting in general the steps taken
by the management of the Programme, we expect that they
will continue to be aimed at making United Nations
activities in this area more action-oriented and better
coordinated. We hope that the Programme will continue to
assist the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent
States and Georgia and Moldova in establishing and
maintaining in their territories an effective drug control
system.
We think that the Programme should base its activities
on the concept of mobility; in other words, it should be able
to respond promptly and adequately to new challenges to the
international community caused by the global drug situation.
It is also important to coordinate efforts with other
United Nations bodies, first of all in combating crime, in
order to avoid overlapping and to achieve tangible results,
making use of concerted efforts within the United Nations
system.
A strengthened universal international system to control
narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, based on
fundamental international drug control instruments, is an
important element of the Programme. We share the concern
of the International Narcotics Control Board over the fact
that 52 States are still not parties to the Single Convention
on Narcotic Drugs of 1961.
It is hard to disagree with the
conclusion in its report that there is an urgent need for the
newly independent States of the former Yugoslavia and the
former Soviet Union to be integrated into the international
drug control system. As the summary of the report states:
"Although the drug abuse situation in the former
socialist countries of Eastern Europe is not yet on a par
with that of Western Europe, the transitional phase of
these countries may provide traffickers with legal
loopholes they can take advantage of, which could have
an adverse
impact on the whole of Europe."
(E/1993/45, para. 31)
The argument concerning the need to ensure universal
participation, first by integrating the newly independent
States into the Treaty framework, fully applies to the 1988
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. The need to increase
these efforts was emphasized at the recent session of the
United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs. Over the
years, the Commission has become a highly professional
forum for drug control
interaction of States under the
auspices of the United Nations.
Its last session was no
exception. The Commission, taking into account the opinion
of
the International Narcotics Control Board, strongly
rejected proposals to legalize the non-medical use of drugs.
It stressed in its report that:
"Such initiatives would undermine the international
drug control system and jeopardize the implementation
of the existing international drug control treaties, which
constitute the cornerstone of that system." (E/1993/29,
para. 44)
It is satisfying that this decisive stand by the Commission
was endorsed by the Economic and Social Council. The
Commission’s position regarding the inadmissibility of
decriminalizing the abuse of drugs and psychotropic
substances and its negative attitude towards the elimination
of strict State control over the use of drugs are also
commendable.
Taking into the account the results of the discussion in
the Commission, I would like to draw attention to some of
the proposals made at its session with a view to improving
further the international system of control of narcotic drugs
and psychotropic substances.
In our opinion, we should
consider in this context the idea of drafting a new unified
convention merging all existing multilateral instruments in
this field, which would allow us to eliminate "double entry
book-keeping" in issues of control and create favourable
conditions for improving the effectiveness of the activities of
the
International Narcotics Control Board and the
international drug control system in general.
As concerns making the fight against international drug
trafficking and other
related criminal activities more
effective, we welcome the proposal in the report transmitted
by the Secretary-General
the United Nations
"for
expedite
consideration of the possibilities and options for judicial
action at the international level". (A/48/178, para. 37)
system to
In this context, the International Law Commission could be
called upon to expedite its work on the establishment of an
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
25
international criminal court which, acting on behalf of the
international community as a whole, could become an
instrument to ensure the punishment of drug traffickers.
aspects of the problem: supply, demand, illicit trafficking,
rehabilitation of users and money laundering.
The States members of
the Commonwealth of
Independent States, as well as Georgia and Moldova, attach
great importance to the United Nations Decade against Drug
Abuse (1991-2000), proclaimed on the initiative of Ukraine.
It is important to ensure that the opportunities provided by
the Decade be used in the most efficient way by promoting
the wider knowledge and participation of Governments,
specialized agencies of
system,
non-governmental organizations and public figures. The
Decade provides a good opportunity for activities at the
international, regional and national levels, primarily through
preventing this scourge by taking appropriate educational
measures and promoting a healthy way of life, which would
bar drugs from schools and the workplace.
the United Nations
The drug control efforts of the United Nations will
produce the necessary results only if they are reinforced by
concrete steps at the regional, bilateral and national levels.
The States on whose behalf I am speaking today are
becoming actively involved in cooperation,
through the
Council of Europe, to fight drug addiction. It is our serious
intention in Asia to participate in the multilateral interaction
on these issues, including interaction under the auspices of
the United Nations. Movement in that direction has already
begun.
Efforts have been initiated to establish a drug control
system within the Commonwealth of Independent States.
Multilateral agreements concerning the fight against illicit
drug trafficking and legal assistance in criminal cases have
been concluded. The law-enforcement agencies have been
taking measures against syndicates of traffickers. We count
on the continued cooperation of the United Nations and its
bodies on these issues.
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
Turkey.
Mr. BATU (Turkey): Due to the lateness of the hour,
I shall present a shorter version of my prepared statement.
The full text will be available to all delegations.
Despite drug Conventions, the Global Programme of
Action and the United Nations System-Wide Action Plan,
drug abuse and illicit trafficking continue to be a global
threat, often linked to terrorist activities and illegal arms
trading, and call for a vigorous and concerted international
response. Such a response has to be directed equally to all
The creation of the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme (UNDCP) has enabled the Organization
to play a central
role in the struggle against drugs.
However, to fulfil its mandate properly, UNDCP needs a
solid and viable financial base. Considering that the annual
monetary turnover of drug traffickers is $500 billion, while
UNDCP has received only $13.8 million from the regular
budget for the 1992-1993 biennium and $186.6 million from
extrabudgetary contributions,
funds
remains the most
Therefore, United
Nations activities in drug abuse control should be granted a
greater share of the regular budget and more generous
voluntary contributions.
the availability of
important factor.
Another concern is that 90 per cent of the voluntary
contributions are made by four major donors and are
generally earmarked for certain projects. This prevents
UNDCP from being flexible in the optimal utilization of its
funds. We urge the major donors to facilitate the work of
UNDCP by donating funds to be used for general purposes.
UNDCP, which was established in 1991 by General
Assembly resolution 45/179, is now headed by the Director-
General of the United Nations Office at Vienna, who can
allocate only a part of his time to this very important and
challenging task. While the Secretary-General is looking
into ways of reforming the United Nations and of trying to
make it more efficient in order to respond to the needs of
our times, we urge him to restructure UNDCP accordingly.
We also urge UNDCP to concentrate more on areas that
the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB), as an
independent body of experts, identifies as problematic, and
be more internationally oriented rather than majordonor-
oriented.
Turkey, which has made substantial economic, financial
and social sacrifices and is still the subject of illicit drug
trafficking, faces difficulties in cooperating with UNDCP in
the prevailing circumstances. We believe that UNDCP
should adopt more transparent mechanisms in the preparation
of projects and programmes - in response to the demands of
the policy-making organs - and should cooperate intensively
with donors and with countries facing drug abuse and
trafficking. We also request UNDCP to cooperate very
closely with the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice
Branch in Vienna and seek ways of allocating some of its
funds for
the Branch’s activities to prevent organized
international crime linked to drug trafficking.
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
I should now like to touch upon the substantial
problems relating to drugs that Turkey has faced and
continues to face.
Turkey, as specified in Economic and Social Council
resolutions based on subparagraph 3 of
the Single
Convention’s article 24, is a traditional supplier country. It
face a significant drug-abuse problem.
does not
However,
in solidarity with the international
community, Turkey stopped the production of opium in view
of the risks of diversion into illicit channels and in spite of
the heavy financial and economic losses, as well as social
problems, that were entailed.
itself
in 1974,
Balkans, Caucasus and Central Asia are heralding increasing
variations in the Balkan route’s transit and entry points to
Western European countries, and are aggravating the existing
problems considerably. The latest figures substantiate this
unfortunate development.
We request that particular attention should be paid to
these new routes and recommend the adoption of new and
enforced methods of cooperating with the newly independent
countries. My country has already offered to make its
facilities available for close cooperation of this kind, and
looks forward to the formulation by UNDCP of effective
projects entailing such cooperation.
This decision has also burdened Turkey with monitoring
the cultivation of unlanced poppy straw as well as the
complicated manufacturing and marketing problems of
alkaloids. Turkey still suffers in international trade from this
switch in the manufacturing process. Turkey should not
become the victim of its goodwill and responsible conduct.
Thus, we take this occasion to call on the licit importing
countries to share this responsibility, to continue to fulfil
their obligations towards the traditional supplier countries,
and not to consider this subject as a purely commercial
matter.
Moreover, as indicated in every INCB report, it is most
necessary to maintain a balance between licit demand for
opiates and their supply. In this respect, due regard should
be given to the special situation and needs of the traditional
supplier countries and the provisions of the Economic and
Social Council resolutions supporting the traditional supplier
countries.
In the same context, we should like to emphasize our
support for the INCB’s recommendations relating to the
convening of periodic meetings between the main producer
countries of opiate raw materials and the main importers.
I should also like to emphasize an issue that Turkey has
been taking up in international forums for about 10 years
now, namely the link between illicit drug trafficking, the
illegal traffic in arms and international terrorism; 10 years
ago, Turkey initially met with considerable resistance to this
notion of a link. However, developments, as we all know,
have proved that this phenomenon is even more widespread
than we thought.
Turkey is situated along the longest segment of the
Balkan route.
This presents Turkish law-enforcement
authorities with a formidable task in combating heavy transit
trafficking. Furthermore, the changed political situation in
Eastern Europe and the emergence of new States in the
Before concluding,
I should like to reiterate my
Government’s firm commitment to contributing to the fight
against drug abuse
and its
determination to cooperate with all concerned Governments
and the United Nations system.
and illicit
trafficking,
The PRESIDENT:
In accordance with the decision
taken earlier at this meeting, I now call on the Observer of
the Holy See.
Archbishop MARTINO (Holy See): The phenomenon
of drug abuse has been characterized by Pope John Paul II
as one of the greatest tragedies plaguing society today. He
has described the illegal drug market as a phenomenon of
terrifying scope and proportions, not only because of the
very high number of lives brought to an end, but also
because of the worrisome spread of the moral contagion.
Therefore, it is with great interest and concern that the Holy
See is following the item at present under consideration,
entitled "International drug control".
The spread of
the scourge of drugs has reached
proportions commensurate with the growing crises and
general misery in every region of the world. It is distressing
to see the ever-widening groups seeking this escape: victims
of famine and insurrection, the urban unemployed, those
trying to survive economic restructuring, the homeless, the
destitute.
We are also informed that the high-risk groups are no
longer restricted to out-of-school youth, street children,
rural-to-urban migrants, the urban poor and the socially
disaffected.
Industrialized society has shattered the social
and economic base of communal societies, so indigenous
peoples are now resorting to drugs as a solution.
Increasingly, the elderly are falling victim to the misuse and
overuse
as
overmedication and excessive prescribing, and misuse, of
tranquillizers in institutions that care for the elderly.
psychotropic
substances,
of
as well
39th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
27
Governments but also other societal institutions, has no role
to play in overcoming the root causes of this crisis. In this
regard, the Church clearly places a responsibility on the
political community to ensure the defence of
familial
security and health, particularly regarding such dangers as
drugs.
The United Nations system and individual members of
the international community are to be commended for the
many programmes being undertaken to address this modern
plague.
The Holy See appreciates the efforts of all
Government leaders and citizens who are truly committed to
eradicating the production, sale and misuse of illicit drugs
and substances, recognizing that such efforts can and often
do involve heroic sacrifices.
Meaningful collaboration in drug-control efforts is to be
encouraged among the various agencies within the United
Nations, between the United Nations and Member States,
and among States themselves. We also applaud initiatives
for preventive education in the home, at school and in the
workplace. The emphasis this measure is receiving at the
international, national and local levels must be continued,
and due consideration must be given to the inclusion of
instruction concerning moral and ethical values.
Other activities of
the United Nations and the
international community are also to be commended, in
As unemployment rates have risen, so has the incidence
of drug abuse by the unemployed and underemployed. We
are witnessing a tragic rise of drug abuse in a group that
would already seem to have lost everything:
refugees,
asylum-seekers and displaced persons.
It is evident that individuals who are in misery and
despair resort to the use of drugs because they feel they have
nowhere else to turn. And the drug crisis is not simply a
by-product of
is
aggravating other volatile social problems:
the diversion of
arms and explosives, insurrections, terrorist activities and
civil wars.
the drug market
social
ills;
itself
While the root causes of illicit drug use are still being
studied and may well vary from one region of the world to
another, one can distinguish many factors that contribute to
its dramatic increase.
In his message to the International
Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, Pope John
Paul II asserted that
"Surely a primary one is the breakdown of the
family.
In addition, there is a steady weakening of
traditional ways of life which for generations have
passed on cultural values and given meaning to daily
existence;
there are increasing tensions in human
relationships, rising unemployment, subhuman standards
of living, fears engendered by the threat of nuclear war
and numerous other social factors, not the least of
which is a psychological need to escape from the
hardships and painful responsibilities of life. But at the
root of this evil is the loss of ethical and spiritual
values.
If it is true that the youth of today are the
greatest consumers of hard drugs, then it is legitimate
to ask if this is due to the kind of society in which our
young people are being reared."
The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in
his report on the implementation of the Global Programme
of Action, notes
the
identification of necessary measures to combat drug abuse at
the root of the problem, giving special attention to the social
causes. The report adds that
the Programme calls
that
for
"Several States continue to consider that the root causes
lie with the individual and are not of social origin".
(A/48/286, para. 22)
The Church acknowledges the individual’s responsibility to
reject the unnecessary use of drugs, and the grave culpability
of the individual who engages in the illegal production of
and trafficking in drugs. However, the Holy See would take
issue with any contention that society, including not only
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
particular those directed at halting the illegal production of
and trafficking in narcotic drugs
and psychotropic
substances; rehabilitation, treatment and social reintegration
programmes; and alternative development programmes.
However, many of these efforts may be hindered and
indeed wasted unless the international community exercises
the will to confront the issues underlying the global drug
crisis. The elements of the interrelationship between the
tragedy of drugs and the other crises facing the world
community have been acknowledged:
poverty and the
related issues of excessive international debt, the restrictive
international trading regime, and lack of resources and of
access to markets. Each of us - individually, as States and
as a world community - must begin to recognize the human
dignity of every individual, and from that perspective obtain
the courage to take all necessary action.
In accordance with its moral principles and teachings,
the Church itself has inspired and is operating numerous
centres throughout
the world, striving to prevent drug
addiction and to provide drug addicts with treatment and
rehabilitation.
In his address to the Sixth International Conference on
Drugs and Alcoholism against Life, Pope John Paul II
concluded that the phenomena of the drug problem
"cannot be combated, nor can effective action be taken
for the healing and recovery of their victims, unless the
human values of love and life are first restored - the
only values capable, especially if
illuminated by
religious faith, of giving full meaning to our existence.
Society cannot and must not meet with indifference the
sense of being an outsider which so often afflicts drug
addicts ... . Laws are needed. Facilities are needed.
Bold action is required.
"As it is up to the Church, then, to work on a
moral and pedagogical level, intervening with great
sensitivity in this specific area, so it is up to public
institutions to adopt a serious policy aimed at healing
situations of personal and social unease".
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
