United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 108
RIGHT OF PEOPLES TO SELF-DETERMINATION
(b) EFFECTIVE REALIZATION OF THE RIGHT OF
S E L F - D E T E R M I N A T I O N T H R O U G H
AUTONOMY
The PRESIDENT: Members will recall that at its 3rd
plenary meeting, held on 24 September,
the Assembly
decided that this sub-item would be allocated to the Third
Committee on the understanding that it would be introduced
in plenary meeting and considered in the Third Committee.
The Assembly will now hear an address by the Head of
State of
the Principality of Liechtenstein, His Serene
Highness Prince Hans-Adam II of Liechtenstein, who will
introduce in the course of his address sub-item (b) of agenda
item 108, "Effective realization of
the right of self-
determination through autonomy".
His Serene Highness Prince Hans-Adam II of
Liechtenstein was escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT:
On behalf of
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations
the Principality of
Liechtenstein, His Serene Highness Prince Hans-Adam II of
Liechtenstein, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
the Head of State of
36th
PLENARY MEETING
Monday, 25 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
Prince HANS-ADAM II OF LIECHTENSTEIN: I am
speaking in order to introduce sub-item (b) of agenda
This item is new this year, added to the
item 108.
Assembly’s agenda at
I
should like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude
to the Members of the United Nations for allowing us in this
way to open up discussion on a matter which we believe to
be of great potential value in avoiding human suffering and
maintaining a more peaceful world.
the initiative of Liechtenstein.
In previous years we have put forward our ideas and
suggestions during the course of the general debate. This
was done first when I had the honour to address the
forty-sixth session of the General Assembly in 1991, during
the second general debate in which Liechtenstein participated
after becoming a Member of the United Nations. The
thoughts which I expressed on that occasion were amplified
in the statement made the following year at the forty-seventh
session by the Head of Government of Liechtenstein,
Mr. Hans Brunhart.
In those statements we explained the
thinking underlying our suggestions.
It is quite simple.
We see all around us that civil strife within States often
involves great suffering and that, even though such strife
might have its root causes within a State, there is always the
danger that its impact will soon spread beyond its borders,
thus threatening the security of a whole region or even
international security more widely. None of us can sit back
and accept all that with equanimity. But we also notice that
civil strife is often caused by the social tensions which build
up when distinctive groups within States are not allowed
adequate means through which to express their distinctive
identity.
If we could only find the means whereby such
self-expression could be encouraged, the occasion for civil
strife, with all its attendant dangers and suffering, could be
much reduced and perhaps in some cases avoided altogether.
And how much better would it be to put in place some
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86952 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.36
11 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
suitable arrangements before tensions explode into conflict,
rather than waiting until that has already happened and then
trying to pick up the pieces. The Secretary-General has
reminded us all of the extreme importance of preventive
diplomacy, as distinct
reactive
diplomacy.
from the more usual
As we see it, the principle of self-determination, as
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and other
important international legal instruments, still has unexplored
potential which offers the possibility that progress might be
made in the directions we seek, and autonomy offers a
particularly helpful practical device which could be
developed within the broad scope of that principle.
All
that
this led us to suggest
the international
community should explore the possibility of communities’
having a degree of autonomy. This concept is very flexible
and can be used constructively to cover different aspects of
self-determination and thereby tailor
the degree of
self-expression enjoyed by communities to whatever is
appropriate in their particular circumstances. We envisage
some minimal mechanisms and procedures being made
available to help States and communities in their search for
suitable models of autonomy which they might
find
appropriate to their needs.
That is the essence of our ideas and of the reasoning
behind them. Since they were first put before the Assembly
in 1991 we have had the opportunity to listen to the very
constructive comments of a number of interested States. In
particular, we have had the benefit of the views expressed at
the informal meeting of experts which Liechtenstein had the
great pleasure and privilege of hosting in Liechtenstein last
March. Those comments and views, and our own further
reflections, have enabled us to refine our thinking a little
further. Now that we have come to a discussion of our ideas
in the context of this agenda item, it is fitting that I should
elaborate on them further. I should like to begin by drawing
attention to four points which are basic to our suggestions.
First,
the
the
initial
impetus of
principle of
self-determination has been in the field of decolonization.
While that process is not yet completed, by far the greatest
part of it has been achieved, and this Assembly can look
with satisfaction at the role it played. But self-determination
is a principle of continuing value. Without in any way
diminishing its relevance to situations of colonialism or alien
domination which may still exist, our proposals look in a
different direction and seek to put renewed emphasis on that
principle as a valuable factor in a new context.
independence is not
Secondly, self-determination is a very broad principle
including
allowing for many forms of development,
in the context of decolonization,
independence. Indeed,
In our
independence was usually the primary goal.
the primary
perspective, however,
objective; it would be wrong to exclude it in principle, but
we believe that the objective of finding ways of defusing
dangerous tensions - an objective which I am sure is widely
shared - is preferably to be achieved through the concept of
autonomy. This, too, is a flexible concept, but essentially it
is concerned with what may be called "internal self--
determination".
It allows for a degree of self-expression
which can be sufficient to reflect a community’s sense of
identity. It also allows account to be taken of the particular
and diverse circumstances which exist within many States.
It allows for development over time, as the circumstances
may warrant. And most important of all, it does not threaten
the fragmentation of States or the creation of numerous tiny
independent entities. The value of autonomy as a concept
which may prove helpful will be evident to us all from
recent developments, particularly in the Middle East.
Thirdly, our emphasis on autonomy as the concept
which offers the most hopeful way forward also underlies
our belief that our concern should be with the position of
distinctive communities within States.
It is the frustrations
of such communities that so often lead to the kind of
tensions, and then conflicts, we wish to avoid.
Fourthly, it is our belief that it is not enough just to
express the right sentiments:
we must add suitable
provisions that will serve to make the outcome one which
will prove effective in practice. By this we do not mean the
construction of any elaborate and costly organizational
structure, but we envisage the introduction of simple
mechanisms to ensure that whatever proposals are eventually
agreed upon will be likely to work effectively in practice.
Let me now look a little more closely at some of the
main elements in our thinking.
It will be apparent from
what I have already said that our concerns are with the
tensions that arise between communities. "Community" is
a term which I believe we all generally understand, but
which can sometimes be difficult to pin down with legal
precision. The classic formula often used by the United
Nations in some other contexts refers to groups having a
linguistic,
their
distinctive identities. While we do not necessarily suggest
that that formula should be adopted in the present context,
it does help to identify the sort of lines along which it may
be helpful to think.
religious, cultural or ethnic basis for
36th meeting - Monday, 25 October 1993
3
I
I would, however, wish to emphasize that our concept
of a "community" is not the same as a "minority". Much
valuable work has, of course, been done on the position of
minorities, both within the United Nations -
refer
particularly to the Declaration on the Rights of Persons
Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic
Minorities, which was adopted last year - and in other
bodies, such as the Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe (CSCE), and most recently in the Council of
Europe at its Summit meeting in Vienna. But although there
may be some overlap between the ideas of "community" and
"minority", they are essentially different. The main thrust of
our concerns is with the political and cultural aspirations of
communities, which possess, in a way that many minorities
do not, a degree of territorial and social cohesion.
We believe that, within the broad principle of
self-determination, such communities should be recognized
as having legitimate aspirations to an appropriate degree of
autonomy, which must be respected and secured. They
should be enabled, by the exercise of their own free choice,
to give appropriate expression to their own political, social,
economic and cultural aspirations in accordance with the best
interests of their members.
These aims must, we believe, be pursued with
considerable flexibility.
The circumstances of each
community and of each State differ greatly. Their diversity
must be taken into account. As we see it, the way forward
can best be found through acknowledging varying degrees of
autonomy to be enjoyed by communities. The forms of
autonomy allow for very great flexibility; its many elements
can be combined in a multitude of different ways. But
viewed overall, it is possible to see several broad levels of
autonomy, each of which progressively adds to the degree to
which the community conducts its own affairs.
But, at the same time, out of respect for the territorial
integrity of States, we do not consider it appropriate to
suggest that these successive levels of autonomy should
follow each other by some automatic or mandatory process.
Rather, they should be dependent upon the request of the
community concerned and the consent of the State in
question, so that progress towards greater autonomy would,
in effect, be through some kind of optional process.
In our view, the first, very basic, level of autonomy
should, however, be acknowledged for all communities
having a sufficient degree of distinctive identity. This would
cover only some very modest and basic requirements, such
as non-discrimination and freedom for the community to
practise and enjoy its distinctive community characteristics.
In certain areas of public administration community
members should be guaranteed a proper role - for example,
by participating in public affairs through voting in elections
and standing for public office; at the local or national level,
there should be organs of public administration concerned
with matters affecting the community’s interests; and the
community should be involved in appropriate ways in the
taking of governmental decisions affecting its interests.
The particular circumstances might, of course, indicate
that something beyond those basic entitlements would be
appropriate. This might be particularly likely with the
passage of time, as a community grows in experience and
demonstrates its fitness to move on to autonomy in further
areas. These developments would happen on a case-by-case
basis
a progressive degree of
decentralization.
and would involve
But let me repeat: the acknowledgement of any further
degree of autonomy beyond the very basic initial
level
would, in our view, be a matter for specific acceptance by
the State concerned.
Indeed, we envisage that at all levels
of autonomy detailed implementing arrangements would
need to be worked out between the State and the community
concerned.
We do not suggest that there should be any hard and
fast prescription of
the elements that would comprise
successive levels of autonomy. As I have said, it is of the
essence that the arrangements should be flexible, and hence
capable of helping in the infinitely variable circumstances
that are likely to arise. But, by way of illustration, let me
say that at a relatively early stage the community might be
enabled, through its elected representatives, to administer
funds allocated for its benefit. The community could make
its own direct contribution to the preservation of order and
the administration of justice within the State. There could
even be provision for the community to administer schools
in the community’s area, for use by members of the
community.
At more advanced levels of autonomy a community
could have various additional rights, such as the right to
establish a local
representative legislature with certain
limited powers over the community. The community could
also be accorded certain rights with regard to the
administration of State functions within the community’s
area, but, of course, excluding matters of foreign affairs or
defence.
Ultimately, and in our view relatively infrequently,
independence might be appropriate in certain cases where it
is agreed by the State concerned. It would be for the State
and the community to negotiate and agree the details
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
whereby an orderly transition to independence might be
achieved.
It might nevertheless be appropriate, indeed, it
might be positively helpful to the parties concerned, to draw
attention to certain considerations which would be relevant
in this context - for example, that the community’s system
of government should include safeguards for the proper
observance of democracy, and that the community should
subscribe to international human rights commitments.
But independence is not the primary objective of our
initiative; we are looking much more at the forms of what
may be styled internal self-determination than at processes
designed to lead to the attainment of independence. As I
have said, these successive stages of autonomy - after the
first - would be optional. In addition, it may prove desirable
to include certain further safeguards for the position of
States.
I have in mind such requirements as that any
progress by a community from one level of autonomy to the
next should be dependent upon its having satisfactory
experience of conducting its affairs at the preceding level,
and that the rights to be enjoyed by a community at the
various levels of autonomy would have to be exercised
within the constitution and laws of the State.
Some modest and basic forms of assistance should be
available, through independent procedures, to ensure the
effective operation in practice of this pattern of flexible and
graduated degrees of autonomy. This might involve three
components.
First, there should be a body with responsibility for
ensuring
effectively
implemented, which could also, if necessary, be responsible
for regulating any financial aspects of its work.
underlying
policy
that
the
is
Secondly,
there would need to be some authority
charged with an active and positive role in the practical
operation of arrangements for the effective realization of the
various levels of autonomy. This authority could offer
assistance if there were any difficulties, for example, by way
of good offices or mediation. Perhaps associated with that
authority’s functions there could be an international research
and advice centre.
Thirdly, arrangements would be needed to provide for
the peaceful resolution of any differences that might arise.
It is our firm conviction that something along the lines
that I have outlined would advance, in a very practical way,
the fundamental principle of self-determination. Developing
the specific concept of autonomy would open up a further
area in which the right of self-determination could be made
more effective in practice, without prejudice to all that has
already been achieved, and still remains to be achieved, in
more traditional areas. It would also, we believe, contribute
to the avoidance of future conflicts that have their root
causes in the tensions between communities within States.
Recent events have, tragically, shown us all that this is a
matter of urgency.
In my first statement to the General Assembly, at its
forty-sixth session, I said that some scheme such as I have
outlined could eventually be embodied in a convention.
I
realize that this is an ambitious goal, but we believe that it
is a possible way in which, in due course, progress could be
made.
That is not, however, our immediate object in bringing
this topic on to the agenda of the General Assembly. We
recognize that many aspects of our proposals are technically
difficult, politically sensitive or both. We are therefore very
anxious to hear
the
Organization. We have already held in Liechtenstein the
informal meeting of experts to which I have referred. It was
most valuable, but,
the
participants were expressed only on a personal, expert basis.
We hope,
that many delegations will now
participate in the discussions in the Third Committee.
the membership of
the views of
the views of
intentionally,
therefore,
We shall, of course, study with the greatest care
whatever views are expressed here. While our underlying
concerns are unlikely to diminish, our thinking about the
ways in which those concerns might be met is very flexible.
We hope that the debate on which we are now embarking
will enable us to come forward next year with specific
proposals to put before the General Assembly.
Consequently, our immediate aim is simply to open up
discussion on the problems we have identified and on our
ideas for helping to overcome them. We hope that the
General Assembly will agree to resume consideration of this
topic at the forty-ninth session, next year. We shall be
circulating a draft resolution seeking just
that - and no
more - in the course of the coming days.
The problems that we are trying to address are very
serious, not just for those of our fellow human beings who
are suffering directly from the kind of conflict with which
we are concerned, but also for all of us. We believe that the
international community must do everything it can - take
every opportunity, explore every possibility -
to help
alleviate that suffering.
It is as a contribution to that end
that I have ventured to put before the Assembly ideas that
might - and we believe will - be helpful, and we look
forward to the debate that will follow.
36th meeting - Monday, 25 October 1993
5
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Head of State of the
Principality of Liechtenstein for the statement he has just
made.
On behalf of
His Serene Highness Prince Hans-Adam II of
Liechtenstein was escorted from the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: We have concluded this stage of
our consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 108.
AGENDA ITEM 8 (continued)
ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA AND ORGANIZATION
OF WORK: FIFTH REPORT OF THE GENERAL
COMMITTEE (A/48/250/Add.4)
The PRESIDENT:
I now draw the attention of
representative to the fifth report of the General Committee,
which has been circulated as document A/48/250/Add.4.
The report concerns the request by a number of
countries for the inclusion in the agenda of the current
session of an additional item entitled "Economic assistance
to States affected by the implementation of the Security
Council resolutions imposing sanctions against the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)".
The General Committee decided to recommend to the
General Assembly that the item should be included in the
agenda.
TENTATIVE PROGRAMME OF WORK
The PRESIDENT: I should like to inform members of
a change in the programme of work. On Tuesday,
16 November, in the morning the Assembly will consider
agenda item 26, "Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe".
This agenda item had originally been scheduled for
consideration as the first item on Monday, 22 November, in
the morning.
Further, I should like to remind representatives that the
Pledging Conference for Development Activities will be held
on Tuesday, 2 November, and Wednesday, 3 November, in
the morning.
The Conference will be opened by the
Secretary-General.
I
that
should also like to inform members
the
announcement of voluntary contributions to the 1994
programmes of the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees will take place on Wednesday,
10 November, in the afternoon, and that the announcement
of voluntary contributions to the 1994 programmes of the
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East will
take place on Friday,
3 December, in the morning.
AGENDA ITEM 22
UNIVERSITY FOR PEACE: DRAFT RESOLUTION
(A/48/L.11)
May I take it that the Assembly decides to include in
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly has before it draft
its agenda this additional item?
resolution A/48/L.11.
It was so decided.
I call on the representative of Costa Rica to introduce
the draft resolution.
The PRESIDENT: The General Committee further
decided to recommend to the Assembly that the item should
be allocated to the Second Committee.
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts this
recommendation?
It was so decided.
The PRESIDENT: The Chairman of the Second
Committee will be informed of the decision just taken.
Mr. TATTENBACH (Costa Rica) (interpretation from
Spanish): For many years the delegation of Costa Rica has
spoken on the item "University for Peace", as most members
of the General Assembly will be aware. The impression
may even have been created that Costa Rica has
appropriated - so to speak - the University for Peace for
itself. But that is not the case. It is just that we appreciate
the University for Peace and have placed great hope in it,
because peace is an ideal and a virtue deeply rooted in the
soul of Costa Rica.
The University for Peace is an institution of the United
Nations, and accordingly does not belong to any one
country. This must be fully understood, because it creates
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
and establishes
commitments
that
require
the University for Peace is to discover who should be
educated for peace - whether leaders, the middle class or the
people - and how, and at what cost.
The immense
complexity of using the mass media is a problem in and of
itself requiring a whole chapter.
Lastly, we must think about the fact that peace, just like
the absence of peace, is today a global problem. There can
be no conception of stable peace in one part of the world
without peace elsewhere. It would be like trying to imagine
an infection in one part of the body that has no effect on the
rest of the body.
I mention this because I believe that the
efforts to educate for peace should be supported by all the
States of the international community. That requirement,
fortunately, is being met - but slowly.
In short, the concept of educating for peace is no longer
just a good intention; it must, rather, be seen as a new, very
modern and complex discipline that
is related to many
existing disciplines but that, by dint of its particular aim, is
different from all of them.
I believe the day is not far off
when ministries of peacemaking will replace ministries of
defence and when there are institutes of higher education for
peace rather than the prestigious, but slowly becoming
obsolete, military academies. With our University for Peace,
we are making a humble, modest attempt to take a first step
in this endeavour.
I shall now put abstract thoughts aside and report on
the work of the University for Peace over a period of more
than a year and a half, since January 1992. That very month
there was a seminar on family life and education for peace.
At the end of the month there was a Central American
workshop on protected border areas.
In February 1992 the
University made a presentation before a plenary meeting of
the Central American Parliament. Also in February 1992 the
Director-General of
the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, Mr. Felipe Mayor,
visited the University. In April 1992 the Regional Institute
of Labour Relations was established.
to
December 1992 an extensive programme on promoting
human rights and on education for peace was carried out. In
September 1992 the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, Mr. Maurice
Strong, came on a formal visit. In October 1992 the United
Nations agreed to designate the University’s documentation
and information centre a United Nations depositary library.
In December 1992 master’s courses in international relations
and in ecology, natural resources and peace were concluded,
having benefited a group of students from 32 different
countries.
From April
6
situations
acceptance.
Moreover, we must understand that, as has been said
repeatedly, the way to attain the goal of the University is
and always will be education. That is easy to say, but it
entails a whole series of requirements.
First, it is necessary to define what peace is. To say
merely that peace is not simply the absence of war, or to say
that another word for peace is development, is to speak the
truth, but it is an oversimplification of the truth. Our world
today is extremely complex, so much so that the end of the
bipolarity that had caused so many tensions resulted not in
a reduction of those tensions, but in an inexplicable increase.
It is inexplicable that people on the brink of famine, instead
of
rejoicing when they are offered relief, become
indescribably indignant towards those who bring them food,
or that peoples offered the restoration of democratic life
reject it obstinately. Why? It is because the souls of people
are complicated and must be fully understood, in depth,
before action is taken.
the
University for Peace. Its mandate is research on and study
of the factors that mould the internal and external relations
of peoples in all their myriad facets, which include law,
economics,
health,
statistics, psychology and even religion, not to mention the
environment and climate.
is the objective of
history,
That
sociology,
anthropology,
With all these factors which affect society taken into
account - and my list may not be complete - there can be a
valid interdisciplinary analysis to understand what is going
on in the world.
Obviously, what
I have outlined is far
from the
romantic, old-fashioned idea of peace. But peace is no
longer romantic; it is a reality and an extremely complex
need that must be examined in the light of efficient, modern
criteria.
What I have said so far is more diagnostic than
prescriptive of remedies, because knowing what is going on
does not automatically mean that one knows what should be
done:
in this case, who should be educated and how. But
today education is, as it has always been, an immense need
of peoples.
I shall always remember the inscription on a monument
in Paris to Danton, which says:
"After bread, the most
important need of the individual is education". And if at the
time of the French Revolution education was already so
important for the individual, today it is important not only
for the individual, but also for peoples. One of the tasks of
36th meeting - Monday, 25 October 1993
7
In February 1993 the World Meeting of Women was
held at the University for Peace. The same month the
Teilhard de Chardin Cultural Association was established.
In March the German theologian Dr. Hans Küng paid a visit.
The same month a course was given on saving tropical
forests by means of the use of non-wood products and
services. Also in March the University for Peace gave talks
to the Nicaraguan army. In the same month, Quakers from
the United States lent
to the University’s
educational mission.
In April the post-graduate specialist
course in labour relations and human resources was initiated.
Also in April, courses were given on the management of
buffer zones.
In May an agreement was signed with the
Central University of Venezuela and the Latin American
Workers Centre to
their support
"make the great Latin American homeland a zone of
peace, founded on democracies that are based on
freedom and social justice".
In June there was an international forestry course. The same
month a seminar on information management in crisis and
emergency situations was organized. In July a series of talks
was given at
the National Autonomous University of
Nicaragua to deal with the challenge of rebuilding the
Nicaraguan political system.
In August an agreement was
signed between the Costa Rican Supreme Court of Justice
and the University. Also in August short courses were
initiated for the training of indigenous leaders, this being the
International Year of the World’s Indigenous People.
In
September a course was initiated on the resolution of
conflicts over the management of natural resources. This
month a seminar/workshop is being held on economic
democracy and civil society:
towards a social and labour
consensus in Guatemala. Finally, on 15 October the first
post-graduate specialist course in labour relations and human
resources was concluded.
cover
relations,
international
All the attention given these activities and events has
not detracted from the attention given the seven master’s
courses running from September 1991 to 1995. These
courses
on
2 September 1991 and ending in June 1993, and natural
resources, ecology and peace, beginning in October 1991 and
ending in June 1993. Other such courses will subsequently
be carried out
in social concertation and programming,
education for peace and human rights. The last four courses
are at present scheduled to begin in 1994.
beginning
As these courses are completed over the next six years
they will produce about 200 experts in each of the fields of
study. Those professionals will be able to serve in their
different
fields of knowledge and join various public
In particular, they will be able to provide
institutions.
technical knowledge for the fulfilment of the Secretary-
General’s "Agenda for Peace",
for the prevention and
resolution of conflicts and for peace-building. These fields
of study can be expanded in the future.
I also wish to tell the Assembly briefly about two
bodies related to the University for Peace:
the Gandhi
Centre for Communications and Radio Peace International.
The Gandhi Centre was created through a programme of
cooperation between the University for Peace and the Italian
Government. At present it is responsible for preparing and
supervising production and programming plans for means of
communication used for
the training, education and
information needed to fulfil the objectives of the University
for Peace.
Its work in the last two years has been highly
satisfactory.
In 1987 the University for Peace and the World Peace
University in the State of Oregon, in the United States,
joined forces to establish a means of communication for
world peace. Thus was the radio station born, as a not-for-
profit non-governmental organization, with a specific goal:
to inform and educate, and create a culture for peace.
It is
the Committee on Information
fitting to note here that
recognized in a report
to the General Assembly the
important work done by the University for Peace and its
Radio Peace
of
information on the work of the United Nations.
dissemination
International
the
in
Draft resolution A/48/L.11, which we are introducing
and which is sponsored by the delegations listed in the
document, along with other delegations that will be listed in
an addendum, is almost self-explanatory, as it follows the
lines of the resolution adopted two years ago, the only
alterations being those required by changed circumstances.
With regard to these changes, the financial contributions
of Spain, Italy, Costa Rica and the Commission of the
European Communities, all of which have been extremely
useful to the institution, should be acknowledged.
We also note with satisfaction that Slovenia acceded to
the International Agreement for the Establishment of the
University for Peace on 6 June 1992. Other States Members
of the United Nations are invited to do likewise and, thereby,
to demonstrate their support for a world institution for peace
I should make the point that accession to the
studies.
International Agreement
the
University for Peace does not
imply any financial
commitment whatsoever. Also, it should be remembered
that
the University for Peace has no
implications for United Nations expenditure, as, by virtue of
the Establishment of
the budget of
for
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the States that established the
the expressed will of
University, the United Nations does not contribute to its
maintenance.
Therefore, my Government has joined in this endeavour,
right from the beginning, with a total financial commitment
of $1.5 million.
Lastly, I wish to refer again, with gratitude, to the fact
that
the United Nations Development
in 1991, under
Programme, the Secretary-General established a Trust Fund
for Peace, financed through voluntary contributions,
to
provide the University with the necessary means of
extending its field of action to include the rest of the world.
I hope that this draft resolution will receive enthusiastic
in
support and be adopted by consensus, and I wish,
anticipation, to thank members for supporting it.
Mr. FULCI (Italy): Italy has consistently supported the
University for Peace since its foundation by the General
Assembly 13 years ago. As has just been recalled by
Ambassador Tattenbach, the University’s host country is the
Republic of Costa Rica, whose essential role, in proposing
the initiative and in making it a reality, we sincerely
applaud.
The aim of this unique University for post-graduate
studies is to instil the ideal of peace in the hearts and minds
of the younger generation. It promotes both research and the
dissemination of knowledge, with the specific purpose of
training young people to work for peace within the United
Nations system. I believe that there is no better explanation
of the University’s mission than article 2 of its Charter:
"The University is established with a clear
determination to provide humanity with an international
institution of higher education for peace and with the
aim of promoting among all human beings the spirit of
understanding, tolerance and peaceful coexistence, to
stimulate cooperation among peoples and to help lessen
obstacles and threats to world peace and progress, in
keeping with the noble aspirations proclaimed in the
Charter of the United Nations." (resolution 35/55,
annex to the Agreement)
Mr. Soh (Democratic People’s Republic of Korea),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
A special Trust Fund for Peace was designated for the
United Nations Development Programme to enable the
University for Peace in Costa Rica to flourish and to help in
spreading its message throughout the world.
Italy strongly believes in the principle of the promotion
training and research.
through education,
of peace
relations.
The contributions of Costa Rica,
the European
Community, Italy and Spain have enabled the University to
research projects in the area of
initiate a series of
The focus of such projects is
international
education for peace:
the study of methods of the peaceful
settlement of conflicts, the promotion of human rights and
the production of radio and television programmes. One
cannot underestimate how important these three areas of
concern are to United Nations activities. The first two relate
to issues that are perpetually on our agenda, and the last
represents an essential contribution to the life of
the
Organization, which depends on the support of public
opinion
on mass
communications.
therefore,
heavily
and,
relies
The implementation of
"An Agenda for Peace"
proposed by the Secretary-General can benefit, in concrete
terms, from the work of the University for Peace.
In fact,
it is our profound conviction that educating individuals in
respect of the principles on which peace is based is, in the
long run, the surest way of preventing conflicts and of
promoting the causes of peace, freedom and democracy.
In expressing again to the Government of Costa Rica
and to its Permanent Mission in New York our
congratulations on the success already achieved, we are glad
to be a sponsor of draft resolution A/48/L.11 and to
recommend that
it by
consensus.
the General Assembly adopt
Mr. ZUÑIGA (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
As Members of the world Organization know, the University
for Peace, whose headquarters is in Costa Rica - a country
which has close and friendly relations with Chile and which,
in respect of this concept, sets an example to many other
countries - is an international
institution devoted to the
search for peace through education with humanistic
objectives, in accordance with the principles of the United
Nations Charter and of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.
These goals,
like the work carried out by the
University, have the full support of the Government of
Chile. The principles that led to the establishment of this
In the
institution could not have been more visionary.
current
fortunately,
confrontation has been replaced with cooperation and
understanding between nations, the University’s principles
are more relevant than ever. Accordingly, Chile resolutely
international
in which,
situation,
36th meeting - Monday, 25 October 1993
9
supports the work of the University and, for that reason, is
a sponsor of the draft resolution on this subject.
Generally speaking,
the University for Peace, as a
primary source of thought, research and study, faces a major
challenge. This challenge is a result of the great cultural
changes,
profound
transformations in global society. The University for Peace
cannot avoid this reality.
Its intellectual tasks today must
reflect the new types of conflict and the factors that give rise
to the crises and tensions of today’s world.
interrelationships
the
and
the
But, as was stated by a number of delegations during
the general debate, peace is not simply the absence of war.
Peace must also be a positive attitude characterized by
harmony among individuals
the
relationship between peace and social development has
become a special concern and a dedication to achieving the
well-being of peoples, thereby strengthening that peace for
which we yearn so much.
and nations, where
Within these parameters, the University for Peace has
much to contribute, since it is through the University that
intellectuals and academics from different spheres of
knowledge can participate in this tremendous task, to which
the leaders of such very different parts of the world are
devoted. The University’s endeavours should be aimed at
offering a fresh perspective in providing appropriate
solutions in keeping with the needs of the governed and the
governing in order to enable them to deal with their
respective problems.
the
Therefore, we encourage the continuation of
conferences organized by the University, such as,
for
example, the one held in July in Geneva, "Peace Now -
What can we do to achieve it?", at which the causes of
global conflict were analysed and a series of suggestions put
forward by eminent personalities on the various fields of
action to promote peace.
We fully support those suggestions, in particular the
one that indicates that:
"A central
relationship exists between peace and
development. Violence and war thrive on hunger and
poverty, just as do the violation of human rights and
the absence of social
justice. The University will
therefore include an analysis of development, human
rights and social development problems.
It will
examine in detail the relationship between peace and
development."
the World Summit
This consideration and these analyses should give rise
to conclusions which, inter alia, could contribute to the
preparatory work for
for Social
Development, to be held in Copenhagen in March 1995.
The main problems to be taken up at this high-level meeting
will be poverty, unemployment and social disintegration,
which have a direct bearing on efforts at securing world
peace.
In addition, the University for Peace has an opportunity
to play a key role in the development of the new tasks
required by "An Agenda for Peace". In particular, methods
of analysis and action for conflict prevention must be
implemented.
The programmes being carried out by the University for
Peace will in the short term make it possible to integrate an
important contingent of experts into the international public
sector, into academic organizations and into other public and
private institutions; and this, together with the activities
carried out by the University in a number of fields, deserves,
in our opinion,
to be more widely disseminated to the
general public. It is essential that all sectors be informed of
the principles of this programme and of the broad range of
activities being carried out, which, in the final analysis, are
but the application in practice of those principles.
In this context, the University for Peace, as an agency
dedicated to the education and training of men and women,
has an important role to play so that, within the framework
of the United Nations Charter, people can work for the
benefit of their societies and for justice and peace throughout
the world.
The University for Peace, in the spirit of its founding
Charter, indicates that:
"Peace is the primary and irrevocable obligation of a
nation and the fundamental objective of the United
Nations; it is the reason for its existence. However, the
best
supreme good for
humankind, namely education, has not been used."
(resolution 35/55, annex to the Agreement, Appendix to
the Charter, para. 2)
for achieving this
tool
The efforts the University for Peace has undertaken
since its foundation must not remain the University’s alone
but must also be taken up individually, by every State in the
world,
the establishment of peace is
paramount; hence we shall be able to devote ourselves first
and foremost to the well-being and the development of our
peoples.
to ensure that
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The PRESIDENT: Before proceeding to take action
on the draft resolution, I should like to announce that the
following countries have become sponsors of draft resolution
A/48/L.11: Cuba, Romania, Sri Lanka and Thailand.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/48/L.11.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/48/L.11?
Draft resolution A/48/L.11 was adopted (resolution
48/9).
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
22?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 23
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES TO PROMOTE
PEACE IN THE WORLD
Mrs. CASTRO de BARISH (Costa Rica) (interpretation
from Spanish): The head of my delegation earlier expressed
to Mr. Insanally Costa Rica’s great pleasure at seeing him
presiding over the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth
session. It is a pleasure for me as well to take advantage of
this opportunity personally to congratulate him, as I
participate in the consideration of an item which is
extremely important
to Costa Rica, "Programmes and
activities to promote peace in the world".
in 1985.
the United Nations
As members are aware, this item was the result of the
evolution of the Proclamation, during the fortieth session of
the General Assembly, of 1986 as the International Year of
Peace, which crowned the celebration of
the fortieth
anniversary of
That
Proclamation was the cornerstone of a series of activities and
programmes which, as we can see from the report of the
Secretary-General submitted to the forty-sixth session of the
General Assembly (A/46/549), have been growing in number
and, at the same time, generated an increased interest on the
part
the United Nations,
non-governmental organizations, academic, scientific and
educational institutions at all levels, as well as on the part of
individuals wishing to cooperate with and help the United
Nations in its efforts to attain one of its primary objectives,
namely, the promotion of peace in the world.
of States Members
of
Indeed, beginning this year, a number of events,
programmes and activities have been held in many parts of
the world, as the result in practice of the Proclamation and
of its observance. The General Assembly adopted a number
of resolutions in sessions subsequent to 1986 on the item
which
the
International Year of Peace".
"Achievements
subsequently
became
of
The succinct but complete information on the subject
given in the "Annotated preliminary list of items to be
included in the provisional agenda of the forty-eighth regular
session of the General Assembly" makes it clear that:
"the General Assembly took note with appreciation of
the report of
the Secretary-General; expressed its
satisfaction at
the many activities and programmes
inspired by the guidelines prepared by the Secretary-
General and by his designation of organizations and
cities as "Peace Messengers", which had contributed
positively to promoting peace through their sustained
cooperation with the United Nations; welcomed the
important role played by the Peace Studies Unit of the
Department of Political and Security Council Affairs of
the Secretariat
in promoting peace, encouraging
activities and exchanges of information on peace-related
subjects among the non-governmental organizations,
academic and scientific institutions and cities around
the world, and stimulating action to strengthen the
United Nations as an instrument for peace; welcomed
the important and peaceful changes that had taken place
in many countries of the world in order to bring about
political and social changes towards more democratic
invited Member States,
systems of government;
non-governmental
academic,
scientific and educational institutions at all levels, as
well as individuals, to continue their efforts to assist the
United Nations in promoting peace in the world; and
requested the Secretary-General
to invite Member
States and organizations concerned to report to him on
their activities and initiatives in pursuit of those ends
and to submit a report thereon to the Assembly at its
forty-eighth session (resolution 46/14)." (A/48/100,
para. 23, p. 66)
organizations
and
The report, of course, is to be submitted in fulfilment of the
cited resolution.
Notwithstanding all that is indicated in this document,
we have not been provided with the report requested in the
resolution. The Peace Studies Unit was eliminated and the
relevant information was not requested of Member States as
required in resolution 46/14, which was adopted without a
vote by the General Assembly.
It would mean much to
36th meeting - Monday, 25 October 1993
11
know why the Unit was eliminated, given that the document
prepared for the present session of the General Assembly
"welcomed the important role played by the Peace Studies
Unit", thus recognizing the importance of its activities.
It seems relevant to add that in addition to the activities
listed in the text of the document I have just quoted, a wide
variety of international conferences, seminars, round tables,
and encounters at different levels have examined various
aspects of the promotion of peace. Some of them have
continued their work each year since the proclamation of the
International Year of Peace, while others are new initiatives,
among which are the 1988 Ecoforo on peace and the
environment, held in Bulgaria; the first world conference on
"Tourism: A Vital Force for Peace" held in Vancouver,
Canada, sponsored by the Tourism Canada, among others,
and supported by the World Tourism Organization;
the
student peace festivals held each year
in the city of
Yokohama, Japan, and the Youth Chess Festival for Peace
sponsored by the World Chess Federation; and two seminars
held by the Muslim Congress, one on international peace and
the world’s children and the other on international peace and
world literature.
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) sponsored an international congress
on "Peace in the Minds of Men" in Yamoussoukro, Côte
d’Ivoire, from 26 June to 1 July 1989, in the context of the
achievements of the International Year of Peace. The
congress, organized in cooperation with the Houphouët-
Boigny International Foundation for Peace dealt with two
principal items: peace among men and peace in the relation
between man and the environment.
Education for peace, especially at the levels of primary
and secondary education, has been integrated into many
educational programmes. In Norway, a new official syllabus
drawn up in 1987 included an increase in references to peace
and human rights; a training programme for teachers on
these subjects was also started with extremely positive
results. The National Permanent Committee of Peru on
Education for Peace, established during the International
Year of Peace, undertook research on subjects related to
peace and sponsored teacher-training courses with emphasis
on the "Culture of Peace" and "Education for Peace".
Special emphasis has been placed on the role of educators as
agents for peace. In Poland, an annual prize was established
for a professor of peace studies and for the best book on
subjects related to peace.
New institutions have been established to address
specific aspects of peace through research and discussion.
Among these are the Costa Rica Foundation for Peace and
the auspices of
the Council of Europe.
Human Progress and the European Institute for bringing
together East and West, a Greek initiative, so as to place it
under
The
Norwegian Kornhaug Fredssenter was created to serve as a
national centre for peace. There are plans to create a
European university centre for research on peace, as well as
for an international centre for peace initiatives in Bombay,
India.
The Australian Government provided financial
assistance for a research centre for peace at the National
University of Australia.
In June 1989, the University for Peace in Costa Rica
organized on important event, held in my country’s capital,
San José. "The Conference in Search of the True Meaning
of Peace" was one of the achievements of the International
Year of Peace, attended by hundreds of participants of
various nationalities, religious beliefs, political persuasions
and professional standings. The well-known declaration
entitled "The Declaration of Human Responsibilities for
Peace and Sustainable Development" was adopted at that
time, affirming the need for individuals and Governments to
commit
themselves to protecting the environment and
resolving their differences and conflicts by peaceful means.
Since this Declaration contains many of the postulates and
principles already adopted in various forums and resolutions
of the United Nations system, it was circulated in document
A/44/L.16 in 1989, as part of the documentation on the
achievements of the International Year of Peace.
The Declaration emphasizes that
"according to the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, recognition of the inherent dignity and of the
equal and inalienable human rights of all members of
the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice
and peace in the world". (A/44/626, p. 4)
And this fundamental principle leads to another which draws
attention to the
"challenge posed by the growing imbalances in the
dynamic relationship between population, resources and
the environment". (ibid., p. 5)
The Declaration also calls attention to the
"urgent need for a greater awareness of the unity of life
and the special character of each of the expressions of
life, and for a more profound human sense of
responsibility and a reorientation of human thoughts,
feelings and actions". (ibid.)
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
important
factor
in
and
promoting
is important
to emphasize the obvious fact
But now we must face a reality. The Peace Studies
Unit, which, as the General Assembly recognized, was a
very
initiating
programmes and events to promote peace in the world, no
longer exists. Neither can we be sure of receiving the report
requested in the aforementioned resolution on this subject.
It
the
programmes and activities developed by the Peace Studies
Unit did a great deal
to motivate young people in all
countries where those programmes and activities were held -
and there are many more than those I have mentioned
today - as can be seen in the reports of the Secretary-
General on the subject, before 1991, which give an idea of
the repercussions of these events and the dissemination of
information on them.
that
Here there is very little coordination of activities that
would ensure a better orientation of what is being done in
various forums, even during the same session of the General
Assembly. While the Third Committee is expressing
concern about the need to promote positive and healthy
activities among young people which would help them to
improve their approach to behaviour and the moral values of
human conduct, some of the very units of the Secretariat
which have developed programmes and promoted many
activities of interest to young people in many countries, both
developing and developed, are, at the same time, being
eliminated.
In view of the new trend towards rationalization, as has
been asserted, in order to achieve greater efficiency in the
functions of the United Nations, my delegation has decided
to present neither a draft resolution nor a draft decision on
agenda item 23, "Programmes and activities to promote
peace in the world", so that at the General Assembly’s forty-
ninth session this work may be continued. We shall leave
it to the political will of the different delegations, if they
deem it relevant, to retain the item in future by making the
corresponding proposal, under either the same title or
another which might be considered more appropriate. We
are certain that
items that other
delegations will propose in order to keep alive the promotion
of peace in the world, because either the next millennium
will be peaceful, or it will not be at all.
there will be other
Mr. SHRESTHA (Nepal): A common theme running
through the statements made in the general debate during the
current session of the General Assembly has been the
observation that international relations are passing through
profound and revolutionary transformations. The hopes for
a peaceful and stable world order raised by the end of the
cold war have not yet been realized.
Indeed, we are
witnessing new conflicts and contradictions. Despite these
difficulties, the Charter of the United Nations continues to
embody the best hopes of mankind. There is no alternative
but to continue trying to make this world Organization a
centre for harmonizing the actions of nations for
the
attainment of the common ends set out in its Charter.
One of the most important developments in recent years
has been the world-wide peaceful revolution leading to the
resurgence of faith in democracy and human rights. As the
Right Honourable Prime Minister of Nepal stated in his
address to the forty-eighth session of the Assembly, there is
a direct correlation between the status of human rights, the
democratic process and the evolution of a culture of peaceful
settlement of disputes. My delegation,
looks
forward to sustained programmes and actions of the United
Nations aimed at enhancing the present trend towards greater
respect for democratic values.
therefore,
the dissemination of
The efforts to strengthen the United Nations as an
instrument of peace must continue in all seriousness. At the
same time, we would like to see more emphasis on activities
for
information on peace-related
subjects.
Closer coordination and cooperation with
non-governmental organizations and academic institutions
around the world will facilitate the attainment of this
objective.
Efforts to ensure peace and stability will not be able to
make much headway if the United Nations is not able to act
as the forum for constructive and mutually beneficial
cooperation between the developed and the developing
countries. Indeed, poverty and backwardness are permanent
threats to peace and stability. The need for assisting the
least developed countries in their efforts to promote human
resources development and to alleviate the crushing burden
of poverty are particularly urgent. One of the most welcome
phenomena of the post-cold war era is the decrease in the
global volume of military spending. The resources thus
saved could be utilized to help the least developed countries
help themselves.
There is today greater public understanding of what the
United Nations stands for than at any time during the history
of this Organization. The primary purpose of the United
Nations is the maintenance of international peace and
security. However, it is now widely accepted that the threats
to peace and stability cannot be understood merely in
military terms. The non-military threats to peace have
economic,
social, environmental, ethnic and religious
dimensions. The problems facing the world today are not
amenable to solutions through the actions of one or a few
powerful States. They require the partnership of all members
of the international community - big or small, rich or poor.
36th meeting - Monday, 25 October 1993
13
Activities to create a well-informed public opinion on the
nature of problems and the potentials of the United Nations
to find lasting solutions to them would greatly facilitate the
work of a rejuvenated United Nations.
previous
Mr. LOPEZ (Philippines): At the outset, I would like
to
join
to
Ambassador Insanally our cordial felicitations on his election
as President of the forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly.
extending
speakers
in
The Philippines takes pride in being a founding
Member of the United Nations, and our Government, under
President Fidel Ramos, would like to take this opportunity
to acknowledge with deep appreciation the efforts of this
world body to respond to crisis situations, to put an end to
conflicts and to restore peace in the world. Allow me,
therefore, to express the gratitude of my countrymen for this
privilege of addressing the General Assembly.
We are here to consider one of the primary objectives
of the United Nations: the promotion of peace in the world.
We regret that the report of the Secretary-General requested
in operative paragraph 6 of resolution 46/14 is not available
for consideration by the General Assembly. With the
increasing interest in the United Nations and its momentum
in meeting the new challenges of a new and dynamic
international environment, the Philippine delegation hopes
that this important report will be completed soon.
General Assembly resolution 46/14 states that:
"peace is not merely the absence of war and ...
interdependence and cooperation to foster human rights,
social
and economic development, disarmament,
protection of the environment and ecosystems and the
improvement of
life for all are
indispensable elements for the establishment of peaceful
societies".
preambular
paragraph)
the quality of
(resolution
46/14,
fourth
includes efforts designed to prevent
Preventive diplomacy is now becoming a vital
tool for
practical action for the promotion and maintenance of peace
in the world. As the Secretary-General noted in his "Agenda
for Peace," it
the
through such measures as
occurrence of armed conflict
confidence-building,
and
preventive deployment. We are pleased to note the
increasing resort of the United Nations and the Secretary-
General to the use of preventive diplomacy to address the
many conflict situations in our post-cold-war world.
early warning,
fact-finding
The commitment of the Philippine Government to peace
is the concern of our
starts in its own back yard.
Government,
an
environment of peace and security, principally through social
and political reforms so that development can be sustained.
President Ramos,
create
under
to
It
of
the
peace
Under
leadership
advancement
levels.
the
Actually, the Philippines has sought to translate its firm
commitment to peace and the peaceful resolution of disputes
by undertaking peace initiatives at the national, regional and
international
of
President Ramos
and
reconciliation has been one of
the priorities of his
Administration. In July of last year, President Ramos signed
Proclamation 10-A establishing the National Unification
Commission. That Commission has been given the task of
formulating and recommending, after consultations with
concerned sectors of the society, a viable general-amnesty
programme and peace process that will
lead to a just,
comprehensive and lasting peace. Towards that end the
Commission has undertaken exploratory discussions with
authorized representatives of the various armed rebel groups
aimed at getting input for the peace process and at laying the
groundwork for the holding of formal peace negotiations.
At
the present
time meetings between government
representatives and the representatives of two groups are
scheduled to be held in different countries. It is hoped that
they will add further momentum to the peace process. We
are grateful to the Governments of Indonesia and Viet Nam
for their generous assistance in agreeing to play host to those
negotiations.
In addition to its dialogue with representatives of armed
rebel groups, the National Unification Commission has been
conducting consultations with other sectors of the society at
both the national and local levels to generate among all the
citizenry, whether organized or not, an awareness of and
interest in peace issues, inter alia, and to mobilize their
active support for and participation in both the formulation
and implementation of a peace process.
On the regional level the Philippines, together with its
partners in the Association of South-East Asian Nations
(ASEAN), namely, Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia,
Singapore and Thailand, initiated the establishment of the
ASEAN Regional Forum to discuss regional security among
countries in the Asia-Pacific region and those that have
stakes in the area - the ASEAN dialogue partners and
countries with significant influence and interest in this part
of the world. The Philippines has also taken steps to explore
areas of cooperation in the South China Sea with the
interested countries in the region.
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The Philippines also adheres to the principle enshrined
in the Charter of the United Nations that the maintenance of
international peace and security is a collective responsibility.
Towards the fulfilment of this principle the Philippines has
contributed both human and material, military and civilian
resources to the United Nations Transitional Authority in
Cambodia (UNTAC). In that regard we in the Philippines -
as well, I am sure, as the other States that participated in
UNTAC -
that UNTAC has
accomplished its primary mission of ushering in a new
Constitution and a freely elected Government for Cambodia,
a Government based on the will of the Cambodian people.
We are proud to have been a part of this successful peace
endeavour of the international community.
satisfied
are
deeply
The Philippine Government reaffirms its unequivocal
support for the efforts being made to find lasting peace in
the former Yugoslavia, to restore the hope of the people of
Somalia and to bring back democracy under a civilian
Government in Haiti.
The current dangers to global peace require sustained
vigilance and emphasis on the United Nations ability to
function effectively. In further reaffirmation of our commit
to world peace we call upon the international community to
contribute significantly to the dismantling of the remaining
vestiges of the cold war. We are particularly disturbed by
the attempts to downgrade the importance of the nuclear-test
ban and to make nuclear inspection a painful exercise for the
United Nations agencies concerned. We call upon the
United Nations to find a way out of this problem.
No matter how critics view our world Organization we
continue to have abiding faith in the ability of the United
Nations to arrest the escalation of those problems into crisis
proportions. We believe that the United Nations has a key
role to play in the maintenance of global peace and the
promotion of development. Let us anchor our sense of
urgency on the premise that we owe world peace to our
children.
Better yet, we should know that only a generation that
was able to establish a lasting basis for world peace may
have the right to look forward to and pray for a world of
which succeeding generations can be truly proud. If we can
show them the way to peace, they will not only value what
we shall leave them. They too will learn where to stand
when a choice is once more presented between war and
peace.
We hope that through our initiatives today they do not
have to make a choice, because we have already chosen
peace for them, and all they have to do is to keep it always
burning in their hearts and minds.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item. May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
23?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 167
BUILDING A PEACEFUL AND BETTER WORLD
THROUGH SPORT:
DRAFT RESOLUTIONS
A/48/L.8/Rev.1 AND A/48/L.9/Rev.1
The PRESIDENT:
I call on the representative of
to introduce the two draft resolutions under this
Egypt
agenda item.
Mr. ELARABY (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic):
The Egyptian delegation, which requested, in its capacity as
the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity
the inclusion on the agenda of the forty-eighth
(OAU),
session of the General Assembly of an additional
item
entitled "Building a peaceful and better world through sport",
takes pleasure in introducing today the two draft resolutions
presented under agenda item 167.
The first draft resolution, A/48/L.8/Rev.1, relates to the
request made to the General Assembly to proclaim 1994 as
International Year of Sport and the Olympic Ideal;
the
second, A/48/L.9, calls upon Member States to observe the
Olympic Truce. The Council of Ministers of the OAU, at its
fifty-eighth session held in June 1993 in Cairo, adopted a
resolution, which the African summit meeting endorsed and
thus endorsed the initiatives which are now contained in
these two draft resolutions. The main thrust of the two draft
resolutions is to support the efforts deployed by the Olympic
Movement towards building a better and peaceful world by
educating and mobilizing the youth of the world through
sport and culture with a view to promoting international
understanding between the young in consonance with the
principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter.
The International Olympic Committee, founded in 1894,
will be celebrating its centenary next year. That Committee
is making sincere efforts to implement the Olympic ideals.
The appeal launched during the Barcelona 1992 Olympic
Games to revive the ancient Greek tradition of the Olympic
Truce was endorsed by 184 National Olympic Committees.
In that respect, the International Olympic Committee has
received letters of support from the Heads of States, Prime
Ministers and Foreign Ministers of 120 States.
All of
the sponsors of
this draft
resolution have
endorsed this revision.
36th meeting - Monday, 25 October 1993
15
In fact, there is a very close link between the objectives
of the United Nations and the Olympic Movement, which
was the first organization to voice concern over the policy
of apartheid in the 1950s and which decided to suspend and
isolate South Africa from membership in 1970, a decision
which was not
revoked until a non-racialist Olympic
Committee was set up in South Africa. Furthermore, the
Committee has allocated $2 million from its budget
to
finance development programmes for
the poor Black
communities of South Africa. I should also like to highlight
the Committee’s assistance to the city of Sarajevo, site of the
1984 Winter Olympic Games, and its cooperation with a
number of States to sponsor Bosnian athletes.
The
Committee has also cooperated with the United Nations
following the Rio Conference on the Environment.
This is the first
time in the history of the United
Nations that the Olympic Movement has requested support
for its initiatives in the service of peace.
Indeed, the drive
to educate and mobilize youth in the service of peace is a
noble goal that deserves our full support. I should also like
to point out that the International Olympic Committee will
be observing the International Year of Sport and the
Olympic Ideal with the support of national and international
Olympic and sports committees.
This will entail no
additional financial burdens for the United Nations. For all
of these reasons, I would ask the General Assembly to adopt
the draft resolutions contained in documents A/48/L.8/Rev.1
and A/48/L.9 by consensus.
I should like to make an oral revision to draft resolution
A/48/L.9.
I will speak in English.
(spoke in English)
In the first preambular paragraph,
the words "the
National" should be replaced by the words "one hundred
eighty-four". The subsequent words "of one hundred eighty-
four countries" should be deleted. The revised paragraph
will therefore read as follows:
the
appeal
by
launched
"Considering
the
International Olympic Committee for an Olympic
Truce, which was endorsed by one hundred eighty-four
Olympic Committees and presented to the Secretary-
General,"
(spoke in Arabic)
Mr. YAÑEZ BARNUEVO (Spain) (interpretation from
Spanish): This year the General Assembly thanks to the
initiative of Egypt, on behalf of the Organization of African
Unity, has an opportunity to consider a very special issue.
Ever since the classical age, sport has served the lofty ideals
of peace and brotherhood among peoples. Ancient Greece
gave birth to an activity in which men competed not for the
immediate goal of power, but to exceed their own limits by
matching them with those of other competitors.
It has often been said that competition in sports results
from men’s aggressive instincts and is merely a means to
sublimate them. That may well be true; if so, the human
race has acquired a tool with which to transform the desire
to fight into an urge to compete; the impulse to destroy into
a will to win; and the thirst to dominate others into a search
for self-discipline.
The universal social function of sports was stressed by
His Majesty King Juan Carlos of Spain on the occasion of
the last Olympic Games, held in my country, when he
pointed out that the Games today:
"have become associated with the ideals of peace,
cooperation and communication between peoples, and
they accordingly have immense symbolic value. The
political, economic, racial, religious or other differences
dividing mankind become less significant. Tolerance
thereby prevails and, with it, friendship".
My delegation sponsored the draft resolutions on the
proclamation of 1994 as International Year of Sport and the
Olympic Ideal and on the Olympic Truce because we
support the ideals underlying them. These initiatives help
foster understanding and dialogue between individuals and
peoples and are directed towards ensuring that the Olympic
spirit is disseminated more widely throughout the world by
the United Nations.
In 1992 my country organized, at Barcelona, the Games
of the twenty-fifth Olympiad of the modern era. There
Spain welcomed athletes and visitors alike with open arms,
aware of the historic importance of what has become a
milestone in the contemporary history of the Olympic
Movement. After a number of games in which not all
countries members of the Olympic Movement participated,
Barcelona prompted participation by them all:
they made
common cause in sport, setting aside differences and
confrontations.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The Barcelona Games were honoured by the presence
at the opening ceremony of 36 Heads of State and of the
Chairman of the African National Congress of South Africa
(ANC), the recent Nobel Prize laureate Nelson Mandela,
whose presence set a seal on the return of South African
athletes to international sporting competition, thus helping
put an end to the nightmare of apartheid.
needs all
community can bring to it.
the energy and tenacity the
international
Today, the General Assembly has the opportunity to
serve as a special instrument for these efforts aimed at
making peace and harmony the expression of a renewed
determination for understanding among people.
Barcelona was also the site of a procession of athletes
whose countries had been torn by tragic conflict;
their
participation helped fire the hope that one day the wounds -
then as now, open wounds - would be healed for the benefit
of peace and human dignity.
Mr. VAN DE CRAEN (Belgium) (interpretation from
French): On behalf of the European Community and its
member States, I have the honour to speak on agenda
item 167, "Building a peaceful and better world through
sport".
Mayor Pasqual Maragall of Barcelona transmitted to the
athletes and to the entire world the appeal for peace
contained in a message from the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
The International Olympic Committee, under
the
presidency of the Spaniard Juan Antonio Samaranch, has
made every effort to make sport more than an arena for
competition between material
and passions
inconsistent with the spirit that should prevail in sport. Too
often,
of
commercialism, placing the accent more on translating sport
into material terms than on the inner satisfaction gained
through an athlete’s performance and on the spectator’s
aesthetic pleasure.
interests
professional
sport
has
taken
the
path
The International Olympic Committee seeks also to
re-establish another basic dimension: sport as an aspect of
culture and as a vehicle in the service of humanitarian ideals.
The first dimension is fully expressed in the declaration of
1994 as the International Year of Sport and the Olympic
Ideal on the occasion of the centenary of the modern
Olympic Movement. The dissemination of the Olympic
ideal at the national and international levels should promote
understanding and solidarity among individuals and peoples.
The second draft resolution, which revives the age-old
tradition of an Olympic Truce, is aimed at instilling a spirit
of brotherhood and understanding among peoples and at
giving them a reason to suspend their confrontations and an
opportunity to reflect on ways to end them.
I wish to conclude by expressing my delegation’s hope
that our words will be transformed into actions, conflicts into
dialogue, and the Olympic Truce into a lasting peace. The
enmity that fuels these conflicts will not disappear because
we say so; we cannot conjure up understanding with a
magical incantation. This is a difficult, long-term task that
In 1994 the International Olympic Committee will mark
its hundredth anniversary. A century ago, inspired by the
Olympic Games of ancient Greece, Pierre de Coubertin made
his historic appeal for the modern revival of the Olympic
Games.
In antiquity and in modern times, Europeans have
shown, by their presence and their active participation, their
lively interest both in sport and in building the goals of the
Olympic Movement.
Beyond sport itself, we fully subscribe to the ideals of
the Olympic Movement, as proclaimed even during the
games in ancient Greece. Those ideals were aimed at
helping build a peaceful and better world by encouraging
young people to practise sport free of discrimination, in a
spirit of mutual understanding, friendship, solidarity and fair
play. All those ideals, indeed, further the purposes of the
United Nations Charter.
In this context of sport, peace, humanism and tolerance,
the European Community and its member States welcome
the two draft resolutions before the Assembly.
We welcome the appeal made by the International
Olympic Committee and endorsed by the Council of
Ministers of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to
declare 1994 the International Year of Sport and the
Olympic Ideal. Through sport and culture, the Olympic
ideal promotes international understanding among world
youth; hence, we think it is proper and timely to link it with
the International Year of the Family, to be declared on
7 December 1993. We therefore call on the International
Olympic Committee,
international sport federations and
national Olympic Committees to work together to coordinate
their activities with the administrative structure already set
up by the United Nations, in order to avoid duplication.
The European Community and its member States also
join in the International Olympic Committee’s appeal for the
revival of the Olympic Truce to be observed by all parties
36th meeting - Monday, 25 October 1993
17
to conflicts from the seventh day preceding the opening of
each summer and winter Olympic Games to the seventh day
after the closing ceremony of the Games. The Ekecheria
was established in ancient Greece in the ninth century B.C.
to enable athletes, artists and their families, as well as
pilgrims, to travel in safety. A commitment by Member
States, individually and collectively, to respect the truce
would contribute to the peaceful settlement of international
conflicts.
The adoption of the two draft resolutions before us by
the broadest possible consensus would send an important
message to the international community, and especially to
youth - which still embodies our hopes for a better world.
Mr. DUGAN (United States of America):
It is in a
spirit of building a peaceful and better world through sport
that my delegation is pleased to join in sponsoring the draft
resolutions before the General Assembly today entitled
"Observance of the Olympic Truce" and "International Year
of Sport and the Olympic Ideal".
In 1889, Baron Pierre de Coubertin, himself but a
youthful 26 years of age, set for himself an Olympic-sized
goal:
to build a better and peaceful world by educating the
youth of the world through sport and culture. To that end,
he conceived the idea of reviving the classical Olympic
Games of ancient Greece, where the spirit of fair play
prevailed.
At an international congress in 1894, he found support
when he stated:
"Let us export our oarsmen, our runners, our
fencers into other lands. That is the true free trade of
the future; and the day it is introduced ... the cause of
peace will have received a new and strong ally ... so
that together we may attempt to realize, upon a basis
suitable to the conditions of our modern life,
the
splendid and beneficent task of reviving the Olympic
Games."
The International Olympic Committee was founded,
independent of Governments or any organizations, with the
key aim of collaborating with others to place sport at the
service of humanity.
It has been my country’s honour to have hosted the
Olympic Games in St. Louis, Los Angeles, Lake Placid and
Squaw Valley - and, now, to welcome the world to Atlanta
in 1996.
During those years, the world has witnessed glory and
tragedy on the playing field, but, more significantly, on the
battlefield. My delegation has joined in sponsoring today’s
draft resolution entitled "Observance of the Olympic Truce"
to promote the peaceful settlement of all
international
conflicts as a visible symbol to the youth of the world.
The revival of the Olympic Games gave an impetus to
sport that has gradually spread throughout the world, so that
the number of encounters between countries in various sports
has increased exponentially over the years.
I refer not
merely to world championships in sports, but, far more, to
the interchange of individuals and of club and national
teams, and to the sharing of their talents.
My country is therefore honoured today to join in
sponsoring also the draft resolution entitled "International
Year of Sport and the Olympic Ideal".
Mr. EXARCHOS (Greece): May I, in the first place,
refer to the statement just made by the representative of
Belgium in his capacity as President of the European
Community; I fully support that statement.
to observe the Olympic Truce.
The Greek delegation welcomes, as is only natural, the
initiative undertaken, within the framework of our world
Organization,
In this
instance, we are particularly pleased that the initiative is also
being supported by the Organization of African Unity, as
represented by the representative of Egypt, and that the draft
resolution
resolution
A/48/L.9/Rev.1, has been so widely sponsored. This proves
that an idea and a practice that originated long ago in ancient
Greece is expanding around the world within the framework
of the modern Olympic Movement.
namely,
draft
before
us,
and its
The origins of the Olympic Truce go back to the eighth
century B.C.,
and
Kleosthenes, leaders of city-States in the region of ancient
Olympia. It soon - and for a long time - became a generally
accepted practice among the Hellenic city-states of the time.
originators were
Iphitos
The first modern Olympic Games were held in Athens
in April 1896, with
nearly
300 participants to 42 events involving 10 different sports.
Now, over 170 nations
to
participate in more than 400 events involving more than
41 different sports.
send over 11,000 athletes
13 nations
sending
Refraining from military operations during the Olympic
Games - the Olympic Truce - may, in our troubled times
too, provide an opportunity in the quest for the peaceful
settlement of disputes; such settlements, as experience has so
far, unfortunately, shown, are harder to seek in the heat of
warfare. This, as a matter of fact, is contained in the spirit
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
of Ekecheria, which, if we go back to its etymology, means
holding back one’s hand - that is, the temporary cessation of
hostilities.
Needless to say, we hope to see the draft resolution
before us adopted unanimously; for the same reason, we
hope that draft resolution A/48/L.8/Rev.1, on the Olympic
ideal, will also be adopted without a vote. This would
indeed be an important and welcome message to the world,
a message in whose expression young people will have a
prominent role to play.
documents A/48/L.8/Rev.1 and A/48/L.9/Rev.1, as orally
revised.
of
both
draft
become
sponsors
I should like to announce that the following countries
resolutions:
have
Afghanistan, Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Belarus, Bhutan,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, China,
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Eritrea, Georgia, Germany,
Guatemala, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy,
Japan, Nepal, New Zealand, Oman, Panama, the Republic of
Korea, Seychelles, the United Arab Emirates and Uzbekistan.
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now proceed to
take decisions on the draft resolutions before it, in
For draft resolution A/48/L.8/Rev.1 alone, the following
two countries are additional sponsors: Latvia and Lithuania.
For draft resolution A/48/L.9/Rev.1 alone, Angola is an
additional sponsor.
The Assembly will
resolution
A/48/L.8/Rev.1, entitled "International Year of Sport and the
Olympic Ideal".
turn to draft
first
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/48/L.8/Rev.1?
Draft
resolution A/48/L.8/Rev.1 was
adopted
(resolution 48/10).
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now turn to
draft resolution A/48/L.9/Rev.1, entitled "Observance of the
Olympic Truce".
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/48/L.9/Rev.1, as orally revised?
Draft resolution A/48/L.9/Rev.1, as orally revised, was
adopted (resolution 48/11).
The PRESIDENT: May I take it that it is the wish of
the Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
167?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.
