United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President:
INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
EARTHQUAKE IN INDIA
The PRESIDENT: On behalf of all the members of
the Assembly, may I extend our deepest sympathy to the
Government and the people of India for the tragic loss of
life and extensive material damage which have resulted from
the earthquake that struck India recently. May I also express
the hope that the international community will show its
solidarity and respond promptly and generously to any
request for help.
Mr. ANSARI (India): On behalf of the people and the
Government of India, and especially of those affected by the
terrible earthquake that hit south-western India on the night
of 30 September, I should like to express our profound
gratitude and appreciation for the very kind words of
sympathy and condolence that you, Sir, expressed on behalf
of this body.
The earthquake that hit the region of Sholapur, some
240 miles south-east of Bombay, has brought death and
destruction to the lives of thousands of families. The
estimated death-toll at
is over 6,000, with
multitudes of others injured and rendered homeless by the
devastation.
the moment
Natural disasters know no boundaries. Their wrath and
fury do not make a distinction between developed and
developing or between the rich and the poor. Such disasters
cannot be totally avoided. However, closer cooperation
10th
PLENARY MEETING
30 September 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
between all members of the international community on the
exchange of information would mitigate the consequences of
natural disasters.
India, for its part, is fully committed to
this task.
Your message of condolence, Sir, will bring healing,
succor and hope to the grieving multitudes that have been so
profoundly affected by the earthquake.
It will strengthen
their resolve to rebuild their lives.
ADDRESS BY MR. KIRO GLIGOROV, PRESIDENT
OF THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
MACEDONIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia.
Mr. Kiro Gligorov, President of the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, His Excellency Mr. Kiro Gligorov, and to invite
him to address the Assembly.
President GLIGOROV: At the outset, it is my pleasure
to extend to you, Sir, my sincere felicitations on your
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session.
In discharging your important duties,
you can count on the support and cooperation of my
delegation. Your wide experience and diplomatic skills are
a valuable asset for the success of this important session of
the General Assembly.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86647 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.10
14 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
(spoke in Macedonian; English text
delegation)
furnished by the
implementation of preventive diplomatic measures and
activities.
This is the first time that my country, the Republic of
Macedonia, is attending a session of the General Assembly
as an independent State committed to making its full
contribution to the enhancement of world peace and the
promotion of internationalcooperation.
The Republic of Macedonia is a country with foreign
policies based on the principles of peace, friendship and
cooperation. We see the interdependence of interests and
mutual respect as the future of successful
international
cooperation. An important element of our foreign policy is
to promote good-neighbourly relations and to incorporate the
principles of
the new European architecture in the
crisis-ridden region of the Balkans. Such a foreign policy is
consistent with the internal development of the Republic of
Macedonia, which is oriented towards a market economy,
democracy, a State of law, human rights and harmony in
inter-ethnic relations.
By attaining its independence in a peaceful and
legitimate manner, the Republic of Macedonia has kept the
peace and forestalled a spill-over of the war into the
southern Balkans. The comprehensive efforts of the past
two years have changed our historic position from a bone of
contention to a factor for peace and stability in the Balkans.
Pursuant to this, the endeavours of the delegation of the
Republic of Macedonia in the course of this session will be
aimed at strict compliance with the United Nations Charter;
support for all measures that enhance international peace and
security; the democratization of international relations in all
spheres; the advancement of human rights and freedoms to
the utmost degree; the promotion and development of a
policy of good-neighbourly relations;
forestalling the
proliferation and use of weapons of mass destruction; and
the enhancement of preventive diplomacy in settling
disputes.
The adverse situation of the world today is a source of
concern to all of us. We are not fully satisfied with the
efforts of our Organization nor especially with the results it
has achieved in resolving current sources of tension. We
accept the assertion that the world today is not threatened by
a new world war and that the use of nuclear arms is not very
likely. But the fact remains that the number of serious and
potential military conflicts is increasing. The efforts of our
Organization to find peaceful solutions have been enormous.
Regrettably, the results have not always been productive,
owing to a certain extent
to the absence of a wider
I take this opportunity to emphasize the extraordinary
significance of the historical accord between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization for peace in the Middle
East and the development of world relations. All those who
have contributed to its
special
recognition.
signing deserve our
In this context, I am deeply convinced that, despite all
difficulties, we will soon be speaking of South Africa as a
region of successful development and human dignity. Let us
hope that the forces of peace in that region will ultimately
prevail over the forces of regression and apartheid.
I must reiterate our deep concern over the perpetuation
of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
the threat of a
spill-over and a wider destabilization of our region. In dead
earnest we, a country situated in the immediate vicinity, see
this as the threat of an all-out Balkan war. The situation in
Bosnia and Herzegovina is extremely grave,
tragic and
incomprehensible. The most terrible post-cold-war drama is
unfolding in the heart of Europe: massive killings, massive
destruction, over 2 million refugees, insane acts of ethnic
cleansing and genocide. Numerous international conferences
and activities have been undertaken in order to bring an end
to this war. The Security Council has adopted numerous
resolutions. Let us all hope that peace in Bosnia will finally
become a reality.
An end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a first
and essential step. However, permanent peace in Bosnia and
Herzegovina will not be possible without compliance with,
and upholding of, the fundamental principles of international
law, the United Nations Charter and the principles of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
namely that borders cannot be changed by force; that the
international community does not recognize or accept "ethnic
cleansing"; and that
the rights of minorities must be
respected.
Without these preconditions, not only will permanent
peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina be impossible, but a
precedent will be set which will incite new conflicts. To
condone the use of
force and military superiority for
territorial expansion and redrawn borders would exacerbate
tensions, especially in the ethnically
other,
mixed Balkans and the countries of Eastern Europe.
It
would in fact mean condoning the potential for permanent
inter-ethnic wars.
less heated,
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
3
The Republic of Macedonia is vitally interested in
seeing an end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
forestalling a spill-over and attaining peace on lasting
foundations. For these reasons, and out of concern for our
own security and for peace and stability in the region, we
have undertaken a number of timely preventive measures in
cooperation with the United Nations.
In this context, I
would like to stress the key role played by Security Council
resolution 795 (1992) of December 1992 for the deployment
of a contingent from the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) in the Republic of Macedonia.
The decision of the Security Council, to which the
Secretary- General made a great contribution, has proved to
It has demonstrated the
be justified, timely and efficient.
enormous advantages of preventive diplomacy.
The
peace-keeping forces of the United Nations, strengthened by
the United States contingent, are of great importance for our
security and for sustaining peace and stability in the region.
Our cooperation with these forces is exemplary, and it will
remain so in the future. This step has greatly increased the
feelings of security and trust in the peace-keeping activities
of the United Nations on the part of the citizens of the
Republic of Macedonia.
As a country and as a people, our permanent interest
lies in peace and cooperation in the Balkans.
In the same
spirit, our efforts are aimed at establishing good- neighbourly
relations with all our neighbours and at resolving all existing
problems with our southern neighbour. The war in Bosnia
and Herzegovina, the implementation of United Nations
sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro, and the remains of
bloc divisions prevalent until recently prevent the Balkans
from functioning on natural regional principles. Economic
and cultural ties, communications, the free flow of people,
goods and ideas have practically been severed. This is
indeed a depressing situation.
In order to prepare for the
twenty-first century and a Europe of open borders and
cooperation, it is essential that the Balkans undergo major
changes. This is in the interest of all the peoples and all the
countries in this region.
Those are the reasons why
Macedonia has adopted policies of good-neighbourly
relations, peaceful settlement of problems and development
of overall economic, political and cultural cooperation
among the countries of the Balkans. We are truly convinced
that, in the interest of peace and stability, the international
community will ardently support
these processes in the
Balkans. The principles of the Conference on Security and
Co-operation in Europe and the processes within the
European Community are the only options for peace,
stability and economic revival in the Balkans. However, this
also implies that all the Balkan States, which have chosen
the European option, must be enabled to achieve gradual
integration into the European Community.
We are all dissatisfied with the stagnation of the world
economy in the past year, the deterioration of the economic
situation in the world, and the economic situation in certain
countries and regions. The number of people affected by
unemployment, poverty and hunger is on the rise. For
developed countries, recovery from the recession has been
slower than expected, hindering their increased participation
in the development of the developing countries and countries
in transition.
Because of this situation, and because of our firm
conviction that the period after the cold war must not grow
into a period of economic conflicts, we believe that much
more can be done to seek a way out of the world’s current
economic and social difficulties.
In this context, I am
convinced that
the forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly will serve as firm encouragement for an increase
in world demand and for liberalization of world trade. A
very important prerequisite for the realization of this goal is
the successful outcome of the Uruguay Round of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations,
encouraged by the Tokyo summit.
It is also essential to
resolve the issue of arrears and that of access by developing
countries and countries in transition to international financial
markets. All of these activities support the view that only
development generates new development, while stagnation
brings only regression and poverty.
Enhanced protection of human rights is justifiably
receiving greater priority in the work of our Organization.
We are concerned by the fact that in the past year, violations
of human rights have reached epidemic proportions. We feel
that the Vienna Conference on Human Rights is a very
positive step in the right direction, and we hope that the
Declaration and Action Programme
that
Conference will
the
greatly
unfavourable developments in this area today.
adopted at
ending
to
contribute
The negotiations in Vienna have clearly shown that
current mechanisms for implementing existing human-rights
instruments are not efficient, and that much improvement is
needed, particularly in the rights of ethnic, religious and
linguistic minorities. A significant step in this direction has
been taken by the adoption last year of the Declaration on
minorities. The next steps which our delegation will support
are the commencement of operations of the Commission on
Human Rights according to the Declaration on the Rights of
Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and
Linguistic Minorities, and an examination of the need for
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
setting up a United Nations high commission for minorities,
with headquarters in Geneva.
threatened, where international cooperation will be conducted
without obstacles and discrimination, and a world where
everyone will have respect for human dignity.
I would like to point out that all unresolved issues
involving ethnic minorities can well lead to future military
conflicts, particularly in certain regions of the world, thus
endangering international peace. Hence it is essential to take
immediate preventive measures in this area as well.
The Republic of Macedonia is a European country in
transition, a landlocked country, a country of transit and a
developing country.
These factors contribute to the
economic difficulties of my country. The situation is further
complicated by the consequences of the United Nations
sanctions imposed on Serbia and Montenegro.
I would
immediately like to emphasize that we have strictly complied
with the implementation of the sanctions. As a result, this
year alone, our gross national product has been cut in half.
External trade has been reduced considerably, transport costs
have increased immensely, and other indirect damage has
occurred as well.
democracy
and
it
the
of
of Macedonia
survival,
the Republic
economic
Today,
development
are
fundamentally dependent on assistance from the international
community. Otherwise,
is very possible that social
tensions, and the probable collapse of the economy, will
bring about a new crisis spot.
I am deeply convinced that,
in accordance with Article 50 of the Charter and Security
Council resolution 820 (1993), the United Nations and the
Security Council will be in a position to provide us with
concrete forms of assistance.
It is inconceivable to expect a small country to bear the
damage of an international action of this type on its own,
without solidarity and timely assistance. Aid should be
provided now as a preventive measure, instead of after the
outbreak of those likely social clashes which may grow into
new conflicts.
In this spirit,
the delegation of
the Republic of
Macedonia at this session will lay out our direct proposals
regarding the problem of compensation for damage incurred
as a result of implementing the sanctions, the problems
deriving from the position of landlocked countries, and other
issues related to peace and cooperation.
The strengthening of the United Nations in all aspects,
in the post-cold-war period, is of vital importance to the
Republic of Macedonia. My country belongs to a group of
countries that can survive and develop only in conditions
without war, in a world where peace and stability are not
In this context,
the delegation of the Republic of
Macedonia will make its full contribution to the successful
work of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly
and to strengthening the Organization.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for the statement he has
just made.
On behalf of
President Gligorov of the Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
ADDRESS BY MR. EMOMALI RAKHMONOV,
CHAIRMAN OF THE SUPREME COUNCIL OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the Chairman of the Supreme Council of the
Republic of Tajikistan, and to invite him to address the
Assembly.
Mr. Emomali Rakhmonov, Chairman of the Supreme
Council of the Republic of Tajikistan, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
Chairman RAKHMONOV (Tajikistan) (interpretation
from Russian): The year that has elapsed since the forty-
seventh session of the General Assembly was noteworthy for
the further growth in the authority and the effectiveness of
the United Nations.
It testifies, in our view, to the deep
understanding that the members of the world community
have about the need for close, constructive cooperation in
the name of a better future. As I look around this Hall, in
which, for the first time, a Head of State of a sovereign
Tajikistan is speaking, the words of the great poet Saadi
come to my mind:
"The sons of Man are but one body
For the Creator made us all from but one beginning".
Now that I find myself here, in the centre for settling
the problems of the whole world, I should first of all like to
congratulate Mr. Samuel Insanally,
Permanent
Representative of Guyana, on his election to the presidency
of the General Assembly. Allow me to express the hope
the
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
5
that this session, under your skilful leadership, Mr. President,
will achieve tangible, successful results for the good of all
mankind.
I should also like to draw attention to the
excellent work done by Mr. Stoyan Ganev, President of the
General Assembly at
its last session; Mr. Ganev both
energetically and effectively guided the deliberations on
complex political problems.
It
great
is with
satisfaction
greet
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United
Nations, and express to him our sincere gratitude for his
tireless efforts to resolve the conflicts in various parts of the
world, not excluding my own country.
that
I
The Republic of Tajikistan is taking its first steps as a
subject of international law. It is with deep satisfaction that
I note that we have been granted an equal voice in the
commonwealth of nations, and we are aware that
this
honourable right imposes significant duties on us.
The two years of our independence, in addition to
moments that are undoubtedly positive, have also entailed
the harsh trials that my patient and peace-loving people are
now going through. It is for the historians to study the root
causes, the reasons for the situation in Tajikistan today.
I
think that my job is to point out just one thing: those whom
we believe, on the basis of the law in force in the Republic
of Tajikistan, to be guilty of unleashing civil war are guilty
of grossly violating the very foundations of any modern
society, namely the primacy of law.
As in any civil war, in the civil war in Tajikistan there
can be no victors. Our urgent task as a nation is to heal, as
quickly as possible, the bloody wounds that it has inflicted
on our country.
The attention the community of nations is paying
Tajikistan is understandable. Nor should we be surprised at
the variety of opinions we hear when events in the Republic
are being analysed.
I should like to shed some necessary
light on a number of issues.
Now that we have set out on the path of independent
development, we have run up against the enormous political
and socio-economic problems of the transitional period.
Our national economy was built up as just one small
part of the enormous economic complex of the former
USSR, and was basically a provider of raw materials. With
the collapse of those economic ties, our Republic has come
face to face with many almost insoluble problems. There
has been a catastrophic drop in the standard of living, which
could hardly fail to lead to an increase in social tension.
to seize power
The power struggle that developed at the same time and
illegally, by force and
the attempts
undemocratically, have split society apart and led to a
senseless, fratricidal war. The results of this we know:
thousands of broken lives, thousands of dead and wounded,
refugees and missing.
Immeasurable political, social and
economic harm has been done to the Republic.
The internal instability has become the main reason for
the economic and political chaos, the total legal confusion
and the sharp drop in production. The future of our people -
the future of Tajik statehood - has been put in jeopardy.
The sixteenth session of the Supreme Council of the
Republic of Tajikistan, which was held in these conditions,
laid fundamentally new foundations for establishing peace
and civil harmony in our country. The Supreme Council has
decided in favour of solving all political, social and
economic problems solely within the framework of the
constitution. A number of important laws have been adopted
that are designed to afford citizens social protection and to
return them to their homes and peace-time jobs.
the Supreme Council
In accordance with the Constitution, we have elected a
and formed a
leadership for
Government.
Today our society and our people have
become aware that the highest power in the State should be
the law, and only the law.
As the Head of State, I declare, from this rostrum, that
we shall adhere to the fundamental principles of the Final
Act of the Helsinki Conference and the Paris Charter and
other international instruments for the defence of law. We
are determined to carry out democratic transformations in
our country and to acknowledge and respect philosophical,
religious, ideological and political choice as an inalienable
right of the individual.
Working under the constant pressure of political and
socio-economic problems, we have succeeded in a short time
in removing the economic blockade from all the regions of
the Republic and have begun rebuilding our destroyed
national economy and instituting economic reforms in order
gradually to introduce a free market.
From the beginning of the restoration of our Republic,
our Parliament has adhered to the principle of the primacy
of law, and in so doing has passed a number of measures,
while the Presidium of the Supreme Council has laid down
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
three special decrees on amnesty. Does not this show that
we are acting to resolve through political means the
problems that have accumulated in our country? We are
prepared for dialogue with all
the social forces in our
country to achieve national reconciliation, civil harmony and
stability in Tajikistan.
We would like to cooperate constructively with forces
of any political orientation acting within the framework of
existing law and respecting generally accepted principles of
democracy.
I would like to inform the world community
that Tajikistan is actively working to improve its election
laws and to prepare a draft new Constitution in which
maximum attention will be given to all problems related to
guaranteeing and protecting inalienable human rights.
In terms of settling our domestic political problems, we
are seriously concerned over the attempts at regionalization
of the internal conflict in Tajikistan, a conflict which is still
going on in a number of areas along the Tajik-Afghan
border. The outbreak of the conflict this summer brought
dozens of deaths.
Allow me briefly to tell the Assembly my view of the
essential reasons for the tensions along and inside the border.
Everyone knows that until recently Tajikistan had been
systematically subjected to unprovoked acts of armed
intervention from the territory of a neighbouring country.
Naturally, we understand its internal difficulties related to
establishing a centralized State administration. But facts
cannot be denied, and we have now been faced with the
need seriously to deal with the question of self-defence.
We are not hatching any hostile plan with regard to
Afghanistan. The measures which we have taken and are
taken to strengthen the defence of our border - which is also
a border of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) -
do not go beyond what is laid down in Article 51 of the
United Nations Charter and are fully in keeping with
generally accepted norms of international relations.
But this, of course, does not mean that that is the only
way to solve the problem. And here we are encouraged by
the notable speed-up in the negotiating process with the
authorities in Kabul. We have achieved a number of
positive agreements on a broad spectrum of questions,
including normalizing the situation along the Tajik-Afghan
border. We think that a permanent, substantive dialogue
with the leadership of the Islamic State of Afghanistan will
help us remove some other well-known irritants.
It is most unfortunate that huge resources are still being
spent to support destructive elements based on the territory
of Afghanistan. Having gone there from Tajikistan, they are,
with the help of extremist groups and the forces of
international terrorism, hatching plans forcibly to change the
State structure in our country. A legitimate question arises:
is it not wiser to use these resources to build rather than to
destroy?
Another of our problems is that of the Tajik refugees in
Afghanistan. There are many versions of how they ended up
on the territory of Afghanistan, but that is not the main
point, which is that they should return to their homeland as
quickly as possible. We express our sincere thanks to the
Administration of Afghanistan and to the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees, who are giving serious
attention to those people. As of the middle of September,
more than 35,000 Tajik refugees - more than half the total -
had returned to their permanent homes from Afghanistan.
We hope that the process of voluntary return will continue
and that with the support of the authorities of Afghanistan
and of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
we shall in the near future be able to put an end once and
for all to this painful question.
We have already completed our preparation for signing
a trilateral agreement between Tajikistan, Afghanistan and
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. We
hope that the agreement will be signed as soon as possible.
From this United Nations rostrum, I should like to say
one more thing in this regard. We are firmly convinced that
the support of the Administration of Afghanistan in efforts
to restore peace to the Afghan land, which has suffered so
much, would be in the interests not only of that country but
of the region and of the entire world. There was a time
when some States spent a great deal of resources on war in
Afghanistan. In my view, the time has come to help restore
a peaceful life there. A restless, unstable Afghanistan is a
threat - and not only to Tajikistan.
Regarding our participation in the CIS,
I must
emphasize that Tajikistan is in favour of strengthening the
Commonwealth while observing full
the
sovereignty and independence of its member States. In this
context, I should like to point out the significance of two
areas of our activities within the framework of the CIS,
activities which are critically important for Tajikistan. I am
talking about relations with Russia and with the Central
Asian States.
respect
for
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
7
trials
in taking upon itself
Russia, as a permanent member of the Security Council,
has undergone great
the
maintenance of peace and stability in virtually all the space
and territory of the former Soviet Union. Therefore, the
peoples of the former Soviet Union, including Tajikistan,
commend and welcome the peace-keeping efforts made by
Russia.
A positive role in stabilizing the situation in our country
has been played by the brotherly support of Uzbekistan,
Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic. Tajikistan also thanks
the United States and all the other countries of Europe and
Asia that extended the hand of assistance to us during
terrible and dark days.
We hope that Tajikistan will quickly be removed from
the blacklist of conflict areas. In this respect, we count upon
the tangible assistance of the world community in restoring
our national economy, which has been destroyed by war and
by natural disasters. A country which is rich in natural
resources, which has an attraction in terms of its economic
prospects, needs purposeful assistance in order to be reborn.
Allow me to express the hope that that assistance and that
support will naturally, in accordance with generally accepted
principles in world practice, be given to my country.
Tajikistan, which has gone through the horrors of a
civil war, views with great concern the course of events in
the hot spots of our planet. We know of the pain and
suffering of the people of Somalia. We feel the full depth
and senselessness of the tragedy of the peoples of the former
Yugoslavia, the deadlocked events which have taken place
in the Caucasus of the post-Soviet era. We also know
firsthand how destructive is the force of local conflicts. That
is why we make an urgent appeal to the world community
to multiply its efforts to end, and to prevent, that type of
conflict. We are firmly convinced that the force of arms, no
matter how threatening and frightening they may be, cannot
solve a single contentious issue.
In this connection, we are seriously concerned by the
uncontrolled and unsanctioned trade in arms in areas of
intense instability. Essentially, what
is happening is a
Indeed, we can imagine
massive arming of entire regions.
how unbelievably difficult
is to take away from a
population weapons that they have illegally obtained. On
the basis of our own bitter experience, we loudly speak out
about the danger of that fateful trend.
it
Today, this destructive impact on our economy has
been joined by another:
the aspiration of a number of
countries to acquire nuclear weapons or the technology to
produce them. As a country which has the technology for
mining and initially processing uranium, we categorically
oppose the use of that priceless source of energy for
non-peaceful purposes.
state
our
for
We
unconditional
the
Non-Proliferation Treaty, and we hope that the conference of
the States parties to that Treaty, scheduled for 1995, will
decide to extend it indefinitely.
support
As the Assembly knows, the end of the cold war and
bipolar confrontation gave rise to great hopes on the part of
the peoples of the world. Unfortunately, events have not yet
justified many of these hopes. None the less, there is one
place in the world where notable political events have been
observed. We are deeply satisfied with the historic
agreements
reached between the Palestine Liberation
Organization and the State of Israel on mutual recognition.
We welcome the decision of the United States of
America to recognize the Palestine Liberation Organization,
and we commend that great country for its role in supporting
peace and stability on earth.
The questions which the General Assembly will be
discussing at its forty-eighth session show that there is now
an onward rush towards the interdependence of nations. In
Tajikistan we are convinced of this.
We commend the peace-keeping and humanitarian
efforts of the United Nations. We are especially proud of
Tajikistan’s
the
Commonwealth of Nations in the broad peace-keeping
activities on the territory of our country; that initiative has
not been ignored.
institutions of
to include
initiative
The mandate for the presence in Tajikistan of the
Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ismat Kittani,
has been extended. The Republic has fruitfully worked with
the United Nations Observer Mission, the representative of
the High Commissioner for Refugees, and the representatives
of other international non-governmental organizations.
Our special gratitude goes to the Security Council of
the United Nations, which constantly monitors developments
in the situation in and around Tajikistan. We sincerely hope
the community of nations will be
that
increasingly focused on ensuring the
for
sustainable development.
the efforts of
conditions
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the
support
principles
We wholeheartedly
and
recommendations of Agenda 21. We feel that accomplishing
that Agenda’s important goals, such as the transfer of
technology and resources, will have a favourable impact on
disaster areas such as the Aral Sea and areas of great
poverty.
In conclusion, I would like to assure the Assembly that
my people, who have now embarked upon establishing their
own statehood and have overcome considerable difficulties
in so doing, look to the future with a feeling of great and, I
hope, justified optimism.
We will spare no effort, we shall use all our energy, in
building a genuinely legal, democratic and enlightened State
which will not fail
to take a worthy place among the
civilized countries of the world.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Chairman of the Supreme
Council of the Republic of Tajikistan for the statement he
has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Emomali Rhakmonov, Chairman of the Supreme
Council of the Republic of Tajikistan, was escorted from
the General Assembly Hall.
ADDRESS BY MR. ISAIAS AFWERKI, PRESIDENT
OF THE STATE OF ERITREA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the State of Eritrea.
Mr. Isaias Afwerki, President of the State of Eritrea,
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations the President of the State of Eritrea, His Excellency
Mr. Isaias Afwerki, and to invite him to address the
Assembly.
President AFWERKI: Let me begin by congratulating
you, Sir, upon your election to the presidency of the forty-
eighth session of the General Assembly.
I feel particularly privileged and honoured to address
the General Assembly on behalf of a people that struggled
for half a century to regain its fundamental human and
national rights and that, despite the outright military victory
it won, took the unprecedented step of organizing a free and
fair referendum so as to join the community of independent
States on the basis of its freely expressed wish and on solid
legal grounds.
As I speak here today, I cannot help but remember the
appeals we sent year in and out to the General Assembly
and the States Members of the United Nations, describing
the plight of our people and asking for legitimate sympathy,
support and recognition. We appealed to the United Nations
not only in its capacity as a representative of
the
international community, but also because of its special
responsibility to Eritrea. For it was the United Nations that
decided in 1950, at the beginning of the cold war, to deny
the
to
self-determination,
thereby sacrificing their national and
human rights on the altar of the strategic interests of the
super-Powers.
of Eritrea
colonized
people
their
right
In adopting that resolution, the United Nations affirmed
that
it remained an international
instrument which the
General Assembly could be seized of at any time. But for
the next 41 years, as a brutal war of aggression was
conducted against the Eritrean people,
initially with the
active support of the United States and later with a much
worse and massive involvement of the Soviet Union, and
despite the repeated appeals of the Eritrean people, the
United Nations refused to raise its voice in the defence of a
people whose future it had unjustly decided and whom it had
pledged to protect. Not once in 41 years did Eritrea, scene
of the longest war in Africa, and victim of some of the
grossest violations of human rights, figure in the agenda of
the United Nations.
This deafening silence pained our people. It also gave
a free hand to the aggressors,
thereby prolonging our
suffering and increasing the sacrifices we had to make. But
it neither shook our resolve nor undermined our belief in the
justness of our cause and the inevitability of our victory. As
an Eritrean proverb says:
"The rod of truth may become
thinner but it cannot be broken." Indeed, justice has finally
prevailed. This is a source of hope and happiness not only
for the Eritrean people, but for all those who cherish justice
and peace.
While we rejoice at the peace and freedom that have
been attained and the promising prospects that lie ahead, we
are confronted with the reality of a devastated country and
population.
The extent of the physical and economic
destruction visited on our country, in terms of infrastructure,
industry, agriculture, education and health services, as well
as the more painful human losses - the death of over
150,000 people, the exile of a quarter of the population,
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
9
massive displacement, and over 100,000 disabled and
orphaned - are appalling by any standard, especially when
measured against the meagre resources and small size of our
population.
Formidable as our problems are, we are confident that
we can and will rebuild our devastated country and provide
a decent life for ourselves.
It is our firm conviction that
outside assistance, no matter how generous, cannot of itself
solve our problems. Ultimately, deliverance will depend on
our own efforts, on the mobilization and efficient utilization
of our resources. But as we start to clear the rubble and
pick up the pieces after three decades of war and destruction,
we find that our resources are too limited for the awesome
task of rehabilitation and jump-starting our economy. We
cannot help but ask: Will
the United Nations and the
international community come to our assistance this time or
will our pleas once again go unheeded?
At this critical juncture of its history, Eritrea needs and
deserves international support and assistance, not only
because the United Nations and the international community
bear special responsibility for Eritrea, but also because it is
a test case for the United Nations "Agenda for Peace" and
the whole concept of peace-building. Eritrea has not only
secured peace and stability; it has made the rare achievement
of establishing warm relations of cooperation with its former
enemy, Ethiopia.
tackling the task of
reconstruction with popular support and participation, with
commitment and determination, with sound and flexible
policies, with prudent and efficient utilization of limited
resources, and with a demonstrated readiness to promote
regional understanding and cooperation.
And it
is
Unfortunately, the response of the United Nations and
the international community so far has not been encouraging.
Though the active involvement of the United Nations in the
referendum was generally commendable, United Nations
contributions to the Eritrean referendum - one of the most
successful electoral processes in which the United Nations
has ever been involved - was less than $2 million, a meagre
sum compared to the tens of millions of dollars devoted to
similar exercises, many of which were dismal failures.
Similarly, the response of the international community to the
programme for the repatriation of half a million Eritrean
refugees from the Sudan fell
reasonable
expectations, and the Government has found no alternative
but to start the programme regardless of funds and expected
problems.
Eritrea has also embarked on a crucial
demobilization programme - it has demobilized close to one
third of its 90,000-man army in the first phase - without
It had to cut back
United Nations or other contribution.
far short of
some of its rehabilitation and development projects and
borrow money to finance this first phase.
In our efforts at mobilizing international resources, we
have repeatedly been met with such excuses as "a lack of
funds", "competing demands", "more pressing priorities" and
"donor fatigue". There well may be some truth in all of this.
And we are appreciative of the constraints and commendable
efforts of some donors. But, I believe, we cannot and
should not hesitate to acknowledge that, by and large, the
international aid programme is deeply flawed, unfair, unjust
and ill-structured to respond to the vital needs of recipient
communities. Assistance and the amounts of assistance
appear to be decided, not on the basis of need or the
capacity to put the assistance to good use, but - even after
the proclamation of the end of the cold war - on the basis of
the interests and agendas of donors. Moreover,
the
international community tends to be more responsive to
putting out fires than to preventing them, and once the fires
are put out
it often turns its back on the smouldering
combustible remains.
One of the most disquieting features of the present
international situation is the marginalization of the entire
continent of Africa. Every indicator shows that Africa is
sliding back and being left behind, which results in
intolerable poverty, suffering and desperation for millions of
its people. There is no denying that
the onus of the
responsibility for these problems falls first and foremost on
us Africans. But, I believe, the international community
must squarely face the fact that it also bears responsibility
for Africa’s plight. Many of the dictators who have sown so
much havoc and suffering were in fact brought to power and
sustained during the years of the cold war by sections of the
international community. Perhaps more significant is the
fact that the now discredited economic policies and failed
projects were generally designed and approved by
international donors and implemented under the direction of
an army of foreign experts and advisers.
In our present highly interlinked world, Africa’s
marginalization, the poverty and desperation of its people, of
its youth, cannot be walled in within the continent’s
boundaries. They are bound to threaten global prosperity
and stability. The frustration and resentment that continue
to swell and may well explode must be defused in time.
Once again Africa must seize its own destiny.
Its people
and leaders must tap deep into their human and material
resources and come up with the wisdom, strategy and
commitment to lift Africa from the mire. But as they set out
on this difficult road the international community needs to
come to their assistance, not with hand-outs that only
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
increase dependency, not with the familiar packages and
projects
that have gone down the drain, not with
preconceived formulas and attitudes of "We know what is
best", but in a spirit of partnership dedicated to helping
Africa to stand on its own feet and contribute to the
enrichment of human life and the protection of
the
environment.
Of course, not everything in Africa has been bleak.
Just as gross human failure is not limited to Africa - witness
events in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Soviet Union
and elsewhere - Africa has its share of positive and uplifting
developments and successes. We are following with much
interest the determined and promising efforts of several
African countries, both at the individual country level and
within a regional context. Despite the neglect and inequities
of the international community, many African peoples are
making a determined assault on poverty and social injustice.
In our part of the continent, Eritrea and Ethiopia have
already started mutually beneficial economic cooperation,
and,
together with the other countries of the Horn, are
working to set up a regional mechanism to foster peace and
cooperation. We strongly believe all of the many positive
developments in Africa should be duly recognized.
In view of the positive developments in the Horn of
Africa,
the tragedy that has gripped Somalia has been
profoundly disturbing. As the bloodletting among our
Somali brothers assumed harrowing proportions, and at a
time when many were hesitating, we strongly advocated the
constructive intervention of the international community,
under the umbrella of the United Nations, to save lives and
help extricate Somalia from the destruction it was heading
for. Despite our opposition in principle to external military
intervention, we realized early on that the extraordinary
situation in Somalia demanded extraordinary measures.
It was therefore with great relief that we welcomed the
decision of the United States Administration to intervene in
Somalia. Encouraged, we sought - individually and in
conjunction with our regional partners - to ensure that the
intervention would be guided by clear and comprehensive
security, and humanitarian and political objectives. And we
did not hesitate to share our views on the size, type and
length of stay of the intervention force needed for the
success of the mission. But unfortunately our views were
not heeded, although we were, and still are, better placed to
understand and work in the realities of neighbouring
Somalia.
The improvement of the humanitarian situation and the
March 1993 Addis Ababa Accords on national reconciliation
are major steps forward. At the same time, the worsening
security situation in Mogadishu and the increasing toll in
human lives, including women and children, have cast a long
shadow on the intervention in Somalia. Repeated mistakes
in handling the situation have led some people openly to call
for an immediate end to the intervention.
It is our conviction that a precipitate withdrawal of
United States troops - which we strongly warned against
from the beginning - would not only signal a lack of United
States commitment to the intervention, but would eventually
make the position of the United Nations Operation in
Somalia (UNOSOM II) untenable. This would plunge
Somalia into a catastrophe much worse than the anarchy that
prompted the intervention in the first place. We therefore
urge the United States and the international community at
large to stay the course in Somalia and to shoulder their
responsibility to the Somali people in the hour of their
greatest need. We also urge them to review, frankly and
dispassionately,
the intervention to date, build on the
successes and achievements and, more importantly, admit
and correct mistakes.
We sincerely believe that the countries of the region,
whose role has so far been deliberately or otherwise
neglected, can make a constructive contribution to the
international effort. Consulting them informally every once
in a while, as has been the case in the past, is clearly not
enough. They need to become part of the process in a more
meaningful and formalized way, as it concerns and affects
them directly and more than anyone outside the region.
the cold war,
The advent of
the new State of Eritrea happily
coincided with the end of
that era of
super-Power rivalry that caused so much human misery and
led to the virtual paralysis of the United Nations. Like the
rest of humanity, we place much hope on the new era, on
the prospects of an enhanced role for the United Nations, a
role that would make it truly representative of "We, the
peoples of the world". And yet we have no illusions that a
new, just and equitable world order has dawned. We see too
many old habits and practices - inside the United Nations
and outside it - to entertain any illusions. Although we hope
for successes, we see that the failures of United Nations
initiatives far outnumber any of its successes.
Injustice
endures within nations and between nations.
Be that as it may, we recognize and appreciate the
achievements of the international intervention in Somalia.
We are awed by the challenges that continue to face
humanity and are deeply aware of our minuscule capabilities.
Still, Eritrea is determined to make its own small
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
11
contribution to the betterment of human life in its own
corner of the world.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the State of
Eritrea for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Isaias Afwerki, President of the State of Eritrea,
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
ADDRESS
BY MR. RAFIC HARIRI,
PRIME MINISTER OF LEBANON
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear a
statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Lebanon.
Mr. Rafic Hariri, Prime Minister of Lebanon, was
escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of
the Republic of Lebanon, His
Excellency Mr. Rafic Hariri, and I now invite him to address
the General Assembly.
Mr. HARIRI (Lebanon) (interpretation from Arabic):
It gives me pleasure to start out by congratulating you on
your election as President of the General Assembly of the
United Nations at its forty-eighth session. I should also like
to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr.
Stoyan Ganev, for his able stewardship of the previous
session of the Assembly.
Also, I should like to set on record our appreciation for
the outstanding efforts of
the Secretary-General, His
Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to attain the goals of
the United Nations and to fulfil the growing responsibilities
entrusted to the world body in behalf of world peace. We
do note that the changes sweeping across the world today
impose upon the United Nations additional responsibilities
which the President, Government and people of Lebanon
view with hope and optimism. Therefore, we are all called
upon to provide the United Nations with the necessary
means for fulfilling its expanding mandates. By the same
token, the United Nations should for its part streamline its
operations in order to adapt to the demands of the future.
I take this opportunity to welcome the Member States
which have recently been admitted to the membership of the
United Nations. This is yet another indication of the
universality of this Organization and a confirmation of the
growing need for it.
severely
strained
As the current decade brings us closer to the end of
another century in the history of mankind, we now have a
clearer picture of the issues and concerns that dominate the
thinking of the peoples of the world.
In dealing with the
spectrum of these questions, we need to rely first and
foremost on rational thinking. The wealth of experience
drawn from the lessons learned from the numerous conflicts
that have taken place throughout this century has taught us
that the path of peace is, in the final analysis, the optimal
course to follow, as all other avenues have proven futile.
The era of a divided world based on blocs and polarization,
relations
which
and
precipitated crises
is now over.
Therefore, the world is now ready to develop a universal
vision of mankind based on a universal code of ethics and
set of human rights. The United Nations Organization,
which has long suffered from rivalries that paralysed it and
placed severe constraints on its potential, is increasingly
called upon,
to engage in
peace-keeping activities. Despite the fact that its current
operations are somewhat different from the conventional
functions originally envisioned for the Organization,
its
operations demonstrate the growing need for this world body
to lend confidence and credibility to the multinational effort
in dealing with challenges and conflicts in a fair and sound
manner.
international
for many decades,
in an unprecedented fashion,
We believe that understanding between States and
peoples hinges upon the preservation of democracy and
human rights. Such understanding would in turn contribute
significantly to the elimination of
regional and global
disputes, in keeping with a major principle set forth in the
Charter of the United Nations. Here, I would be remiss if
I did not recall Lebanon’s contribution to the drafting of the
Charter as well as of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights,
the Special
Committee entrusted with the drafting of both instruments.
for Lebanon was a member of
Lebanon’s well-known tradition of firm commitment to
the principles of democracy, freedom and human rights, and
its success in upholding those principles despite the dangers
that threatened it for many years, remains faithful to the
basic pillars upon which our pluralistic, open and creative
society rests. Lebanon, which has withstood the trying years
of its plight, is now facing its critical challenges with the
It has
vigour of renewed and consolidated national unity.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
incorporated those principles into the fabric of its identity.
Thus, the new constitution proclaims that Lebanon is
and conflict that transcended national frontiers, and even the
entire region, to pose a threat to world peace in its entirety.
"Arab in identity and affiliation, a founder and active
member of the League of Arab States, fully committed
to its covenants; and a founding and active member of
the United Nations Organization, fully committed to its
Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights. The State is an embodiment of all
these
principles, in all areas and spheres wherever they apply,
without exception."
In view of its singular experience, Lebanon deserves
your support and a pledge from the world community not
only to provide material assistance and help in the
reconstruction of what the civil war has destroyed, but to
bolster the Lebanese system. The need for the example set
by this system is all the more urgent in our world today,
given the many ethnic and religious conflicts currently
raging in various regions.
time-honoured
tradition
its
Lebanon, with
of
coexistence, moderation and tolerance emanating from these
lofty human values, can indeed be a living example to those
even in advanced societies who are searching for a
successful formula for social harmony. This is especially
true now that Lebanon has put its tragedy behind it and
embarked on a course of accord and concord.
in bellicosity or
The great majority of the Lebanese lived through the
years of war and bore the brunt of its devastation without
having any real belief
its causes.
Throughout the war, some one million students continued to
attend their schools and colleges as if to express, through
pursuit of education,
their rejection of war. The same
majority continued to discharge its duties towards society
and the State in many parts of the country. Even ordinary
civilian crimes did not rise noticeably during the war.
All this confirms that the Lebanese, who settled this
problem a long time ago, not only in texts and precedents,
but also in their daily routines and life-styles, are proud to
be able to present to the world, after their long suffering, a
true example fashioned from first-hand experience of the
resilience of human nature with its wealth of intellect and
vivid diversity.
In our common interest we must all seek to safeguard
such a legacy and protect
This is
particularly true in the case of the Middle East region, which
has
traditionally and historically suffered from the
interference of foreign powers and the struggles of interest
it from violence.
Given the magnitude and intensity of the conflicts that
have ravaged Lebanon soil, the survival of our country
proves that
the Lebanese nation is too strong to be
eliminated and that it has long-established traditions that will
stand the test of
The people of Lebanon has
demonstrated great stamina and resilience in the face of
overwhelming odds.
time.
Lebanon is committed to realizing its aspirations and
determined to achieve progress within the context of the
opportunities offered by the modern world.
If the armed
conflicts and hostilities of recent decades have drained many
of our resources, our potential and our capabilities must
henceforth be channelled to face up to and overcome the
common challenges that confront mankind everywhere.
To this end, the Lebanese Government is striving to
restore Lebanon to its special position in the community of
civilized nations. The emphasis is on achievements that will
make the Lebanese individual capable of facing the future.
Lebanon considers that its major loss, perhaps, has been the
migration of many of its most talented and highly skilled
young people. One of our major concerns now is to create
favourable conditions that will attract them back.
It is our
hope that our human resources will be highly instrumental
in expediting the reconstruction of the better society we all
aspire to see: a society that enjoys peace, democracy and
prosperity.
Lebanon, whose people suffered enormous hardship
during the dark years of war,
fully recognizes and
appreciates the various tragedies and pains that afflict some
parts of the world today. As we reaffirm our permanent
commitment to peace and to the Charter of the United
Nations, and to the tenets that emanate from them, we stress
our adherence to and respect for an integrated system of
values which includes human rights, freedom and dignity.
Indeed, this should be the ultimate goal of every undertaking
and endeavour.
Early on, the United Nations took cognizance of the
situation in Lebanon, as attested to by the many resolutions
adopted by the Security Council on the Lebanese crisis.
Some people may not be aware that between 1968 and 1993
more than 80 United Nations resolutions and statements on
Lebanon were adopted.
This is a large number of
resolutions in comparison with other crises. Lebanon has an
imposing file indeed with both the General Assembly and
the Security Council. If the sheer volume of United Nations
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
13
official records on Lebanon is compared with that of the
documents submitted to ordinary courts of law,
it will
become clear instantly that, on the scales of international
justice, the weight of evidence tips the scales in favour of
Lebanon. Justice and law have been, and continue to be, on
the side of Lebanon. Notwithstanding, the Lebanese have
always been deeply disappointed by the fact that political
interests have continued to outweigh justice and the rule of
law, and led to the application of double standards regardless
of the scores of resolutions that have been adopted right here
in the United Nations in support of the legitimate demands
of Lebanon, a country that sought effective recourse from
the United Nations.
country’s
political
and
independence
in Lebanon and for
Therefore, we must give credit
All those United Nations resolutions have called for
ending violence
respecting its
sovereignty and territorial integrity, and thus have reaffirmed
the
national
sovereignty.
to the
Organization for its initial favourable response in regard to
Lebanon, especially in terms of the need to implement
Security Council resolution 425 (1978) and the establishment
of the United Nations peace-keeping force in southern
Lebanon. I avail myself of this opportunity to recognize the
effective role played by the United Nations Interim Force in
Lebanon (UNIFIL). May I pay tribute to the many United
Nations personnel who have made sacrifices, including the
loss of life, in the line of duty in southern Lebanon. To
those contingents and to the friendly countries that have
contributed troops, we express our deep gratitude.
However, as we look forward to the future - having
taken firm and crucial steps towards restoring normalcy, with
the substantial and effective help of Syria in disarming the
militias, ending the internecine fighting and restoring the
authority of the State, we feel we have the right to call upon
the United Nations at a time when its role is being redefined
in consonance with current global changes, to act decisively
in Lebanon. More specifically, we expect
the United
Nations to work forcefully for
the implementation of
Security Council resolution 425 (1978), and to ensure
Israel’s total withdrawal to the internationally recognized
boundaries.
It is not an overstatement to point out that
peace in Lebanon has been, and continues to be, the sine
qua non for stability in the Middle East and for the
establishment of a just and comprehensive peace in the
entire region. Any peace arrangements will remain fragile
and incomplete should the international community choose
to tolerate the continuation of a situation that
threatens
Lebanon with potentially explosive disputes.
The Lebanese have agreed by consensus on a new
formula for national reconciliation, which was worked out in
1989 at Taif in Saudi Arabia. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
played the principal role in working out that formula, which
later became Lebanon’s constitution. Furthermore, Saudi
Arabia, in keeping with a long-standing tradition, together
with other members of
the Gulf Cooperation Council
continues to donate substantial assistance towards the
reconstruction of Lebanon. With the same goal in mind, the
Lebanese Government undertook the implementation of a
rehabilitation programme in all spheres of life and in an
unmistakable
confidence.
Gradually, Lebanon began to restore its traditional, regional
and international role. This permitted Lebanese energies to
be unleashed, and gave rise to creative initiatives for
reconstructing and developing the country.
atmosphere of
international
In all this, Lebanon has faced up to occupation and
violence, by adopting a stance anchored in the Charter of the
United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights. Our country, which draws its strength from the
steadfastness and resilience of its people, has reaffirmed time
and again its right to live in dignity and to ensure the
freedom of its territory. The Lebanese Government
is
heavily engaged in the reconstruction effort and the
enhancement of civilian life in order to promote stability
throughout the region.
Israeli acts of aggression, which have clear objectives
and purposes, have been met by the Lebanese with a high
sense of responsibility, solidarity and internal unity. Our
unchanging, spontaneous response is insistence on peace and
on securing the security and progress of our country, which
has paid dearly for having been used as an arena to settle
accounts among conflicting parties.
An insistence on peace was the driving force that
prompted the Lebanese to return immediately to their
villages and farms
Israeli
aggression. They pitched tents in front of their demolished
homes, thus demonstrating their deep attachment to the land
and their loyalty to the territory and its bounties.
following the most
recent
The true nature of the Al-Khiyam detention camp,
where Israeli military authorities hold more than 200
Lebanese citizens without any legal grounds, is well known
to United Nations officials and to Member States.
Indeed,
the case of those detainees is common knowledge in the
international media. Moreover, 100 other Lebanese
prisoners are being held in various prisons inside Israel.
Despite the repeated appeals by the Commission on Human
Rights and Amnesty International and the demands made by
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the Lebanese Government and human-rights societies in
Lebanon and the rest of
the Israeli
authorities refuse to release them. Furthermore, for more
than eight years,
Israel has denied the International
Committee of the Red Cross as well as family members
access to visit those prisoners.
the Arab world,
It is high time indeed for Israel to respond to the
appeals of international bodies by releasing those hostages
promptly, thus putting an end to their drawn out suffering
and the agony of their families. In fact, Israel is duty-bound
to do so in compliance with the relevant international treaties
and conventions.
The positive developments now taking place daily in
Lebanon are the most articulate expression of the Lebanese
refusal to permit their country once again to be a victim of
the Middle East conflict at a time when the winds of peace
are starting to blow towards the region. Lebanon yearns for
peace and has consistently opted for peace throughout its
history.
In fact, Lebanon can thrive only in an atmosphere
of peace and stability. Indeed, its role in its own region and
in the world at large cannot be performed in the midst of
violence and war. Lebanon believes that the Middle East
region, if it enjoys a just and comprehensive peace, will be
in a position to contribute incalculable services to mankind.
All the peoples of the region, including the Lebanese, have
enormous potential, backed by a great cultural heritage and
diverse capabilities. Energies and resources that have long
been squandered on war could then be harnessed in the
service of social and economic development as we stand on
the threshold of the twenty-first century with all its promise
of achievements to come.
Against this backdrop, and in view of the regional and
international developments that have made it possible to
initiate negotiations with Israel, Lebanon participated in
those negotiations two years ago despite the fact that parts
of its territory have been under occupation as a result of an
act of aggression committed by Israel in 1978 - and not
because of a state of war with Israel. Lebanon’s just case
firmly rests on a series of United Nations resolutions
adopted over the past 15 years, all of which demand Israel’s
withdrawal and define the necessary means and modalities
required to achieve it.
If Israel uses the security of its northern border as a
pretext, we would argue that all the measures taken by
Israel, including the occupation of territory, have contributed
to the disruption of security.
In fact, Lebanon and the
international community are more than ever convinced that
the only way to ensure regional security is to end the
occupation of Lebanese territory and desisting from
tampering with the security and safety of its population.
Forty-five years of unabated disputes, conflicts and
wars have created certain outlooks. Changing such outlooks
will require great political courage and deep understanding
on the part of those who are interested in peace. Large-scale
direct support will also be needed, along with innovative
thinking to shake ourselves loose from traditional frames of
mind.
More than ever before, the Middle East sorely needs
brave, innovative approaches if it is to attain a firm and
lasting peace. Lebanon, which is participating in the peace
talks in order to liberate its lands and lay the foundations of
a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East, wishes
to point out the following:
First, Lebanon demands the total withdrawal of Israel
from all occupied Lebanese territories under Security
Council
The
Lebanese armed forces will assume full responsibility for
security in the southern and western regions should Israel
implement the provisions of those two resolutions.
resolutions 425 (1978) and 426 (1978).
Secondly, Lebanon, which believes in and seeks peace,
would be among the first beneficiaries of a just peace as it
expands to encompass the entire region. Along with its
Arab brethren, Lebanon will be an active participant in
making peace and in supporting its development and
advocating its consolidation as the underpinning of life in the
Middle East.
Thirdly, Lebanon which has had very painful
experiences as a result of the policy of the singling out of
certain countries and imposing partial solutions, believes that
peace is indivisible, especially in cases where issues are
closely interrelated, as is the case in the Middle East. We
also believe that unilateral and partial arrangements are
bound to give rise to nothing but new disputes and conflicts.
In this context, I should like to affirm, on the basis of
the object-lessons learnt from our common experience, that
there can be no firm and lasting peace in the Middle East
without Lebanon and Syria. The accord reached between
Israel and the Palestinians will remain a mere single step
unless it is quickly complemented by substantive solutions
on the other Arab tracks. Lebanon, which is extremely
limited in the size of its territory, has a delicate population
composition and scant economic resources, cannot provide
a solution for Palestinians who have been uprooted from
their land. The responsibility for returning the Palestinians
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
15
status
competence of
remains within the
to their homeland and for finding a satisfactory solution to
their
the
international community.
If we really wish to put an end
once for all to the chapters of pain and anguish in the
Middle East, then the cause of the Palestinians should be
addressed in such a manner that may ensure for them a
decent life commensurate with their legitimate aspirations
and the aspirations of all our countries after human rights.
Fourthly, in order to achieve peace, Lebanon is willing
to cooperate fully with the two co-sponsors of the peace
conference, particularly the United States of America, to
reach a comprehensive and just
solution that would
safeguard the right of all parties to permanent peace, and put
an end once and for all to conflicts in the region. Towards
that end, Lebanon stands ready to assume its due share of
the responsibility.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the
Republic of Lebanon for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Rafic Hariri, Prime Minister of the Republic of
Lebanon, was escorted from the rostrum.
Mr. ANDREATTA (Italy): I would like to express our
warmest congratulations to Guyana and to you personally,
Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I am also pleased that in the past year the United
Nations family has grown to include the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia,
the Czech Republic, Slovakia,
Andorra, Monaco and Eritrea. We wish to extend a special
welcome to the last two in view of our long-standing historic
and human ties.
Italy, deeply committed to European political and
economic unity, shares the views expressed by the Belgian
Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is the current Chairman of
the European Council.
We are not simply voicing conventional wisdom if we
stress the depth of the transformations that define the times
in which we live. Every day brings forth new proof that the
end of the cold war has brought us to a watershed. We must
carefully decipher the lessons and courageously shoulder the
new tasks with which this moment has presented us.
As the Secretary-General said in Milan, international
law is the main instrument at our disposal; it is not merely
a regulatory instrument but the very language of the relations
between States. But the social pressures we are now facing
are profoundly new, generating changes that international
law must begin to reflect as it translates new needs into new
institutions.
If today we believe we can govern this transformation,
and if we refuse to yield to the disorderly growth of a new
international order, we have first and foremost the renewed
vitality and prominence of the United Nations to thank.
its
aims.
to pursue
The United Nations has evolved on the foundation of
practices that are solidly inscribed in the Charter, while
discovering new ways
Take
peace-keeping, a practice from the United Nations earliest
days that has recently acquired a special role. Today peace
is more likely to be threatened by the explosion of internal
conflicts (though at times with transnational components)
than by acts of open aggression across international borders.
Peace-keeping, peace-enforcement, and humanitarian relief
missions all
take place in the midst of conflicts with
complex political causes, and tangled ethnic and national
roots. In such an environment, the traditional juxtaposition
of diplomacy and military action no longer corresponds to
the reality of the present, and a broad initial mandate is not
sufficient concretely to define operations in the field.
The unity of military command is an unquestionable
principle, without which no operation can succeed.
However, the political management of an operation cannot
be confined strictly to military options, especially when the
real issue is not the legitimacy of the use of force (which
may be clearly authorized by the Security Council’s
mandate), but its advisability and timing in view of the
political objectives. I would add that in situations involving
crowds of civilians, we must consider making it our policy
always to give pride of place to the use of non-lethal
anti-riot equipment. This is not only an Italian concern.
Spokesmen for other countries have also stressed that
countries
to United Nations
peace-keeping missions need mechanisms that would exempt
their troops from passively abiding by orders that may be
illegal, inconsistent, or in contradiction with the aims of the
operation.
contributing
troops
The United Nations peace-keeping practices reveal an
awareness of the need for adequate prior consultation of
troop-contributing countries. To this end, while Article 29
of
the
establishment of bodies subsidiary to the Security Council,
Article 44 could provide a more fitting solution to the
It provides for the Security Council to establish
problem.
the Charter provides a general guideline for
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
consultative procedures with non-members of the Security
Council that have been requested to contribute troops to
peace-keeping and security operations. Today, even in the
absence of formal agreements such as those provided for by
Article 43, I believe we should extend Article 44, by
analogy, to operations conducted under Chapter VII of the
Charter.
In his "An Agenda for Peace", the Secretary-General
defined peace-building as laying the necessary political and
socio-economic foundations for a lasting peace after the
phase of open conflict has ended. The reconstruction - or
the establishment - of legal and economic institutions in
critical areas and countries represents the main prerequisite
of an enduring peace.
These premises form the basis of what Italy means to
propose in order to move beyond the current situation in
Somalia - a situation characterized somewhat by giving pride
of place to the military aspect of the United Nations
Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) and by the standstill in
the political process. We believe that it is essential that the
United Nations step up its political efforts at peacemaking by
appointing a personality of great international prestige to
renew the political and diplomatic initiative with all the
Somali factions. At the same time, the mechanisms of the
Addis Ababa Conference should be reactivated in such a
way as to increase the involvement of the African nations
and their institutions in the normalization of Somalia. But
the predominantly political nature of our operation to restore
hope in Somalia must also be translated into the progressive
reconstruction of Somalia’s basic economic and social
structures and the reorganization of a government and its
administrative structures. This requires broad development
programmes, to which Italy’s commitment has remained
unswerving even in the most difficult moments.
Mrs. Fritsche (Liechtenstein), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
Italy welcomes the renewed central role of the United
Nations, and at the same time supports a reform of its
institutional mechanisms.
Let us first consider the possibility of a change in the
membership of the Security Council. As Italy emphasized
to the Secretary-General last June, since the Security Council
is moving towards a future of greater burdens and
responsibilities, its representativeness and effectiveness must
develop in parallel. What we suggest is that, in addition to
the permanent members with veto power
and the
non-permanent members, a third category be established. It
would be made up of countries able to make a special
contribution to achieving the objectives of
the United
Nations. What matters is not drawing up controversial lists,
but
identifying objective criteria for selection, based on
economic factors, human resources, culture, and mass
communications. These countries would rotate two at a
time, thereby becoming semi-permanent members of the
Council.
We must all recognize the renewed central role of the
avoid
in international
United Nations
interpreting this role in exclusive terms.
relations, but
The regional dimension of multilateralism, which is
described in Chapter VIII of the Charter, has today a great
role. Take the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (CSCE), which has been explicitly defined as a
regional
institution on the basis of the United Nations
Charter.
Italy is about to assume the chairmanship of the
CSCE. We believe that it is being called on to play an
increasing role, mainly in preventive diplomacy but also in
peace-keeping and in fostering negotiated settlements.
In
this regional framework, we would welcome more stringent
regulations on arms transfers that build on the present United
Nations provisions.
If it is true that without peace there can be neither
development nor satisfaction of social needs, it is also true
that conflict is fed everywhere not only by the urge to
subjugate the adversary violently but also by the existence of
social injustice, imbalance and poverty.
The first and basic injustice is the violation of human
rights. When the international community defends human
rights, it is pursuing absolute and autonomous values that
must be protected. At the same time, it is eradicating many
of the causes of violence between groups and nations.
We hope that an agreement between the groups will
finally make it possible to end the fighting in Bosnia.
However, as the international community prepares to support
the implementation of an agreement, we must not forget the
war crimes and the crimes against humanity committed
during this
Thus, we applaud the
establishment of the International Tribunal and hope that -
impartial and free from political influences - it will begin its
work at the earliest possible date. Where appropriate, the
Tribunal should hand down tough sentences, although I take
exception to the death sentence, which Italy firmly opposes
on the basis of its time- honoured juridical traditions.
tragic conflict.
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
17
I wonder if the international community could not
summon the same determination to establish an international
criminal court to prosecute the most serious human rights
violations.
Italy is convinced that human rights prosper in systems
based on democracy and an open-market economy. That is
why we firmly support Governments that are committed to
such goals and work courageously through hardships and
temporary crises.
for cultural,
An issue of great contemporary relevance is the
protection of minorities - which cannot be separated from
the protection of individuals, for the two issues are based on
the same hopes, the same principles of freedom and the
same respect
religious and philosophical
differences. Too often, the territorial integrity of the State
has been contrasted with the rights of minorities.
Instead,
we must demonstrate that in a democracy, a democracy that
leaves room for direct participation and for true pluralism of
identity and choice,
is possible to balance these two
equally worthy values. We must demonstrate that there is
no contradiction between the protection of minorities and the
stability of borders. On the contrary, as the experience of
my country shows, they can reinforce each other.
it
The principles, institutions and rights that make peace
more solid are a primary consideration. But we must never
underestimate the often-decisive role played by weapons.
The accumulation and development of weapons endangers
stability since the perception of a threat triggers actions that
are harmful for peace and economically ruinous.
That is why disarmament and non-proliferation, even in
the post-cold-war era, must
remain one of our main
objectives and why we highly value the message delivered
from this podium by the President of the United States.
We need to complete past disarmament initiatives that
we have agreed to and begun, and both confirm and expand
existing tools. We strongly support the early ratification of
the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty II (START II). The
Non-Proliferation Treaty must be strictly observed, which is
why North Korea’s unclear attitude towards that Treaty is a
matter of such great concern. That Treaty must also be
strengthened and made universal.
In 1995, we should all
join together to renew the Treaty unconditionally and for an
indefinite period.
Today we are witnessing the emergence of a collective
consciousness, the expansion of a shared system of values,
an international citizenship based on common, objective
interests and the spread of more uniform lifestyles. An
Italian philosopher, Giambattista Vico, wrote:
"Ultimately, once the cities got to know each other,
having shared dealings in war, alliances and trade, they
came, to an unprecedented extent, to the recognition of
natural civic rights as a natural right of all peoples, that
is of all united nations - as if the world were one large
city - which is the law of humankind."
That was written in the early eighteenth century.
Faced with a world beset by multiple conflicts,
in
which individual nations or groups often pursue their
interests through the use of force, it would be intellectually
dishonest and morally reprehensible to adopt attitudes of
resignation or fatalism. Violence is no more natural than
peaceful coexistence and collaboration between peoples and
groups. Acting against violence and for coexistence is
therefore not only morally desirable, but actually practicable.
One such possibility has been eloquently demonstrated
in recent days by the hopeful development of a peaceful
future in the Middle East thanks to the courage of the
Israelis,
the Palestinians and the Arab countries. As a
Mediterranean country with a long tradition of active
involvement in the cause of stability and peace in the area,
Italy is ready to contribute further to help the entire region
take the first steps on a long and complex journey toward
peace and cooperation, with borders permanently defined in
accordance with Security Council resolutions. The same
possibility is confirmed by the promising steps being taken
towards democracy and coexistence in South Africa.
The awareness of the possibility and the moral duty to
act must also inspire our attitude towards the economic and
social problems that dehumanize the lives of millions of
people all over the world.
I am referring to development
policies, which should be conducted in a spirit of solidarity
and on the basis of multilateral coordination.
Such
coordination must also be extended to bilateral initiatives,
while we also need closer cooperation between agencies.
That approach has already produced successful results in
Mozambique and Eritrea, and even in war-torn Somalia. It
must now be applied to endorse the peace process in the
Middle East. The donors’ conference about to open in
Washington will provide an important occasion to translate
our political support into action.
We know the limits of our actions, and we cannot allow
ourselves to be swayed by the temptations of noble but
abstract Utopias.
responsibility to draw up
is our
It
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
principles and instruments that are valid for the times in
which we live and that can help us to manage and to
transform in a more rational and humane way the reality that
surrounds us.
Each country must promote this action on its own or
through alliances or other groups. But it is ultimately here,
in the framework of this Organization and in view of its
universal aims and membership, that each country will have
to contribute to the solution of these problems. To do this,
we must not limit ourselves to declaring principles but,
rather, on the basis of those principles we must be willing to
hand the United Nations the tools it needs. The international
community - in other words, we as Member States - is
giving the United Nations greater and greater responsibilities.
But
the responsibilities of the United Nations are our
responsibilities. The problems of the United Nations are our
problems.
Mr. JESZENSZKY (Hungary): Allow me to express
my warmest congratulations to Ambassador Insanally, on his
election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-
eighth session. I should also like to welcome into our midst
Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and Slovakia, whose recent
admissions have brought the United Nations even closer to
becoming truly universal.
During the last year,
the international community
continued to face extremely grave challenges. This period
has seen, along with certain positive achievements, more
alarming failures and disappointments. The questions to
which we have to respond take us back once again to the
basic problem of multilateralism, that is to say, to defining
in our complex world the values that can ensure a cohesion
which is necessary for our common will to be translated into
joint action.
The fall of communist dictatorships in Central and
Eastern Europe and the end of super-Power confrontation
have brought about an international political climate in
which new approaches can be found in the maintenance of
international peace and security and the resolution of global
problems. They are based on greater opportunities for closer
interaction and the participation of each and every United
Nations Member State in managing and influencing the
course of events. These opportunities and the ability of the
international community to turn them into tangible results are
manifest
in the conflict-resolution processes in Central
America and South-East Asia, in the resolute reversal of
brutal
fundamental
transformation we are witnessing in South Africa and in the
aggression in the Gulf,
in the
that with
demonstrate
historic agreement in the Middle East. These evolutions
clearly
courage,
far-sightedness and readiness for compromise, even the most
intractable problems can be untangled and resolved. They
show us an example that ought to be emulated in all regions
of the world.
political
The convulsions of the new era of world history are
strongly felt in a country like Hungary which, as it has so
often in its history, finds itself again close to conflict-ridden
areas. Despite the difficulties that inevitably accompany the
historic transition processes of the region, the Hungarian
Government, ever since it took office in 1990, has been
striving consistently and successfully to maintain the
country’s internal stability and to ensure that it remains a
mainstay of stability in our troubled region. Stability should
be omnipresent and universal, and we have to find the
appropriate ways and means to achieve it.
As regards the old continent, Hungary wants to see
democracy, prosperity, security and the institutions, such as
the Council of Europe, the European Community and the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) that lie at its
foundation, gradually expand eastward.
the norms of
For some time now the world has been living in the
shadow of events that ominously remind us of the darkest
periods in the history of mankind. The conflict in the
former Yugoslavia has been raging for more than two years.
But most regrettably, not even the worst cases of disregard
for
law and the principles
enshrined in the Charter, not even the gravest crimes against
humanity and the most brutal mass violations of fundamental
human and minority rights, have proven to be sufficient to
persuade the world, when there was still time, to counter
aggression promptly and effectively,
the
acquisition of territory by use of force and to take a firm
stand against the abhorrent policy of "ethnic cleansing".
international
to prevent
The
end result of
such policies of passivity,
appeasement and complacency, of the striking lack of an
ability to learn from past experiences and of the absence of
the necessary political will to act, is well documented right
here, in this building, in a shocking and soul-stirring photo
exhibition about the horrors of war in the former Yugoslavia.
It brings home a painful awareness of
the practical
consequences of unbridled extreme nationalism and the
compelling message not to relax and relent in our national,
regional
to uphold in an
uncompromising manner the purposes and principles of the
Charter.
and international
efforts
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
19
The renewal of Central and Eastern Europe and the
economic and social processes there have thrown to the
surface tendencies of political and ethnic fundamentalism
which, having been elevated to the level of official State
policy, have unleashed or could lead to conflicts threatening
the security of the whole of Europe. In our interdependent
world, every nation on Earth, irrespective of where it is
situated, should realize the danger of
this venomous
contagion if it were allowed to spread across our planet.
The people and the Government of Hungary continue
to follow the developments of the crisis in the former
Yugoslavia with utmost concern. As a country immediately
adjacent to the crisis area, Hungary has sought to avoid
being dragged into this conflict, while continuing at the same
time to voice its principled position on the crisis and abiding
by the relevant decisions of the international community.
One has to reckon with the fact that this crisis is not
limited to the war-torn areas of Bosnia and Croatia.
It
festers in Serbia proper, where there is growing pressure on
the different ethnic communities inhabiting the country,
including the Hungarian community in Vojvodina.
In this
formerly autonomous province,
the successive waves of
intimidation and discrimination have already significantly
reduced both the size and the proportion of the Hungarian
minority. There continues to be a constant threat of a
further massive influx of refugees into Hungary, I am afraid.
In the conditions prevailing in Serbia and Montenegro, just
as in other parts of the former Yugoslavia, it is of utmost
importance to seek adequate international protection for these
ethnic communities and national minorities. Indeed, one of
the key issues in settling the crisis is to ensure their rights
without any discrimination, whether they have majority or
minority status, with the same norms and standards applying
to each and every one of them.
Because of its geographical situation, Hungary finds
itself confronted with special economic problems arising
from the implementation of sanctions imposed by the
Security Council against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro). Our economic and financial losses
directly attributable to the effects of implementing the
sanctions are constantly growing, and have now reached $1
billion. We highly appreciate the steps taken so far by the
Security Council vis-à-vis those countries that have suffered
economic losses and have made use of their right to consult
the Security Council under Article 50 of the Charter. We
trust
the international organizations and institutions
concerned will find early solutions to help alleviate those
pressing problems. It is clear from the experience gained in
connection with the various sanctions regimes in place that
that
attention from the international community commensurate
with the scale of the problems caused to third countries is
required in order to examine how best we can establish an
effective mechanism for the implementation of Article 50.
Without such a mechanism,
the burden placed on an
ever-growing
their
countries
international obligations will remain disproportionately and
unjustly heavy.
fulfilling
number
of
In this connection, it is totally unacceptable to take
retaliatory measures in response to actions by any State in
fulfilment of its obligations under the Charter. Therefore,
illegal measures such as attempts to block free and safe
navigation on the Danube river, which is an international
waterway vital for many countries of Europe, warrant
international action, and the States concerned rightly expect
the international organizations to provide effective assistance
in this matter.
In the light of recent bitter experiences, we have
become more acutely aware that the world cannot be made
a safer place unless there are international organizations able
and willing to take resolute and timely action. Multilateral
diplomacy must be at its best if it is to offer remedies where
other possibilities for preventing or settling conflicts have
been exhausted. We consider it especially important that the
various tools of preventive diplomacy and crisis management
should be constantly at the disposal of the international
community.
Hungary is highly interested in the ongoing work aimed
at a comprehensive review and enhancement of the United
Nations peace-keeping, peacemaking and peace- building
activities. Many substantive proposals have been made and
useful observations put forward in this regard. We hope that
they will assist in our endeavours to carry out genuine and
purpose-oriented reform measures in the world Organization.
We expect that the present session of the General Assembly
will move us ahead in the debate on how to bring certain
provisions of the Charter into line with the changing realities
of our world. Conditions seem ripe today for giving most
serious consideration to questions relating to the review of
the Charter. The fundamental aim of such a review is to
make the United Nations function better. At the same time,
it should in no way undermine the effectiveness of the
decision-making processes at the United Nations.
In this
context, Hungary fully understands the pressing financial
situation of the world Organization and, as its contribution
to redressing this state of affairs, has, as of this year,
eliminated all its arrears to the regular budget.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the birth of
Secondly,
the United Nations,
In our view, there are, inter alia, two particular areas
where a review of the provisions of the Charter is needed.
First, there is a long-overdue need for a review of those
Charter provisions that imply a distinction between United
Nations Member States on the basis of their status of
signatory or enemy State. On the eve of the fiftieth
anniversary of
the
elimination of this obsolete distinction would be more than
a gesture towards a number of countries that have, over the
years, fully proved their commitment to the purposes and
principles enshrined in the Charter.
the role
played in today’s world politics by some States and their
contribution to the realization of the purposes and principles
of the Charter justify their more intimate involvement in the
maintenance of international peace and security. We are
aware that the issue of the enlargement of the permanent
membership of the Security Council will be the subject of
further discussions. However, we believe that two countries
- Germany and Japan - already qualify to play the enhanced
role that would stem from permanent membership in the
Security Council.
My Government continues to believe that the United
Nations provides a most fitting framework for translating
into reality our global responsibility for the international
protection of human rights. It is our deep conviction that the
Security Council should pay appropriate attention, and act
resolutely and promptly, as part of its preventive actions, to
mass infringements of human and minority rights, since they
constitute threats to regional and international peace and
security.
We should pursue an effective integration of human
rights elements into the workings of the whole United
Nations system. Hungary supports the early establishment
of a post of high commissioner for human rights. An
appropriate mandate from this session of
the General
Assembly could ensure, through this new institution, an
adequate presence for human rights elements, particularly in
the various fields of early warning, conflict management,
peace-keeping and peace-making, electoral assistance and
post-conflict peace-building. The high commissioner could
make the human rights activities of the United Nations more
transparent to world public opinion. We intend to lend our
full support to a mandate for the high commissioner that
would also cover the protection and promotion of minority
rights. In our view, the high commissioner could also play
a major role in raising public awareness of the positive
models of multinational coexistence and minority protection
systems that are functioning well
in various democratic
countries of the world. Here I can refer to the previous
speaker, whose country, I believe, is a good example of this.
We believe that this task is of major importance and has
never been higher on the agenda than it is today. The
application or adaptation of these successful solutions to the
specific circumstances prevailing in other parts of the world
could greatly contribute to a more satisfactory human rights
situation in our world at the end of this turbulent century.
I have obviously not exhausted all
the problems
besetting the world. Our Governments today have an
enormous
to the new
challenges.
If we fail to act now, we risk losing all the
achievements won with the ending of the cold war.
responsibility to find answers
Mr. ASAMOAH (Ghana):
It is with pleasure that, on
behalf of the Ghana delegation, I convey to Mr. Insanally of
Guyana our congratulations on his election, by acclamation,
as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session. He assumes this high office at a momentous time
in the history of mankind, as we endeavour to establish a
new world order based on freedom and justice. The skills
and experience that he brings to his office assure us of
success during his tenure. The cordial relations that happily
exist between the President’s country and mine increase our
satisfaction, hopes and expectations. We pledge to him and
to the Bureau our full cooperation and support.
leadership that
Let me place on record also our appreciation of the
effective
the President’s predecessor,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, gave to our Organization
during his stewardship. His ability to navigate the General
Assembly through the turbulence of a contradictory context
in international relations was admirable.
Once again, the Secretary-General has shown, through
a display of his
remarkable skills as a thinker, an
administrator and an accomplished diplomat, that he is on
top of his job. The credit is no doubt shared by the staff,
whose dedication and commitment have been maintained.
The universality of the General Assembly, which makes
it the most representative organ of the Organization, has
again been reaffirmed with the admission of five new
Member States since August 1992. We take this opportunity
to welcome them and to extend to them the cooperation of
the Ghana delegation.
The search for enduring peace is still
the greatest
challenge of the Organization, in spite of the end of the cold
the Union of Soviet Socialist
war.
Republics and the accession to independence of
its
the freedom and independence of the
constituent parts,
The collapse of
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
21
countries of Eastern Europe, German reunification, and the
cold-war relics of trouble spots have brought to the fore
"Simmering disputes, violent conflicts, aggression and
foreign occupation, interference in the internal affairs of
States, policies of hegemony and domination, ethnic
strife, religious intolerance, new forms of racism and
narrowly conceived nationalism", (A/47/675, annex,
para. 3)
as the Jakarta Message of 1992 of
Movement so aptly stated.
the Non-Aligned
At the same time, our world is faced with an economic
and a social situation similar to that which preceded the two
world wars. All these developments, aggravated by global
recession, threaten to undermine the purposes of the United
Nations.
We must continue to pursue the goal of
total
disarmament. We should like the proposed United Nations
Register of Conventional Arms
to include nations’
production of arms and all other weapons of mass
destruction.
the Middle East, Cyprus,
The goal of complete and total disarmament would
obviously be easier to pursue in an environment of peace
based on mutual confidence.
It is in this context that we
welcome the efforts of the United Nations to shoulder the
increasing burden of peace-keeping and peacemaking.
In
Cambodia, Mozambique, Angola, South Africa, the former
Yugoslavia, Somalia,
and
elsewhere, the efforts of the United Nations have served as
a positive check on the threat to international peace and
security. There are, however,
lessons to be drawn for
current and future operations. The holding of elections in
Angola and in Cambodia without the fulfilment of certain
conditions, such as the disarming and cantonment of troops,
was tactically unhelpful, in spite of the circumstances that
led to the elections - a mistake which, thankfully, the United
Nations does not intend to repeat in Mozambique. We
should also remind ourselves that peacemaking may be a
slow and painful process. The need to retain the confidence
of all parties and their support for, and participation in, the
process is fundamental and crucial to the success of such
operations.
We are disappointed at the instability that continues to
engulf the former Yugoslavia. Whilst we still regret the
initial reaction of the international community - in particular,
the regional institutions - to developments there, we wish to
reiterate that unrestrained nationalism that seeks justification
of
the
expression
in the much-cherished principle of self- determination is
unacceptable. Furthermore,
such
nationalism in "ethnic cleansing" is as barbaric and revolting
as it is reprehensible and totally at variance with civilized
behaviour. The readiness of the United Nations to act
decisively in Somalia contrasts sharply with the timidity and
hesitation that have marked our presence in the former
Yugoslavia and threaten to erode the credibility of the
is for these reasons that we welcome
Organization.
It
Security Council
resolution 859 (1993),
in which the
Council, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter, calls for
the immediate cease-fire and cessation of hostilities
throughout the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are
essential if a just and equitable political solution to the
conflict is to be achieved through peaceful negotiations. We
expect the Security Council to monitor the implementation
of the resolution.
My Government warmly welcomes
the historic
agreements on limited autonomy for Palestine and on mutual
recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization. These accords are a tribute to the courage,
foresight, determination and outstanding statesmanship of
C h a i r m a n Y a s s e r A r a f a t
P r i m e
Minister Yitzhak Rabin. They usher in the beginning of the
end of decades of war, mistrust, violence, destruction and
wanton killing and suffering that the Arab-lsraeli conflict has
brought to the people of the Middle East. They lay a solid
foundation for a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the
Middle East. We therefore urge the entire international
community to support them.
a n d
o f
From the new dawn of relations in the Middle East
emerges a powerful, compelling and inspiring truth - that
there is no conflict that is not capable of solution. That is
why we consider that the "no war, no peace" situation in
Cyprus should not be permitted to lure this Organization into
complacency.
The search for a settlement should be
accelerated. To this end, the recent decision to maintain the
United Nations presence in Cyprus should encourage all the
parties involved.
The situation in Sudan, equally, cries out for a peaceful
solution and for greater United Nations involvement as a
contribution to the search for an enduring settlement to an
essentially political problem that has brought such suffering
to the people and has created an unbearable refugee problem
for neighbouring States.
Our Organization has recorded laudable success in its
implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)
on the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The independence of
Colonial Countries and Peoples.
Namibia is the latest of the success stories of decolonization.
However, the Territories and peoples that remain under
colonial rule demand our active and sustained attention and
render premature any conclusion that the decolonization
process has been completed.
We welcome the progress that has been made in the
negotiations in South Africa. However, the international
community needs to remind itself that apartheid is far from
being completely eradicated. The process of democratization
in that country must be completed so that all its citizens may
be enabled to exercise their voting rights. The world
community has a responsibility to maintain its vigilance
regarding South Africa until the election on 27 April 1994,
which will put
in place an acceptable constitutional
programme for a transitional Government based, for the first
time in the history of that country, on universal adult
suffrage.
Of equal concern is the impasse over Western Sahara.
The United Nations peace plan must be allowed to work,
and the timetable set for the holding of elections must be
respected by all. In the light of the call for a more prudent
use of the resources available to the United Nations, it is
imperative that the task of the United Nations Mission for
the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) be
completed rapidly, to the full satisfaction of all concerned,
particularly the Sahraoui people.
The new impetus for peacemaking and peace-keeping
represents a major advance in our collective engagement in
the task of seeking and creating a peaceful and safe world.
In this Assembly it has been suggested that the United
Nations should limit its commitments, that it should not take
on every conflict. But which conflicts must it address, and
which ones should it decline to get involved in? That is the
crucial question. The unity of the purposes of the Charter
and the universality of our Organization compel us to
recognize that a threat to peace anywhere is a threat to peace
everywhere.
the peace-keeping assignments it
But even if the suggestions have merit, either on the
grounds of lack of funds, constraints in logistics or the
United Nations inability to heal all the world’s wounds, my
delegation wants to stress the need for the United Nations to
see all
is engaged in
through to their logical conclusion. The United Nations
cannot, at
turn its back on South Africa,
Liberia, Rwanda, Angola, Mozambique, Haiti, Somalia or
the former Yugoslavia. It would be a sad day indeed if all
these laudable initiatives were abandoned on the grounds of
this juncture,
well-reasoned arguments pleading lack of funds or of the
will to help these nations enjoy the peace that has eluded
them for years.
In recognition of the fact that the United Nations cannot
undertake too many initiatives, it should devise mechanisms
for shoring up regional efforts at conflict resolution, such as
in Liberia. We also wish to stress that the internal parties to
the various conflicts which the United Nations is striving so
hard to resolve have a moral responsibility to play their part
in accelerating the process towards peace. Human decency
and the sanctity of human life impose this duty on them. In
this respect, we must encourage the Inkatha Freedom Party
and other
to join the process of
negotiations in South Africa, and we should condemn in no
uncertain terms the treachery of UNITA and the attitude of
some of the Somali warlords.
right-wing groups
Whatever mistakes the United Nations Operation in
Somalia (UNOSOM) may have made, it is grotesque for any
Somali leader to seek to be a hero by engaging the United
Nations in combat. Such a show of ingratitude may have
long-term damaging consequences
the
willingness of Member States to undertake humanitarian
missions. And what would be the consequences for the
Somali people should the United Nations decide to abort
UNOSOM? Any leader who has the interest of his people at
heart needs to reflect on that.
in terms of
It is noteworthy that many of the conflicts plaguing us
are in the developing countries. We hope the call for
limiting the peace-keeping role of the United Nations is not
an attempt to shirk the burden of engaging in solving the
political problems in these countries in the same way as the
fundamental economic concerns of these countries have been
marginalized.
As we concern ourselves with the resolution of these
sometimes malignant conflicts, let us not forget to address
the fundamental factors that generate many of them. We
know that a great proportion of these problems can be traced
to economic deprivation and underdevelopment. My
delegation has stressed time and again in this Assembly and
elsewhere that underdevelopment and conflicts have a link.
It is often the poorest countries or countries where economic
decline has been steep that relapse into savage violence. We
have also said that
the condition of
underdevelopment can be largely traced to a global economic
system that has been inimical to the interests of developing
and poor countries.
the source of
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
23
level.
finds
The full
The democratization process, which is part of the effort
to promote and uphold human rights, should not be limited
to the national
implementation of the
principles of democracy within the family of nations should
also be one of our central concerns. It is in this context that
we seek the revitalization of the General Assembly, where
the sovereign equality of Member States
full
expression. We look forward to the General Assembly’s
playing its full role in the maintenance of international peace
and security as required by the Charter. We also welcome
the initiative of the Security Council to make its work,
including its decision-making process, more transparent.
Such transparency will obviously enhance the legitimacy of
its decisions and, equally importantly, reflect the fact that it
is the Members of the Organization which, under Article 24,
confer on the Security Council primary responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security, and that in
discharging its functions the Security Council acts on their
behalf.
My delegation sees no need to go over the case, which
has already been well established, for the reform of the
Security Council. Suffice it to say that, whatever the final
form of a restructured Security Council, it is clear that its
reform should be based on the principle of the sovereign
equality of Member States and the clear
It is time the United Nations, in its effort to construct
peace and keep the peace, addressed some of
the
fundamental economic issues that hamper all efforts to
eradicate global poverty.
In this connection, the perennial
problems that plague the economies of the South must now
be fully tackled as part of the energetic search for world
peace. We have said in almost all United Nations forums,
including the Assembly, that the debt burden cripples our
economies.
the
unacceptable levels of resource flow from the poor nations
to the rich. We have drawn regular attention to the unequal
terms of trade, protectionist barriers and a disastrous global
pricing system that does not pay us adequately for the fruits
of our labour, whether we produce coffee, cocoa or copper.
spoken regularly about
We have
It is time the United Nations placed development and
the crucial need for restructuring the world economy on its
priority list side-by-side with, if not above, its peace-keeping
and peacemaking agenda. The United Nations must defend
each nation’s right
to earn its way by being an equal
participant in the global market place. Many of us have
undertaken structural adjustments. Yet the returns of the
great sacrifices we have made remain low. So many of us
cannot provide adequate social services in the form of
schools, clinics or clean water for our people.
In many
instances, bowing to the conditions set for the loans we
contract to expand our export base, we have to lay off
workers and thus consign thousands or even millions of
families to indigence as the small pay check that puts a meal
on the table, buys medicine when the child is sick, or
provides the uniform for the new school-goer in the family,
is no longer forthcoming.
The United Nations has been advised, correctly in our
view, to run efficient peace-keeping operations, to refurbish
itself administratively and to upgrade its skills in all the
spheres of its endeavours. We wish to add that the United
Nations must now also place upon its active agenda the
question of development and tackle it with the seriousness
it deserves. We have striven in this Organization to link the
environment, human rights, democracy and humanitarian
relief with development.
is time we realized that
peace-keeping and peacemaking can be
carried out
efficiently, and the problems that generate conflicts can be
resolved, only if we promote the issue of development with
vigour. And this can be done if the United Nations insists
on a more just, equitable and transparent world economic
system that will confer the means for development on all
nations. The task of eradicating global poverty must receive
the same attention, concentration and energetic action as are
given to peace-keeping and peacemaking.
It
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the Organization and should reflect
recognition that the Security Council acts on behalf of the
Members of
the
universality of our Organization. The Ghana delegation is
ready to participate in the search for a more legitimate and
effective Security Council.
We welcome
the
commitment made
by
President Clinton to ensure the payment of contributions due
from the United States
in respect of peace-keeping
operations.
It is to be hoped that in the years to come the
United States, which pays a substantial portion of the United
Nations budget, regular and peace-keeping, will continue to
abide by this commitment and also address the question of
outstanding contributions to the regular budget.
It is the hope of Ghana that this session will mark the
beginning of the renaissance of the United Nations, ready to
collectively commit itself to the pursuit of the objectives of
our Organization as reflected in the principles and purposes
of the Charter.
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
