United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President:
INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.35 p.m.
ADDRESS BY MR. LENNART MERI, PRESIDENT OF
THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Estonia.
Mr. Lennart Meri, President of the Republic of
Estonia, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
On behalf of
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations
the Republic of Estonia,
His Excellency Mr. Lennart Meri, and to invite him to
address the Assembly.
the President of
President MERI: Before commencing my address, I
would like to express, on behalf of my nation and myself,
my sincere sympathy with the people of India on this day of
great tragedy.
convey
to
Let me
you, Mr. President, my
congratulations on your election to the presidency of the
United Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
Your election is a fitting tribute to your personal and
professional qualities, and also to your country, the Republic
of Guyana. As an Estonian, I have a special empathy with
your homeland: much like Estonia, your
11th
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 30 September 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
country was liberated from colonial dependence and became
a Member State of the United Nations. Like Estonia, your
country remembers that independence is the decisive factor
which permits small countries to share with great Powers
equal responsibility for creating a better world, towards
which all of us, seated here in this Hall, are striving.
To your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev,
I express my recognition for his proficiency in chairing the
forty-seventh session. We also express our deep gratitude to
Mr. Ganev for visiting Estonia and her sister States Latvia
and Lithuania, and for his efforts to apply the moral
authority of the United Nations towards removing the
remaining vestiges of colonialism from the Baltic States.
To our neighbour in the General Assembly, the State of
Eritrea, I express my sincerest welcome and congratulations
on its finally joining the family of nations.
I would, however,
like to take this opportunity to
extend especially warm thanks to the Secretary-General, His
Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has given the
United Nations and the whole world new hope through his
strong moral conviction that we need not passively wait for
conflicts to arise, but that conflicts should be prevented from
arising; that the United Nations is, in the first place, an
architect, whose building must not be allowed to be engulfed
in flames; that the Organization is only secondarily a fire-
fighter who rushes to extinguish fires still burning from the
past.
This is so even and perhaps especially when,
metaphorically speaking, it happens that only a poor man’s
cowshed has caught fire - for after all, that was enough to
burn down all of Chicago.
Let me express my appreciation and gratitude for
of
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s
radiant moral
sense
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86680 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.11
18 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
responsibility and for the steadfastness with which he has
defended the principle of preventive diplomacy. As a small
State, Estonia well understands and desires to support the
Secretary-General fully in his defence of the purposes and
principles of the United Nations and in the implementation
of preventive diplomacy.
behind this rigid position stood the Soviet nomenklatura and
the Russian so-called parliament, which acted on the basis of
the Brezhnevite Soviet so-called constitution and whose goal
was to restore the Soviet Union in a modernized form.
President Yeltsin was a prisoner of this imperialistically
minded parliament.
journalists
Three years ago, in 1990, I visited the New York
meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe as a foreign minister whose entry into the conference
I was interviewed by
room was strictly prohibited.
television
of United Nations
Headquarters, as chance had it.
I stated then that the next
time I would be here it would be for the raising of the
Estonian flag. The journalists did not even attempt to hide
their polite sympathy nor their desire to bring the interview
quickly to an end. Did they even attempt to present such an
"unrealistic" interview on their television programme?
front
in
One year later,
in September 1991, I watched the
raising of the Estonian flag on a United Nations flagpole and
concluded that my mission had been completed. Today I am
the Assembly, and perhaps also those
here to tell
sympathetic
journalists,
first
democratically elected post-war Estonian President has only
just begun.
that my work as
the
Today my words are infused with self-confidence and
hope. Estonia has been and is once again a State; Estonia
has re-established its place under the sun. In this sense we
share common attributes, experiences and goals with the vast
majority of States represented here today. The majority of
the States Members of the Assembly are only slightly larger
or slightly smaller than Estonia, with its 47,000 square
kilometres and 1.5 million inhabitants living on the shores of
the Baltic Sea. Estonia was robbed of its independence and
forced to be the colonial subject of an imperial Power, as
was the case with the majority of the Members here today.
Just as they did, so have we restored our independence at the
cost of untold suffering. For Estonia, as for most of the
Members here, this work is still incomplete. The United
Nations General Assembly is the best place for uniting our
forces, so that we can work together.
For this reason, we consider the present moment
especially opportune for President Yeltsin to strengthen the
world’s confidence in democracy by withdrawing the
remaining armed forces from Estonia and Latvia and by
signing international agreements to this effect. This would
guarantee stability and security for the Baltic region, which
is an inseparable part of Europe’s Nordic region - and that
region, in turn, is an inseparable part of Europe.
In my correspondence with President Yeltsin I have
emphasized my readiness to meet him in the nearest future.
I would be grateful to the General Assembly, to the Security
Council and to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali if,
with all their collective moral authority, they would help us
rapidly to cut this Gordian knot. This is, after all, not only
a problem for Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania: with this effort
they would also be supporting the democratization of Russia.
With the implementation of preventive diplomacy,
they
would be removing a potential source of conflict and would
thereby strengthen the prestige of the United Nations itself.
And last, but not least, by implementing international law
equally in the interests of great Powers and of small States
they would give back to all of us the hope that, even in
terms of realpolitik, justice is singular and indivisible.
The United Nations could mandate such a mission, to
be led by an authoritative European politician, one in whom
both Russia and the Baltic States could feel equally
confident. The time is ripe for action. The rapid preparation
of an international agreement is in the interests of both sides.
When two years of negotiations conducted between a great
Power and a small State remain unproductive, it is a sign of
danger. Preventive diplomacy consists in the ability to
recognize danger signals at an early stage and resolve them
in a lightning-rod fashion. This is our first problem and our
primary task.
This however requires that the Second World War
finally end for Estonia. For the Second World War is still
continuing in Estonia in a rather peculiar way, because the
foreign armed forces which occupied Estonia in 1940 still
remain on our territory, regardless of General Assembly
resolution 47/21.
two years patiently
conducted negotiations on the withdrawal of these forces, but
without positive results. Of course, we were aware that
Estonia has for
At different stages, two different arguments were used
in stalling and detouring the negotiations. First, the Russian
side claimed it would be unable to find housing for forces
withdrawn from the Baltic States. From a legal standpoint,
this argument lacks any content whatsoever. The stationing
of foreign forces on the territory of a sovereign State against
the express will of
that State and its people is in
contradiction with international law and cannot be an item
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
3
for negotiation. At the same time, I would like to repeat
again that Estonia is ready,
together with its Nordic
neighbours and other partners, and to the extent that its
resources permit, to assist in the solution of this essentially
humanitarian problem. We are grateful to our friends, who
have promised housing construction aid in excess of
$200 million, and we are prepared, with the help of these
partners, to mobilize our construction industry towards this
end. We have on several occasions publicly repeated and
confirmed this readiness to our Russian partner.
line of
The second argument for the maintenance of foreign
armed forces and their installation on the territory of the
Baltic States is in a curious way linked to human rights.
According to this
thinking, which has been
promulgated primarily in the Western media, the continued
presence of ex-Soviet armed forces in the Baltic States is
required for the defence of the human rights of the Russians
residing there. However, the Russian residents of Estonia
have never supported this argument, since they have not
wished to become pawns in a political game.
In this connection, I should like to take the opportunity
to thank you, Mr. President, and you, Mr. Secretary-
General, for the assistance of the United Nations. The
Republic of Estonia had already enunciated, during the time
of the League of Nations, and now it does so even more
clearly, the basic principle that human rights are not the
"internal affair" of any State.
For this reason, on the
question of human rights in Estonia we turned for expert
opinions and advice not only to the United Nations, but also
to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe,
the Council of Europe and the Nordic Council. Thus, I can
confirm that not one of the 15 missions invited by Estonia
to inspect the situation firsthand has found human rights
violations in Estonia. This has also been emphasized by
many speakers during this General Assembly session. It was
also, I am happy to note, emphasized by President Clinton
in our recent meeting.
I am disappointed that
the idea of human rights -
which, for Estonia, is self-evident and sacrosanct, and for the
lack of which Estonians themselves, during five decades of
Communist totalitarianism, had to pay with the loss of their
pride, their freedom and their blood in Soviet and Nazi
concentration camps - has been cynically
exploited. The Republic of Estonia was the first State in the
world to guarantee Jews and other minorities, as early as
1925, the right to cultural autonomy. Estonia will never
stand idly by while anyone tries to manipulate human rights.
For this reason, Estonia supports the creation of the post of
a United Nations high commissioner for human rights and
the expansion of the United Nations budget earmarked for
the defence of human rights.
We wish to work to defend the human rights of all
indigenous peoples. We defended the rights of some
Siberian peoples during the decades of Soviet totalitarianism,
although we had to do it alone and quietly. Now we intend
to join forces and to do it, with the help of the United
Nations, publicly.
I like to speak of the future in optimistic terms on the
assumption that we are capable of finding resolutions to our
pessimistic present, or to be more precise,
that we are
capable of applying these resolutions, since they are already
outlined in Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s report "An Agenda
for Peace" (A/47/277). Allow me, Mr. Secretary- General,
to thank you wholeheartedly for the clear analysis and sober
recommendations on the implementation of such key
concepts
as preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and
peace-keeping. The tragedy in Yugoslavia has reconfirmed
the fact
than
fire-prevention. This lesson, which is written in the Torah,
the Bible and the Koran, is, thanks to the Secretary- General,
now slowly penetrating the consciousness of international
organizations.
Preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and
peace-keeping can be a real hope for the United Nations on
the condition that we learn to recognize danger, where and
when it becomes manifest.
that fire-fighting is much more difficult
However, in a potential zone of conflict, peace-keeping
must be strictly neutral. We must remember the proverb
that "You should not let a fox mind the henhouse", that
peace-keeping in a particular area cannot be turned over to
those parties that have an obvious interest in the outcome of
a conflict. Estonia supports the principles of democracy, the
inviolability of borders and non-interference in the internal
affairs of other countries, principles enshrined in the United
Nations Charter and in other
international agreements.
Consequently, we were disturbed - as, I am sure, many
representatives were - by the suggestion of one national
representative that
the troops of one country should be
allowed to intervene up to the borders of a State that no
longer exists.
I do not have in mind the former
Austro-Hungarian Empire.
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Estonia can only support a position whereby the choice
of peace-keeping forces by the Security Council meets the
approval of broad international opinion. On this condition,
Estonia also feels a moral responsibility to participate in
international peace-keeping according to its capabilities, as
well as in other related activities.
could
be
even more
This brings me to the consolidation of democracy and
the free market economy in Estonia after 50 years of an
absurd colonial command economy. Estonia has already
been successful, but, together with other Members of the
Organization, we
successful.
Democracy and the free market economy are interconnected,
because they presuppose the right and the responsibility to
freely choose. The former Soviet Union spent more money
on repressing free thought than it ever did on the creation of
a nuclear arsenal. The murder of freedom and the birth of
aggression are two sides of the same coin. The first enemy
of every totalitarian regime is the domestic enemy, and its
first object of attack is free thought. Everyone present
knows Adam Michnik’s wonderful metaphor about how easy
it is to make fish soup from an aquarium, but how difficult
it is to make an aquarium from fish soup.
The main resource from which we have drawn the
energy for the transformation of Estonia’s economy has been
the idealism of the Estonian people.
This is a large
resource, but it is not endless. I want to prevent exhaustion
from setting in, exhaustion which could be followed by
political apathy and thereby by a desire to be free both of
rights and obligations. The replacement of a command
economy by a market economy is a disintegrative process
both at the State and individual level as long as the market
has not started working. Once the market is working, it
works for economic and political integration. Therefore,
Estonia is more interested in trade, not aid, and therefore we
work actively to keep and expand our free trade agreements
through negotiations with Brussels.
that
My aim has been to suggest
the international
community has gained new members - the countries in
transition. Here the question arises whether the United
Nations has realized our special possibilities and our special
needs. Estonia does not belong in either the first, second or
third world. Do we really need a fourth world, or do we
need the ability to react more sensitively to a world which
is in constant dynamic change?
and I do not hesitate to state here again, that we cannot and
we will not accept this, as we were never legally part of the
Soviet Union. Times have changed; our world community
must realize this.
We also feel a responsibility to assist others as we have
been assisted during the past few years. While Estonia is
still reeling from the disastrous consequences of a 50-year
occupation, we do have well-educated specialists who could
be of service to the United Nations in parts of the world
where their skills would be welcome. And I should like to
offer the experience we have gained in starting up a country
and in creating a new, stable currency.
Allow me to close with some very personal comments.
The United Nations is approaching its fiftieth anniversary.
The post-war world is approaching its fiftieth anniversary.
The United Nations is acting on the basis of an unaltered
Charter. But, as I mentioned above, the world has been
altered totally. This ever-increasing contrast is most strongly
felt by some of the most sensitive United Nations Members,
the majority, the small States.
I believe that small States
have the obligation to redefine the international order. The
large nations have the larger obligations, the small States the
larger possibilities.
This is not a contradiction, but a
balance. After all, an Inuit kayak can change its course
immediately, while a supertanker needs perilously much time
and space to do so.
The best place to redefine the world order is the
General Assembly of the United Nations.
I am deeply
grateful to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali who,
sensing this need, has entrusted into our hands his vision of
a stable world, entitled "An Agenda for Peace". As a
representative of one of Europe’s smallest countries and
oldest nations, I should like to suggest that the prevalent
tendency of the past century, and especially the past decades,
has been an increase in the numbers of small countries and
a reduction in the number of large ones. The issue of
increasing the number of permanent members of the Security
Council has been introduced into the agenda, and Estonia
supports this as a step towards accepting today’s new
realities. Personally, I should like to put to you, members
of the General Assembly, the following question: should the
Security Council not also include as a member with veto
power a representative of the world’s majority, the small
nations?
I offer as an example an issue that is as unpleasant to
the Assembly as it is to me:
the division by 15 of the
financial commitments of the former Soviet Union, including
its United Nations assessment. Estonia has stated repeatedly,
I do not have an answer to this question and neither do
you. This is not tragic. The opposite would be tragic.
Seeking for answers is the United Nations future and our
common hope. Today we speak of the fatal differences
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
5
between cultures. Thereby the inevitability of conflicts is
suggested.
At the same time, I should like to thank Mr. Ganev,
President of the previous session of the General Assembly,
for his contribution to the Assembly’s work.
Conflicts are not fatal only because someone believes
in Buddha, another in Jehovah, another in Christ or Allah or
the shamans of Siberia. Cultures have to be different to
allow man, with his rights and duties, to look like man, to
look like hope. The day before coming here I read a book
by the famous Finnish philosopher Matti Kuusi on what
hope means to man. The Mexican says that you cannot fill
your stomach with hope, but it will keep the soul in your
mouth; a Kanuri African will say that hope is the pillar; the
Filipino says that daring is the fruit of hope and the Maltese
says that he who gives up hope dies.
This diversity is the unity of mankind. And to make it
easier for you to keep the unity of man and the world, I will
add for salt, pepper and enjoyment a proverb from my
shores,
lose your
hopelessness. Hopelessness is the inevitable shadow of
hope, and the ever-persevering United Nations is the
collective hope of mankind.
the shores of
the Baltic:
do not
I thank you for your hopeful patience.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Estonia for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Mr. Lennart Meri, President of
the Republic of
Estonia, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. ZLENKO (Ukraine) (spoke in Ukrainian; English
text furnished by the delegation): In joining my colleagues
in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the high and
responsible office of President of the General Assembly, I
should like to point out that it is a great honour for a
politician and diplomat to guide the work of this universal
forum representing practically all the States of the world. I
hope that your activities in this important position will
promote substantive discussions at
this session and the
adoption of constructive decisions, and that the work of the
forty-eighth session will become a memorable page in your
biography.
Soon we shall commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of
the Teheran Conference, whose decisions laid down the
foundations of the United Nations. It was 50 years ago that
the participants in that Conference, while discussing the
issue of creating an international organization, expressed
confidence that the accord among them would ensure lasting
peace, and declared the lofty responsibility of all the United
Nations in safeguarding peace for succeeding generations.
As long ago as 1918, an outstanding Ukrainian
politician and writer, Mikhail Hrushevskiy, stated that
"Properly creating history is more important than depicting
it positively".
We are proud of the fact that Ukraine took an active
part in laying down the foundation of the Organization and
that today, along with other members of the international
community, it is making a worthy contribution to attaining
the noble goals of the United Nations. To our mind, the
major
the Organization’s
existence is the fact that world war has been averted. This
is to the credit of the United Nations, a universal forum of
States, a unique Organization without which it is impossible
to imagine present-day international relations.
result of nearly 50 years of
Today, when the new dominant feature of international
relations is the transition from bipolarity to a qualitatively
different world order based on comprehensive security and
a balance of interests, the world is witnessing the second
birth of the United Nations. For Ukraine, it is of special
significance that the United Nations renaissance coincides
with the building of our
regained
statehood and the revival of Ukraine as a sovereign
participant in European and world politics.
independence, our
For Ukraine, which today is trying to find its place in
the world balance of power, its United Nations membership
is one of the most important international guarantees of its
national security and independence. After the disintegration
of the USSR and the disappearance of the Warsaw Treaty
Organization, our country is compelled to exist next to a
zone of decreased stability and of alienation and even
tension, irrespective of who is the initiator and what is the
subject of discord. Ukraine finds itself in the epicentre of
almost all European developments: every crisis emerging on
the continent may affect us in one way or another.
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
These factors led to the initiative by Mr. Leonid
Kravchuk, the President of Ukraine, concerning the creation
in the Central and East European region of a space of
stability and security which would include all countries in
the Baltic and Black Sea zone and that would become, in the
future, an integral part of the European system of security.
At the same time, this Central and East European space of
stability and security would be a reliable link for developing
a broad-based transatlantic system of security taking in the
area from Vancouver to Vladivostok, that is, the whole
region covered by the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). Implementation of this idea
would be a worthy contribution to preventive diplomacy.
The basic prerequisite for the creation of such a space
might be the implementation of the principle of security for
oneself through security for all, the main goal of which
would be the development of a system of international
relations in the region that would rule out threats to peace
and stability such as those emanating from the present
conflicts on the territories of the former Yugoslavia and
USSR.
Ukraine is capable of playing a constructive role in the
formation of such a system. As a State which is situated in
the centre of the European continent and possesses vast
human resources and scientific potential and a strong
industrial and agricultural complex, Ukraine is ready to
contribute more to the formation of a new, prosperous
Europe. In accordance with the principles of a new Europe,
we aspire to build a democratic State of law that
is
economically strong, politically active, peaceful and, in the
future, non-nuclear along with others, in which individual
rights are respected and guaranteed regardless of nationality
or other distinctions.
In this context, I should like to dwell on the problem of
nuclear weapons on the territory of Ukraine. As is well
known, we inherited from the former USSR a huge nuclear
arsenal, the third largest in the world in terms of its combat
potential. The declaration on the State sovereignty of
Ukraine proclaimed the intention of our State to become
non-nuclear in the future.
And this is not a mere declaration. Ukraine is doing as
much as it can towards its implementation. The dismantling
of the strategic missile complexes has started. An agreement
has been signed with Russia on the utilization of the
strategic missiles’ nuclear warheads. We do not exclude the
possibility of conducting negotiations on this subject with a
third party.
However, the full-scale implementation of the nuclear
disarmament programme is linked to the need to solve a
number of problems. Where do we get
the money to
dismantle and eliminate the strategic nuclear weapons
located in Ukraine?
estimates,
approximately $2.8 billion are needed for these purposes.
How do we ensure reliable guarantees of national security
for our State?
According to our
There arises also the problem of returning to Ukraine -
or obtaining compensation for
- nuclear components,
obtained from nuclear warheads, which, after reprocessing,
can be used as fuel for nuclear power stations. This also
applies to the nuclear materials extracted from the warheads
of tactical missiles removed from Ukraine in 1992.
And finally, what should the thousands of servicemen
dismissed from the missile forces do? We have no complete
answers to these and other questions; so far the promises of
help exist only in statements and on paper.
The Verkhovna Rada,
the Ukrainian Parliament,
is
deeply involved in these questions and is looking for
opportunities to adopt balanced decisions, in the shortest
possible time, taking into consideration the interests both of
Ukraine and of the international community as a whole.
For
today,
At the same time, I should like to stress that while
considering this issue we should also take into account the
external situation.
instability and internal
struggles in neighbouring countries sometimes spill over
their frontiers and threaten Ukraine’s national security and
territorial integrity. This is most especially so in the case of
the well-known decision by the, now former, Supreme
Soviet of the Russian Federation concerning the status of
Sevastopol. There have also been attempts to question the
status of Crimea as a whole.
In this connection, I should
like to state explicitly that the Republic of Crimea is an
inseparable part of Ukraine. Crimea, as a part of Ukraine,
could play an appropriate role in the region and make a
decisive contribution to consolidating the Black Sea region
as a zone of peace and stability.
In this context, I should
like to express profound gratitude to all
the countries,
especially to the members of the Security Council, that gave
their unambiguous assessment of the illegal encroachments
upon the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and
manifested their support for our State. Again, we are
convinced that the complicated issues of inter-State relations
can be solved only through firm and energetic action on the
part of the international community.
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
7
In our opinion,
the objective basis for cooperation
between Ukraine and other countries lies in the formation of
a stable and secure system of international relations. In the
present circumstances, the basis of this system is respect for
the principal postulates of international law, according to
which the inviolability of the frontiers and territorial integrity
of sovereign States is recognized as one of the prerequisites
for international peace and security. The former empires
have vanished, and like them imperialistic thinking, such as
unilateral interpretations by certain States of legal succession
issues and their other actions that are incompatible with the
norms and ethics of international relations should also
disappear.
We hope that an understanding of contemporary
realities will
facilitate the further normalization and
development of Ukraine’s relations with other countries on
terms of mutual respect, a balanced search for compromises
and the renunciation of extreme rhetoric.
Genuine
conditions for such developments are already in existence,
and it is a worthwhile task to use them to foster mutually
beneficial economic relations and to ensure wide-ranging
contacts between peoples.
that
Ukraine, as one of the founders of the Commonwealth
of Independent States, is actively developing cooperation
with the CIS countries. We regard the Commonwealth as an
international mechanism for multilateral consultations and
talks
forming
relations between
qualitatively new full-scale, bilateral
participating States and is promoting solutions to the
problems that they face after the disintegration of the USSR.
Our relations with the Baltic States are developing in a
positive way.
is contributing to the process of
Ukraine unswervingly supports the efforts of the world
community to find a formula for settling the conflict in the
former Yugoslavia. We consider that a real solution to this
problem is possible only through taking into account the
interests of all States in the region, and those of ethnic
communities, on the basis of the relevant decisions by the
United Nations Security Council and of the cornerstone
principles of international law.
We take it as given that all countries involved in the
attempt to settle this conflict, and the relevant international
structures, must approach the issue very carefully, especially
when the use of force is implied. It must be borne in mind
that the use of force might lead to extremely undesirable
consequences, frustrate the negotiating process and result in
an escalation in the conflict and its spread to other areas of
the former Yugoslavia.
Our position on the settlement of conflicts on the
territory of the former Soviet Union is similar.
In this
connection, we should like to welcome the role played by
the United Nations and the CSCE in Transdnestria and the
joint efforts of the international community in searching for
ways to stop the bloodshed in Nagorny-Karabakh.
continue
to perish.
As
Tragic developments have taken place in Georgia.
Signed agreements have been violated, the bloodshed persists
and people
long ago as
21 September, Leonid Kravchuk, the President of Ukraine,
appealed to the President of the Russian Federation, which
is a guarantor of
the tripartite truce agreement of
27 July 1993, and to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations to take all possible measures to stop the escalation
of the conflict and to activate the mechanism contained in
the agreement.
the attempts to stop the
dangerous developments have been frustrated and the
situation is running out of control, threatening the stability
of the Caucasus region as a whole. The international
community should immediately call on the potential of the
United Nations Charter in order to bring the situation back
onto a course of settlement through political dialogue.
Regrettably,
At the same time, I should like to draw attention to a
truth that is as old as the hills but which is regrettably often
forgotten: preventing disease is much cheaper and more
effective than treating them. A similar idea was expressed
yesterday by Mr. Kinkel, my colleague from Germany. An
emphasis on active, preventive diplomacy that would
forestall conflicts should become the dominant feature of
contemporary international relations. The fact that the issue
of Sevastopol was addressed at a meeting of the United
Nations Security Council,
the CSCE
missions in Kosovo, Sanjak and Vojvodina, and the
deployment of United Nations military contingents in The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are, to our mind,
good examples that illustrate this truth.
the activities of
In fact, reviving the peacemaking activities of the
United Nations has become one of the more vivid examples
of the transformation in United Nations political thinking,
and is embodied in the conclusion that diplomatic language
should replace the language of
the gun in inter-State
communication.
Ukraine is taking an active part in this process. More
than a year has elapsed since a Ukrainian battalion was sent
to the former Yugoslavia to participate in the United Nations
peace-keeping forces. From the point of view of Ukraine,
as a new and independent State, the multilateral peace-
remain the
keeping efforts of
the United Nations
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Organization’s most effective instruments in its performance
of its major function, the ensuring of international peace and
security. Ukraine is ready to continue active participation in
the peace-keeping activities carried out under the auspices of
the United Nations or the CSCE.
The prestige and authority that Ukraine has gained as
a result of its participation in United Nations peace-keeping
operations have not come easily. Lately, human losses
among peace-keepers from the United Nations Blue Helmets
have increased. The rise in the number of peace-keeping
operations and their expansion may result in further losses.
That is why it is our belief that it is urgently necessary to
work out a document to define the status of United Nations
peace-keeping personnel and to make provision for a
mechanism to protect
This would be a logical
development of the provisions of resolution 47/72, adopted
by the General Assembly at the initiative of Ukraine, with
sponsorship by over 50 States, and of the relevant Security
Council
of
29 September 1993.
868 (1993)
resolution,
resolution
them.
Ukraine is interested in strengthening peace, security
and stability in the nearby Middle East region and welcomes
the decisions reached between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization on mutual recognition and the
agreement on Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza strip and
Jericho signed on 13 September in Washington. The first,
important step has thus been taken on the road to a complete
settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict.
Ukraine welcomes the developments in South Africa,
which make it possible to lift economic sanctions against
that country. We hope that wisdom and a balanced approach
by all the participants in the negotiating process in that
country, and active work on the part of the Transitional
Executive Council, will become a solid basis for
the
successful holding of elections and the formation of a
democratic, non-racial and united South Africa.
Our State is paying great attention to the experience of
the countries of the Asia-Pacific region. The extraordinarily
fast pace of developments in some of the countries in this
region is evidence of
the effectiveness of pragmatic
approaches to solving complex political, economic and social
issues.
The process of a practical development of relations with
the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN)
countries has been initiated. We see this grouping as
potentially one of the best trade and economic partners for
Ukraine, inasmuch as trade between the ASEAN States - and
the region as a whole - and the countries of Eastern and
Central Europe flows through Ukrainian ports.
We
shall
facilitate by all possible means
the
development, and the maintenance on the proper level, of
relations with the States of Europe, North and South
America, the Middle East and Africa.
I should like to dwell briefly on the present-day
situation in Ukraine. Frankly, we are experiencing difficult
times now.
In addition to the establishment of our own
State and the rebirth of our national culture and spirit, we
are undergoing a transformation to a new system with new
civic and economic parameters. Our scholars, specialists and
statesmen have not yet succeeded in proposing a programme
of economic reforms in keeping with Ukraine’s real
potential, its historical traditions and the mind-set of its
people. And now we have to make major adjustments to the
procedure and sequence of the reform process.
Our goal
is a market, socially-oriented economic
system, directed at meeting the needs of our people.
It
should take into account economic interrelations that were,
objectively, formed in the CIS, opportunities for foreign
investment in our economy, and a step-by-step integration of
the Ukrainian economy into that of the European Community
and the world.
Important steps have been taken in this regard. By
adopting a law on ownership,
the Verkhovna Rada has
opened the road to privatization as the principal means for
the transition to market-based economic relations. Important
documents
the
denationalization and privatization of enterprises, land and
housing. Ukraine has declared its intention to become an
associate member of the CIS economic union, and is
engaged in active negotiations within the framework of the
Commission of the European Communities.
concerning
approved
been
have
However, the situation in the State remains extremely
complicated.
In overcoming the crisis, the international community,
including our compatriots abroad - the representatives of the
Ukrainian diaspora - could play an important role. Our
legislation sets out
foreign
investment in the Ukrainian economy, and a number of
measures have been adopted concerning participation by our
State in the European and world communities and the
development of bilateral trade and economic relations.
favourable conditions
for
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
9
It is important to find areas that could appeal to our
partners and to proceed to develop and implement specific
cooperation programmes and projects. An example of this
kind of cooperation can be seen in the activities that we have
initiated with Commission of the European Communities and
in the framework of the Black Sea economic cooperation.
We are also ready to participate actively in carrying out
the economic programmes being implemented within the
framework of the United Nations.
In this context, we are heartened by the increasing
attention being paid by the United Nations and its bodies and
by the economically developed countries to the processes of
transition to the market economy being undertaken in the
Eastern and Central European States. Favourable conditions
for broadening cooperation between the United Nations and
States with economies in transition, including Ukraine, have
opened up as a result of the formation of integrated missions
by the United Nations and the United Nations Development
Programme in this field. We hope that these missions will
be given permanent status.
regular budget by 58 per cent.
Regretfully, the serious economic difficulties associated
with the factors that I have mentioned were not taken into
consideration when the international community last year
adopted the decision, contrary to the provisions of the United
Nations Charter, to increase Ukraine’s contribution to the
United Nations
The
assessment imposed on Ukraine is not fully commensurate
with its capacity to pay, and is a great burden on its
economy. As a result of great efforts, this year we have
managed to contribute $6.5 million to the United Nations
regular budget, which otherwise could have been directed at
solving the problems caused by Chernobyl. However, we
cannot meet our financial obligations in full, for the reasons
I have mentioned.
In this context, the Government of Ukraine urges a
reconsideration of the scale of assessments for the United
Nations regular budget and an amendment of the existing
system of
peace-keeping
operations. Our delegation is ready to offer grounds for this
position during discussion of the relevant items by the Fifth
Committee.
financing United Nations
We place great hope in assistance by the international
community in mitigating the consequences of the Chernobyl
disaster.
I must say that after the appointment of United
Nations Under-Secretary-General Mr. Eliasson as the United
Nations Coordinator of
International Cooperation for
Chernobyl, activities in this area have acquired new impetus.
I hope his efforts will find support in the General Assembly
and will contribute to strengthening international cooperation
for this purpose.
The world has experienced great changes since the
foundation of the United Nations. This is understandable,
for, as Heraclitus said, "Nothing endures but change". That
is why the issue of reforming the United Nations system is
a quite natural one. Current realities raise new problems for
the world community. Even though the danger of a global
nuclear conflict has been practically eliminated, the "local"
wars and regional conflicts breaking out all over the world
are causing serious concern.
In addition to the expenditures needed to mitigate the
after-effects of the Chernobyl disaster, which account for a
considerable part of the national income, the losses resulting
from the imposition of economic sanctions by the Security
Council against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have
become another great negative factor for our economy.
Consequently, by the end of 1993, Ukraine will have
suffered direct losses of more than $4 billion in the State
sector alone.
Interethnic armed conflicts and economic instability
create favourable grounds for terrorism, the arms trade and
the production and trafficking of drugs, and directly affect
the security of United Nations Member States.
The
Chernobyl nuclear power station disaster, the environmental
disorder in the Aral Sea area, the danger of an ecological
catastrophe as a result of destruction of tropical forests and
the depletion of the Earth’s ozone layer are but a very
incomplete list of the ecological problems facing mankind.
Today we need real efforts on the part of
the
international community to assist Ukraine in overcoming the
negative impact of the sanctions against the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia on Ukraine’s economy as well as on the
economies of a number of other countries. Our delegation
is ready to propose a draft resolution which would deal with
the implementation of the relevant recommendations of the
Security Council and the General Assembly.
The need for change is also becoming especially urgent
and even inevitable as a result of the significant events of
the past few years that have radically redrawn the political
map of the world; more than two dozen new independent
States have emerged, thus considerably increasing the United
Nations family.
Let me extend to them my sincere
congratulations.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Ukraine shares the view that the present quantitative
composition of the Security Council, its functioning and its
working methods require appropriate adjustments, taking into
consideration the new regional realities and the appearance
of new participants
in the international community.
Implementing this proposal would increase the Council’s
degree of legitimacy as the body that is entrusted by the
United Nations Member States with
principal
responsibility for maintaining international peace and
security. At the same time, it is important to preserve the
Council’s ability to respond effectively to emergencies that
require prompt intervention.
the
it
is very important
to take into account
In changing the structure of the United Nations Security
Council,
the
existence, beyond its present membership, of participants in
the international community that are potentially capable of
playing an important role in the Organization’s activities at
the present
financial
obligations to the United Nations. It is also very important
to preserve in the Security Council the basic principle of
equitable geographic representation.
time and that have substantial
The working methods of the most representative United
Nations body -
the General Assembly - also require
modification.
It is in our interest to direct its activities, to
the maximum possible extent, towards further consolidating
the principles of justice, democracy and development. The
delegation of Ukraine supports the decisions of the forty-
seventh session aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the
General Assembly and at rationalizing the work of its Main
Committees.
We are ready for
further dialogue on the issues
concerning structural changes in the sessional and subsidiary
bodies of the General Assembly. This means, in particular,
further decreasing the number of
resolutions that are
repeated and duplicated from year to year and redistributing
the functions of subsidiary bodies.
In our view,
the reform should also involve the
activities of the main economic and social forum of the
United Nations,
the Economic and Social Council, and
should also be reflected in the structure and working
methods of the Organization’s Secretariat. Ukraine fully
supports the actions of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
the
Secretary-General, aimed at extending the reforms in the
Secretariat, and who is acting firmly in order to increase
the role and authority of the Organization, in keeping with
the requirements of the time. We are facing the task of
reorienting the United Nations social and economic activities
in order to implement specific projects in the interest of all
States, including those now on the way to the free market.
For the reforms to be successful, it is also important to
ensure, in practice, real zero growth in the Organization’s
budget, and the effective use of its financial assets by
reorientating them towards priority fields of activity.
soon mark its
The United Nations will
fiftieth
anniversary. This jubilee is a special date in the calendar of
international life, but, moreover, it will be celebrated at the
turn of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
It is well
known that all historic dates look towards the future.
Therefore, the best way to celebrate this anniversary is to
concentrate on outstanding issues, analyse the emerging
situation and determine what the prospects are for future
development. That is why, perhaps, it is time for the world
community to get together, as it did after the world wars,
and
the
post-confrontational period and, where necessary, amend
existing structures of security and cooperation and division
of labour in order to determine the world order for the
twenty-first century.
These are the considerations that
impelled President Leonid Kravchuk of Ukraine to initiate
the idea of convening, within the framework of the United
Nations fiftieth anniversary celebrations in 1995, a global
international peace summit conference.
reappraise
creatively
the
realities
of
In advancing the idea of holding such an event under
the auspices of the United Nations, we take it as given that
this is the Organization that can convene global conferences
of Ministers and Heads of States or Governments in order to
weigh up complex issues and suggest comprehensive
solutions. Therefore, all our thoughts today are directed
towards tomorrow,
to which we should come having
discarded the heavy burden of the confrontational era and
having drawn upon the best of the Organization’s past
activities, which have
enriched us with invaluable
knowledge. From the collective wisdom manifested in the
activities of the United Nations, we can tap the optimism so
necessary for mankind today, and the faith in its positive
strength and in its future.
In conclusion, I should like to cite some words by
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, which he
pronounced during his recent visit to Ukraine:
"Deep involvement in the great currents of history
gives Ukraine a special insight into the world today. It
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
11
qualifies Ukraine to play a full role in the new United
Nations."
I wish to assure you that Ukraine will spare no effort in
continuing to prove the rightness of his words.
Mr. DURÃO BARROSO (Portugal)
in
Portuguese; English text
furnished by the delegation):
Mr. President, I should like to begin by congratulating you
on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly
and by expressing our confidence in your ability to steer the
proceedings of the present session.
(spoke
I also express our gratitude to the outgoing President,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the dedicated way in which he
fulfilled his mandate and contributed to the rationalization of
the work of the Assembly.
I
the
also
congratulate
Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose initiative and commitment
have already made it possible to take important steps
towards a thorough reform of the United Nations and
towards strengthening its international credibility as an
irreplaceable instrument of peace.
The universal calling of the United Nations, enshrined
in its Charter, gives special meaning to the accession of six
new Member States, Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea,
the Slovak Republic, Monaco and the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia; they have reinforced the legitimacy
of
forum and assumed, before the international
community, the responsibility entailed in the full exercise of
national sovereignty.
this
My Belgian colleague,
in his capacity as current
President of the Council of Ministers of the European
Communities, has already had the opportunity to make a
statement on behalf of the 12 member States; Portugal fully
subscribes to that statement. I should, however, like to refer
to a number of issues that are of particular importance to my
country.
The period of global transition now before us is marked
by particularly contradictory signs.
On the one hand, the détente that surfaced with the end
of the cold war has led to an increase in regional integration
and the strengthening of cooperation between States, and has
brought to life the concept of complementing the activities
of the United Nations with those of regional organizations
and arrangements.
On the other hand, violent nationalistic claims have
re-emerged and old and seemingly forgotten antagonisms
have resurfaced,
leading to an unexpected outbreak of
conflicts that threaten the internal cohesion of States and
international peace and security.
In this context, and more so than ever, the role of the
United Nations collective security system, now back on the
front line of international relations, seems decisive. For this
reason, we attach great
significance to the ongoing
restructuring of the Secretariat. We also deem particularly
important the reform of the Security Council, which has
special responsibilities and is now free to accomplish its
original mission and to emerge as the driving force behind
the Organization’s political activities in maintaining stability
and peace.
Other organizations, such as the European Community,
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
have, in their turn, an important role to play in consolidating
democracy, maintaining stability and promoting development
in the entire European region.
It is essential for close cooperation to be established
between those bodies and the United Nations - which has a
primary and universal
responsibility - so as to avoid
duplication and to enhance what each can contribute to the
search for peace and stability.
and we
expansion,
Peace-keeping operations have recently undergone a
are witnessing the
considerable
deployment of
large numbers of men and women in
situations of various natures, including the protection of
humanitarian assistance missions and preventive diplomacy
initiatives. The involvement of military contingents in those
operations requires clear political aims as well as unity of
command and close and permanent coordination between the
Secretariat and the interested parties, namely the contributing
States and those States that may be able to offer, in a
constructive manner, a political contribution to the peace
processes.
Resolving the conflicts of today, building peace and
preventing the conflicts of tomorrow will be no simple task.
The demands and expectations that fall upon the United
Nations have no historical precedent, and so every effort
must be made to turn "An Agenda for Peace" into a reality.
Only then will the Organization be able to cope with
the present and future challenges of maintaining peace,
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
giving humanitarian assistance and providing aid for
development.
Unfortunately, as I speak,
the United Nations is
financial crisis in 48 years of
confronting its greatest
existence and is facing the risk of not being able to assume
its responsibilities in the important domain of maintaining
international security.
This question remains the cornerstone of the future
activity of the United Nations. If it remains unanswered, the
consequences for the United Nation credibility and for world
peace will be dramatic.
An important development that has resulted from the
end of the cold war concerns respect for human rights,
which are inalienable and universal and figure above all
other considerations when we look at a particular political
regime or model of society. We believe that it is necessary
for the international community today to judge violations of
human rights without double standards.
In this respect, I should like to stress the importance of
the final declaration of the Vienna Conference, which
emphasizes fundamental ideas and principles, specifically,
those that concern the responsibilities of the international
community in this area and define human rights as a priority
for the United Nations. With this aim, it is now urgent for
the General Assembly to discuss, without delay,
the
establishment of the post of high commissioner for human
rights.
A commonality of values that reflect the dignity of the
human person is an indispensable component of a better
international order allowing the development of peaceful and
lasting international relations. Thus, together with peace,
development and democracy, we consider human rights to be
one of the basic principles that should govern international
society.
It is precisely because of the imperatives of human
solidarity, and because we believe that the international
community has an important role to play, that Portugal, both
as a State and as a member of the European Community, is
following with deep concern the conflict that, for the last
two years, has been devastating parts of the territory of the
former Yugoslavia. Portugal reiterates its firm position that
only a settlement accepted by the three parties can put an
end to this blood-stained chapter in European history.
The Portuguese Government
the
interruption of the latest negotiating round in Geneva at a
time when an agreement seemed within reach.
truly
regrets
We once again urge all the parties involved in the
conflict to show the necessary good will and flexibility so as
to put an end to the suffering of the affected populations.
Portugal considers that it is extremely urgent for a viable
and just peace agreement to be signed: Only thus will the
conditions for a return to peace be met.
Lastly, I wish to pay a tribute to the United Nations
Protection Force - in which Portugal has the privilege of
being included - to the European Community monitoring
mission and to all humanitarian organizations operating in
the area of the former Yugoslavia for the tasks they have
performed under circumstances of particular hardship.
Portugal, a country which is historically and culturally
linked to Africa, is profoundly aware of the unparalleled,
appalling and ever-deteriorating living conditions prevailing
in vast regions of the continent. Today, Africa certainly
deserves the international community’s special attention. It
is in Africa that we should concentrate our principal efforts
to end wars that are sometimes forgotten, but that are laying
waste to large areas, and it is to Africa that we should be
directing economic resources in quantities commensurate
with the unparalleled scale of the problems it is facing.
Only by increasing trade flows, economic ties and
humanitarian assistance can we provide a degree of certainty
for the success of democratization and progress.
I should like to refer also to the utmost importance that
we attach to the work of the Organization of African Unity
in the search for solutions to bring an end to the conflicts
that overshadow Africa.
In Africa, there are five countries that officially use
Portuguese. With these countries we have steadily deepened
our ties in all areas. Based on a common culture and values,
we are developing, together with Brazil and these African
countries, a true community of Portuguese-speaking nations
that is characterized by solidarity and tolerance.
interceded in the Angolan conflict.
It was precisely because of these special ties that my
The
Government
mediation efforts it deployed there, together with the United
States and Russia, resulted in the signing in Lisbon of the
Acordos de Paz on 31 May 1991. The year and a half of
peace that followed those agreements raised in all
the
Angolan people the legitimate expectation that almost
30 years of war were coming to an end.
It also revealed
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
13
stimulating signs of economic recovery and the advent of a
new era of democracy and national reconciliation. Angolans
therefore participated massively in the elections of last
September. The resurgence of war in Angola cause by
UNITA’s failure to accept the results of the elections calls
for a new effort from the international community to re--
establish the cease-fire and to safeguard the democratic
process, in accordance with the legitimate wishes for peace
and democracy of the Angolan people.
Portugal welcomed the adoption on 15 September of
Security Council
in which the
Council, in the wake of previous resolutions and under
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, decided
upon a set of important measures.
resolution 864 (1993),
I remain convinced that dialogue is possible, and that
only through direct negotiations between the Government of
Angola and UNITA can a lasting solution and a durable
peace be found.
I therefore once again urge UNITA to
return to the negotiating table, on the basis of the Acordos
de Paz and full acceptance of
the
September 1992 elections and the Abidjan guidelines, which
were reached with the invaluable help of President
Houphouet-Boigny and the Government of Côte d’Ivoire.
the outcome of
I applaud the peace initiatives undertaken by the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General, to which Portugal,
together with the two other countries of the troika of
observers,
the United States and Russia, has given its
strongest support.
Only with the restoration of peace will it be possible to
bring about an end to the suffering of the Angolan people
and make possible the provision of
the much-needed
humanitarian assistance that the international community is
ready to provide.
In this respect, the efforts already made
by the specialized agencies of the United Nations and the
International Committee of
the Red Cross are to be
commended.
Regarding Mozambique, the role of the United Nations
in conducting the peace process is for us a source of
satisfaction.
In this context, we welcome the adoption of
Security Council resolution 850 (1993), which is a sign of
the Organization’s unequivocal commitment to bringing this
process to a satisfactory conclusion.
Portugal is deeply involved in the Mozambique peace
process, not only through its active contribution to the
United Nations Operation in Mozambique but also through
its participation in the structures created by the General
Peace Agreement and through our contributions pledged
during the donors’ conference last December.
We also welcome the results of the recent meeting
between the President of Mozambique and the leader of
RENAMO, which represented a breakthrough and gave
reason for hope in a future of peace and prosperity in
Mozambique.
The positive outcome of that meeting, namely, the
agreement on the issues of territorial administration and
police, has been recognized by Security Council resolution
863 (1993), in which all parties are urged to implement
without delay all
the provisions of the General Peace
Agreement so that the elections can be held in October 1994
at the latest.
Concerning South Africa, we are following events there
closely, in particular the multiparty negotiations, which we
hope will meet with success and constitute the foundations
of a new, multiracial reality.
The withdrawal of significant forces in South African
society from those negotiations is a cause for concern, and
could have a negative impact on the normal course of the
transition process, which, as we all hope, will end with the
holding of elections next year.
The spread of violence in South Africa provides a
special cause for concern, as pointed out by the European
Community observer mission in South Africa and the
Goldstone Commission,
is
participating actively. We deeply regret the violence, which
cannot but jeopardize the path to national reconciliation.
in both of which Portugal
We must stress, however, the positive aspect, namely
the progress achieved with the 7 September agreement at the
multiparty negotiations on the creation of the Transitional
Executive Council. This was achieved by the efforts of the
various parties that believe in a consensus solution for the
political transition in South Africa.
I should also like to refer to Mr. Nelson Mandela’s
praiseworthy appeal, before the Special Committee against
Apartheid, for an end to the economic sanctions imposed
against South Africa, an appeal which constitutes a valuable
encouragement to the process of political reform initiated by
President F. W. de Klerk.
Leaving now the African continent, I would say that
Portugal, because of its very important legal, moral and
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
historic responsibilities in the case, continues to devote, as
a matter of priority, particular attention to the question of
East Timor, a Non-Self-Governing Territory recognized by
the United Nations as being under Portuguese administration,
its decolonization process not having been completed.
the relevant
I should like to reaffirm, at this rostrum, my country’s
position of principle on this question: Portugal accepts in
full
resolutions adopted by the General
Assembly and Security Council
regarding East Timor.
These resolutions reaffirm the need to apply, in the case of
East Timor, the essential principles and rules adopted by this
Organization on decolonization; those contained not only in
the Charter, but in the historic resolutions 1514 (XV) and
1541 (XV) as well. The rejection of military conquest as the
basis for claiming territorial enlargement, the need to respect
East Timor’s territorial integrity and the right of its people
to self-determination are clearly established in those
resolutions.
a
fail
to meet
just,
comprehensive
We remain firmly committed to achieving, in a peaceful
and negotiated manner,
and
internationally acceptable settlement to this question. That
settlement must not
the standards of
international law and must fully respect the legitimate rights
of the East Timorese, who are those most directly concerned
and who have been the principal victims of this painful and
long-protracted problem.
I should especially like to applaud the efforts of the
Secretary-General - and those of his collaborators - under
whose auspices talks have been held with Indonesia aimed
at settling this issue. We do recognize how very difficult
this task is as a result of the wide gap between the positions
of the parties on the substance of the question, which is the
conclusion of the process of the decolonization of the
Territory. Three rounds of discussions have already taken
place at the Ministerial level, and we are in the process of
adopting a set of confidence-building measures in order to
improve the atmosphere of dialogue and to foster the
advancement of the process.
Allow me to quote, in this context, a passage of the
just a few days ago, by the
progress report submitted,
Secretary-General to the General Assembly:
"Equally important and intrinsically linked to the
peace process is the human rights situation in East
Timor. The improvement of the conditions in East
Timor
is sine qua non to progress in the talks".
(A/48/418, para. 5)
I am sorry to have to say that, unfortunately, the human
rights situation prevailing in the territory continues to elicit
condemnation on the part of the international community.
The resolutions adopted this year by the United Nations
Commission on Human Rights and by its Subcommission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities
are a clear demonstration of this. We sincerely hope that
steps will be taken that will bring about a tangible and
genuine improvement of the situation in the territory and that
this can be monitored without obstruction.
I therefore call
upon all Governments and human rights organizations to
continue to keep a close eye on the situation in East Timor.
We are witnessing events of great significance in other
parts of the world. Allow me to emphasize those which
merit our particular attention.
Portugal remains faithful
to the construction of an
enlarged and strengthened Europe. We are close, therefore,
to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and, guided
by that objective, we propose to contribute through our
participation in the framework of the European Community
with a view to enhancing dialogue as well as political and
economic cooperation. This approach will ensure peace,
stability and economic well-being.
In this context of the joint responsibility of all actors on
the international scene, we should encourage the ongoing
political and economic reforms in the States that have
emerged from the collapse of the former Soviet Union aimed
at a peaceful evolution towards democratic societies based
on the rule of law and fundamental human rights. We
support their progressive integration into the international
economy, which will prevent the political division of the
past from being replaced with a new economic gap.
Allow me to salute at this point President Yeltsin for
his courage and determination to carry on without
interruption the process of political and economic reform
that is indispensable for the complete democratization and
development of the Russian Federation.
We lend our unequivocal support to all the efforts made
by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
(CSCE) and the United Nations - which constitute a good
test for cooperation between regional organizations and the
United Nations -
to reach peaceful settlements to the
disputes that have arisen on the territory of the former Soviet
Union.
Regarding nuclear arms control and disarmament,
Portugal considers the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
15
Nuclear Weapons to be an instrument of major importance,
and looks forward to its indefinite extension at the 1995
Review Conference. Portugal urges all the parties that have
not yet done so to ratify it, and reiterates the need for all the
nuclear-weapon States that have emerged from the former
Soviet Union to implement and comply with the obligations
resulting from the START I and START II Treaties and the
Lisbon Protocol.
At this point, allow me to stress the importance my
Government attaches to the work of the Conference on
Disarmament, to which my country has recently presented its
candidature for full membership.
I wish to refer here to the current negotiations that are
seeking to conclude the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade talks. While we hope for their successful conclusion,
which we consider
the world
economy, we also believe that the result should reflect a
global and balanced solution based on an opening of markets
and a reinforcement of the rules of international trade.
to be fundamental
for
I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the
Government of Israel and the leaders of the Palestine
Liberation Organization for the realism, lucidity, courage and
also imagination they displayed with the conclusion of the
recent agreement, which represents a historic step towards
the achievement of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace
for the Middle East based upon the relevant resolutions of
the United Nations. The agreement will certainly lend a new
and encouraging vitality to the peace process in both its
bilateral and multilateral tracks, irreversibly consolidating the
latest developments.
Geographical proximity and historic and cultural ties
justify the genuine attention with which my country is
following the evolution of the situation in the Maghreb.
Portugal has stressed, within the European Community and
in other international forums, the importance of that region
to security and stability in the Mediterranean. In this sense,
the declaration of the Heads of State and Government at the
Lisbon meeting of the Council of Europe set out a new
approach to a political, economic, social and cultural
dialogue between the European Community and the Maghreb.
Portugal has centuries-old relations of friendship with
Latin America. Our special relationship with Brazil cannot
be overemphasized. We are therefore in a position, in the
spirit of the recent Ibero-American Summit in Salvador da
Bahia, to enhance dialogue and cooperation with this region.
In this respect, I should like to stress the importance we
attach to an agenda for development in the advancement of
a constructive and effective dialogue aimed at identifying
and exploring new forms of solidarity in encouraging
international cooperation for development.
In respect of the activities of the European Community,
we have been striving to strengthen European ties with Latin
America, through the San José process and the Rio group,
by encouraging the efforts - which have already made
progress possible - aimed at
for
democratic institutions and human rights and developing new
forms of economic integration.
increasing respect
I should also like to mention the current negotiations on
the preservation of natural resources and the maintenance of
environmental balance. The obligations of States go beyond
the mere signature of multilateral treaties. At stake is a
legacy to future generations of sufficient, conserved and
renewable resources to ensure their well-being.
All efforts in that direction deserve the commitment of
the international community as a whole,
through the
implementation of policies of a continental or even global
scope. The Rio Conference was merely a step on the long
road to convincing the world of the need to preserve the
environment and to maintain the balance between the means
of production and the human component without resorting to
destruction and waste.
It is now important to put into practice the decisions of
the Rio Conference in order to give expression to the
measures decided on there. Portugal will not fail to do its
part, in the full realization that only then shall we be able to
build a future for coming generations.
At this point in its history, the United Nations is facing
an unprecedented opportunity and, for the first time, can
play the role originally intended for it, without restriction, in
the
and the maintenance of
international stability and as the custodian of respect for
human rights.
resolution of
conflicts
We are all committed to providing a positive
contribution to meeting this challenge. Portugal, for its part,
will do everything possible to achieve these ambitious goals.
Mr. SOLANA MADARIAGA (Spain) (interpretation
I should like first of all, Mr. President, to
from Spanish):
convey to you my warmest congratulations. Your election
to
clear
acknowledgement of your personal qualities and diplomatic
skills and is a tribute to your country, the Republic of
Guyana. We are pleased that you were nominated as a
this Assembly
presidency
the
of
is
a
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
candidate by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean
States, with which my country has particularly close and
cooperative relations.
I should also like to pay tribute to and greet warmly
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. The United Nations needs his
proven competence and political experience in order to face
the numerous challenges before us at the end of the century.
You may rest assured, Mr. Secretary-General,
in
carrying out your complex tasks you can count on the firm
cooperation of the Spanish authorities.
that
established in Article 23 of the Charter, that is to say, taking
into account
the contribution of Member States to the
maintenance of international peace and security and to the
other purposes of the Organization, and also to equitable
geographical distribution.
We believe that the time has come for a moderate
increase in the membership of the Council so as to reflect
the increase in the number of Members of the Organization
since 1963, when, for the first time,
it was decided to
expand the Council’s membership.
Allow me also to convey at
time to the
Government and the people of India our deepest sympathy
for and solidarity with the victims of the earthquake that
ravaged that country yesterday.
this
Over the last year the universality of the United Nations
has once again been enhanced by the admission of the Czech
Republic, Slovakia,
the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra as new Members.
I welcome them all, and most particularly Andorra, a
neighbour of Spain with which we are linked by special ties
of history, culture and deep friendship.
A few days ago Belgium’s Minister of Foreign Affairs,
speaking on behalf of the European Community and its
member States, set forth our common points of view in this
general debate. On behalf of the Spanish delegation, I shall
mention some issues that I think deserve special attention.
A year ago, when I addressed this Assembly for the
first time, I referred, as did many other speakers, to the
fundamental changes that had taken place in the world since
the middle of
the Spanish
Government’s firm conviction that those changes have led to
the advent of a new era. The United Nations has a great
opportunity to play an effective, central role in harmonizing
world-wide the efforts of the international community in
order to achieve the common purposes embodied in the Charter.
the last decade.
It
is
Thus, it seems that the time has come to strengthen our
Organization by providing it with the necessary human and
material resources to enable it to carry out its goals. We
must also think about the measures necessary for a possible
revision of the Charter.
A review of the Security Council is an item on our
agenda, and this needs to be approached in a constructive
spirit and with the aim of increasing its representativeness
and ensuring that
its actions be not only fast but also
effective. Such a review should be based on the criteria
We also deem it appropriate to consider the creation of
new categories: one that would enable certain States to
become permanent members without the right of veto, and
another that would allow more frequent non-permanent
membership in the Council to certain States with weight and
influence in international relations that have the capacity and
political will to contribute significantly to the fulfilment of
the purposes and principles of the United Nations. All this
would undoubtedly serve to put our Organization in a better
position to face the challenges of maintaining peace and
international security.
traditional
In this context, it is also necessary to make reforms in
order to deal with the changing nature of the tasks assigned
to the peace operations established by the Security Council.
The
concept of peace-keeping operations,
embracing monitoring of cease-fire agreements, interposition
between adversarial
forces and the establishment of
confidence-building measures - all by primarily military
means - has been expanded, increasingly encompassing new,
non-military aspects.
range from
humanitarian assistance to nation-building, and include the
monitoring of elections and of the observance of human
rights. Nearly 100,000 men and women from all over the
world are currently serving in the framework of these
increasingly complex and demanding operations.
These new tasks
The United Nations has made a commendable effort to
adapt the structure and functioning of peace operations to the
new exigencies. We should pursue our efforts in this
direction, as we are convinced that it is always preferable to
solve a conflict under the aegis of the United Nations than
through the unilateral action of a Power or group of Powers
outside the framework of the Organization.
Here I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention to
some relevant questions regarding the proper functioning of
peace operations and to offer some ideas and suggestions
aimed at enhancing their performance and effectiveness.
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
17
When establishing a peace operation,
the Security
Council
should pay the utmost attention to defining
accurately its mandate. The Council should also receive
periodic information on the development of the operation.
Consultation mechanisms should be established with those
States
their
involvement in the operation or their troop contributions.
that have a special
interest, because of
Special attention should also be given to questions of
safety. Acts of violence against the Blue Helmets have
increased alarmingly because of the growing complexity and
risks of the operations. The issue of safety should be
considered most seriously. In this regard we have examined
with the greatest interest the Secretary-General’s report to
the Security Council and the recommendations of the Special
Committee on Peace-keeping Operations. We believe that
the use of force against United Nations personnel must be
regarded as unacceptable interference in the exercise of the
responsibilities entrusted to the Security Council by the
Charter. When such acts occur, the Council should take
appropriate measures, the first of which should be to hold
responsible the perpetrators of the acts.
The Spanish Government considers it imperative that
the appropriate financial resources be made available to the
United Nations in timely fashion to meet the cost of these
operations. We all share the responsibility for ensuring a
sound financial and administrative basis for peace operations.
Before a new operation is established, an estimate of its
financial implications should be presented to the Council.
A the same time, the task assigned to the Security
Council in terms of peace-keeping and peace enforcement
should not lead us to forget the competence of the General
Assembly on budgetary questions and in the field of
preventive diplomacy, especially peace-building. With the
cooperation of United Nations operational activities, the
General Assembly must play an important role in this overall
approach to international security, as is referred to by the
Secretary-General in his "An Agenda for Peace".
Neither should the Secretariat be overlooked.
Its
structure and logistical capacity for managing peace
operations need to be reviewed and expanded. We applaud
the Secretary-General’s efforts in this respect.
Aware of the crucial importance taken on by peace
operations, Spain - which has participated and continues to
participate through a large number of military and civilian
observers in various operations, particularly in Central
America and southern Africa - decided a year ago to send a
military contingent of about 1,000 soldiers to Bosnia and
Herzegovina as part of the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR).
Within the framework of the increasingly necessary
cooperation between the United Nations and regional
organizations, my country sent observers
to help in
monitoring compliance with the sanctions imposed against
Serbia and Montenegro and is maintaining naval units in the
Adriatic. Spanish personnel also take part in the observer
missions of the European community and the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
The people and the Government of Spain are proud of
the work being done by our forces and observers.
I wish
to take this opportunity to pay tribute to those who have
given their blood and their lives while serving in these
peaceful humanitarian missions of the Organization.
Since the beginning of the terrible conflict in the former
Yugoslavia the Spanish people and Government have done
their best to alleviate the suffering of the population and
have contributed, within the framework of the Security
Council and the International Conference on the Former
Yugoslavia, to the development of a political process aimed
at achieving a peaceful solution acceptable to all parties.
We have all been appalled by the cruelty of that war and
frustrated by the endless negotiations.
the Steering Committee of
It is only fitting to acknowledge the splendid work
accomplished, under extremely difficult circumstances, by
the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR). We
would also express gratitude for the skill and dedication of
the co-Chairmen of
the
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia.
Provided they can rely on the parties’ basic goodwill and
capacity for compromise, their efforts should lead to an
agreement before this coming winter brings with it a
dreadful human catastrophe.
If the hoped for agreement is
reached, the international community and the Organization
will then be faced with a new challenge, that of guaranteeing
through the
implementation of
establishment of a peace-keeping operation under
the
auspices and authority of the United Nations. Spain would
be prepared to contribute to such a force.
the peace agreement
This year the Security Council decided to establish an
International Tribunal to bring to trial those charged with
serious violations of
international humanitarian law
committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. We
believe that this crucial step will also encourage at this
session of the General Assembly the speedy completion of
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
work leading to the
international criminal tribunal with universal jurisdiction.
establishment of
a permanent
In the past few months important developments have
taken place in various other parts of the world.
My Government is following with anxiety and hope
the recent events in Russia - with anxiety, because at one
time it appeared that the internal stability of that country
and, therefore, of Europe and the rest of the world, was in
jeopardy, but also with hope that
the Russian people
themselves will become the masters of their own destiny.
the worsening conflict
We are concerned about
in
Abkhazia and the continued confrontation in Nagorny-
Karabakh between Armenians and Azerbaijanis. We appeal
to the wisdom and capacity for dialogue of all the parties
involved and reiterate our support for the peace efforts of the
United Nations and the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
In Angola the process of restoring democratic normality
and coexistence has been seriously hampered by UNITA’s
refusal to accept the outcome of free and fair elections, thus
preventing the implementation of the Bicesse Accords. This
has compelled the Security Council to impose sanctions on
UNITA in the hope that its leadership will reconsider its
attitude and begin to cooperate in good faith to put an end
to a conflict of catastrophic human proportions.
We wish to recall that a number of the problems arising
from the war between Iraq and Kuwait are still unresolved,
among them the exchange of prisoners and the return of
stolen assets by the invader. The fact that Iraq has not yet
recognized either the existence of Kuwait as a sovereign
State, Member of the United Nations, the demarcation of the
border between the two countries, which was recently
confirmed by the Security Council, constitutes a serious
obstacle to peace.
The persistence of those and other conflicts should not
make us forget the progress achieved in the solution of
many others.
Here we would especially mention the success achieved
in Cambodia through the United Nations Transitional
Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), with the holding last May
of elections for a Constituent Assembly, elections that paved
the way to national unity and reconciliation.
In the Middle East, the serious obstacles that were
threatening to scuttle the peace process launched two years
ago in Madrid have been overcome. The mutual recognition
between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization
(PLO), along with the signing in Washington on 13
September of an Agreement on the establishment of an
autonomous Palestinian regime in Jericho and Gaza, is a
development of far-reaching significance. Spain welcomes
this fundamental step in the tortured history of the Middle
East and is prepared,
to
maintain its political and economic support
in order to
ensure that the Agreement between the Palestinians and
Israelis becomes effective. We are aware that the process is
fraught with difficulties, but we believe that they can be
surmounted with the same courage and imagination already
displayed in achieving the recent agreements, and with the
support of the international community.
together with other countries,
In Africa, new developments have taken place, although
not without some delay and difficulties. In Mozambique we
have witnessed the implementation of the General Peace
Agreement, with the invaluable cooperation of the United
Nations Operation in Mozambique (UNOMOZ). In Somalia,
the Security Council has given the United Nations Operation
in Somalia (UNOSOM II) one of the broadest mandates ever
conferred upon a United Nations operation.
It cannot be
denied that problems of internal adjustment have been
caused by the very novelty and magnitude of the tasks
entrusted to UNOSOM II, and they will have to taken into
account in future peace-keeping operations. Nevertheless,
the Operation’s contribution has been vital in reducing the
consequences of a catastrophe caused by natural disasters
and armed rivalries that have claimed hundreds of thousands
of victims.
Turning to the question of Western Sahara, I wish to
express Spain’s full support for the efforts being made by
the Secretary-General and his Special Representative to find
a solution to the outstanding problems that will make
possible the holding of a free and fair referendum on self-
determination. That referendum will pave the way for the
climate of understanding and cooperation that is necessary
to deal with the challenges in the region. My country
resolutely supports the process of integration in the North of
Africa and the development of stronger links between
Europe and the Maghreb.
We also welcome the progress made in the transitional
process in South Africa, although we regret the fact that
violence still holds sway in certain areas. The progress
made in the drafting of a Constitution and the prompt
establishment of the Transitional Executive Council are the
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
19
best possible foundations for the holding of general elections
in 1994 to prepare the way for a truly representative
Parliament and a democratic South Africa that will be able
to find its true place in the Organization and in the
international community.
In Latin America, a number of recent events deserve
special consideration.
I should mention first the process of consolidation of
democracy through the free election of civilian Presidents
and Parliaments in nearly the whole of the continent. That
fact, enhanced by a number of forums such as the Rio
Group,
the Ibero-
American Summits, has reversed attempts to violate the
legitimacy of the democratic process.
the Central American Summits or
Latin America continues to place special emphasis on
the use of negotiation, mediation and conciliation in solving
its conflicts, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI
of the Charter.
Respect for international law and democracy are the
principles that have guided and will continue to guide the
activities of the international community aimed at restoring
democratic legality in Haiti. Those principles have also
inspired the decisive agreements with regard to the peace
process in El Salvador, where we hope the recommendations
of the Ad Hoc Commission and the Commission on the
Truth will be implemented. Finally, those same principles
will be the basis for reconciliation and development
in
Nicaragua and Guatemala.
Once again this year I have to mention a matter that, as
the Assembly knows, is of fundamental importance to Spain,
namely, the decolonization of Gibraltar.
I wish to reiterate
my Government’s firm decision to continue the process of
negotiation with the United Kingdom in a constructive spirit
and on the basis of the Brussels Declaration of 27 November
1984. Those negotiations should duly take into account the
legitimate interests of the population, but be based on the
doctrine established by the General Assembly that
the
decolonization of Gibraltar
self-
determination but of the restoration of the territorial integrity
of Spain. The Spanish Government firmly hopes that those
negotiations will finally eliminate this anachronism.
case of
is not
a
In the field of disarmament new challenges have
emerged, such as the need to put an end to the proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction. Now, more than ever, we
need to redouble our efforts to move beyond a period of
confrontation that belongs to the past.
There is a pressing need to strengthen the multilateral
negotiating forums
to enable them to face the new
challenges efficiently. In this respect, my country considers
that priority should be given to enlarging the Conference on
Disarmament, on the basis of a consensus that will enable
countries like Spain, which have been participating actively
in its work for a long time, to become members.
There is a clear link between international peace and
security on the one hand and economic and social
development on the other. In this new era, when the United
Nations is renewing its efforts to maintain international
peace and security, we must note the persistence of deep
disparities and serious economic and social problems
besetting all countries, in particular the developing countries.
To confront
the reform of the United
Nations should extend to the Organization’s economic and
social machinery. The reforms, which have already begun,
should be aimed at achieving more effective functioning and
at using available resources more rationally to meet the
needs of developing countries.
these challenges,
In that context, let me mention the convening of the
first session of the Commission on Sustainable Development.
We hope its work will maintain and even intensify the great
momentum generated by the Rio Summit on environment
and development and lead to the speedy implementation of
the commitments made there in Agenda 21.
it
But
is not enough to repair and fine-tune the
machinery we intend to use to deal with the challenges of
development. We need clear guidelines by which to steer it
unerringly towards the wide range of current needs,
in
particular those of the developing countries. Hence, we look
forward with great
to the Secretary-General’s
"Agenda for Development"; in conjunction with "An Agenda
for Peace", this will supplement the guidelines for action by
the international community with respect to the indivisible
equation of world peace
and social
development.
and economic
interest
that
I want
to recall
In that context,
the third
Ibero-American Summit, held at Salvador de Bahía, Brazil,
last July, considered "An agenda for development", with the
emphasis on social development. The conclusions adopted
by the Heads of State or Government of the 21 participating
countries were submitted to the Secretary-General as a
contribution to the preparation of his own "Agenda for
Development".
Mr. Kharrazi
(Islamic Republic of Iran), Vice-
President, took the Chair.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the
concepts
among
interrelationship
The final document of
that Summit stressed the
of
growing
development, democracy and human rights.
It drew
attention to the priority that should be given to the fight
against poverty both on the governmental level and when
allocating resources and creating machinery for international
cooperation. Our starting-point should be to promote
integrated economic and social development, bearing in mind
the three priorities the Secretary-General set out at the last
session of the Economic and Social Council: redistribution,
integration and protection.
The structure of and developments in the world
their
population give rise to grave uncertainties about
consequences and about
the aspirations of developing
countries to attain sustainable development. These and other
important issues such as large-scale migration, improving the
machinery for cooperation, and managing resources for that
purpose will be discussed at the International Conference on
Population and Development to be held next year at Cairo.
We hope that Conference will mark a significant step
towards the solution of
these questions by addressing
together the issues of population, economic growth and
sustainable development.
The Spanish Government considers that there is also an
urgent need to integrate women into the development
process, eliminate discrimination against women and ensure
their full participation in the economic, social, cultural, civic
and political spheres. We trust that this commitment will be
renewed and buttressed by the international community at
the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in
Beijing in 1995.
The World Summit
for Social Development,
the
convening of which my country strongly supported from the
outset, is to be held at Copenhagen in 1995.
It will give a
political impetus to improving the living conditions of the
most disadvantaged sectors of our populations. It will help
promote their social integration and the creation of a concept
of social development taking into account the relationship
between peace and well-being, while aiming to reduce
poverty and increase employment.
Year after year from this rostrum we emphasize our
firm intention to build a better world in which the protection
and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms
will become real and effective. Unfortunately, year after
year we are forced to observe that, despite all our efforts, the
practices that endanger human life, freedom and security
persist.
is therefore no longer enough to state our
It
readiness to step up our efforts; we must now move, in
solidarity, to action.
In that respect, the outcome of the Vienna Conference
on human rights gives us an excellent opportunity to work
steadfastly towards our common goal. We now have a set
of universal rules, universally accepted; we must now insist
on their obligatory application. There can be no democracy
without respect for human rights, and without democracy
there cannot be the harmonious, balanced and lasting
development to which we all aspire.
implement
For that reason,
it
expeditiously
is of high importance that we
proceed
the Vienna
to
commitments, in particular the programme of action. In the
view of the Spanish Government there are two key issues
the resolution of which could lead to unprecedented progress
in this area. First, we must agree on the establishment of
the office of a high commissioner for human rights; and
secondly, we must provide the United Nations Centre for
Human Rights with the resources it needs to carry out its
mandate fully.
In my statement today I have tried to address the most
pressing challenges facing the Organization, challenges
inherent in the increasingly free but increasingly uncertain
world in which we live. I have also advanced proposals for
the reform of the Organization aimed at adapting it to the
new circumstances.
It is difficult but necessary that we focus both on the
new problems and on the reform of the Organization. Our
ability to do this will determine whether the United Nations
can increasingly serve as the proper forum for resolving
world problems.
Sheikh AL-SABAH (Kuwait)
(interpretation from
Arabic): On behalf of Kuwait, it gives me pleasure to
convey to Ambassador Insanally our sincere congratulations
on his unanimous election as President of the General
Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I take this opportunity
to assure him of
the
delegation of Kuwait in recognition of the close ties that
exist between our two countries. His ability and skill give
us confidence that our deliberation under his leadership will
be fruitful.
the support and cooperation of
I am pleased also to pay a tribute to his predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Bulgaria, for his able and effective stewardship of
the General Assembly at its previous session.
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
21
On behalf of the Government and the people of Kuwait,
I wish to extend deepest sympathy and condolences to the
Government and the people of India with respect to the
tragedy resulting from the earthquake in that country, which
claimed thousands of innocent victims.
Kuwait has been following the impressive role of the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, in developing new
modalities of work for the United Nations that are more in
line with the sweeping developments, events and changes
that are taking place in the world. We cannot but put on
record our appreciation of the Secretary-General’s tireless
efforts and creativity in restructuring and streamlining the
world Organization to reflect in a more meaningful manner
the realities of the new world situation. He deserves special
credit
for his promotion of the concept of preventive
diplomacy.
its
the threshold of
Kuwait takes pride in its backing of the United Nations
and we do support the new approach it pursues despite the
various difficulties it faces and the accusations levelled at it.
The United Nations, at
fiftieth
anniversary, needs from us every material and moral support
each and every Member can extend to it. On the other hand,
the Organization itself should enhance its effectiveness,
streamline its structure and revitalize its organs, especially
the Security Council. The Council should reflect more
closely the new realities of today’s world. It should be more
capable of making and preserving peace and more forcefully
firm in implementing its resolutions in consonance with the
provisions of the Charter.
The United Nations today reflects new world realities,
as shown by the recent increase in its membership. Kuwait
welcomes the accession to United Nations membership by
Eritrea, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Monaco,
Andorra and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
and trusts
their accession to the Organization’s
membership will consolidate further
the efficacy and
universality of multilateralism.
that
cooperation
of
With the end of
the cold war and the effectual
participation by the United Nations in resolving many
international problems, the world today is moving steadily
towards the realization of the principle of interdependence
and mutual
the
international community. The demise of bipolarity and the
disappearance of the barriers that used to separate peoples,
together with closer contacts through mass communication
made available by the technological revolution, have made
it possible for every individual to watch world events as they
unfold. Thus peoples are now able to react to and interact
between members
with global issues in an unprecedented manner. A direct
outcome of all that is the constant expansion of the web of
interrelated interests, so that regional security has become an
inseparable part of global security. Economic and social
development issues have now acquired a high priority among
the concerns of the international community.
While we in Kuwait support this new tendency, we
must stress that movement in the new direction should be
humane in concept, civilized in ways and means, pragmatic
in modalities and realistic in aims. We also stress that the
right of both the individual and the community to
development
should be accorded top priority among
international concerns. In this context, we consider that the
first and foremost human right is the right to secure essential
necessities of living. Social and economic development at
various levels is a close second. Kuwait believes that
development should be addressed collectively and that is the
most effective way of ensuring the availability of
its
essential ingredients, so that no region or group of nations
should monopolize world resources at the expense of whole
continents which remain hostage to the cycle of want and
poverty.
We view with satisfaction the new approach of dealing
collectively with hotbeds of tension, as envisioned by the
Charter. Here we have in mind the practical and effective
application of the concept of collective security in the
context of which regional conflicts are viewed as direct
threats to world peace and stability and not as mere threats
to regional security. Therefore we demand that any conflict
should be dealt with firmly and expeditiously in order to
avoid its worsening, opening the door and allowing terrorism
to fly in the face of international legality and flout the new
approach.
It is in keeping with this conviction that Kuwait, despite
its difficult circumstances, participates in the United Nations
humanitarian operations in Somalia, our sister country. Such
participation bespeaks our commitment to the new United
Nations approach and our support for putting it into practice.
Kuwait considers that the international presence in Somalia
is indispensable if the Somali people are to be saved from
destruction and chaos and if Somalia itself is to survive as
an independent country.
the United Nations
peace-keeping operations, which now total 17, as stated by
the Secretary-General
in his report on the work of the
Organization (A/48/1), require from us all full material
support, practical participation and political backing.
Accordingly, the Government of Kuwait announces from this
podium that it will voluntarily bear two thirds of the costs of
Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission
the United Nations
Indeed,
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
(UNIKOM). This is to demonstrate our firm belief in the
true role of UNIKOM in safeguarding the security and peace
in our region.
It represents also a consolidation of the
concept of collective security and the United Nations role
therein.
Kuwait believes that the most important underpinnings
of the new world approach are: compliance with established
norms of conduct in international relations; respect for the
principles of international law; rejection of interference in
the internal affairs of other States; rejection of seeking gains
and concessions at the expense of neighbouring countries;
the resolution of problems by dialogue rather than by force;
and the renunciation of terrorism as a means of revenge.
The Iraqi regime invaded and occupied the State of
Kuwait. However, the adamant international will embodied
by the United Nations helped liberate Kuwait in a historic
act that led to a clean and tidy elimination of that horrendous
crime. Subsequently, Iraq accepted the consequences of its
crime as set out in Security Council resolution 687 (1991)
which contains the provisions of fair and binding solutions
for the false Iraqi claims regarding Kuwait. It also outlines
the conditions for dealing with the consequences and
underlying reasons of the Iraqi invasion. The quintessence
of resolution 687, which was accepted unconditionally by
Iraq,
and
independence of Kuwait. It also called for the utilization of
United Nations technical assistance in the demarcation of
boundaries between Kuwait and Iraq on the basis of the
documents exchanged between the two countries
in
In implementation of the provisions of the
October 1963.
said resolution,
the United Nations set up a Boundary
Demarcation Commission which successfully completed its
work last May and has issued its final report which contains
the definitive map of land and maritime boundaries between
Kuwait and Iraq (document S/25811).
reaffirmation
sovereignty
the
the
of
is
Kuwait commends the technical Boundary Demarcation
Commission and pays tribute to its members for their
impartiality, dedication and patience, especially in the face
of Iraqi accusations and provocations. Kuwait also pays
tribute to the Security Council for adopting two historic
The first, resolution 806 (1993),
resolutions this year.
extended the terms of
reference of UNIKOM into a
peace-keeping operation with full powers to prevent Iraqi
raids into Kuwait and to put an end to riots instigated by the
Iraqi regime. Resolution 833 (1993), unanimously adopted
under Chapter VII of the Charter, reaffirms the commitment
of the Security Council to guarantee the inviolability of the
international boundary as demarcated by the United Nations
technical commission and to consider that boundary as final
and inviolable. By so doing, the Security Council has put an
end to an amorphous situation which had lasted for far too
long and which Iraq exploited in a bid to secure territorial
expansion,
to exercise regional hegemony, and to gain
political, strategic and material concessions at the expense of
Kuwait and the other Gulf States. The demarcation of the
boundary between Kuwait and Iraq is a major contribution
by the international community to the elimination of a
volatile hotbed of regional tension which the Iraqi regime
used to exploit in creating an atmosphere of uncertainty and
mistrust and which culminated in its vicious invasion of the
State of Kuwait.
the outcome of
Kuwait responded positively to the Secretary- General’s
the border demarcation
acceptance of
process.
In our response, we also reaffirmed our sincere
cooperation with the United Nations despite the fact that
Kuwait had voted against some Commission decisions which
denied Kuwait its rights in Khowr Zhobeir. Iraq, for its part,
responded with two letters to the Secretary-General. The
first in May 1992, following the demarcation of the land
boundary, and the second in June 1993 following the
demarcation of
Both letters
reiterated previous Iraqi claims to what it calls its historical
rights.
Iraq also rejected the demarcation results and
challenged the integrity of the United Nations technical
Commission and the validity of its procedures and work.
to reprimand Iraq
This prompted the Security Council
strongly in a presidential statement which it
issued on
28 June 1993 and in which it rejected the contents of the
aforesaid Iraqi letters and reminded Iraq of its obligations
under resolution 687 (1991).
the maritime boundary.
of
the
the
because
functions
Iraq has unconditionally accepted resolution 687 (1991)
in all its provisions and in so doing has undertaken legal,
political and moral obligations on which it cannot renege,
to abide by the consequences of such
nor can it fail
obligations
technical
Commission were not to the liking of its representative on
the Commission, who had participated fully, for a whole
year,
in its work and deliberations and then chose to
withdraw from the Commission when he found himself
unable to produce substantive documents corroborating
Iraq’s claims, despite the fact that the Commission pressed
him to do so. The stance of the Iraqi regime constitutes a
rebellion against Security Council resolutions in defiance of
the will of the Council and the international community.
This represents an egregious departure from the current
global mainstream and warrants firm international resolve to
reject
regime’s practices in both form and
substance.
the Iraqi
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
23
I find it necessary now to emphasize in no uncertain
terms that
the Iraqi regime remains in its philosophy,
behaviour, thinking and nature a threat to regional and global
peace and security. It persists in its aggressiveness while it
thumbs its nose at the world community, which continues to
reject and isolate it with sanctions. Kuwait has confidence
in the wisdom of the Security Council and the ability of its
members to fulfil their mandate. We trust that they are keen
to ensure their collective commitment
to the Security
Council resolutions and thus compel the Iraqi regime to
recognize that it has no option but to begin the complete and
documented implementation of all those resolutions to the
letter. The Iraqi regime should be made to understand that
its desperate endeavours to have the sanctions lifted will be
totally futile unless and until it clearly and legally complies
with the boundary demarcation decisions as set forth in the
relevant Council
resolutions, especially resolutions 773
(1992) and 833 (1993). The Iraqi regime must also meet
other basic requirements, such as desisting from the false
claims made by its official information apparatus which
continues to describe Kuwait as part of Iraq and to make
other
The
persistence of and increase in such falsehoods, which
emanate from ranking officials of that regime, is a reversal
of and retreat from acceptance of the essence of resolution
687 (1991), which represents Iraq’s commitment to respect
Kuwait’s
and international
borders. We have submitted regular reports to the Security
Council containing complete verbatim excerpts of the claims
made by senior Iraqi officials and the official Iraqi media.
false claims to so-called historical
independence
sovereignty,
rights.
We call upon all Member States of the United Nations
to welcome the relevant Security Council resolutions on the
border demarcation and the inviolability of boundaries as
essential components of the regional security structure. We
also expect Member States to demand that the Iraqi regime
respect all
relevant resolutions and link the lifting of
sanctions with its implementation of all Security Council
resolutions, particularly those regarding the boundary
demarcation and the release of prisoners.
that
In this context,
I should like to recall
the
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC)
issued at its last March session a statement welcoming the
demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq. The
GCC also underscored the demarcation as an underpinning
of regional security. Furthermore, the Damascus Declaration
States, which include the six GCC countries together with
Egypt and Syria, issued a statement last June supporting the
demarcation and welcoming the measures taken by the
Security Council as positive contributions to stability and
security at both the regional and international levels.
is not
resolutions
Iraq’s procrastination in implementing the Security
Council
limited to the boundary
demarcation but extends to a purely humanitarian issue: the
release of all prisoners, hostages and detainees of Kuwaiti
and third country nationals. Those hostages and prisoners
have been languishing in Iraqi prisons and detention camps
for some three years now. We trust and hope that the
international community will bring pressure to bear on the
Iraqi regime to release every one of those innocent men,
women and children. Their plight is a stark violation of all
the values and concepts associated with the issue of human
rights. It is also a case that represents a rejection of the new
global approach, which we believe all here are keen to
promote with a view to safeguarding human rights in the
world.
Islamic and international channels
Kuwait has explored all possible avenues, using all
available Arab,
to
persuade the Iraqi regime to comply with the norms of
international
law, especially its commitments under the
Geneva Conventions. To date, the Iraqi regime has made no
positive response to the efforts made by the International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) on behalf of those
persons. Most recently, it boycotted a meeting organized by
the ICRC in Geneva last month to discuss the latest
developments of this important and urgent humanitarian
matter. The people of Kuwait will feel no relief and enjoy
no peace of mind until the very last prisoner is returned to
his or her family and homeland.
Iraq has also failed to fulfil its obligation to return the
remainder of Kuwaiti property belonging to the private and
public sectors in our country. Furthermore, it has neither
implemented Security Council resolutions 707 (1991) and
715 (1991), nor has it desisted from oppressing and
suppressing its own population in the northern and the
southern regions of the country. It continues to resort to acts
of terrorism. We in Kuwait share the Iraqi people’s pain
and suffering by virtue of the brotherhood between our two
peoples and our everlasting neighbourhood.
is with
particular concern that we see the humiliation of the Iraqi
people as the Iraqi regime pursues its atrocities with total
disregard for the plight of the Iraqi people and its future.
The Iraqi regime has stubbornly rejected the mechanism
provided to alleviate the suffering and hardships of the Iraqi
people by failing to implement Security Council resolutions
706 (1991) and 712 (1991).
Indeed, responsibility for the
plight of the Iraqi people lies squarely on the regime itself,
which must be held accountable
the dire
consequences of its atrocities.
for
It
all
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
for
Kuwait firmly believes that security in the Gulf region
is part and parcel of world security. Hence, the international
community is responsible for ensuring respect
the
sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of States
that fall prey to aggression. Support for States that fall
victim to aggression should also be provided by the world
community when a conflict breaks out. The consolidation of
regional security requires confidence-building among all
countries in the region as a basic premise for attaining that
common goal. Here, I should like to underline the close ties
and complete trust that exist among GCC States. Their
cooperation is a substantial contribution to the stability and
security of the region. Facts on the ground attest to our
common endeavours.
Iran on the basis of
Kuwait is keen to improve its relations with the Islamic
Republic of
the principles of
good-neighbourliness, non-interference in the internal affairs
of each other and respect for sovereignty as specified by the
Gulf Cooperation Council Supreme Council. Having said
that, Kuwait would like to emphasize the sovereignty of the
United Arab Emirates over its three islands - Abu Mousa,
Lesser Tonb and Greater Tonb. Furthermore, Kuwait wishes
to put on record its absolute support for all the peaceful
measures and means to which the United Arab Emirates
resorts in order to regain sovereignty over its islands.
Kuwait remains hopeful that dialogue will eventually clear
away all the outstanding matters between the two countries.
With that aim in view, Kuwait calls upon the Islamic
Republic of Iran to commit itself to resolving this dispute on
the basis of international law and treaties and to ending it by
peaceful means.
to exercise their
In the context of the developments that are taking place
with regard to the Middle East peace process, Kuwait
welcomes the signing of the accord between the people of
Palestine and Israel
to self-
determination, to free their territory from occupation and to
build their own national
In keeping with
Kuwait’s support for every effort made and every avenue
chosen by the Palestinian people to further their cause, the
Kuwaiti Council of Ministers has issued a statement in
which it welcomed this
the full
implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions.
institutions.
right
first
step towards
Kuwait views this accord as a first step towards the
creation of a framework to deal with many details - a
process that will require enormous effort and patience on the
part of
the parties directly involved if a successful
conclusion is to be ensured. The accord has indeed ushered
in a totally new chapter in the history of the Middle East
and the question of Palestine. We hope that, in the new era,
negotiation will replace conflict; dialogue will supersede
confrontation; and that disputes will be resolved under the
rule of international law instead of by force of arms, in
consonance with the developing new approach. However,
the litmus test will be in the steps that will follow and in the
achievements that will be made on the other Arab fronts. In
the final analysis, partial or incomplete peace will not last,
and a unilateral accord will not
lead to a fair and
comprehensive peace. From now on we should not look to
the past with pain and sorrow; rather, we should look to the
future with hope and confidence.
In the end, the success of the peace process hinges on
genuine and serious commitment on the part of Israel to
implement United Nations resolutions, particularly those that
call for complete and unconditional withdrawal from the
Syrian Arab Golan. In the same vein, Israel must withdraw
its forces from Southern Lebanon, without any further delay,
in compliance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978).
this opportunity to commend the Lebanese
I
Government for its remarkable effort
to build national
reconciliation in Lebanon. For its part, Kuwait will continue
to back the Lebanese people in their efforts to reconstruct
and rehabilitate their homeland.
take
The tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina
continues unabated. That people is the target of brutal
aggression by the Serbs and the Croats, who want to impose
a fait accompli and to make territorial gains by imposing a
grossly unjust settlement on the Muslims of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
We call upon the Security Council and the European
Community to take all urgent and effective measures to
prevent the aggressor from gaining any reward and to refuse
to legitimize the outcome of outright aggression. We appeal
to the international community to lift the embargo on arms
supplies to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to
enable its people to exercise their right to self-defence, as set
forth in the Charter of the United Nations.
A few days ago, Kuwait was pleased to receive the
President of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The
visit was the culmination of Kuwait’s constant support for
the struggle of that Muslim nation, and it demonstrated our
deep, comprehensive and unwavering commitment to Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
Kuwait firmly welcomes the agreement that has been
reached between the Government of President de Klerk and
the other parties involved in the negotiations on the future
political and social structure in South Africa. The thrust of
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
25
this accord is to end the system of apartheid, which divides
society into segments whose rights and prerogatives are
based on the colour of their skin. We applaud this historic
agreement, which will put all the people of South Africa,
irrespective of class, on a totally new humanitarian cause,
enabling all South Africans to unleash their energies in the
building of a new society.
For its part, Kuwait has complied fully with all the
boycott regulations. Together with other members of the
international community, it contributed to the creation of the
effective mechanism that eventually led to the agreement in
question. Now we intend to take the necessary measures on
the national
to
Mr. Nelson Mandela’s recent appeal from this rostrum. Our
action will be in line with the global trend towards the
creation of conditions conducive to the
in response
sanctions
level
to lift
fulfilment of the targets set out in the agreement. My
Government will review Kuwaiti national legislation that
prohibits dealings with the Government of South Africa, in
the light of
in South Africa,
international consensus and the important statement in which
Mr. Nelson Mandela called for an end to the economic
sanctions while continuing to maintain the ban on
conventional and nuclear weapons.
the national agreement
We welcome also the proposal by the Multilateral
Negotiating Council and the agreement that has been reached
to enable the young Republic of Namibia to have its
territorial rights in respect of Walvis Bay and the off-shore
islands restored.
Parallel to the heart-warming transformations on the
world political arena, there are some significant economic
indicators. The issues relating to the world economic
situation are of great concern to my Government.
In our
view,
top priority must be given, on the international
economic agenda, to the economic plight of the developing
countries, especially the most impoverished among them, so
that they may be helped to alleviate the severe suffering of
their populations.
Convinced that the future of the world and the well-
being of its inhabitants require wholesome approaches that
balance the use of resources with conservation of the
environment, Kuwait has played an active role in the
international forums dealing with the questions of the
environment and energy. We are extremely keen on the
promotion of international cooperation with a view to
achieving wider development and removing obstacles that
impede it. We believe, however, that priority should be
accorded to national and international efforts that aim at
achieving overall social and economic development and
increasing political stability.
The individual must always be the focus of every
development effort. All development policies should be
flexible enough to accommodate the ingenuity and creative
power of all individuals. This is indeed our guarantee of
progress and excellence in human endeavour. International
institutions should provide the platform and the framework
to harness our national efforts towards that end.
The new international orientation, in its political and
economic aspects, presents us with yet another window of
opportunity. As interdependent partners, we should forge
ahead together so that, together, we may reap the common
benefits of the new order.
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. HAAVISTO (Finland):
I wish to begin by
congratulating Ambassador Insanally on his election to the
high office of the presidency of the General Assembly. He
can rest assured that the delegation of Finland will render
him its full support in his challenging task.
On behalf of my Government,
I also wish to
congratulate and extend a warm welcome to the new
Members among us. Their participation in the work of the
United Nations will further strengthen the Organization.
Just a few years ago,
in a promisingly changing
political environment, high hopes were placed in the United
Nations. Some of these hopes were fulfilled, others were
not. Namibia’s independence process is a fine example of
nation-building in which the United Nations played a crucial
role. Eritrea is another. Let these be examples of wise and
patient conciliation and conflict management. Yet another
example is South Africa, where today we see irrevocable
changes taking place,
leading towards a non-racial and
democratic society.
I wish to express my Government’s
admiration for the achievements of the parties in South
Africa in their work for peace, cooperation and mutual
respect. Finland has actively supported the shaping of a new
South Africa and will continue to do so.
We have in recent days witnessed yet another example
of brave and visionary leadership which can overcome
seemingly insuperable obstacles and lead peoples from a
state of war and hatred towards reconciliation.
I am
referring to the peace accord between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization. In this context I wish to
pay a tribute to the Government of Norway for its role in
bringing the two parties together. The United Nations must
now stand ready to play its part in this important endeavour
for peace. Finland, together with the other Nordic countries,
was among the first
to initiate an international support
programme for this historic process.
The United Nations also has to its credit other
achievements in recent years. Among the most important
have been the rebuttal of the aggression against Kuwait and
the restoration of democracy in Cambodia. However,
numerous other conflicts have proved very difficult to solve.
War is raging in the former Yugoslavia and in Somalia,
Angola, Abkhazia and Nagorny-Karabakh. Conflicts persist
in Western Sahara and Cyprus. All these conflicts constitute
formidable challenges to the international community and to
the United Nations.
From that balance sheet of success and failure an
important question emerges: how can our Organization be
best adapted, reformed and revitalized to face effectively not
only the challenges of today but also those of tomorrow?
Undoubtedly the United Nations is today a more viable
institution than ever before. Nevertheless the many unsolved
conflicts illustrate that the United Nations still has serious
shortcomings. These stem primarily from the nature of the
problems and challenges of the increasingly interdependent
global society in which we live.
It is now our responsibility to launch a process of
reform of the United Nations.
It must cover all of the
Organization’s agencies, programmes and funds, in both the
political and the development fields. It must be undertaken
in an integrated manner, with a view to better adapting our
instruments of cooperation to the needs of a profoundly
changing world.
and a
injustices
in social
Many crises seem political in nature but have their
lack of economic
roots
opportunities.
The fulfilment of social needs and the
promotion of economic development are necessary elements
of
significant
improvements have been made in this field, too, but their
scope and importance are clearly dwarfed by the immensity
of the challenges. Human development, human rights and
the environment are cases in point.
sustained
stability.
political
Some
to
the
of
Thanks
dynamic
important
initiatives
our
Secretary-General, a process of reform of the United Nations
is under way.
In addition, several Member States have
introduced
and
restructuring our Organization. My own country, together
with other Nordic countries, has actively participated in this
process, particularly as regards peace-keeping and reform of
the United Nations work in the economic and social sector
and in the area of humanitarian assistance.
reforming
proposals
for
World events have forced the United Nations and its
Member States to re-examine closely the Organization’s
capacity to maintain international peace and security. The
Charter provisions as well as the structures and machinery
created for this purpose reflect a world that was very
different from the one we live in today. That is, of course,
the reason for the great attention that has been accorded over
the past year or two to what traditionally has been called
peace-keeping. The concept of peace-keeping is, as a result
of increasingly complex operations, going through a period
of evolution.
such as preventive
diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-building are the new
tools for maintaining international peace and security.
Related activities
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
27
The United Nations and its Member States must adjust
to the rapid growth in and new approaches to peace- keeping
operations. The President of the Security Council in his
statement of May this year outlined the operational principles
in accordance with which such operations should be
conducted. My Government
fully subscribes to these
principles.
of the Council, provided that such a change will not affect
negatively the capacity of the Council to perform its tasks.
Moreover, there would seem to be a need to review the
Council’s organization and methods of work. The aim
should be
transparency and to provide
non-members better opportunities to be heard when matters
of immediate concern to them are considered by the Council.
to increase
The great increase in requests for peace-keeping troops,
military observers and monitors makes it necessary, in my
Government’s view, for the United Nations to adopt stricter
and clearer criteria and procedures before launching such
operations. The United Nations must not overextend itself;
it cannot be present everywhere.
It would seem desirable - especially in negotiating the
mandates and the financing of peace-keeping operations - to
involve to a greater extent non-members of the Council also,
as provided for by the Charter. Such involvement would be
particularly called for in the case of those States that are
potential contributors of troops and logistical support.
Mandates for peace-keeping operations must be precise
and clear. The necessary funding must be secured, and
before launching any operations the Security Council must
see to it that the required contingents are available. Recent
experiences also prove that command structures must be
clearly spelled out and subsequently fully adhered too. It is
not
to agree on
resolutions setting up new operations; all the conditions for
their implementation must also be at hand.
the Security Council
sufficient
for
We also face new challenges in disarmament and arms
control. The nuclear arms race has stopped, but nuclear
proliferation still constitutes a serious potential threat to
international security and stability. It is vital to ensure that
the Non-Proliferation Treaty regime works efficiently.
In
general, disarmament and arms
regulation should be
integrated into the broader agenda of international peace and
security. This should be reflected both in the United Nations
disarmament machinery and in the Geneva Conference on
Disarmament.
the
Conference on Disarmament would enhance this objective.
We regret that no agreement on this issue has been reached
so far.
The review of the composition of
The Security Council
is vested with the primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security.
In carrying out its duties, the Council acts on
behalf of the entire membership of the United Nations.
Trust and confidence in the Council by all Member States is
therefore a crucial factor, affecting its ability to engage in
conflict resolution.
that a review be
undertaken of the composition of the Security Council in
order to make the Council better reflect today’s membership
as well as the prevailing political realities.
It is only natural
Work on revitalizing the General Assembly and
rationalizing its activities is also under way. Certain
improvements have already been introduced. However,
further efforts have to be made to ensure a more meaningful
and responsible role for the Assembly. To enhance the
Assembly’s standing and add weight to its resolutions it is,
in our view, necessary to establish clear priorities.
It is
important
to focus the work in the Assembly on these
priorities and to reduce the number of items on its agenda.
Indeed, time has come to consider even some radical
methods to enhance the effectiveness of the Assembly. One
might ask whether a full-fledged General Assembly session
every year is really necessary and productive. Alternatively,
a high-level political debate and meetings of the Main
Committees might be held every other year. Moreover, the
President and the Bureau of a session of the General
Assembly could perhaps be designated well before the end
of the preceding session. That would permit the officers of
the General Assembly and the Secretariat better to prepare
the work of the General Assembly. These and other ideas
merit further consideration.
The economic and social sectors of the United Nations,
including the Economic and Social Council itself, are other
areas where reforms are being actively discussed. The
Nordic countries initiated a reform of
the operational
activities
for development. Although there is virtual
agreement on a number of reform issues, there are still
details to be settled concerning the governance and financing
of the development agencies of the United Nations. I hope
that these much needed reforms can be agreed upon by the
end of November so that the new structures can be put in
place as early as 1994.
My Government has an open mind on this question.
We are ready to accept a limited increase in the membership
During the discussions on the ongoing reforms it has
become obvious that the extraordinary extent and rapidity of
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the institutional and structural
economic and social change, as well as the challenges of the
global environment, necessitate reforms that are even much
more profound. We must now devote our efforts to a
reorientation of the United Nations system in this new and
daunting environment. We should, in particular, clarify our
thinking about
linkages
between work on peace and security and work on sustainable
development.
Likewise, we should establish the true
priorities in the economic and social sectors as well as in the
United Nations system’s relations with other international
organizations. Such rethinking and reform cannot be carried
out during one single session of the General Assembly.
It
will take a sustained effort over several years, which, in turn,
presupposes a consensus on the basic outlines of a reform
programme.
The shaping of a consensus is our primary task. The
agenda for development which the Secretary-General will
present will no doubt have a catalytic effect in this respect,
as could the upcoming important conferences on population,
social development and gender
The fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations will, in my view, provide
a suitable occasion for
launching such an ambitious,
fundamental and visionary reform programme.
issues.
In order for the United Nations to function effectively
it must have a solid executive branch, a Secretariat that has
at its disposal sufficient human and financial resources. The
Secretary-General has taken several steps to streamline the
Secretariat
for
implementing the decisions of the Member States. But more
needs to be done in order to permit the Secretariat to take
initiatives and pursue its intellectual leadership role.
and make
a more
efficient
it
tool
At a time when resources are scarce and so many new
tasks have been entrusted to the United Nations, it is clear
that a pruning of activities and rationalization of working
methods must be done. The cutting of unnecessary and
obsolete programmes must continue.
It is the task of the
Member States to give guidance to the Secretary-General,
but also to draw conclusions and take the necessary
decisions. The United Nations should apply the same policy
of austerity as national Governments in the prevailing
economic circumstances.
anniversary to see to it that by then there is full compliance
with the obligation concerning payment of contributions.
Member States, in fulfilling their financial obligations
towards the United Nations, have the right to expect full
accountability for the resources placed at the disposal of the
Organization.
It is essential that the Organization exercise
prudent economic management and constantly improve the
internal control system. We therefore believe that ideas such
as the creation of the post of an independent inspector
general are well worth considering. The main objective
must now be to restore the confidence of the Member States
and the general public in our Organization. The United
Nations cannot afford to have its public image and integrity
tarnished by allegations of mismanagement.
its
As
approaches
the United Nations
fiftieth
anniversary, humanity is faced with formidable challenges.
Meeting them will not be easy. And yet, the United Nations
now has a better chance than ever to use its full potential
and show leadership for the sake of a better future. "We the
peoples of the United Nations, ... united for a better world"
has been chosen as the theme for the celebration of our
fiftieth anniversary. Let us all together join in making this
a reality.
Mr. KASENALLY (Mauritius): On behalf of the
Mauritius delegation, it is my pleasure and privilege to
extend to Mr. Insanally our heartiest congratulations on his
election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-
eighth session. We wish to assure him and members of his
Bureau of our full cooperation and support in the tasks that
lie ahead of them. The election of a representative of
Guyana to the presidency of this Assembly is gratifying in
more ways than one and underlines the fact that even the
smallest of States belonging to this Organization has a role
to play on the international scene and will not shy away
from any responsibility that may be entrusted to it, however
big the challenge.
We should also like to place on record our appreciation
of his predecessor for the commendable manner in which he
conducted the deliberations of the forty-seventh session of
the General Assembly.
Perhaps the greatest concern for the United Nations
today is the unwillingness of the great majority of Member
States to pay their assessed contributions. My delegation has
said time and again, and I will repeat it now: Payment of
It is an obligation falling on
one’s dues is not an option.
every Member, big or small. Let
it be our collective
the fiftieth
birthday present
to the United Nations at
Mauritius is pleased to welcome into the family of the
United Nations its new Members: Andorra,
the Czech
Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic and The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We are hopeful
that these new Members will uphold and strengthen the
ideals enshrined in the Charter of this Organization and we
look forward to their active participation in our deliberations.
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
29
future
role
as
about
the
that have
taken place
and ambivalence
the United Nations
to and reflect
since
It is important, in my delegation’s view, that I address
in the first
instance an issue of prime concern to the
functioning of our Organization. There is at present much
debate
and
orientations of the United Nations. While it is generally
a multilateral
accepted that
the profound
organization should adapt
changes
its
founding,
considerable doubt exists on what proposals and practical
measures should be adopted to make the United Nations
system more effective and forge it into a relevant instrument
of global governance. Is the United Nations able to respond
to the new demands, opportunities and challenges that have
emerged especially since the end of the cold war and still
remain true to its Charter? That the United Nations in
recent years has already been able to play a more central
role in world affairs and assume greater responsibilities in
the wide range of social and political problems is an
indication that it has earned the growing acceptance of the
world community as a legitimate vehicle for addressing
significant global issues.
However, beneath the prestige of regained moral stature
and recognition that its ideals and message are still valid is
the reality that the United Nations administrative structures
and institutions are in dire need of reform. The United
Nations system remains ill-equipped for the scope of its
current operations and activities. The evolving nature of the
United Nations will therefore have a crucial impact on the
future
the post-cold-war
international economic and political environment.
and management of
shape
or more
encompassing.
The current debate on revitalization and restructuring
hinges on whether the United Nations should become more
focused
clear
pronouncements for change at the level of the Assembly, the
Security Council, social and economic organs and peace-
keeping operations, it is evident that many Member States
are neither expecting the process to result in any sweeping
structural reforms nor contemplating a revision of
the
Charter.
Despite
Progress will therefore need to come from within, the
result of a balancing act between divergent interests and
political considerations.
It would be unfortunate, however,
if such an agreement were merely a reflection of a lowest
common denominator rather than the product of genuine
cooperation.
commended the Secretary-General’s efforts at reforming our
Organization. I should like to reiterate our appreciation for
what has been achieved so far and our support for the work
currently being undertaken by the Secretary-General
to
revitalize the United Nations.
I remain convinced that the emerging global situation
has brought the objective of restructuring the United Nations
system within reach. Such reform should, in the end, cater
for the aspirations of the peoples of this world and enable
the Organization to respond favourably to the emerging new
expectations.
The General Assembly, we believe, ought
to be
encouraged, by its increased membership and a general trend
towards democratization, to assume a more preponderant
place in the affairs of the Organization. It should strengthen
its policy-making role, especially in the social and economic
fields, so as to exercise greater balance with the Security
Council, whose mandate is now expanding beyond the
traditional delineation of threats to peace and security into
such areas as human-rights violations and humanitarian
assistance,
through preventive diplomacy and innovative
peace-keeping operations. Thus, while remaining the crucial
forum for discussion, the General Assembly would increase
its capacity to respond to major problems and take
initiatives.
to assert
On the other hand, greater consensus among its
members has enabled the Security Council
its
authority and break new ground in authorizing the use of
force under Chapter VII of the Charter - for example, in
Somalia, where domestic jurisdiction would normally apply,
or Yugoslavia, through preventive action. The Council has
also had more frequent recourse to sanctions, using them on
five occasions since 1990. The intensification of the United
Nations presence has undeniably enhanced the reputation of
the Organization. But it has also raised questions about the
Council’s composition and apprehension over its decision-
making process.
The new responsibilities and importance assumed by
the Council would justify,
in our view, some form of
enlargement to reflect the new level of membership of the
United Nations. A more representative Council would earn
recognition and legitimate acceptance and be able to take
action quickly and effectively with the imprimatur of
fairness.
I concede that the reform of such an Organization is no
easy task and requires the assistance of one and all. Last
year the Mauritius delegation to the General Assembly
The Council could, we believe, withstand changes and
still retain its main executive function, while improving at
30
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the same time its coordination with other United Nations
bodies, such as the General Assembly.
one
of
has
become
Peace-keeping
the major
responsibilities of the Council. The rapid expansion of
peace-keeping operations and the huge involvement of
United Nations personnel
in this area have boosted
confidence in the Organization and given it a higher
international profile. Unfortunately, peace-keeping is also
becoming a heavy burden in terms of financial and human
resources, which threatens to curtail
the Organization’s
involvement in other priority areas. Peace-keeping should
not be confined merely to narrow security objectives,
excluding broader considerations of non-military threats to
security.
The Security Council has, in fact, special responsibility
in shaping the future of peace-keeping as an effective
safeguard in areas of conflict, or potential conflict,
in
volatile domestic or regional situations where major threats
to international peace reside today.
However, as the Secretary-General notes in his report
on the implementation of the recommendations of his
"Agenda for Peace",
"Peace-keeping is in a state of rapid evolution as the
United Nations is asked to undertake increasingly
complex and dangerous tasks." (A/47/965, para. 26)
As the mandate of peace-keeping operations extends beyond
their
traditional domain into such areas as electoral
assistance, humanitarian relief activities, human-rights
monitoring, assistance for nation-building, border-monitoring
and sanctions enforcement, clearer peace-keeping guidelines
and standards, based on properly defined mandates and
adequate financial support, become essential. Within the
parameters of fundamental principles and their interpretation,
peace-keeping operations should be designed to work. The
United Nations has made good use of the lessons of concrete
and painful experience.
financial
resources or expansion of
Mauritius, for its part, would like to suggest that when
carrying out the reform exercise we should not only address
the issues of
the
membership of the Security Council, but also look at matters
of concern raised in other forums and their attendant
consequences for this Organization. We should, hence, not
fail to give due attention to the principles contained in the
Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, adopted
at the eighteenth special session of the General Assembly,
especially with respect
to the rejuvenation of equitable
economic growth and development. We must bear clearly
in mind other new and globally agreed programmes, such as
the New Agenda for the Development of Africa, Agenda
the Rio Conference, and the
21, which came out of
recommendations of
the second World Conference on
Human Rights.
Any changes in the structure of the United Nations
should be the product of as large a consensus as possible, in
order to preserve the credibility of our Organization, and in
this task we must be guided inexorably by the spirit of the
United Nations Charter.
However, while we uphold this spirit, it is our opinion
that serious consideration should be given to a review of the
provisions of the Charter. A rereading of the Charter would
enable us to look anew at its contents and allow us to
propose amendments in the light of new world realities.
I
also urge that the Assembly insist on greater clarity in its
resolutions. This will certainly facilitate action and prevent
time lost discussing varying interpretations of resolutions.
No doubt, one of the most striking events since the last
session of the General Assembly has been the second World
Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna in June of this
year. The Conference was an opportunity to review the
evolution of the attitudes of the peoples of the world towards
the upholding of the rights and dignity of man since the first
World Conference on Human Rights, which was held in
Tehran in 1968. The quarter of a century that separates the
holding of these two Conferences has witnessed a lot of
changes, notably the assertion of those States which emerged
from the demise of colonization.
The discussions,
the end result of
firmly believe that
In Vienna, both the old and the new players in the
world’s human rights forums were able to put forward their
concerns and aspirations.
though not
always easy, had the advantage of being frank. We in
Mauritius
the
Conference will be beneficial to the protection of the rights
of the individual. We must see to it, however, that the
provisions of the Vienna Declaration and Plan of Action are
implemented and do not become mere additional documents
in the international archives.
In this context, I wish yet
again to make a special appeal to this Assembly for a
substantial increase in the resources of the Centre for Human
Rights to enable it to attend to its responsibilities with
consistency and efficiency and thus contribute more
effectively to the universal upholding of human rights.
Mauritius wishes to reiterate,
in the most forceful
manner possible, its support for the recommendation of the
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
31
this
second World Conference on Human Rights that
Assembly address urgently the need to establish a post of
United Nations high commissioner for human rights.
It is
our sincere hope that a favourable decision will be reached
to reflect the wishes of the peoples of the world. Such an
office would play the necessary role of coordinating United
Nations work on human rights and would be the focal point
for upholding human rights norms.
In keeping with its stand on human rights issues,
Mauritius would also like to state its support for the
responsibilities assigned to the International Tribunal for the
prosecution of those responsible for the serious crimes
committed against humanity in the territory of the former
Yugoslavia since 1 January 1991. We would like to
congratulate all
those eminent persons who have been
elected to sit on this Tribunal and wish them well in their
difficult task.
Indeed, we view with great concern and sadness the
atrocities and untold sufferings endured by the peoples of the
former Republic of Yugoslavia, particularly the children.
Let the impartial conclusions of the Tribunal serve as a
lesson to those who believe they can get away with such
degrading actions, such disrespect for human life. The
seriousness and steadfastness with which the Tribunal carries
out its duty will bear witness to the fact that the world
community does not remain insensitive and will not be
complacent in the face of such despicable and reprehensible
acts wherever and whenever they occur. Yet as this century
of our so-called civilized world fades away, the history of
Bosnia and Herzegovina will be written with the blood of
thousands of innocent men, women and children.
Earlier this year the world exulted at the news that
France,
the United States of America and the Russian
Federation had voluntarily extended their moratoriums on
nuclear testing.
It is heartening to observe that 1993 may
yet be the year when the world will have enjoyed the longest
respite from nuclear testing and its attendant consequences,
despite the recent disturbing reports pointing to the
possibility of a resumption of nuclear testing by certain
countries. No one doubts the nuclear strength of the
countries which have made the moratorium a policy and it
is to their credit that they have so far not been tempted to
show their might by resuming nuclear testing.
It is our sincere wish that members of the nuclear club
adhere to their declared moratoriums, for the resumption of
nuclear testing by any of those States would jeopardize the
1995 conference for
the
the review and extension of
non-proliferation Treaty, and would, to our mind, inevitably
undermine the current efforts aimed at global disarmament.
It would be unrealistic on our part not to recognize that,
the
despite uncertainties and ongoing foyers of tension,
world political climate has improved considerably. As cold
war rivalry faded, significant bilateral progress was made
the START Treaties and the
with the conclusion of
subsequent agreements for
reduction in the respective
nuclear arsenals of the erstwhile super-Powers.
These
positive efforts were reinforced internationally by the
decision of a number of States, including France, China and
South Africa, to adhere to the non-proliferation Treaty at a
crucial phase in its review process.
Such encouraging developments bode well for all small
nations like ours whose safety rests upon the foundations of
a reliable collective security system. The recent historic
agreement between the PLO and Israel and the imminent
constitution of a democratic non-racial South Africa should
pave the way for rapid progress towards the denuclearization
of Africa. Likewise, we note with great satisfaction the
consensus emerging in the deliberations of the Ad Hoc
Committee on the Indian Ocean to adopt new approaches in
response to the changing international situation and give
fresh impetus to the process of strengthening cooperation,
peace, security and stability in the Indian Ocean region. The
increased participation in this year’s session suggests that the
General Assembly could accordingly consider broadening the
Committee’s mandate.
Success at the regional level depends largely on a
global atmosphere that is conducive to disarmament. We
wish therefore to reiterate, in this perspective, the importance
of the current negotiations for the review of the NPT and the
conclusion of a test ban which should provide non-nuclear
States with firm security assurances and address the various
issues of nuclear proliferation. The threat of the spreading
of
is compounded by the
availability of weapons-grade nuclear material produced
from plutonium and highly enriched uranium and the relative
lack of proper commercial safeguards. To these dangers
must be added the potential hazard of nuclear pollution and
the dumping of toxic wastes.
smaller nuclear weapons
Casting a glance at the world in general, we have
reason to hope for the advent of peace in the various hitherto
violence-ridden regions of our planet in a not-too-distant
future. On the African continent, we note a trend towards
solutions to difficult situations.
In Mozambique, we salute
the
for
Mozambique between the Government of Mozambique and
the General Peace Agreement
signing of
32
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
RENAMO, the Mozambique national resistance movement.
We commend the positive contribution of the United Nations
operations in Mozambique. We urge the leaders concerned
to show sufficient flexibility in the current negotiations
aimed at elaborating appropriate electoral
laws for the
country.
appreciative
South Africa is another source of hope. We in
Mauritius have been following very closely the evolution of
discussions in the multiparty negotiating forum and are
particularly
adopted
unanimously by the Technical Negotiating Council on
16 August 1993, which endorses the return of Walvis Bay
and the offshore islands to Namibia. We have had the
opportunity to congratulate those responsible for this very
positive step, which we also applaud as a confidence-
building measure in that region.
resolution
of
the
We welcome the installation of
the Transitional
Executive Council and wish to pledge our readiness - as a
country which has made, in its own modest way, its share of
contributions to the democratization process across the
world - to help in the preparations leading to the elections of
27 April 1994.
The capacity to dismantle apartheid, establish the basis
of a
new constitution by consensus, and agree on an
election date within a few years is no mean achievement.
However, whilst many rapid and positive changes are taking
place, South Africa continues to be plagued by ceaseless
violence. Time and again we have deplored the upsurge of
violence which has cost the lives of several of Africa’s most
illustrious sons, among them the sorely missed Chris Hani.
We therefore welcome wholeheartedly the proposal
to
establish a national peace force in South Africa, made up of
representatives of all parties, which would be entrusted with
the task of preventing violence in particularly volatile areas.
The creation of this mechanism shows the determination and
ardent desire of all in South Africa to resolve outstanding
issues and to proceed as planned for violence-free elections
in April of next year.
Mr. Lukabu Khabouji N’Zaji (Zaire), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
In Somalia, we have been distressed by the senseless
killing of members of the United Nations Forces as well as
Somali civilians. The skirmishes being witnessed in Somalia
have regrettably shifted world attention away from the
starving millions to manhunts. Women and children dying
daily for want of food have been relegated insignificantly to
the backstage. Mauritius would like to call on the leaders of
to the agreement
the various Somali factions to revert
reached in Addis Ababa and submit themselves to the peace-
keeping process within the context of the recently established
Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for the
Prevention, Management and Resolution of Conflicts. Our
fervent appeal to all those bent on perpetuating the blood
bath in Somalia is to heed the concerns of the international
community and indeed act in the interests of the Somali
people rather than in their own selfish interests.
In our Indian Ocean region, on an issue of direct
concern to us, I am happy to say that meaningful dialogue
on the Chagos Archipelago is taking place with the United
Kingdom authorities.
While we hail the success of the United Nations in
Cambodia, we cannot but decry the atrocious situation in
Angola, where thousands of lives are done away with daily.
The question that must be asked is this:
to what end will a
country depleted of its human resources serve those who, in
their desperation to be at the helm of affairs, are ready to
sacrifice countless lives and lay waste that very country?
We exhort Mr. Savimbi and his UNITA to come to terms
with reality and accept the will of the Angolan people as
expressed through the ballot box.
Outside the African continent, the Middle East, which
has witnessed one of the most bitter conflicts of the century,
heralds a new era. There is cause for satisfaction in the
knowledge that the peace process which began at the Madrid
Conference in October 1991 has taken a decisive turn with
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
extending mutual and official recognition to each other. Let
us hope that the plan for Palestinian self-rule in Gaza and
Jericho is but a prelude to Israel’s complete withdrawal from
the occupied territories, a sine qua non for a just and durable
peace in the Middle East.
As I said earlier, we have reason to rejoice at the
thought of more peaceful days in various areas of the world.
However, this prospect is marred by other concerns. In Fiji
the long-awaited review of the Constitution has not yet taken
place, with the unfortunate result that the electoral system is
in stagnation. We feel that meaningful changes in the
Constitution, as promised by the Fijian authorities, will
restore confidence in the Fijian community and will bring
about smoother relations in the country for the benefit of all.
Mauritius,
and
multi-ethnic society, is willing, in all humility, to share with
Fijian authorities the benefits of its own experience of
harmonious living and to assist, should it be so wished, in
the review of the Constitution.
a multi-cultural, multi-religious
as
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
33
While there are promising developments in the world,
the global economy continues to evoke distress. The long-
awaited economic recovery in developed countries continues
to be inconsistent and uneven; global economic stability
remains more elusive than ever. Economic growth and
development proper are the only durable, effective and
equitable solution to instability and to a host of other
associated problems facing the world. We believe, therefore,
that it is the concern of the entire world to ponder seriously
a new form of multilateralism which would ensure
systematic coordination of policies involving all groups of
countries.
for
We believe that the rapid internationalization of the
world economy points to the urgency to resume North-
South dialogue constructively and in a spirit of cooperation
and understanding.
This dialogue should become an
instrument
the promotion of economic growth in
developing countries and should address world economic
problems practically, instead of remaining a mere slogan
interspersed now and again by half-measures aimed more at
placating genuine concerns of the South than at evolving a
workable long-term policy to bridge the ever-widening gap
between the North and the South with immediate,
medium-term and long-term solutions to the exasperating
problems that plague most developing countries.
by
the
of
The
financial
declining
consequences
efforts of most developing economies
are
compromised
unbridled
protectionism, deteriorating commodity prices, acute debt
problems,
and
unfavourable terms for the transfer of technology. However,
in the face of the unfair competition that continues to hold
sway on the international trade scene, we should ensure, for
example, that the provisions of the Lomé Convention that
binds the European Economic Community with the Asian,
Caribbean and Pacific group of countries are upheld in any
multilateral trade negotiations.
poverty
flows,
We in Mauritius are eager for a balanced outcome of
the Uruguay Round and have therefore been extremely
disappointed at the scant attention paid to the interests of the
developing countries which are vulnerable to shifts in the
world economic order. The ongoing negotiations have
turned out to be primarily a battle of wits and nerves among
the developed countries. We have studied the latest
proposals from Geneva with attention, and our frank reaction
is one of consternation and dismay.
What is proposed is a cataclysmic operation which calls
for the system to be completely refounded, the structures that
to be razed, and the groupings within which we
exist
is
conduct our foreign trade to be dismantled. What
suggested by the major negotiators is a change so convulsive
that only the most
resilient economies will emerge
unscathed.
Mauritius considers this situation to be most unfair,
unjust and, above all, counter-productive, in the long run.
Mauritius, which has an open economy banking on export-
led growth, is in favour of free trade and liberalization of
exchanges with due regard for the acquired rights of various
groups of developing countries. We believe, however, that
such change must come about
through an orderly,
evolutionary process
that will give ample time for
adaptation, rather than through external imposition which has
little consideration for factors other than economic. We
therefore appeal to all contracting parties to strive earnestly
for a conclusion of the Uruguay Round that will take into
account the difficulties of the developing countries and the
particular situation of small island States.
in
the
interrelation
Both the United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development and the General Assembly have recognized
the specificities of small island States and the attention that
should be given to them in view of the special case they
constitute
and
development. These States are characterized by their limited
size in relation to the length of their coastline,
limited
natural resources, relative geographical isolation, extremely
fragile and vulnerable ecosystem and a vast expanse of seas
forming part of their territorial limits. For small island
nations the ocean and the coastal environment are hence of
primary importance and constitute a basic development
resource.
environment
of
The record of the United Nations in the social and
economic fields is a mixed one.
Its contribution to global
awareness and respect for human rights and democratic
values is undisputed. The Rio and Vienna Conferences were
landmarks
divergent
perceptions on the strengthening of relevant institutions and
adoption of concrete measures.
cooperation,
despite
global
of
Such cooperation could in our view be developed by
maintaining a strong role for the Commission on Sustainable
Development and by choosing a feasible and incremental
approach to implementing the commitments made by
Governments under Agenda 21. In this regard, we look
forward to the
the Global
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island
Developing States and its successful outcome in Barbados
next year, as the first test case in the ongoing Rio process.
We also feel that the General Assembly should seriously
fruitful preparations
for
34
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
consider establishing an intersessional mechanism to
complete the work of the Preparatory Committee for the
Conference.
We, for our part, are as committed as any of those who
have made the protection of the global environment their
leitmotif. We have ratified the Climate Change Convention,
the Biodiversity Convention, the Montreal Protocol and the
Basel
among other
instruments. Our concern is to safeguard the world and
ensure the well-being of those who live in it.
and the Bamako Conventions,
(spoke in French)
Let me pursue my thoughts on participation by small
States in international life by calling attention to the fact that
in a few weeks Mauritius will have the honour to host the
fifth Summit of French-speaking Countries and by saying a
few words about
themes that will be
addressed by Heads of State or Government of countries that
share the use of the French language: human rights and
development; and unity in diversity.
the two principal
Those timely questions illustrate our concerns at a time
when the world is undergoing profound change and when
most of our countries continue to face challenges of
development. My country wants
to make its own
contribution, however modest, to the thought of the French-
speaking world and the rest of the international community
so that mankind may see - based on the example of
Mauritius - that peaceful coexistence in a multi-cultural,
multi-ethnic, multi-linguistic culture is no mere Utopian idea.
I wish to thank the Secretary-General, a great friend of
the French-speaking world, for having agreed, despite his
weighty responsibilities, to honour us with his presence at a
Summit
level,
delegations from 47 countries and from all continents.
that will bring together, at
the highest
(spoke in English)
As members will appreciate, we small States are
nevertheless doing our best
share of
contributions in order to bequeath to future generations an
environmentally clean world, a world free of want, a world
free of war, a world where peace and harmony will prevail.
Can we expect the same from those with mightier resources?
to make our
Mr. ÇETIN (Turkey): At
the outset, I wish to
congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly. The fact that he was
selected to guide our deliberations signifies the confidence
that Member States have in his well-known professional
qualities.
I am sure that, under his guidance, the present
session of the Assembly will tackle the issues on its agenda
with courage and realism.
I would also like to place on record our appreciation for
the competence and wisdom of his predecessor, His
Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, and for his outstanding
performance in steering the work of the General Assembly
during an eventful year.
My delegation takes joyful pride in welcoming Andorra,
the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Macedonia, Monaco and the
Slovak Republic to the family of nations. We believe that
their admission represents yet another milestone in further
consolidating the universality of this Organization. There is
no doubt
that our community will be enriched and
strengthened by their contribution to the realization of the
ideals of the United Nations.
The excitement and hopefulness of 1989 already seem
to be part of a distant past. We both welcomed and were
unprepared for the events that marked the dramatic end of
the cold war. They generated a tidal wave of optimism
about the future of international relations. Fervent talk about
a rapidly changing world was the order of the day when we
entered the present decade. Little was done, however, to
determine and shape the dynamics and scope of the change.
It was more or less taken for granted that this change would
turn out to be for the better. That did not prove to be the
case.
the creation of a new, desirable
international system continues to top the political agenda as
the most challenging task of our times.
Accordingly,
The past 12 months have demonstrated yet again that
the new world in the making might at times be as dangerous
as the old, if not worse in certain respects. Nevertheless, we
should resist the impulse to indulge in a dark pessimism for
which there can be no legitimate cause. The crucial phase
of history we are going through calls for reflection and
positive action, not a defeatist mood. The international
community should not stand by in desperation and watch
conditions deteriorate.
It must display the will to redirect
the course of history towards our expectations. There
definitely exists a political space for constructive initiatives
and a basis for cooperative action to that end.
It is the United Nations which defines and guards that
Indeed, the United Nations is the foremost
political space.
symbol of modern internationalism. In these turbulent post-
cold-war years, hardly a day passes without the Organization
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
35
being called upon to take the lead on some important task.
These tasks include missions for preserving or restoring
peace and security, the upholding of the rule of law, and
missions to ensure the survival of mankind, to help save the
environment, to combat social scourges and to rescue the so-
called failing societies.
Since the cold war drew to a close and the conflicts of
the transition era rose to the fore, United Nations
peace-keeping operations have undergone considerable
expansion in terms of their functions, size, geographical area
and degree of complexity. This process has occurred in
tandem with the rapid evolution of
the international
landscape. The same background conditions have prompted
the emergence of preventive diplomacy, peace- enforcement
and peace-building as new concepts awaiting urgent
translation into practical and mutually supportive instruments
at the disposal of the international community. Turkey’s
response to this urgency is reflected in our contribution to
peace-keeping operations
As highlighted in the Secretary-General’s report entitled
"An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277), effectively managing of
the crises currently confronting us and responding adequately
to the challenges ahead call for the elaboration of a shared
vision for the future of our Organization.
In this connection, the focus of priority attention should
be the Security Council. Today, the prestige and credibility
of the United Nations depend more than ever on the
effectiveness of that principal body. There is a widespread
call for the Security Council to become more responsive to
the needs of the current international scene. This can be
made possible only by making the Council more
representative of the new geopolitical realities.
In other
words,
requires a fresh
approach towards the Council’s renovation and restructuring.
Hence,
the discussion on the twin themes of equitable
representation and membership enlargement is very timely.
the post-cold-war environment
Turkey firmly believes that enlarging the Security
Council membership would enhance its effectiveness.
Enlargement should not be conceived of only as an increase
in the number of members, but should also envisage the
creation of a new category of seats to be held by States that
could
semi-permanent members.
Semi-permanent membership in the Council could rotate
among a specific number of States designated according to
certain objective criteria: population; geopolitical posture;
economic
the
international peace and security; and
maintenance of
Since Turkey fully
equitable geographical distribution.
contribution
potential;
qualified
record
of
be
as
to
meets these criteria,
candidate for that new category of membership.
it considers itself qualified as a
A Security Council more responsive, representative,
transparent and accountable is a requirement inherent in the
spirit of Article 24 of
the
democratization of its structure would ensure more active
participation in the Council’s work. The moral ground for
the full implementation of the Council’s resolutions would
thereby be strengthened.
the Charter.
Hence,
Few, if any, would contest the fact that it was the
tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina that dispelled the
euphoria prevalent during the earlier period of the post-
cold-war era. Genocide and "ethnic cleansing" were the
hallmarks of the tragedy.
They were conducted with
impunity. We could neither halt, nor roll back the Serbian
aggression. Nor could we alleviate, in earnest the suffering
of the survivors.
The example of a civic State, embracing all its citizens
as equals, irrespective of their ethnic origin or religion, was
given to us in Bosnia where a mature multicultural
civilization had evolved over many centuries. No lament
over its destruction at the hands of ethnic chauvinism could
be exaggerated. Moreover, denying the Bosnians the means
for their legitimate self-defence amounts to a failure in due
support for democracy against tyranny. A most serious blow
has been dealt to the moral essence of international law and
to the contemporary principles of conduct among nations.
the
Any
document
endorsing
consequences
of
expansionism, genocide and "ethnic cleansing" cannot usher
in real peace. No peace throughout history has been lasting
when based on rewarding injustice, aggression and racism.
We cannot relieve our conscience by fabricating realpolitik
excuses for our inaction and silence. Appeasement is no
policy, but partnership in wrongdoing.
The stakes in Bosnia are much higher than those related
to the survival of the Bosnian State and its people. They
include the validity of our hope to do away with ethnic and
religious warfare in the future. The betrayal of Bosnia as a
multicultural, multi-ethnic State, invalidates this hope - and
with it the fundamental principles of our Organization.
If
we allow dictatorship and adventurism to get away with the
crimes they have committed in Bosnia, the post-cold-war
disorder may worsen. Continued denial of the right of the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to defend itself
aggravates the responsibility of the international community
for what
Should Bosnia and
Herzegovina disintegrate, not only the Balkans and Europe,
is happening there.
36
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the whole world, will eventually suffer
but
after-effects.
the bitter
the present
United Nations Charter vigorously upheld,
turmoil and confusion cannot be replaced by a just and
peaceful order.
Turkey will continue to pursue actively the course of
justice and legitimacy to support the brave people of Bosnia
and Herzegovina in their
survival and
democracy.
struggle for
The sinister success of Serbian expansionism in Bosnia
has emboldened aggressors elsewhere. A tragedy of similar
proportions is occurring in the Caucasus, where Armenians
have occupied a fifth of Azerbaijani territory. Peace and
stability in a sensitive region neighbouring Turkey has been
seriously undermined. Security Council resolutions 822
(1993) and 853 (1993), calling for
immediate,
unconditional and complete withdrawal of the occupation
forces, are being ignored.
the
It should be borne in mind that short-term military
opportunism is not compatible with long-term interests.
Moreover, it is fraught with unpredictable dangers. Neither
in the Balkans nor in the Caucasus - nor, for that matter,
anywhere else - will Turkey ever accept the acquisition of
territory by force.
such gross violations of
international law are prevented and the principles of the
Unless
It is with these thoughts in mind that Turkey strongly
endorses the observations made by the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his statement on 30 August
last, at the sixty-sixth session of the Institute of International
Law in Milan. There he appropriately referred to ultra-
nationalism and micro-nationalism as two of the greatest
dangers menacing today’s
He
underlined that, by strengthening the nation State as the main
subject of international law, multilateralism preserves the
world community from these two great perils.
His
admonition that
international
society.
"Ultra-nationalism today may still be a temptation, at
times, for a number of major Powers nostalgic for the
period of hegemony"
is of particular relevance at this juncture of post-cold-war
developments.
Indeed, the darkening shadows of ultra-nationalism and
micro-nationalism, ethnic chauvinism and neo-racism have
loomed like phantoms behind the scenes in the crises that
have erupted during the last two years. The international
community has to cure itself of these diseases. We should
not let irredentist, hegemonic tendencies plague our future.
The newly emerging geopolitical pluralism of Eurasia has to
be kept alive with a moral commitment to the quest for
global democratic interdependence.
Most of the threats to international peace in our time
are bred in climates of intolerance. We have to develop a
new mind-set for the recognition and acknowledgment of
other peoples’ right to be different. We have to enlarge our
capacity for give and take.
Tolerance is the foundation of civil society. To build
a just and peaceful world order, such societies must
proliferate. To that end, we need to promote a culture of
tolerance all over the world.
In this spirit, and as a follow-up to resolution 47/124,
Turkey will submit during the current session a draft
resolution proposing the proclamation of 1995 as the United
Nations Year
that draft
resolution would help to accelerate the pace of the efforts
made in the struggle against all
fanaticism,
fundamentalism, discrimination and persecution.
for Tolerance.
Adoption of
forms of
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
37
Tolerance and social development are correlated
concepts. Accordingly, my Government attaches great
importance to concerted action at the global level aimed at
solving social problems and easing the tensions they cause.
Hence, we are amply satisfied that the Chilean initiative for
the convening in March 1995 of a World Summit for Social
Development has borne fruit. Turkey will prepare for this
Summit in earnest, and looks forward to contributing to its
success.
In this connection, Turkey welcomes the Secretary-
General’s latest report on the work of the organization, in
which he courageously addresses the gravity of the situation
stemming from the difficulty in raising funds
for
development aid experienced since the end of the cold war.
He accurately observes that the poorer countries no longer
hold the same interest for the rich as they did in the previous
decades of
ideological competition. My Government
believes that activities for development are just as important
as peace-keeping operations.
Indeed, it is those activities,
including their humanitarian assistance dimension, which
provide the foundations for global peace and security.
Turkey, stretching its budgetary means to the utmost,
continues
to be increasingly active as a donor and
contributor in the fields of economic and humanitarian
support and solidarity.
Since the beginning of 1992 we have implemented an
economic assistance package amounting to $2,893 million.
The package includes technical assistance, project financing,
training grants and soft loans, made available to 32 countries
in four continents. We are firmly committed to continuing
our efforts in this domain. To increase efficiency in terms
of coordination, we have set up the Turkish International
Cooperation Agency.
give impetus
democracies seldom fight each other.
to the consolidation of peace, because
international
The only way to advance towards democracy is
progressive and sustained democratization. The distance
covered in this process is measured by the degree of respect
for human rights and the rule of law. The convening of the
World Conference on Human Rights earlier this year enabled
the
community to identify clearly the
indispensable common denominators needed in the building
of pluralistic civil societies. The Conference re-emphasized
the importance of
task of promoting and
protecting all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and
confirmed the commitment of the international community
to securing the full and universal enjoyment of those rights
through increased and sustained international cooperation and
solidarity.
the global
terrorism as any activity aiming at
The Vienna Declaration includes a comprehensive
definition of
the
destruction of human rights, fundamental freedoms and
democracy, threatening the territorial integrity of States and
destabilizing legitimately constituted Governments. We
strongly endorse the call by the Conference to continue
taking the necessary steps to prevent and combat terrorism.
The historic breakthrough achieved in the Middle East
peace process holds the promise of concord and cooperation
not only between the Palestinians, Israel and their Arab
neighbours, but on a much wider regional scale. Its positive
ripple effects may set in motion multi-dimensional dynamics
that could transform an entire area, stretching from the
Atlantic to the Gulf and from the eastern Mediterranean to
the Indian Ocean,
into one of harmony, dialogue and
co-prosperity.
Over the same period 28 countries in three continents,
stricken by natural and/or man-made disasters, have received
humanitarian aid worth a total of $213 million from Turkey,
in cash or in kind, as well as various forms of relief and
accommodation for refugees.
As a country that neighbours the Middle East, has a
record of constructive involvement in the region’s affairs and
good traditional ties with all the parties to this dispute,
Turkey hails with the utmost satisfaction this momentous
shift from enmity towards reconciliation.
Offering as they do a gloomy general picture, the past
12 months are nevertheless not totally bereft of reasons for
optimism, which include:
the processes culminating in the
restoration of democracy in Haiti and Cambodia; the positive
developments leading towards the building of a democratic,
united, free and non-racial South Africa; and the peaceful
evolution of Eritrea to independence. A new diplomacy for
democracy seems to be making headway. All of us must
bring our full energies to bear on this phenomenon so that
it may gain momentum. That momentum, in its turn, will
The momentum so gained should be fully utilized.
Irreversibility of the process is not enough; the process must
advance at an accelerated pace towards the ultimate
objectives defined in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967)
and 338 (1973).
The wise, far-sighted and courageous architects who
designed this blueprint for rebuilding amity and peace in the
Middle East may, as ever, rest assured of Turkey’s firm
38
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
support for and contribution to their mission. We are
committed to assisting their endeavours in every way.
Iraq are still subjected to hardship.
Three years after the outbreak of the Gulf crisis the
This
people of
regrettable situation results from the Baghdad Government’s
reluctance to comply fully with the requirements of the
Security Council
resolutions relating to the Gulf War
settlement. Compliance would tangibly demonstrate Iraq’s
interest in resuming its place in the international community.
just and viable settlement. No doubt
Secretary-General’s efforts aimed at bringing about a freely
negotiated,
the
realization of that objective requires a display of goodwill,
understanding and patience by both negotiating partners in
the island. Moreover, it also calls for a carefully balanced
and determined approach in order to heal
the profound
mistrust driving the parties apart.
is with such
considerations that Turkey has endorsed the concept of
confidence-building measures, the scope and contents of
which must be acceptable to both communities.
It
However, we cannot remain indifferent to the suffering
of the people of Iraq. My Government firmly believes that
the
community must urgently consider
imaginative ways to break this vicious circle.
international
Whatever the reasons that may still divide the two
sides, the negotiating process must continue. It is high time
for all concerned to display realism and act with vision in
search of a negotiated, durable solution.
Turkey has been forthcoming in providing Iraq with
humanitarian assistance since 1991. By the same token, we
have decided to launch a new humanitarian assistance
programme worth $13.5 million aimed at the entire needy
population of northern Iraq. Our approach is without
prejudice to Iraq’s sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity.
Along with the Iraqi people, a number of countries,
particularly Iraq’s neighbours, are also exposed to the
adverse effects of the continued economic sanctions. The
international community should also devise a set of measures
aimed at redressing their mounting losses.
My Government
is concerned over the worsening
situation in Jammu and Kashmir. We wish to see the
dispute between Pakistan and India over the Kashmir issue
resolved through the resumption of sustained dialogue. To
that end, Turkey will continue to support Pakistan’s
endeavours in pursuit of a negotiated settlement of this
long-standing problem.
the time, not would it be profitable,
As to Cyprus, it is certainly not my intention to indulge
in a consideration of the past. I am quite aware that this is
to enter into
not
recriminations over history. What
is to
understand the issue correctly while acknowledging the facts
underlying the present problems and the profound mistrust
between the two communities. We must
take careful
account of those problems and the present difficulties, but
we must build for the future.
is important
At present a campaign is under way for early general
elections in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. We
earnestly hope that once the elections are over the Turkish
Cypriot side will again be able to continue to play its
constructive role in the negotiating process.
turbulent part of
Turkey lies at the very epicentre of several regions
making up the most
the Northern
hemisphere. We are actively engaged in the post-cold-war
search for new approaches
to build peace through
multilateral action. Our objective is to reinforce the
international security system. Only the United Nations can
provide legitimacy to regional arrangements and institutions
should the latter decide to act in the fields of militarily
backed preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and peace
enforcement.
All three of those categories of action are in demand on
Turkey’s periphery. My Government deploys all of its
available assets to help defuse and resolve these crises. We
strive to create and consolidate interlinked areas of solidarity
and processes of cooperation.
that
the
the
evolution of
In that effort we proceed from two basic tenets. First,
we believe
international
environment towards a better future is not only desirable but,
in certain conditions, also possible. Secondly, we are of the
opinion that such a future may materialize only through the
reinforcement of respect for the rule of law along with the
universal observance and implementation of the principles of
democracy and tolerance.
Today the Cyprus question has reached a stage where
the common desire and purpose of
the international
community is to promote an early and comprehensive
solution. To that end, the Secretary-General continues his
mission of good offices. As ever, Turkey supports the
The United Nations was created to preserve peace.
However, it cannot be expected to help resolve the collective
security problems of our times unless its Member States are
willing and prepared to assume their responsibilities as
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
39
upholders and enforcers of the United Nations Charter and
the contemporary norms of international behaviour.
With the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the
Organization to be celebrated in two years’ time, all of us
here must admit that the main objective defined in the
Charter, namely, "to save succeeding generations from the
scourge of war," has not yet been achieved.
In the
strengthening of peace and security our immediate task is
fully to mobilize the potential of the United Nations for
resolving regional
conflicts, which have
proliferated since the end of the cold war.
and local
For the future well-being of all nations, it is high time
to act with the vision and forbearance that peace requires.
Turkey stands committed to continue making its own
contribution to attaining that objective.
Mrs. BONGO (Gabon) (interpretation from French):
I should like first to take this opportunity to extend to the
delegation of
the
delegation of Gabon on the earthquake that has just hit the
region of Sholapur.
India the sincerest condolences of
The present session of
the General Assembly is
convened at a crucial juncture in the history of international
relations. A number of significant events have occurred on
the world stage in the past few years.
In
that
It
the
context
election
of Ambassador
Samuel Insanally as President of the General Assembly is
particularly significant.
is a tribute not only to his
qualities as an enlightened diplomatic, well versed in
international questions, but to the tireless work of Guyana,
his country, on behalf of peace. On behalf of the delegation
of Gabon, I extend to him our warmest congratulations on
his election to preside over this session.
Our congratulations also go to the outgoing President,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, who discharged his duties so
honourably and ably.
To our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
I repeat our firm support for his many efforts on behalf of
world peace and security.
Lastly, we should like to welcome the new countries
that have just joined the great family of the United Nations
and to assure them of our friendship and readiness to work
with them to achieve the noble purposes for the attainment
of which the Organization was founded.
The end of the cold war has made it possible to
establish new kinds of relations between States and to open
the way to a new era of hope, peace and solidarity,
promoting conflict prevention, better ways of dealing with
acute problems and the settlement of many of the conflicts
threatening international peace and security.
It is from that perspective that we should view the
the
the Organization
initiatives which
recent
international community have undertaken.
and
time to take part
Gabon welcomes with great interest the most recent
political developments in South Africa. We welcome the
creation of a Transitional Executive Council, which will
allow South Africans for the first
in
building a new, democratic, non-racial and united South
Africa. In that spirit, we urge all other parties to accede to
the agreement creating the Council and hope they will work
towards its full implementation. Gabon believes that the
changes taking place in South Africa will have a definite
impact on the democratization process in Africa and on the
continent’s development. We therefore hope that the appeal
made here on 24 September 1993 by President Nelson
Mandela for the lifting of economic sanctions and the
establishment of diplomatic relations with South Africa will
be heard and acted upon.
the United Nations
In Somalia too many innocent victims continue to pay
the heavy daily price of violence. While praising the efforts
of
to bring peace and national
reconciliation to the country, we believe that the time has
perhaps come for the international community to give
priority to the path of dialogue and negotiation.
The situation in Liberia remains a source of concern,
despite the hopes raised by the signing of the Cotonou
Agreement on 25 July 1993. We call on the parties
concerned to begin strict implementation of that Agreement.
We make a similar appeal to the parties to the conflicts in
Mozambique, Rwanda and Angola.
Turning specifically to Angola, I note that the optimism
prevailing after the Bicesse Peace Accords soon gave way to
disappointment born of the resumption of hostilities. In that
brother country, so close to my own, the perpetuation of the
situation leads me to praise the tireless efforts of the United
Nations and all other initiatives aimed at restoring peace and
security. As in the past, Gabon will spare no efforts to help
achieve a lasting settlement of that conflict.
In the Middle East the mutual recognition of Israel and
the PLO, as well as the recent signing of the interim
40
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
arrangements for the autonomy of Gaza and Jericho, were
welcomed with relief and deep satisfaction by my country.
We dare hope that this historic agreement will promote
reconciliation between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples and
the establishment of a climate of peace and cooperation in
the region.
particularly
In that regard, my country supports all United Nations
resolution
initiatives,
833 (1993), aimed at ensuring respect for the inviolability of
the international boundary between Iraq and Kuwait,
in
accordance with the terms of the 1963 arrangements.
Security Council
In South-East Asia we welcome the decisive role
played by the United Nations in the restoration of peace in
Cambodia.
The holding of free and fair elections in
May 1993, the creation of the Constituent Assembly, and the
return
of His Royal Highness
Prince Norodom Sihanouk all illustrate the United Nations
commitment and the confirmed solidarity of the international
community.
throne
the
to
The tragedy unfolding in Bosnia and Herzegovina and
the serious threat of the conflict’s spreading to the entire
subregion are a source of concern for my country. We make
an urgent appeal to the parties concerned to return to the
negotiating table and lay down their arms.
The Conferences recently held in Vienna and Geneva
on human rights and the protection of the victims of war,
respectively, were opportunities for our Organization to
reaffirm its commitment to defending human rights. Gabon,
which has
their due
consideration, encourages all United Nations efforts to
protect human rights.
It would thus be appropriate to
strengthen existing structures with additional human and
financial resources so as to promote the efficiency sought by
our Organization in this area.
always given these questions
Never has our Organization been called on to such a
degree by the international community as in the past few
years. If it is to meet all the expectations, it must adapt its
main organs to the demands of the times. We welcome the
ongoing reform and revitalization process and hope that it
will include consideration of equitable representation in the
Security Council and an increase in the number of its
members.
machinery to prevent, manage and settle conflicts. If it is to
be effective, this new machinery must be integrated into the
framework of global disarmament.
shows
signed,
The progress made by last 13 January, when the
chemical-weapons Convention was
the
international community’s determination to ban weapons of
mass destruction, particularly chemical weapons, and its
readiness to work for general and complete disarmament.
For its part, my country is working towards that end, just as
is promoting confidence-building measures in central
it
Africa.
It was in keeping with this involvement that we
hosted the third meeting of the Permanent Consultative
Committee on security questions in our subregion. This
meeting was notable for bringing together, for the first time,
all States members of the Economic Community of Central
African States (ECCAS).
In the course of its work the Committee stressed the
advantages for all States of the subregion of ratifying
international legal instruments on disarmament matters.
It
recommended that
its Bureau play a more committed
political role in seeking solutions to crises and conflicts
likely to disturb the peace of a member State. It encouraged
States in the subregion to pursue and strengthen the
democratization process already under way, while respecting
and promoting human rights.
force,
the
including
peace-keeping
transitional measures,
Regarding the creation of a permanent inter-State crisis
management headquarters, with a view to establishing a
Committee
subregional
recommended
the
involvement of ECCAS in the field of security; a study of
features and types of crises and conflicts; and the creation of
a non-permanent committee of subregional staff offices.
It
further recommended that the United Nations be asked for
assistance to carry out a study on a balanced and gradual
reduction of the armed forces, equipment and military
budgets of member States. Finally, the Committee adopted
a draft non-aggression pact between the ECCAS member
to Heads of State or
States and decided to submit
of
Government
for
As
signature.
representative of
these important
meetings, and on behalf of the States of the subregion, it is
my honour and privilege to invite the General Assembly in
due course to endorse the draft resolution, which will be
submitted to it for consideration.
the
the host country at
it
subregion
One area which our Organization must explore further
is that of preventive diplomacy, as set forth by the Secretary-
General in his "An Agenda for Peace". Reflecting that
trend, the Organization of African Unity has just created
What is truly at stake for Africa is essentially the
economy. It will determine to a great extent the preservation
of unity, peace and security on our continent. In that regard,
the marginalization of Africa in the world economy - as a
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
41
result of the decline of its commodity prices, the reversal of
financial
to the
international financial institutions, and the debt burden - has
only grown during the past five years.
from our
countries
resource
flows
Already experiencing such a restrictive economic
environment, how can we in my country welcome the idea
of an energy tax and not deplore the threat of a boycott of
our forest products by ecological groups in the industrialized
countries? As to the forest, the Gabon authorities have
always favoured the long-term management of our forests,
through a logical policy of reforestation conforming with the
recommendations of the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development.
My country stresses the need to maintain every aspect
of the Rio spirit aimed at managing world problems in a
global manner, and to promote the emergence of a new
partnership in international economic and financial relations.
Gabon considers this new approach to be a possible avenue
for the development of our countries.
In this connection, we would like to congratulate the
Japanese authorities on their initiative in organizing the
International Conference on African Development, scheduled
to be held in Tokyo in October. We hope that Conference
will serve as the basis for a real and lasting partnership.
In this context, the proposal made by the President of
the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session in his
opening address that we create an agenda for development
should enjoy the full support of our Organization.
In conclusion, turning to our country’s development
problems, I feel
that I must draw the attention of the
Assembly to the decisive role to be played by women. Our
Organization has adopted resolutions and declarations on this
subject. The political commitment has been made, but it
must be associated with consistent follow-up measures to
implement these provisions. This is a struggle that we must
all of us become involved in.
Anxious to take into account the role of women in the
political, economic, social and cultural fields, the Gabonese
Government, through the Ministry responsible for the status
of women, is working towards making this commitment a
reality.
The sessions of the General Assembly are for Member
States an excellent opportunity to seek together ways and
means of attaining the noble objectives of the Charter.
Is
not one of its most important goals
"To achieve international cooperation in solving
international problems of an economic, social, cultural,
or humanitarian character"?
Mrs. de St. JORRE (Seychelles) (interpretation from
I too would like to extend to Ambassador
French):
Insanally the congratulations of Seychelles on his election to
the presidency of the General Assembly. We wish him
every possible success in carrying out his duties.
Allow me also to pay a well-deserved tribute to the
Secretary-General for his tireless efforts in seeking solutions
to the many problems facing the international community.
Our session is opening on a note of hope, because it is
taking place only a few days after a historic event of
exceptional importance.
I am referring, of course, to the
signing of the peace agreement between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization. May that negotiation
provide a lesson in those areas where misunderstanding,
hatred and conflicts of interest are still bringing suffering to
so many.
The dramatic events and the human tragedy that are
taking place in hotbeds of tension throughout the world are
a credit to no one. However, we must take note of the fact
that while reaction has been passive and hesitant in some
cases, it has been quick and resolute in others.
The considerable financial
The quest for peace is nevertheless at the centre of our
concerns.
resources our
Organization devotes to peace-keeping missions or missions
to restore peace demonstrate this. This is undoubtedly proof
of our own determination to bring to a halt these conflicts,
which result
the
achievements of development.
in so many victims and destroy all
Indeed, any lasting development necessarily implies
efforts to thwart the threat of certain situations turning into
open conflict.
42
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
For us island States, the seas are a source of life. Our
future depends mainly on them. And for our development
to be truly lasting, we must have peace on the seas.
While it is indisputable that old rivalries have subsided
in the seas and oceans of the world, it nevertheless remains
true that the Indian Ocean has always been coveted by all.
And that is why we reiterate our request that the Indian
Ocean become truly a zone of peace and cooperation to the
benefit of coastal States. The concept of the Colombo
Conference is perhaps something from a bygone era, but its
objectives remain relevant today.
Members will find it easy to understand, therefore, why
we attach such great importance to the implementation of
resolution 47/59 of the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly calling for the organization by the Ad Hoc
Committee of a meeting that would propose new alternative
approaches leading to the achievement of the goals contained
in the initial Declaration, taking into account the changing
international situation.
It is in this spirit that I should like to make an appeal
to the countries which have not yet done so to ratify the
Convention on the Law of the Sea so that we can get the
necessary 60 ratifications for its entry into force. How are
we to understand that such an important Convention has
been endorsed by only 56 countries since 1982? Of course,
we do appreciate the importance of what is at stake, but
international solidarity must be our guide.
The International Olympic Committee would like to
revive the ancient tradition of the Olympic truce and declare
1994 the International Year of Sports and of the Olympic
Spirit, and we should support that proposal. Let us not
underestimate the values of the Olympic spirit. They are
rich in potential applications for managing international
relations.
But no peace can be lasting while the causes of
conflicts remain. These causes are selfishness, intolerance,
xenophobia, discrimination and dictatorship, but also - and
especially -
poverty, poor management and excessive
indebtedness. These are ills that generally lead to the
emergence of new conflicts. Should we not attack the root
cause rather than the effect?
ago,
financial
A few years
backers made
democratization one of the prerequisites for assistance to
developing countries, and as a bonus to democracy, certain
countries benefited from the generosity of the international
community because they had pioneered that approach.
Today, most of our countries have embarked on the process
of democratization - with varied results, admittedly - but the
desire to fit into the new order was the underlying reason for
all. Nevertheless, this new process, and I would take the
case of the Republic of Seychelles, which has met this
challenge calmly and successfully,
inevitably entailed
extrabudgetary expenditures in all areas, both economic and
social.
While it is true that the transition to democracy is
something which is very valuable in and of itself,
the
establishment of new structures and the implementation of
new rules have nevertheless been a source of additional costs
which have placed a heavy burden on national budgets that
were already fairly shaky. And almost everywhere, the
implementation of this democratization process required the
support of the international community.
Is this not an
objective reason to think about setting up a United Nations
special fund to provide financial and logistical support for
these reforms?
To be viable, this democratic undertaking must seek to
meet all the challenges of a country.
If it is to ensure the
continuation of these new institutions, it must pave the way
for
commensurate with the
aspirations of peoples.
sustainable development
Thus, with the advent of the Third Republic, our
country is today in a new stage of its history. For more than
18 months, within the context of a constituent commission,
reforms have been undertaken that will produce a new
Constitution and lead to free and democratic elections.
In
other words, for a year and a half national activity has been
slowed, and even brought to a halt in some cases, while the
fundamental economic problems remain.
The Seychelles has been the scene of another
momentous event, the Fourth Indian Ocean Games, which
took place last August
in conditions that were judged
exceptional. Reverting to what I was saying, I would note
that the cost of the infrastructure for those Games made
serious inroads into the national budget.
One might wonder how a small island country was able
to engage in such a programme of reforms for 18 months in
such circumstances. We are proud of having succeeded, but
the economy must be restimulated immediately if we do not
wish to lose all the social and political benefits that were
achieved.
Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993
43
on
economic
constraints
I should like now to take up the problem of the small
island States, of whose fragility everyone here is aware. We
the source of
are countries whose reduced size is
innumerable
social
development, such as chronic deficits in trade balances and
balances of payment, the high cost of social infrastructures
in relation to their utilization and, especially, the excessive
indebtedness caused by a lack of funds to finance investment
programmes. The convergence of those factors has only
exacerbated the fragility of our economies, which, generally
speaking, are based on one or two sectors such as tourism
and fishing.
and
That is the daily lot of the Seychelles and other small
island States, which, with courage, perseverance and
intelligence, are nevertheless attempting to find solutions that
will enable them to promote the economic and social well-
being of their peoples. Thus we believe that it is quite
fitting to draw the international community’s attention once
again to the need to establish specific programmes and
mechanisms that would make it possible for our island
countries to move towards sustainable development. We ask
that the same facilities that are made available to the least
developed, landlocked countries be made available to us.
In any event, per capita income, always put forward as
a criterion for level of development, cannot be relevant for
small island States because it is distorted by the small size
of their populations. Has any thought been given to the per
capita cost of infrastructures or the per capita debt? We
believe
in the
reconsideration of many decisions.
such an analysis would result
that
Of course, it is up to us, first of all, to take every
measure to ensure the sustainability of our development by
preserving, in so far as possible, our environment, which lies
at the basis of all our export products. Despite all these
constraints, we have been able - thanks to the judiciousness
of our choices and our economic decisions -
tangible
international
to achieve
community’s support, which we had been promised in Rio,
did not materialize.
results.
But
the
the developing countries are in a
Today, all of
They are confronted with many
precarious situation.
the poverty of millions of human beings, high
challenges:
rates of infant mortality, famine,
the destruction of the
environment and fratricidal wars. But these challenges are
not
is required is courage and
international solidarity.
insurmountable. What
It is more than ever the duty of the United Nations
once again to draw the attention of the developed countries
to the effects which the continuation of such a situation
might have on our economies and our cultures - in a word,
on our future, but also on theirs.
We would like concrete action, because we do not wish
to have to deplore again the inertia of speeches or
declarations of intent. While new conflicts arise, the old
ones persist almost everywhere and the scope of the disasters
is tremendous. Hence, we must react quickly, because many
peoples have suffered far too much from the horrors of war.
Above all, the major Powers, the guarantors of the
security and regulation of the world economic situation, must
give the United Nations the means to carry out its policies.
Finally, we sincerely hope that the current session will
generate the necessary impetus to resolve all our concerns,
so that peace, at last restored, can create a climate conducive
to development.
The meeting rose at 8.20 p.m.
