United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 127 (continued)
S C A L E O F A S S E S S M E N T S
F O R T H E
APPORTIONMENT OF THE EXPENSES OF THE
UNITED NATIONS (A/48/414/Add.6)
The President:
I wish to draw the Assembly’s
attention to document A/48/414/Add.6. In a letter contained
in that document, the Secretary-General informs me that,
since the issuance of his communications dated 21, 24, 27
and 29 September and 4 and 6 October 1993, Chad has
made the necessary payment to reduce its arrears below the
amount specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes note
of this information?
It was so decided.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
this
prestigious
rostrum have
Mr. MPINGA KASENDA (Zaire) (interpretation from
French): Mr. President, the speakers who have preceded me
at
unanimously
acknowledged your outstanding intellectual qualities, your
wealth of experience and your intensive knowledge of
international issues which will guarantee a positive outcome
to our work that promises to be very exciting at this time
when we see emerging on the horizon the irreversible
all
25th
PLENARY MEETING
Monday, 11 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
turning of the activities of the Organization towards real,
mutually beneficial, cooperation.
The delegation of the Republic of Zaire, which it is my
honour to head, associates itself with the congratulations and
wishes expressed by other delegations here present and
expresses the hope that your presidency will see the essential
basis laid down for the establishment of this new era of
peace, prosperity, mutual understanding and tolerance that
we all so wish to see.
I should also like to extend my sincere congratulations
to the other members of the Bureau who, I am sure, will
effectively assist you in carrying out your onerous but
inspiring tasks as President.
To your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev,
I should like to pay a particular and well-deserved tribute for
the competence, skill and know-how with which he so
capably guided the work of the General Assembly at its
forty-seventh session.
I should like to express to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
the Secretary-General of
the sincere
expression of our appreciation and our encouragement of his
determination in the search for peaceful solutions to the
many armed conflicts that are devastating the world.
the Organization,
I should also like to welcome to the Organization the
new Member States. They can count on the cooperation and
assistance, both bilateral and multilateral, of the Republic of
Zaire.
Barely three years ago the overwhelming majority of
the inhabitants of this marvelous planet Earth were filled
with the hope of seeing close and multifaceted cooperation
for development among nations.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86825 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.25
3 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Although the cold war was blown away by the force of
the wind of perestroika we are obliged to note that this
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly has opened at
a time when we are witnessing the resumption of armed
conflicts in at least three of the five continents which make
up this world.
The collapse of the socialist bloc brought with it only
a moment of calm for we note at present the explosion of
hotbeds of tension and fratricidal wars in the former Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics and the former Yugoslavia, and
we condemn the monstrous, inhuman and horrendous acts of
modern civilization there.
The primary cause of all these wars is religious or
ethnic intolerance and the non-acceptance of political
opinions contrary to those which one believes to be of
immutable and subject to imposition on all. Thus, in Asia
anachronistic situations persist and entire populations are
condemned to wander without any hope of a better
tomorrow.
Nevertheless, my delegation backs the negotiations that
are now taking place between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) on the question of Palestine
and urges all the protagonists in this drama to do all in their
power
these consultations lead to the
conclusion of a peace agreement guaranteeing the right of
each people to exist in internationally recognized territory.
to ensure that
We hail
the courage and determination of
their
excellencies the Prime Minister of Israel and the President
of the PLO who have recognized autonomy for Gaza and
Jericho and have also committed themselves to put an end
to acts of piracy and sabotage. May their example be
followed by other States involved in this conflict so that a
lasting peace can finally be established in this region and
that we can see genuine cooperation for development.
So too, we reaffirm our full support and our backing
for the efforts made by the two Koreas towards their
peaceful reunification.
We should also like to take advantage of
this
opportunity to congratulate the United Nations authorities
which have effectively contributed to the organization of free
and democratic elections in Cambodia.
this continent
As regards Africa,
too has not been
spared by the situation of semi-war, semi-peace in which
young States must manage bloody conflicts which sorely try
their fragile State structures and their precarious socio-
economic infrastructures. However, the Republic of Zaire is
gratified to see the international community mobilizing to
prevent new conflicts and to find peaceful solutions to those
fratricidal wars which are devastating a good number of
African States.
The plethora of hotbeds of tension and the recourse to
military action, whether for intervention or for pacification,
are likely to wipe out
these efforts and to damage the
humanitarian action and the noble objectives of peace and
harmony pursued by the United Nations.
Concerning southern Africa,
in particular, Zaire
supports the action being taken by the United Nations in
Mozambique, and urges all the parties to the conflict to
respect the commitments they have undertaken and to work
towards the establishment of lasting peace there.
The positive results that we have seen in South Africa,
where the white minority has agreed to involve the black
majority in the administration of public affairs in a
Transitional Executive Council, are grounds for satisfaction
for all those who have contributed towards them, and for
legitimate pride for Presidents Mandela and De Klerk.
Given these prospects for peace that we can see just
over the horizon, it is our keen hope that there will be
genuine reconciliation within the black community in South
Africa so that a fratricidal war does not break out that would
quite likely support the notions of those who wish to hold
back the advent of a democratic and multi-racial Republic of
South Africa.
I beg the Assembly’s indulgence, since I should like
now to dwell on the case of our neighbour Angola, which
shares with Zaire a frontier over 2,600 kilometres long; in
Angola, the civil war, which is becoming more intense, is
causing considerable loss of life and incalculable material
damage and is threatening the territorial integrity of that
young nation.
The Republic of Zaire, which, since it acceded to
independence, has had to suffer the throes of civil war,
rebellion and many attempts at secession, cannot afford to
support a civil war in Angola. The tragic situation being
experienced by that fraternal nation is of extreme concern to
us, because it is causing us enormous political, economic
and social problems. Zaire is actually a semi-landlocked
country, and the closure of the Benguela railway and the
continuing insecurity right alongside Matadi port, our only
outlet to the sea - as a result of the crossfire between the
Popular Armed Forces for
the Liberation of Angola
(FAPLA) and UNITA - are doing my country considerable
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
3
economic damage right at a moment when it is no longer
receiving bilateral or multilateral assistance.
In addition to these many economic difficulties, there
has been a massive influx of our Angolan brothers and
sisters, who are finding refuge with Zairian families, to
which they are linked by historical ties of blood. Providing
food, shelter and so on for the refugees is increasing the
difficulties being experienced by the host families, who are
themselves rather disadvantaged.
The international community knows that the Republic
of Zaire right now is going through a period of political
turbulence and is encountering enormous economic and
financial difficulties. In these conditions, where could Zaire
find the additional resources to finance a civil war in
Angola? Taking into account its internal problems, my
country has no interest in promoting the traffic in weapons
of war through Matadi port, given that they could change
hands and fuel a civil war on its own territory.
Moreover, Zaire, which neither makes nor sells arms,
deplores the attitude of those countries whose citizens
manufacture arms and sell them to the belligerents - under
the tolerant gaze of their Governments - and then come and
shed crocodile tears in international forums over the fate of
the victims of this fratricidal war.
The Republic of Zaire, which assisted the Republic of
Angola in its struggle for independence and, through Zaire’s
mediation, facilitated the historic meeting between President
dos Santos and Mr. Savimbi at Gbadolite, is still ready to
seek, with them, ways and means of putting an end to the
Angolan tragedy. This is the spirit in which Zaire welcomed
Mr. Alioune Blondin Beye, the Secretary-General’s Special
Representative, on his visit to Kinshasa last September, and
in which the President of the Republic of Zaire, Marshal
Mobutu Sese Seko, dispatched to his Angolan counterpart an
emissary whose task was to dispel any ambiguity as to
whether there was meddling of any kind by my country in
Angola’s internal affairs.
Lastly, the Republic of Zaire, which has played an
active part at the recent Libreville conference on security
problems in central Africa and will soon sign the non-
aggression pact that was drawn up there, considers itself an
important link in the peace and security of the subregion,
and does not intend to take any action that might sour the
relations of good neighbourliness and cooperation that exist
between our States. Ancient African wisdom tells us that
when your neighbour’s house is on fire, you must help him
put it out in order to stop the wind wafting the flames
towards your own house.
After the political turbulence that Africa experienced
during the first few years of independence, some political
thinkers and players believed, in good faith, that establishing
strong government based on omnipresent and omnipotent
single parties could forge national unity and ensure our
States’ harmonious development. The Republic of Zaire was
no exception to this outline.
In fact, for over two decades
now a monolithic political system has been in operation,
with its ups and downs, and has ended up, as a result of its
own internal contradictions,
in such deadlock that on
24 April 1990 the President of the Republic, after three
months of consultations of
the people, decreed the
dissolution of the single party and proposed the introduction
of a pluralistic political system.
Unfortunately, the enthusiasm that followed gave birth
to a sort of collective outpouring and the frenzied
establishment of political parties, of which there are now
360 for a total population of 40 million or so.
In our
concern to make an objective reassessment of our history,
map out our future and ensure national reconciliation, we
held a Sovereign National Conference, which, lasting over
16 months, was the costliest and the longest in Africa.
lines - dissolving all
the
The Conference raised great hopes but was unable to
achieve all its goals because, from the outset, those behind
it had come to it for two different reasons. For some, the
Conference was the best place to take power along
revolutionary-type
existing
institutions and sidelining those in charge of them - while
for others, who championed a reformist type of plan, the
Conference ought rather to be the place for organizing
government
the
institutions.
This basic difference caused heightened
passions from the beginning to the end of the Conference,
and the political players ended up more divided than they
had been before.
through a progressive restructuring of
As the document setting out constitutional provisions
for the transitional period was not
taken to its logical
conclusion - it failed to abrogate expressly the Constitution
in force -
the country found itself with two basic
constitutional texts. In conditions such as these, it has been
difficult to arrange an equitable sharing of power between
the various transitional institutions, which is why we have an
institutional crisis and a political impasse.
To extricate ourselves from this situation, and on the
initiative of the President of the Republic and the President
of the Supreme Council of the Republic, the delegates of
several political platforms met in caucus to create a new
institutional framework. But the results of the caucus were
again disputed and the entire political class felt the need to
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the
These achieved,
resume negotiations.
establishment of a new institutional
the
unanimous acceptance of a timetable establishing the various
dates for elections in the next 15 months and the adoption by
referendum, within the same period, of a new constitution.
inter alia,
framework,
Thus, a referendum will be held in 1994 on the
adoption of the new constitution. There will also be free,
transparent and democratic elections for mandates for the
presidency of the Republic, the Parliament and the regional
and local councils. The presence of an independent national
electoral commission and international observers is planned
to reassure all sides of the proper carrying out of all
electoral operations. Thus, Zaire repeats its request to the
United Nations bodies and countries with a long history of
democracy for substantial help in the implementation of
these important timetables.
I should like here, on behalf of the Government of my
country, to thank Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-
General of our universal Organization, who, at the request of
the President of the Republic, sent one of his closest
assistants, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, to Kinshasa to try to gather
the political class of Zaire around the negotiating table. We
extend to him here the deep gratitude of the people of Zaire
for his selflessness and readiness in his attempt to reconcile
the sons and daughters of my country.
In an atmosphere of political crisis and social tension,
the protection of human rights becomes very difficult and is
subject to suspicions. The reestablishment of State authority
and respect for the laws of the land are often identified, at
best, with constraints and, at worst, with arbitrary actions,
while a country cannot become involved in development
projects without order or collective discipline.
Despite the flaws noted in the implementation of human
rights, Zaire has nevertheless made commendable efforts
along those lines by granting full freedom to the press and
authorizing the free exercise of political activities and the
free expression of opinions.
It intends to follow up these
moves by cooperating with the specialized agencies of the
United Nations in making more effective those bodies in
Zaire entrusted with ensuring the strict observance of human
rights.
The democratization process is irreversible in Zaire and
no one is contemplating re-establishing the old order. We
all aspire to change and to the establishment of a State of
law. What is important at the present stage of my country’s
development is to know how to implement that change
peacefully.
For now, we are asking the international
community and in particular those countries which wrongly
believe that they have received a mandate to administer
Zaire to let
the Zairians themselves settle their own
problems, for whenever they are free of foreign interference
they always manage to overcome their antagonisms. We
therefore urge our usual partners to help us to overcome this
crisis instead of dividing us by canonizing some and
rendering others anathema.
The opportunity has thus been offered to certain
countries that call themselves champions of democracy to
support the organization of free and transparent elections in
Zaire rather than to propose undemocratic plans that bring
people to power who do not have the vote of the population,
which alone can confer legitimacy. That, in our view, is the
only way to rein in the excessive ambitions of certain
political
in their obtrusive declarations in
Kinshasa and the Western capitals, are harming the proper
unfolding of the democratization process.
leaders who,
The international community is certainly unaware of the
dishonourable treatment experienced by Zairians in their
travel to other countries. At present, it is nearly impossible
for a citizen of Zaire to travel to, or opt to reside in, certain
countries of the northern hemisphere, since for his visa is
automatically refused unless he reviles his country and the
legally established authorities.
Is it the full enjoyment of
fundamental human freedoms when he cannot reside in a
territory other than his own unless he requests the status of
political refugee? Are the citizens of Zaire treated this way
being punished for their opinions? How can those countries
that practise this policy of exclusion have a precise idea of
what is transpiring in Zaire when they are preventing one
category of my fellow citizens from freely expressing
themselves and championing political ideas that run contrary
to their own?
The political uncertainties that have overshadowed Zaire
for
three years have pushed into the background the
economic and social problems of a country in which strikes,
city-wide shutdowns, civil disobedience and looting have
torn asunder
the economic fabric and aggravated the
people’s poverty. Zaire - which has seen itself arbitrarily
and vexingly deprived, under the pressure of certain Western
Powers, of access to financial facilities and to bilateral and
multilateral assistance at a time when its people has the
greatest need - hopes that the new era in the offing will
provide an opportunity for all its partners to assist it to
revive its collapsed economy.In this context, my country
very much hopes to resume dialogue with the Bretton
Woods institutions to improve the management of public
finances and to promote the flourishing of free enterprise.
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
5
As everyone knows, Zaire is a subcontinent made up of
a mosaic of tribes and ethnic groups which periodically, as
happens throughout the world, have trouble living together.
As we approach major political or electoral stages, tensions
exacerbated by demagogues is transformed into open
conflicts that compel, often in inhuman conditions, some of
our compatriots to abandon their homes.
it
is not correct
The Government of the Republic of Zaire cannot
tolerate a situation in which citizens of Zaire find themselves
Thus, more specifically
refugees in their own land.
concerning Shaba,
to speak of "ethnic
cleansing", since the Shaba, like the two Kasai, are not
ethnic groups but the provincial homes of several ethnic
groups. The Government has taken measures to halt all
forced displacements, ensure the security of those who wish
to remain in Shaba, and organize transportation of those who
have opted to leave in humanly acceptable conditions. This
task, like that of the restoration of displaced persons to their
original homes, requires enormous material and financial
means.
In cooperation with the specialized bodies of the United
Nations
the
Government is working to gather all available means in
order to come to the aid of the victims of this tragedy.
non-governmental
organizations,
and
Here we should like to welcome the action carried out,
the request of the President of the Republic, by the
at
the United Nations, who sent a
Secretary-General of
specialized inter-agency team led by Mr. Darko Silovic to
study in the field the ways and means to bring humanitarian
assistance to these disadvantaged peoples. We fervently
hope that
respond
massively and positively to the Secretary-General’s appeal,
and we are grateful in advance for this.
the international
community will
then
perpetuated
Concerning the ethnic difficulties in North Kivu, it is
important to know that this is an ancient problem born of
colonization, which was
the
transplantation of Rwandese peoples to Zaire and by the
influx of
refugees following the ethnic conflicts that
neighbouring country has experienced. Without lingering
over the underlying causes of this conflict, we should like to
inform international opinion that the Government has taken
measures to re-establish calm in the region and to ensure the
security of all parties to the conflict.
by
An appeal to humanitarian assistance for those peoples
who have lost everything in these sad events is sent out to
the
non-governmental
organizations and Zaire’s customary partners, in light of the
international
community,
the
urgency of the situation and the paucity of our means which
do not allow us to cope with it alone.
Before concluding my statement, I should like to take
up a problem which is of the greatest concern to the
international community and to my country in particular:
environmental protection.
Zaire, whose considerable
expanse of tropical humid forest gives it the symbolic status
of
the
international community’s acknowledgement of the huge
sacrifices it is making, which are depriving it of incalculable
financial resources.
second lung would appreciate
the planet’s
The preservation of the ozone layer requires that
additional resources be found for the implementation of
Agenda 21 and the conventions dealing with biodiversity.
Thus, my country believes that its commitment not to cut
down various species of
trees which it considers the
common heritage of mankind should allow it to benefit from
certain types of compensation which would fill this financial
vacuum or at least this lack of earning power.
Finally, the delegation of the Republic of Zaire joins in
the request made by numerous delegations for a restructuring
of the United Nations system to allow all Member States,
regardless of size, fully to play their role in building a world
of justice, peace and mutually advantageous cooperation.
Mr. TURNQUEST (Bahamas): Twenty years ago the
Bahamas took its seat as the 138th Member in this Assembly
of the United Nations, and we proudly assumed the solemn
obligations and responsibilities conferred by the Charter.
This session marks our twentieth anniversary, which we
celebrate with our friends of the now reunited Germany with
whom we were admitted.
As we reflect on the global events of those two
decades, we see a world significantly transformed. Where
there was a single Soviet Union and a single Yugoslav
Republic, we now have the Commonwealth of Independent
States and the Baltic States.
In addition, the admission of
many new States to this great Organization has resulted in
an almost complete universality of membership.
is
therefore with much joy that we warmly welcome all new
Members and extend to each the fraternal hand of friendship
and partnership in the continued struggle for human dignity
and development.
It
The Bahamas has also witnessed significant national
development since its membership. Today we are one of the
most stable and democratic societies. We are proud of this
achievement, and we encourage all those who would to
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
follow our example of freedom, justice and peace, buttressed
by sound principles of human and national development.
every Caribbean Government
We have yet another reason for celebration. Your
unanimous election to the presidency of this forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly, Sir, is an historic occasion
not only for you personally and for your great country but
also for
and person.
Bahamians, together with all Caribbean peoples, therefore
pay high tribute to you and to your country. We are fully
conscious of your impeccable and enviable credentials as a
diplomat, and we are satisfied that those same skills will
serve to guide us through this session, despite its challenges,
to successful and lasting results.
of Bulgaria,
Permit me also to pay high tribute to your predecessor,
Mr. Stoyan Ganev
outstanding
contributions to the forty-seventh session of the General
Assembly.
significant
achievements and today we are the beneficiaries of his
visionary leadership.
presidency witnessed
His
for
his
While we who are privileged to represent our
Governments have the luxury of pronouncing international
policies, the Secretary-General enjoys no such luxury. His
is the responsibility of going beyond the rhetoric to the
substance of the many resolutions and decisions which we
adopt in this Assembly each year. His task is therefore
dauntingly complex.
Nevertheless, he has borne his
enormous responsibilities with great dignity and high
distinction.
"Out of Egypt have I called my Son".
In this connection, we cannot help but recall the biblical
injunction:
(The
Holy Bible, Matthew 2:15) Like his predecessor, he has
performed beyond our expectations, and is deserving of our
praise for his proficiency in assisting this Organization in
shaping contemporary history so dramatically.
At this juncture I wish to take this opportunity to
extend the deepest sympathy of the Government and the
people of the Bahamas to the people and the Government of
India, who suffered such tragic loss of life and property
during the recent devastating earthquake, and to reaffirm our
solidarity with them during this time of national disaster.
It would be very easy for me on behalf of my
Government and country to rehearse the developments of the
past year and offer the members of the Assembly some
observations. However, we believe that a focus on the
future is more timely.
As we near the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization,
it is the view of the Bahamas that that significant turning-
point should be seized as an opportunity to assess where we
is required to move further ahead in the
are and what
fulfilment of the principles of the Charter, so that
the
forthcoming anniversary will indeed be cause for celebration.
In reflecting on what is required to move ahead, we
invite all Member States to focus with us on how each one
of us, given our varied capacities, can assist the Organization
in moving closer to the full achievement of the principles
enshrined in the Charter.
There is no question that the United Nations, in its
often unappreciated role in the promotion of such objectives
as international cooperation and respect for human rights,
has been vindicated in this approach by successes far beyond
expectations.
for Serious Violations
In the political sphere, such successes include the
fostering of a shift to democracy in Eastern Europe; the
dramatic reduction, through voluntary destruction, of nuclear
weapons;
the Mission of the Organization of American
States (OAS) and United Nations in Haiti; the establishment
of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons
Responsible
International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former
Yugoslavia since 1991; the establishment of the Transitional
Executive Council in South Africa; the very recent signing
of the historic peace accord between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO), as well as the Declaration of
Principles between Israel and Jordan; and the repelling of
aggression and the restoration of sovereignty in Kuwait. In
this context, the Security Council resolution that determines
the Kuwaiti boundary must be respected.
of
In addressing the hurdles which must be overcome
before lasting solutions are achieved, we believe that more
emphasis should also be placed on the expanded economic,
social and military role of the United Nations. That role is
demonstrated by the peace-keeping forces dispatched
globally and by the recent successful Conferences on
Environment and Development and Human Rights, as well
as by the forthcoming conferences on women, population
and development, the Summit for Social Development and,
most
the forthcoming
Conference on Sustainable Development of Small Island
Developing States, scheduled to be held at Barbados in 1994.
importantly for
the Bahamas,
The Bahamas places particular emphasis on the role of
the United Nations in the economic and social fields and
fully expects that the revitalized United Nations will provide
an enhanced capacity for the Organization to perform that
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
7
It is in this context, therefore, that we
important role.
support the efforts of the Secretary-General to restructure the
Organization in the economic and social fields.
As members are aware, success invariably brings
greater responsibilities and challenges. Indeed, these greater
responsibilities, challenges, and even attendant impediments,
have regrettably already begun to sour the excitement of the
many achievements attained. But we must not let this
reverse side of success debilitate us. We must remain
focused so that narrower vested interests do not hinder the
achievement of goals set in the wider interest. We must
permit no circumstance to impede the earliest cessation of
the atrocities of war for a return to peaceful settlement of
disputes. We must be sensitive to and respond practically,
in the spirit of the Charter, to national needs, pressures and
civil unrest. The call for regional action in the settlement of
disputes and peace-keeping will also need to be further
emphasized as we seek to maintain the integrity of the
Organization.
the implementation of
In this connection, we particularly underscore the need
for
the
the fullest support of
Governors Island Accord on the restoration of democracy in
Haiti, not only on the basis of unrelenting moral pressure
but, equally,
through material and technical assistance
towards fostering the economic revitalization and enduring
health of that country’s democratic institutions.
While the unpleasant spectacle of politics through
conflict has reasserted itself at the centre of the world stage,
regrettably, politics has two companions, which often
influence it, though rarely gaining the same degree and
magnitude of attention given to politics.
These two
companions are economic and social tensions. We must
ever be vigilant of these two, often unruly companions.
Again, we must find our focus in the purposes and principles
of the Charter.
Against that background, there are several questions I
feel must be put as part of the deliberations we will
undertake during this session.
First, is the peace dividend releasing adequate resources
and civilian expertise to impact developmental needs?
Secondly, should life after self-determination for the
newer members of the international community provoke
stagnant growth in those less-recently sovereign?
Thirdly, is there sufficient retraining and assistance to
ensure that the trade liberalization facilitated by megablocs
promotes fair, democratic and transparent
strengthening and the widest empowerment?
institutional
And,
lastly, how do we ensure that environmental
awareness, as a catalyst for a better quality of life globally,
does not become yet another trade conditionality?
These questions are being posed because, if they are
neglected or inadequately addressed, the new world order
will be but a shifting of power centres and a spawning of
new seeds of international economic, social and political
instability.
In many countries,
including the Bahamas, social
tensions are reordering national priorities. We must return
to basics in dealing with problems of a pandemic nature,
such as poverty, illicit drugs, crime, violence, international
terrorism, human rights violations and disease, especially the
urgent necessity for dealing with the devastations caused by
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).
rampant
unemployment.
Throughout this global village our Member States are
facing the disintegration of the traditional family values,
coupled with
We must
re-emphasize those spiritual values which respect life, the
dignity and worth of the human person and his or her
importance to national life and development.
In order that
our peoples will avoid hopelessness and survive the adverse
effects of economic decline, we must share more directly the
burden of action for solutions with those community
institutions and social partners which are the teachers and
the examples of positive spiritual and moral values.
Fundamentally, the Bahamas remains morally persuaded
of, and financially committed to, the goals and worth of the
United Nations.
To underscore this commitment, The
Bahamas has recently deposited instruments of accession to
international agreements in some of the priority areas on the
United Nations agenda, including the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights, The International Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the
Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women
and the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, and
we shall shortly sign the chemical weapons Convention. In
reality,
found in these
Conventions have long been traditional Bahamian policy and
practice.
the approaches and solutions
Despite a 100 per cent increase in the regular budget
assessment for the Bahamas over the past five years, we
remain unwavering in our acceptance of the necessary
sharing of
this
Organization may achieve its objectives. On the other hand,
financial burden in order
that
the
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the Bahamas wishes to have consideration given to the level
of its assessment, and in that process we shall be submitting
evidence that our reputed comparatively high per capita
income not only masks the true indigenous per capita
income situation, but also belies the increasing demands
arising from the development needs of our widely scattered
archipelago. We submit that, given these circumstances,
there ought to be some mitigation available to the Bahamas,
given these circumstances.
one of the young residents of Father Flanagan’s Boys’ Town
United States of America . When asked about the concern
and care he demonstrated for his brother he replied, "He
ain’t heavy, Father; he’s my brother". The fact is, our
brother is heavy, but we bear him gladly,
in Christian
charity, and in full and great expectation of imminent peace
in Haiti.
Our Bahamas remains proudly and immovably in
league with this great Organization.
Our commitment
The Bahamas is very cognizant that we remain one of
tranquillity and
the few cases of comparative political
unassailed natural beauty.
to the
maintenance of national unity and the preservation of the
environment is unwavering. We therefore believe that the
Bahamas is ideally suited as a propitious setting for difficult
negotiations, and we offer the Organization our facilities,
which, we are convinced, will enhance the conduct of such
affairs. We further pledge our commitment to contribute, to
the
the
Secretary-General’s "Agenda for Peace" and Papua New
Guinea’s proposed agenda for development. We see these
agenda items as practical approaches to dealing with
problem-solving for conflict resolution, peace-keeping and
post-conflict peace-building, and poverty alleviation.
to making
operational
extent
possible,
Mrs. WERLEIGH (Haiti) (interpretation from French):
For the Haitian delegation, the assumption of the presidency
of the General Assembly by, for the first
time ever, a
representative of the Caribbean is a source of pride and
satisfaction.
I should like to convey to you, Mr. President,
the warm congratulations of the President, the Government
and the people of the Republic of Haiti on your unanimous
election and their best wishes
in your
endeavours. Your selection is undoubtedly a manifestation
of the well-founded acknowledgement of your eminent
personal qualities and rich diplomatic experience, and also
attests to the growing role of your country, the Republic of
Guyana, in international relations.
success
for
As we approach the fiftieth year of our Organization’s
existence, to ensure even better years ahead our watchwords
should be "perspective" and "purpose": perspective in not
losing sight of the goals of our founding fathers, who
emphasized the primacy of people in the preamble to our
Charter; and purpose in recognizing and accepting that the
means for, and the road to, the end of international disorder
and insecurity must begin with the individual. Our initially
separate personal attitudes, motives and actions ultimately
determine whether there will be an international climate for
peace or one for disorder. The success of our Organization
is therefore dependent, at one and the same time, on our
international, collective and personal actions.
In our Caribbean corner of this global village,
the
Bahamas continues its efforts in the struggle to bring about
peace and democracy in neighbouring Haiti. The success of
this process will permit our own social and economic
landscape to be relieved of the extra burden of caring for the
thousands of illegal immigrants from that country who defy
the sometimes harsh elements of nature in search of a safe
haven in our relative paradise.We trust that the world - and
especially the Member States of this Organization - has
taken due note of the enormous weight imposed upon our
small country by this undertaking. The Bahamas has well
demonstrated its concern and care for its neighbours of the
Republic of Haiti.
I call to mind the famous statement by
I wish also to congratulate your predecessor, Mr.
Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, who successfully directed the
Assembly’s work at its forty-seventh session.
This is also an opportunity for me to express our
profound appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, for his remarkable efforts in the cause of
peace and for the new dynamics that he has stamped on the
Organization.
As the century draws to a close, history is being made
at a remarkable pace. Every day there are important events
that put international life on a new course because of the
profound impact they have on the destiny of peoples.
It
seems to us that, at the dawn of the third millennium, the
world is seeking new direction. Respect for the person, the
need for democracy and fundamental freedoms and the
climate of peace to which peoples throughout the world
these concepts are taking concrete form in major
aspire:
events that attract our attention today.
In the search for a
new dimension to give to peace, leaders in various parts of
the world have begun a dialogue that, in the past, was
thought impossible.
This is the case in the Middle East, where, after
decades of hostility, Israelis and Palestinians have embarked
on the path to a historic rapprochement, which we hope will
be of benefit to the two peoples and the entire region.
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
9
Likewise,
recent developments
in South Africa -
notably the establishment of the Transitional Executive
Council and the announcement that free elections are to be
held on 27 April 1994 on the basis of universal suffrage -
signal the long-awaited building of a multi-racial, democratic
and united society.
Following two decades of civil war, Cambodia is at last
experiencing a period of peace. This has made possible the
holding
the
establishment of a legitimate Government.
democratic
elections
general
and
of
After 12 years of armed conflict, El Salvador, with the
signing of the Mexico Agreements, is moving towards the
consolidation of peace.
We must note that,
in all continents, considerable
progress is being made in the search for peace, although the
existence of hotbeds of tension of all types - fuelled by,
among other
clan
differences - indicates that dialogue, which alone can ensure
harmonious human coexistence,
is not always achieved
spontaneously.
tribal or
factors,
ethnic,
racial,
The United Nations has played a decisive role in the
mediation aimed at securing a negotiated settlement of these
crises. We support the Secretary-General’s sustained efforts
to contribute to the process of bringing peace to these
peoples, whose pain, privation and distress resonate deeply
in the hearts of the Haitian people. There is no doubt that
the concepts of preventive diplomacy, maintenance of peace,
restoration of peace and peace building that are developed in
the Secretary-General’s "Agenda for Peace" are guiding
principles for this Organization in its action to guarantee
international peace and security.
But, in order to meet the diverse challenges confronting
it and to respond to the expectations placed in it, the United
Nations must adapt to a new reality and must have adequate
means to do so.
In this context, the Haitian delegation
supports the process of reform and restructuring aimed at
increasing the Organization’s effectiveness. We believe that
United Nations activities in the field of economic and social
development should be given at least as much attention as
that accorded to peace-keeping operations.
Unquestionably, the "Agenda for Peace" provides the
Organization with a point of reference, which enables us to
approach the problems of peace in a global environment that
is in a state of change and compels us to reflect on the
question of what constitutes the very foundations of peace.
Some say that peace is indissociably related to democracy
and development. We share this view. Without peace, there
can be no development, and, without development and
respect for human rights, one cannot expect social peace.
Island Agreements, believes
My Government, which was established as a result of
the
the Governors
fundamental principles proclaimed in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and in the Haitian Constitution
should be constantly in our minds, motivating us to provide
all the better for the well-being of our people.
that
struggle for
For two years the Haitian people has been waging an
earnest and constant
the restoration of
democracy in Haiti and of the fundamental rights that were
stolen from it in the coup d’état of 30 September 1991.
Today, thanks to the constant support of the international
community, we are on the eve of turning this painful page
in the history of our country. In this respect, we should like
to express warm thanks to the Special Envoy of the United
Nations Secretary-General and the Organization of American
States for his inestimable achievement. We hope that we
shall be able to continue to cooperate with him towards
securing a definitive settlement of the Haitian crisis.
As members know, the Governors Island Agreement
was signed on 3 July 1993. That
instrument sets the
modalities for the restoration of constitutional order and
democracy in Haiti.
Constitution,
On 30 August a Prime Minister, chosen in accordance
took office, and a consensus
with our
Government was established. The economic measures that
had been adopted by the Security Council were suspended,
and they will be lifted definitively at
the end of the
transitional process. Technical assistance, to strengthen the
institutions and to consolidate democracy, is taking shape
through the United Nations Mission in Haiti, which is
already beginning to be deployed.
With a view to fostering national reconciliation,t h e
President of the Republic has granted an amnesty in respect
of political offences committed during the period of the coup
d’état.
Other steps remain to be taken before October 30, when
His Excellency Mr.
the
democratically elected President, returns to Haiti to take up
again the mandate conferred upon him by the Haitian people.
Jean-Bertrand Aristide,
None the less, recent events, characterized by an
upsurge of violence, greatly discredit the political will of the
other party to respect scrupulously all the terms of the
Governors Island Agreement and the New York Pact. Just
a few hours ago, armed groups demonstrated at Port-au-
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Prince to oppose the arrival of the members of the technical
mission of the United Nations. The national radio station
was under assault by armed individuals manifestly opposed
to a peaceful settlement of the crisis. Such behaviour clearly
jeopardizes the success of the Governors Island Agreement.
The setting up of such institutionalized mechanisms of
violence
and intimidation by factions opposing the
establishment of democracy and the growing number of
human-rights violations worry us, because they reveal the
deliberate bad faith of institutions whose function it
is
precisely to safeguard security and our citizens’ exercise of
their rights.
Aware that this situation cannot go on, we send out
from this rostrum a sincere appeal to all those who wish in
good will to build a better life today and a better future for
the children of Haiti and to give to our country an
opportunity to renew its path of progress. We also appeal to
the international community to maintain its pressure so that
the minority forces opposing the democratic aspirations of
the Haitian people will find themselves completely isolated
and so that they will have no choice other than dialogue and
reconciliation.
The return of constitutional order in Haiti is part of the
genuine international political plan for which we have
fought, and it symbolizes at the same time an effort for a
democratization process in Haiti and, at the world level, the
triumph of law, supported by the moral solidarity of the
international community.
transparent. This democracy, in our view, cannot mean only
the holding of periodic elections;
rather, a
collective way of life in an adapted economy.
it means,
The invaluable support of the international community
will make possible the return of constitutional order in my
country, and we shall apply all our national resources to the
construction of a State where the rule of law genuinely
prevails, a State that does not content itself merely with
guaranteeing public freedoms, but that also seeks to promote
equality and solidarity. This is the challenge we shall try to
meet, because we firmly believe that a State in which all its
children cannot live because of dictatorship and barbarism is
unacceptable at the dawning of the twenty-first century.
The political stakes the international community must
face are compounded by economic, social and cultural
challenges. Poverty, ignorance and the scourge of disease
are still negative factors threatening the very cohesion of
States and continuing to cause gross imbalances in the
countries of the South, especially the least developed among
them. An unbridled imitation of Western models has led
some countries to ignore almost completely the value of
their heritage of creativity and wisdom and their enterprising
spirit. The result is the absence of a cultural dimension of
development and a lack of participation by an important
sector of their societies:
the most impoverished sector,
which is unable to protest, or to protect its own interests, a
sector made up especially of women, children and the
masses of disenfranchised poor.
the
of
The free and honest elections of 16 December 1990,
which brought President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power,
represent the country’s first democratic experience since its
independence,
the Haitian
Constitution of 1987 and, above all, the first step towards
guaranteeing the rights of the citizen. Our experiences over
the past two years have convinced us that the protection of
democracy and fundamental rights is a cause that transcends
our national borders and takes on an international dimension.
application
first
In spite of all
Efforts have been made at the national, regional and
international levels. A certain amount of progress has been
achieved.
the values proposed -
entrepreneurship, growth, profit and so on -
remain
inaccessible to the great majority of people living in the
countries of the South. This poses a grave threat to one of
the very cornerstones of human rights:
to
development.
the right
that,
The return of constitutional order in Haiti will be a
victory of the State and the rule of law over totalitarianism
and imposture, an ongoing struggle that unites us all and
makes it possible for us to confront those who jeopardize
peace.
We know that
in the absence of democracy and,
therefore, in the absence of the institutions and structures of
the rule of law, the protection of human rights would be
quixotic and ineffectual, especially in my country. This
democracy requires
and
real participation, pluralistic
Day by day the world is becoming increasingly
interdependent and, in a sense, increasingly integrated. We
are confronting a profound transition that promises to be
complex and hazardous. We must do our best so that this
globalization, this world economy, will not further widen the
gap between North and South. The absence of an equitable
system is being felt increasingly. The South remains in a
position of subordination and dependence which prevents it
from managing this new world order well. Global initiatives
are indeed necessary. As we approach the twenty-first
century a profound reform of the international system,
particularly in the fields of trade, finance and technology,
has become vitally important.
I do mean profound reform,
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
11
a reform that will bring about a restructured dialogue
between North and South; a reform that will lead to viable
and sustainable economic growth for the countries of both
North and South, a growth which will be measured not only
by growth in gross national product but also by certain social
and political achievements;
the access by all without any
discrimination to fundamental services such as food, health-
care, housing and appropriate education; and access to a
democratic form of government and effective system of
justice to protect all the people.
Lasting, bold and courageous solutions must be found
if we truly want to lift the barriers that prevent the economic
development of the group of countries to which we belong.
The questions of debt, delays in the flow of technology,
of capital, and of direct investment to the countries of the
South, the constant decline in the prices of commodities,
worsening access to markets and deterioration in the terms
of trade are all questions that need to be discussed seriously
by the international community if we are to arrive at a better
balanced, new international economic order.
The Republic of Haiti, which over the past two years
has experienced a situation that
the Security Council
described as unique and exceptional, is now at a crossroads.
In order to restore the process of democracy and the rule of
law in the country the population of Haiti and its legitimate
Government have made enormous
These
sacrifices, together with a long history of corruption, denial
of
the
economic, social and environmental levels. Whole sectors
of national production have been destructured and the
environment has been dramatically affected. The social cost
of a return to democracy is extremely high and has therefore
in advance jeopardized all future endogenous development
efforts.
rights, and plundering, have led to disaster at
sacrifices.
That
is why we ask for the unfailing support and
backing of the international community, which, we feel,
should in the short-, medium- and long-term involve
substantial,
increased and strengthened technical and
financial cooperation.
The time has come to transform the vast upsurge of
solidarity which we have seen in the course of the past two
years, into a powerful, concerted effort at open, fruitful and
substantially enhanced cooperation.
The Organization, better than anyone, is aware of the
breadth of the challenges today confronting the Government
of Haiti.
It would be futile to hope for a strengthening of
the rule of law, which remains our priority objective, if we
are not able rapidly to alleviate the enormous distress facing
the overwhelming majority of the Haitian people.
We want to be assured that today as in the past the
Organization will continue to stand by us at this crucial
stage, as a result of which socio-economic conditions should
be substantially improved in a Haiti that is reconciled with
itself and in which rights and freedoms flourish.
While we recognize that no price can be placed on
peace we do believe that
requires dialogue and
reconciliation, without which the process of transition cannot
lead to lasting democracy.
it
since
the
all
founding of
The fashioning of a new world has been the shared
responsibility of us
the
Organization in 1945. At the San Francisco Conference the
Haitian delegation, imbued with the historic responsibility of
being the first black republic in the world, had understood,
above and beyond the inspiration of the day which led to the
establishment of the United Nations, that the Organization
represented an opportunity not only for our island nation but
also for all responsible countries that would join this
community of nations.
We want to take this opportunity to extend a warm
welcome to the new Member States and we hope that the ad
hoc committee which is to study the question of Taiwan will
find a solution that
the parties
concerned, in keeping with the fundamental principles of
international law.
is satisfactory to all
Let us take the tremendous opportunity being given to
us today to build the new world that generations of men and
women are awaiting; let us take this opportunity to help each
other by establishing a continuous dialogue between North
and South in order to find urgent responses and solutions to
the problem of underdevelopment and poverty, that ailment
of our century which has shaken mankind. May dialogue
become our password.
Mr. LENGSAVAD (Lao People’s Democratic Republic)
(spoke in Lao; interpretation from French text furnished by
the delegation): First of all, I would like on behalf of the
delegation of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic to
congratulate you, Sir, most warmly on your unanimous
election to the presidency of the General Assembly of the
United Nations at its forty-eighth session. We are familiar
with your great diplomatic skills and your patience and
perseverance and therefore feel certain that you will guide
the work of this session towards a successful conclusion.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
I would also like to convey our wholehearted
congratulations to the Secretary-General of our Organization,
His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the tireless
and efficient efforts he has exerted in discharging his
important responsibilities over the past year. We wish him
every success in the accomplishment of his complex and
difficult tasks at the head of our Organization.
The Lao delegation also extends a welcome to the
States that have recently become Members of the United
the Principality of Andorra, Eritrea, The Former
Nations:
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
the Principality of
Monaco,
the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic.
Their presence among us certainly enhances the universality
of the United Nations.
The present session of the General Assembly has begun
at a time when the international situation as a whole is
evolving in a positive direction, conducive both to dialogue
and to cooperation between States. None the less,
the
genuine peace that peoples the world over have so long
awaited has not been attained. From East to West, from
North to South, sizeable and often tragic conflicts keep
breaking out.
is true that some of them have been
successfully resolved, but many others, of an ethnic, racial
and religious nature, are arising in various parts of the world
and are raging unabated, rendering the world situation fragile
and precarious.
It
In Europe, the situation in the Republic of Bosnia
remains tense and even explosive, and could threaten both
regional and global peace and security. In flagrant defiance
of international humanitarian law, crimes such as "ethnic
cleansing", mass rapes, torture and deliberate bombing of
civilian targets continue to be committed against the innocent
Bosnian people. Given the gravity of the problem, all the
parties to this painful conflict should show the courage and
the sense of realism necessary to reach a just and equitable
political settlement freely and as quickly as possible, and
thereby contribute to the restoration of peace, security and
normalcy in that country and in the entire region.
democratic
In South Africa, the conclusion of an agreement on the
date of the first multiracial elections and the establishment
of the Transitional Executive Council constitute an important
stage in the efforts of the people of that country to build a
united,
South Africa.
Nevertheless, the overall situation in the country remains
fragile.
Sadly, we still witness an upsurge of acts of
violence and of discord in many parts of the country.
Therefore, political, social and racial order must be restored
so that
the reforms thus begun can continue, at an
accelerated pace.
and
non-racial
In Somalia,
the evolution of the situation is still
disquieting. It is vital that the international community find
just and lasting solutions to this problem in accordance with
the rights and aspirations of the Somali people.
In the Middle East, an important step has been taken in
the quest for a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement of
the Israel-Arab conflict. The Lao delegation is pleased at
the mutual recognition between the Palestine Liberation
Organization (PLO) and Israel, as well as the Gaza-Jericho
autonomy agreement which was signed in Washington on 13
September 1993. We hope that that agreement will help the
various parties to the conflict
to establish a climate of
trust and in this way to find a comprehensive
mutual
settlement
in the
framework of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and
338 (1973) and other relevant United Nations resolutions.
is just and honourable for all,
that
In western Asia, despite the signing last March at
Islamabad of a peace agreement between the Afghan parties
in conflict, Afghanistan remains the theatre of civil war. In
the interests of national concord among Afghans, of the
reconstruction of their homeland and of the peace and
security of the entire region, we appeal to all the parties
concerned to put an end to their conflicts.
On the Korean peninsula, there is still an atmosphere of
mutual distrust in the military sphere. We welcome the
tireless efforts made by all
the countries concerned,
including the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to
ensure that the Korean peninsula is a nuclear-weapon-free
zone. It would be in the highest interest of the entire north-
east Asian region and of the world if peace, stability and
cooperation were to be achieved.
In South-East Asia, the countries of the region generally
enjoy good relations, and this is opening up a new era for
the broadening of their cooperation, day by day, in many
fields of shared interest. For the first time my own country,
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, participated as an
observer in the Ministerial Meeting of the countries of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), held
recently in Singapore. We are pleased at this important
meeting with the countries of ASEAN which has given new
impetus to our joint efforts to promote cooperation in
different fields among the peoples of the region.
Our delegation is also gratified by the historic events
that have taken place in Cambodia, our
immediate
neighbour. The promulgation of the new constitution by His
Majesty King Samdech Norodom Sihanouk
the
establishment of a new Government in that country will open
the way to peace, stability and national harmony,
thus
and
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
13
contributing to the strengthening of cooperation and
friendship in the region.
In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 1992 was a
year of many achievements. Our gross national product
increased by 7 per cent over 1991; our rate of inflation is 10
per cent, compared to 14 per cent in 1991; and the rate of
exchange in general has stabilized.
In other words, the
multi-ethnic Lao people is seeing a gradual improvement in
its standard of living. From a political standpoint, our
country has experienced solid stability, and we intend
vigorously to continue our effort to promote democracy and
our
in
accordance with our country’s historical and cultural realities
and with its level of economic and social development.
decision-making
collective
people’s
power,
At
the beginning of 1993,
the National Assembly
endorsed our national plan for socio-economic development
through the year 2000.
the Lao
Government has set for itself two major objectives.
this plan,
Under
The first is aimed at meeting the most urgent daily
needs of our population, especially of the ethnic minorities
that
live in the mountainous regions; bringing about a
gradual rise in their standard of living, both material and
cultural; and ensuring political and social stability in the
country.
The second is
to promote the development of
agriculture and forestry in concert with the development of
services and of
industry, especially in the field of
hydropower, one of the areas of potential growth in our
country; to develop more forcefully our market economy,
create internal savings, stabilize State finances and work
steadily towards financial autonomy; and to strengthen our
efforts at development of human resources in order to create
conditions conducive to national development
in the
immediate future and for the years to come.
In order to realize this plan, we will endeavour to
achieve an average growth rate of 8 per cent, to maintain
economic and financial balance,
to preserve stability of
prices and of rates of exchange, and to keep the inflation
rate no higher than 10 per cent per year. The Government
will continue its policy of broadening cooperation with other
countries and in this regard hopes to have the support and
assistance in all respects of the international community.
According to the United Nations World Economic
Survey, production at the international level should increase
by only 1.5 per cent this year and 3 per cent in 1994,
compared with .6 per cent in 1992: a very weak recovery of
growth in general terms. This weak recovery, especially in
the industrialized countries, entails a continued decline in the
demand for export goods from the developing countries and
a more abrupt decline in the prices of their raw materials,
which are of vital importance to their economies. Bearing
in mind the interdependence of the components of the global
economy, it would be wiser for the developed countries to
attach greater importance to the developing countries and to
commit themselves truly to international cooperation founded
upon revitalization of the economy and development in the
interests of all.
The problem of
the environment, because of
its
importance in its relation to development, is still at the
forefront of global concerns. We are still witnessing the
pollution of our air, seas and oceans, abrupt climate changes,
a steady depletion of the ozone layer, and desertification in
many parts of the world.
It is time for the developed
countries and the developing countries to strengthen their
international cooperation effectively and to take forceful
measures to protect the environment, in accordance with
their respective responsibilities and capacities and with the
well-known Agenda 21, adopted in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in
1992.
As for the drug problem, my delegation is pleased that
the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly will devote
special meetings to this subject. We intend to contribute to
its consideration in view of the importance of this problem
and its implications in the world at large and in our own
country.
The question of promoting human rights
and
fundamental freedoms still occupies a central place on the
international agenda. Because it is so important and so
sensitive, this question requires serious consideration on the
basis of the principles of non-selectivity, objectivity and
impartiality.
the historic,
cultural, political, social, economic and religious realities of
each country need to be taken into account. From this
standpoint, we are on the whole satisfied with the results
obtained at the recent World Conference on Human Rights,
held in Vienna, Austria, from 14 to 25 June 1993.
To this we should add that
With the end of bipolarization, it is important that
States place their hopes in the United Nations, which is truly
intended to be universal and institutional, capable of
maintaining international peace and security, of promoting
development and of having law and justice prevail the world
over. So that it can live up to its new responsibilities, the
Organization must also build its new structure.
A
revitalized,
restructured United Nations made more
democratic in its decision-making process, particularly in the
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Security Council, will certainly be able to play its rightful
central role in the management of international affairs.
States and peoples all over the world, large and small alike,
powerful or weak, rich or poor, could benefit greatly from
such a development.
On behalf of
Mr. ALLEYNE (Dominica):
the Commonwealth of Dominica,
the
delegation of
I am
honoured to congratulate you, Sir, and your country, the
Cooperative Republic of Guyana, on your election as
President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I am particularly pleased that this position is held this year,
for the first
time, by a national of a country that is a
member of the Caribbean Community and I have no doubt
that your intellect and wide experience as one of the
Caribbean’s most outstanding diplomats will
ensure
excellence in the performance of your duties.
I assure you
of
the
Commonwealth of Dominica in the conduct of the affairs of
this General Assembly.
the delegation of
cooperation of
full
the
The Commonwealth of Dominica wishes to congratulate
Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and the Slovak Republic on
their admission to membership of the United Nations. The
international community is,
in the words of Secretary-
General Boutros Boutros-Ghali:
"Humanity’s best hope in the pursuit of peace,
development and human rights". (A/48/1, para. 513)
We therefore welcome these new Members as they join in
the commitment to world peace, development and support
for democracy and human rights.
The universality of membership is an important
principle of the United Nations. We believe that, in keeping
with this principle and in accordance with the established
pattern of parallel representation of divided countries in the
United Nations, the exceptional case of the Republic of
China on Taiwan should be seriously considered by the
international community at the next session of the General
Assembly. The Republic of China on Taiwan, with its rich
natural and human resources could, if given the opportunity,
make
international
community.
Its people are also entitled to enjoy the rights
enjoyed by all populations of the Members of this world
body. The Commonwealth of Dominica therefore supports
the efforts of the Republic of China on Taiwan to obtain full
membership of the United Nations after being unable to
participate for 22 years.
contribution to the
significant
a
to
congratulate
Permit me
Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali on his ongoing reform efforts aimed
at streamlining the operations of the United Nations. The
state of the Organization’s finances is an issue which should
be of concern to all
In that regard the
Commonwealth of Dominica is making every effort
to
honour its financial commitments to the Organization.
its Members.
is becoming ever more critical.
As the international community takes on greater
responsibilities in its efforts to establish a more stable world
order, restructuring the Organization with improved cost
effectiveness
The
Organization must do its utmost to avoid wasting limited
resources. However,
the effect of cost-cutting on the
interests of small developing countries needs to be examined
closely. While the United Nations becomes more active in
peace-keeping in various parts of the world, programmes
aimed at assisting developing countries must not be allowed
to suffer. We firmly believe that the right to development
is an inalienable right, a right of every human person and of
all peoples.
Dominica’s economy is entirely dependent, at
the
present time, on the banana industry and on favoured access
to our traditional markets in Europe. Our industry, vital to
the survival of the Dominican people, is being threatened by
the major banana producers of Latin America, although the
Windward Islands industry accounts for only 2 per cent of
the world’s production of bananas. A threat to the banana
industry in Dominica is also a threat to the fundamental
human rights of its people as the collapse of this industry
could lead to economic collapse, social upheaval and
political disaster. The same prospect looms over the other
Windward Islands of St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenada,
with consequential effects on the other States of
the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). Indeed,
just last week we heard of serious unrest in St. Lucia as a
direct consequence of adverse trends in banana prices. This
is an augury of what could happen in any or all of the
Windward Islands.
We call on the international community to support
Dominica in its efforts to ensure the survival of its economy
and the protection of its peoples’ political, civil, economic,
social and cultural rights. More particularly, I call on our
Latin American neighbours to honour the spirit of the
Declaration of Managua and to take into account
the
severely adverse impact on the economies of OECS States
that
their policies on bananas, not critical to their own
economies, are likely to have on ours.
Democracy and human rights have been a priority of
the world community since the inception of the United
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
15
The decision of
Nations. Over the years there has been much debate on the
universality of human rights and its indivisibility from, and
link to, development.
the General
Assembly, by its resolution 45/155, to convene the Vienna
Conference to deal with crucial
issues surrounding the
promotion and protection of human rights was timely and
significant. Dominica applauds the efforts of those who
worked towards the success of this important and historic
Conference.
I am particularly proud of Dominica’s
participation in the preparatory process as well as in the
World Conference, which is an indication of our full
commitment to the universalization of respect for human
rights and the preservation of democracy.
Representatives at the World Conference gave a clear
signal that it is necessary to increase financial and other
resources to the United Nations Centre for Human Rights
and the regional Commissions in order to reinforce their
ability to provide greater technical cooperation between the
United Nations and regional and national human rights
institutions. As the focal point for human rights activities of
the United Nations and the primary organizational institution
within the Secretariat for the implementation of the human
rights programme, the Centre for Human Rights must be
provided with adequate means for carrying out its mandate.
On the international scene, the breakthroughs made in
the Middle East and South Africa must be celebrated.
Recent decisions taken by the leaders of those countries are
encouraging and augur well for the future. The Madrid
peace process launched in 1991 has not been in vain.
Dominica noted with great satisfaction and pleasure the
signing of the peace agreement between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization - an agreement which will
serve to secure a firm foundation for the mutual recognition
of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples. We sincerely hope
that this agreement will eventually bring an end to the
persistent violence and conflict that have plagued the Middle
East for over four decades.
One year ago in this body, Dominica called for
constructive and open dialogue between the African National
Congress and the Pretoria regime in an effort to arrive at an
early agreement on majority rule in South Africa. President
De Klerk and Nelson Mandela’s recent actions are a clear
indication of their interest in peaceful progress towards a
truly just and democratic society in the affairs of that
country.
The finalization of the demarcation of the boundary
between Kuwait and Iraq is a step towards the enhancement
of stability and security in that region. We welcome the
adoption of Security Council resolution 833 (1993), in which
the inviolability of this boundary is guaranteed, and we call
upon Iraq to respect the terms of the resolution.
It is indeed disheartening that while progress is being
made in the protection of human rights in certain parts of the
world, the rights of the people of our Caribbean sister island,
Haiti, continue to be violated even after moves by members
of the international community to suspend sanctions against
Haiti.
Dominica, acting on Security Council resolution
861 (1993), ordered the immediate suspension of all
sanctions against Haiti, following the confirmation of Robert
Malval as Prime Minister.
The Governors Island Agreement of July 1993 offered
a glimmer of hope for the restoration of democracy and
constitutional order in that country and for the eventual
return of President Aristide to power. These hopes were
shattered by the actions of those who officially sanction
violence, threatening the lives of constitutionally appointed
officials.
The members of the de facto regime must
understand that the international community will not stand
idly by if the terms of the Governors Island Agreement are
not respected. If the parties in Haiti fail to comply in good
faith with this Agreement, Dominica will be ready to
reactivate sanctions in keeping with the United Nations
resolution to that effect. We will also do whatever we can
within our limited resources to contribute to the restoration
of democracy in Haiti.
In that regard, Dominica is willing
to contribute to the civilian police and training contingent to
Haiti to assist in the return of President Aristide to the full
exercise of his constitutional office and the stabilization of
Haiti. In the meantime, we support President Aristide’s call
for the immediate replacement of the Chief of Police, a
precondition to the security of the officials of the legitimate
regime in that country.
The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in
Somalia continues to be cause for concern to all those who
support the promotion and protection of human rights. We
deplore the human tragedy resulting from ethnic differences
and more specifically the barbaric torture and killing of
hundreds of innocent people. We also condemn recent
events in Nigeria, which demonstrate a lack of respect for
the wishes of the people and a violation of their rights to
participate in the affairs of their country.
While we are focusing on the subject of human rights,
it is fitting that we make reference to the International Year
of the World’s Indigenous People launched on 10 December
1992. The rights of indigenous people all over the world
continue to be violated as they fight to preserve their culture
and identity. This is of particular concern to us in Dominica
as our country is one of
the few countries with an
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
indigenous Carib population, a courageous and hard-working
people with a rich history and culture.
I urge the
international community to lend its support to programmes
and activities designed to allow for the participation of our
indigenous peoples and other minorities in every aspect of
the life of our countries. We in the Caribbean should have
a special interest in this matter when we recall that within 28
years of the arrival of Christopher Columbus in our part of
the world, the entire indigenous population of the Bahamas
had been wiped out by the European conquerors. The
failure of the industrialized nations to contribute significantly
to the special fund is a matter of deep regret, which can yet
be reversed.
effort
Dominica has played a vital role in the regional and
international
to include women fully in the
development process and it hopes to participate in the Fourth
World Conference on Women to be held in Beijing in 1995.
We are particularly concerned about the needs and situations
of our indigenous women and the necessity for special
programmes to address these needs.
I wish to express
satisfaction at the establishment of a regional office of the
United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM)
in the Caribbean and look forward to its support and
cooperation in all aspects of women’s affairs.
the Plan.
General Assembly resolutions 46/91, 46/94 and 45/106
called for a set of global targets on ageing for the year 2001
to provide a pragmatic focus for the broad goals of the
International Plan of Action and to accelerate implementation
of
In accordance with the aforementioned
resolutions, a National Committee on Ageing was established
in Dominica. The Committee is responsible for developing
a national plan of action and making inputs into a regional
plan of action on ageing. We call on the international
community to support programmes tailored to the needs of
senior citizens in keeping with national policies.
The sustainability of life on our planet is dependent on
the importance we place on conservation of the environment.
Dominica reaffirms its political commitment made at the
Earth Summit held last year
sustainable
development.
to pursue
We have recently acceded to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change,
the Vienna
Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, and the
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone
Layer and its amendment, conventions which play a key role
in the protection of our environment.
Sustaining the
is compatible with economic growth and
environment
development and is essential to sustainable development.
However,
resources
it demands considerable additional
the
environment
and
support
such as
which developing countries such as Dominica do not
possess. We realize that we have an obligation to contribute
to global solutions but additional finances are needed to
assist in the many actions we will have to undertake to
conserve
follow sustainable
developmental practices. We call on the international
community to strengthen and give fuller
to
institutions
the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP) which are concerned with assisting
developing countries to achieve sustainable development.
We also call on the industrialized countries to offer greater
assistance to developing countries in the latter’s efforts to
make the transition to environmentally friendly technologies
and economic activity. The industrialized countries of the
world, which have disproportionately contributed to the
environmental devastation that has occurred over the past
200 years, must
responsibility to
contribute to the Global Environment Facility. The ability
of developing countries to contribute to environmental
sustainability depends on this.
take seriously their
Dominica welcomes the decision of the United Nations
to organize the Global Conference on the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States in Barbados
in 1994. We intend to participate fully in this laudable
effort.
The United Nations now offers hope for a future of
peace, security and development. Let us not allow our
legitimate emphasis on peacemaking and peace-keeping to
divert our attention from the equally legitimate demands of
the developing world for development and security.
The delegation of Dominica salutes you, Mr. President,
and wishes you a very successful presidency of this session
of the General Assembly.
its
forty-eighth session.
Mr. MALLET (Saint Lucia): May I at the outset
extend to you, Sir, my own and my country’s warmest
congratulations on your election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at
Your
assumption of the presidency is a singular honour for the
Caribbean Community (CARICOM).
It marks the first
occasion on which a person from that region has been
the General Assembly. Your
elected to preside over
presence here in the Chair
therefore provides added
significance to the honour and privilege attached to the
opportunity presented to my country, also a CARICOM
State, to address this body. Knowing you as I do, Sir, I am
certain that your experience, wisdom and diplomatic skills
will guide our deliberations to successful and historic
conclusions.
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
17
The end of the cold war and the movement towards
democratization within the former Soviet Union and in
Eastern Europe, accompanied by the new level of entente
between the major Powers in the Security Council, have led
to a new paramountcy of this Organization in the conduct of
relations between nations. Many of the essential principles
of the Charter, too long suppressed in the presence of super-
Power rivalries, are now given the opportunity, within this
more conducive environment, to assume the importance for
which they were designed when first established as a product
of the wisdom of the founding fathers of this Organization.
The tendency towards globalization in economic, if not
in political, terms suggests an era within which consensus
and mutuality of approach will be essential for furthering
balanced and sustained global advancement. The ideal of
universality within the framework of this Organization
becomes even more important in this context. Now that the
grim obstacles which oppose the concepts of equality and
universality are being dismantled in South Africa, we are
hopeful that that country will soon be able to take its place
around this hearth of the family of nations.
It was also in furtherance of the spirit of universality
and its all-embracing purpose that Saint Lucia joined 11
other Member States of the United Nations in proposing the
inclusion of a supplementary item in the agenda aimed at
obtaining General Assembly agreement for the establishment
of an ad hoc committee to study the situation of the
Republic of China in Taiwan. That study would have
focused on the search for an equitable, rational and practical
solution that would enable the Republic of China in Taiwan
to become a full Member of
the United Nations.
Unfortunately, this new but overdue initiative suffered a
temporary setback in the General Committee.
However, I find it difficult to envisage that a country of
21 million people, whose industriousness has contributed to
making their country the fourteenth-largest trading nation in
the world, can continue to be impeded from becoming a
Member of this Organization, where they will be afforded
the opportunity to discharge their international obligations
more fully.
In keeping with its belief in the concept of
universality, Saint Lucia gives support to the Government
and people of the Republic of China in Taiwan in their
aspiration to become
this world
Organization.
full Members of
For many years now, the problems associated with the
Middle East have been considered intractable.
That
unforgettable handshake, beamed to us in Saint Lucia live by
the wonders of satellite technology, was for us as much a
symbol of relief as it was a signal of hope - relief that it
perhaps marked the beginning of the end of the bloodshed,
suffering and hostility which have so plagued that region,
and hope that their end would bring us one step farther
along the path towards global cooperation through which the
future of humanity may eventually be rescued from a world
which has hitherto been seemingly drifting towards self-
destruction.
its
congratulations to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and
Chairman Yasser Arafat on this bold and courageous step in
the cause of peace against odds which, until then, seemed
insurmountable. It is Saint Lucia’s wish that this event will
ignite the spark which kindles a beacon of peace to light the
region along its way to realization of its fullest potential.
country wishes
convey
My
to
The heroic efforts of President F.W. de Klerk and
African National Congress President Nelson Mandela in
South Africa must also be praised. They have remained
unintimidated by violence and endemic opposition in single-
mindedly spearheading the creation of the Transitional
Executive Council, which at long last gives an official say
to a majority too long disenfranchised by official oppressive
dictate. This progress allows Saint Lucia fully to support the
lifting of the remaining sanctions, as called for by Mr.
Mandela. With the recent agreement on Walvis Bay and the
expectation that free and fair elections will be held in April
next year, perhaps we can soon bring to a close this sad
chapter of our history.
However, Saint Lucia is less sanguine over the situation
in some other countries of Africa. The world recession has
had an adverse effect on export revenues and therefore on
their foreign-exchange earnings and debt-settlement ability.
In addition, political strife has tended to exacerbate these
difficulties. The success of globalization in its promotion of
world economic growth depends on development which is
shared.
in the understandable
enthusiasm to do everything possible to assist with the
transformation of previously centrally managed economies,
Africa not be allowed to become a casualty of the ended
cold war.
important
that,
is
It
of
the
the
finalization
Saint Lucia welcomes
the
demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq,
which was accomplished by the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary
Demarcation Commission on 20 May this year. We also
welcome
adoption by the Security Council of
resolution 833 (1993), by which it guaranteed the
inviolability of the boundary between the two States. This
guarantee will serve as a deterrent against future conflict
between Kuwait and Iraq. It will also enhance stability and
security in the region. We call upon Iraq to respect the
terms of Security Council resolution 833 (1993) and other
relevant Security Council resolutions.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The firm resolve which this Organization, particularly
the Security Council, has shown in dealing with the
problems of the long-suffering people of Haiti is to be
commended.
Since the adoption of General Assembly
resolution 45/2 of 10 October 1990, the United Nations has
continued to reflect the international community’s concern
and will in its several action-oriented decisions culminating
in the adoption of Security Council resolution 867 (1993) on
23 September of this year to deploy both military and
paramilitary forces in Haiti. With a return to democracy and
the application of
the economic recovery programme
envisaged by the World Bank and the United Nations
Development Programme, it is hoped that Haiti will at last
begin to experience the economic development which has for
so long eluded it and which is an absolute imperative for
alleviating the long suffering of its people.
Saint Lucia is happy to have been able to contribute
actively to the process of democratization in Haiti. A team
of more than 30 Saint Lucians helped with the organization
of the electoral process and assisted in monitoring the
elections.
Some 15 Saint Lucians are today serving as
monitors of human-rights abuses in that country. Saint
Lucia is therefore deeply anxious that the restructuring and
recovery process in Haiti should succeed, and we urge the
international community to maintain solidarity with President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide as he returns home to resume the
mantle of leadership of his country.
Saint Lucia is a small Caribbean developing island
State.
If developing countries in general are in jeopardy,
then small Caribbean developing island countries are
exposed to double jeopardy. We are all trapped in an
international economic system which yields no quarter to the
problems and needs that are peculiar to us, and additionally
insists upon using a continental measuring rod as a gauge of
our development processes. Like castaways set adrift on the
world’s oceans, we have for some time been desperately
trying to catch the ears of those who happily stand on solid
ground. But our voices have somehow failed to carry in the
face of the biting winds of global change which have, almost
overnight, altered the very environment within which we
have been conditioned by history to survive.
cases
in some
It is true that the small Caribbean island developing
countries have
registered important
development gains over the past 10 to 15 years, a period
which marks the attainment of sovereignty for these small
developing countries. But the gains, where they do exist,
have been achieved only by Herculean effort and should not
be interpreted as evidence that particular or even special
consideration in the granting of economic and technical
assistance is not now still needed to promote sustained
development. These gains are to be seen, rather, in the
context of the maxim: "One should help those who try to
help themselves". The graduation of the small Caribbean
island developing countries from the World Bank’s "soft
window" into net contributor status within the United
Nations Development Programme - a graduation determined
solely on the basis of an index of per capita income - is in
our case tantamount to helping a drowning man onto a raft
and then setting him adrift without a paddle.
Apart from having average per capita incomes that are
only two-thirds that of developing countries in general, the
small Caribbean island developing countries are burdened, as
a factor of scale of operations, by administrative costs which
are proportionately three times as high as that of continental
developing countries. With our natural resources limited in
quantity as well as diversity, the odds between success and
failure become marginal and purely a matter of the quality
of administration. Where no resource surpluses exist, little
room is left for mistakes. Yet, because of our small national
budgets and disproportionately high administrative costs, we
often find ourselves unable to afford the diversity and
quality of expertise required to broaden the odds.
In the case of my country, Saint Lucia, this already
precarious economic situation is now compounded by a
direct attack on the sole item of domestic exports which
virtually keeps us from sinking into the depths of economic
despair. As a primary agricultural state, Saint Lucia is the
largest producer of bananas in the eastern Caribbean. As
used here, however, "largest" is an extremely relative term.
World annual banana production is currently about 10
million tons, of which the small States of the Windward
Islands, comprising Dominica, Grenada, Saint Vincent and
Saint Lucia, produce less than 300,000, Saint Lucia
producing about half of that quantity. Over 50 per cent of
the working populations of these islands work in banana-
associated enterprises. Both in Dominica and Saint Lucia,
more than 50 per cent of export earnings is derived from
banana exports. Our agricultural production is completely in
the hands of many small private farmers. There is no
Government banana-production ownership and there are no
latifundia.
that
adversely affect production costs, our banana industry has
been assisted to survive primarily through the umbrella of
modest preferential arrangements made available under the
various Lomé Conventions.
topographical constraints
Because of
Today,
there are forces at work, urged on by
multinational business interests, which would seek to wrest
from us even the minuscule share - just 2 per cent of the
market - which has enabled our economies barely to weather
an increasingly hostile economic environment.
In order to
Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993
19
attempt to secure that end, they have also mounted initiatives
in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), in
the European Court and within various international forums.
Apart from the serious social consequences which cannot but
follow a demise of the banana industry in these islands, it is
also to be recognized that, in order to purchase goods and
services from those very sources which advocate measures
calculated to bring about that demise, we must first earn the
foreign exchange to be able to do this. It can only be hoped
that, in the end, sympathetic understanding will prevail over
intransigence in the determination of this vital issue.
In this post-cold-war era, ideological considerations
have given way to political initiatives in the determination of
the direction of official-aid flows. The weight given to
foreign policy in deciding on foreign-aid flows means that
assistance is not always necessarily directed towards areas of
greater need, but is directed, rather, to areas with issues
which are politically topical. With a modest per capita
income which threatens the little remaining access it has to
concessionary assistance, with official
flows
directed elsewhere, and with the main export commodity
under attack, Saint Lucia is left to wonder whether there is
in existence a concerted intention to marginalize small island
countries or whether it is merely the accident of present
world conditions that bears this responsibility. In any event,
the effect remains the same.
financial
looking to participate in economic-cooperation initiatives
within the Americas and elsewhere.
Population growth in the developing countries, too,
though it has maintained a relatively steady rate for over a
decade, continues to increase in numerical terms, accounting
for 93 per cent global population growth, which is now
about 93 million annually. The balance between economic
and population growth must be stabilized in the interest of
human progress.
We approach the twenty-first century with world
changes which have been as rapid as they have been
bewildering. The ensuing challenge which lies before small
countries such as ours, daunting as it is because of our
slender resources, is to develop the necessary resilience to
enable us to adapt to these changes.
I am of the view that
incorporated within the idea of universality is the concept of
common progress and the need to ensure that an
environment
is created within which world-embracing
advancement becomes possible.
In this context, the United Nations cannot be expected
to micro-manage global change; as the pre-eminent global
It
is true that
Political gain cannot be sustained in the absence of
complementary economic progress. Where world economic
advancement is isolated in its impact, political gain in world
terms will continue to prove transitory and incapable of
being sustained.
the world has seen an
impressive political transformation in a rather brief period of
time in terms of a transition to democracy and a new degree
of cooperation in the United Nations at the level of the
Security Council. But if the price of these political gains is
an exacerbated marginalization of the small developing
countries, they will undoubtedly soon be dissipated in a sea
of economic troubles and the social disruption which
experience suggests must follow as a consequence.
The urgency of the international debt crisis may have
been defused, but developing-country debt, after reaching a
brief plateau, is again on the rise, approaching $1.5 trillion.
This situation is made more difficult by the drag on world
economic output, which is being caused partly by the
dislocation of economies of the former Soviet Union and
Eastern Europe. An expansion of world trade, coupled with
the recovery of commodity prices, lies at the foundation of
a solution to this problem. That is why we in CARICOM
are seeking to establish trading and other economic links
with our neighbours in the Latin American region and are
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Organization, its resources must be enhanced to allow it to
play an even greater role as a fulcrum, both in the traditional
spheres of activity and in new areas created by the new
order of things. The United Nations is, accordingly, seen as
playing an expanded role in the economic welfare of
including the development and
developing countries,
application of
further
initiatives to address constraints
imposed by smallness and island status.
We look forward to the Secretary-General’s agenda for
development, with the expectation that it will seek to address
the new problems and challenges which have arisen even as
some of the old issues have been, or are in the process of
being, put to bed.
Let me assure the Assembly of Saint Lucia’s pledge to
continue to cooperate fully within the institutions of the
Organization to further its objectives for the betterment of
humanity. What we lack in financial resources we can
perhaps make up in human resources. The fact that Saint
Lucia has produced two Nobel laureates in this generation is
indicative, I believe, of our ability to cooperate in the
common pursuit of the noble purposes of this esteemed
Organization.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
