United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
ADDRESS BY MR. JUAN CARLOS WASMOSY,
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Paraguay.
Mr. Juan Carlos Wasmosy, President of the Republic
of Paraguay, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic
of Paraguay, His Excellency Mr. Juan Carlos Wasmosy, and
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President WASMOSY (interpretation from Spanish):
This is the first occasion on which I have had the honour to
appear before this lofty international body to speak on behalf
I do so with the profound
of my country, Paraguay.
satisfaction
democratic
Government that has emerged from free elections, and as the
first civilian citizen who has held the presidency of the
Republic in 39 years.
representing
of
a
genuinely
I wish to congratulate you, President Insanally. Your
election, based on your solid professional knowledge and
your long political career, is a tribute to you personally and
to your country, Guyana, which you so worthily represent.
8th
PLENARY MEETING
29 September 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
I am pleased to recall in this context that Paraguay, since it
entered the United Nations as a founding Member in 1945,
has always championed the right to the self-determination of
peoples and the independence of political communities
which, like Guyana, came to self-government in fulfilment
of the obligations imposed by the Charter of the United
Nations.
I welcome very warmly the new Members that have
the Czech Republic, the Republic of
just been admitted:
Slovakia,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco, and Andorra. This
welcome is not simply a matter of protocol; it involves the
recognition of their respective Governments that I am
expressing on behalf of the Paraguayan Government.
A little more than a month ago I inaugurated my
Government with the firm resolve to strengthen our foreign
relations with all
the international
community, within the natural limitations set by domestic
financial circumstances and contingencies.
I would now
venture to offer some thoughts for the consideration of the
General Assembly.
the members of
The new world order broke suddenly upon the world.
The bipolar structure of power has now ceased to exist, and
the change has taken place peacefully.
Paraguay has
changed in the same way and with the same rhythm. Today
the Paraguayan people is the champion of its own destiny
and the will of the people prevails. We live in a condition
of respect for human rights, a market economy and State
reform. We have successfully and peacefully carried out
extraordinary reforms in the political, economic and social
fields without external assistance, relying solely on our
citizens’ faith and aspiration to live in peace, with justice
and freedom.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86629 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.8
11 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The Government of Paraguay respects freedom and
promotes justice; it is striving to widen the opportunities for
human development and well-being.
the pressing need to raise the standard of living and the
well-being of all Paraguayans.
Economic activity, and in particular
the market
economy, cannot exist in an institutional vacuum. On the
contrary, a security system must be established that ensures
the fiscal integrity of all persons, individual initiative and the
inviolability of private property, through a stable monetary
system and efficient public services.
The priority of the Paraguayan Government
is to
guarantee this security, this stability and these services, so
that those who wish to work and produce can enjoy the
fruits of their labour and feel motivated to do their work
honestly and efficiently.
The Paraguayan people is now aware that
it has
triumphed over its many vicissitudes. We have heard many
promises about
the advent of the new man. We have
witnessed many tragedies and dashed hopes.
Today, we believe that the only path towards the great
triumphs of collective well-being is that of democracy and
freedom. The men and women of Paraguay wish to live in
their own way,
respecting the law and prospering in
harmony and concord.
I would consider my activities of strengthening and
consolidating democracy incomplete if
in future my
compatriots could not continue freely to form political
parties and to elect governments without coercion, if they
could not live in peace with their families and enjoy the
honest fruits of their work, if they could not live fruitful
lives and at the end of their days reflect proudly on their
successes and achievements.
But as we view the Paraguayan future, we must reflect
on a situation fraught with dramatic realities. We have
overcome a domestic political situation which for three
decades had been met with indifference, marginalization and,
ultimately, condemnation by the international community.
We endured that situation because of
the
ingenuity and the great sacrifice of the Paraguayan people.
Today we must consolidate our victory and institutionalize
democracy as the only possible choice.
the labour
We have run into two main obstacles to the attainment
of that objective: an increasing rate of population growth
and a lack of resources to finance our development with the
rapidity required by the rapid increase in our population and
We believe that we must be able to count on the
cooperation of the industrialized countries in order to ensure
the continued primacy of the values we share with the
community of nations.
To accelerate our development we call for an extension
of the magnificent collaboration of the United Nations
system and its many institutions, such as the United Nations
Development Programme, which now has a new, dynamic
Administrator and in which the developing countries place
great hopes;
the effective traditional programme of the
United Nations Children’s Fund, which champions the rights
of children and adolescents; and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities, which plays a very important role in
regard to the crucial question of population.
We call also on the specialized agencies of the United
Nations system - each of which has in its field greatly
assisted in our countries’ development plans - to redouble
their efforts, increase their effectiveness by means of greater
creativity, and lower their expenditures by exercising greater
control.
This cooperation should go hand in hand with domestic
efforts to attract assistance on favourable terms and greater
flows of private foreign investment.
The financial institutions, especially the World Bank
and the Inter-American Development Bank, should speed up
their assistance by reducing their bureaucracies and should
provide the fullest possible support to developing countries’
projects and programmes. We recognize the great assistance
they have provided in the past, and we urge them to exceed
even their past achievements in order to ensure a better
future for all our countries.
If the developing countries do
not receive such cooperation, the consequence will be, on the
one hand, a prosperous and democratic world with freedom
and an abundance of goods for all and, on the other, a world
corroded by ignorance, poverty and the enslavement of the
poor. It will be difficult for democracy to survive if poverty
persists.
Establishing economic progress with equity in Paraguay
means strengthening democracy. My greatest desire as Head
of State is to establish the democratic system once and for
all in my country.
In order to achieve that aim, my Government will act
very responsibly, ensuring that its administration does not
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
3
engage in irregularities, and it will be very strict in enforcing
the law. We wish to have the greatest possible transparency
in the whole of the governmental process, in both domestic
and international affairs.
We believe that the stability of democratic countries
lies, among other things,
in the integrity of their civil
servants, in the independence of the judiciary, in individual
and collective security, and in the State’s efficiency in
promoting development. That is why my Government will
pursue and punish anyone who engages in corruption.
In
that way we intend to eradicate corruption.
We have undertaken to fulfil these purposes in the
certainty that the international community will be prepared
to support us in so doing.
Let me refer to a contribution from my country,
reflected in our universal feeling of friendship. A few years
ago, in a small town called Pinasco, a doctor who was a
distinguished member of the community proposed that 30
July be designated as a day dedicated to friendship. This
idea spread throughout the Latin American continent and to
other regions of the world. For this reason I am pleased to
suggest that the United Nations adopt that date as the world
day of friendship.
Events are giving rise to a higher and higher level of
world and regional interdependence. With the Treaty on the
Integration of the Common Market in the Southern Cone,
known as MERCOSUR, we in the southern cone -
Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay - are seeking an
improvement in our economies.
Nationalistic passions have flared up in many parts of
the world, challenging borders and jeopardizing international
coexistence. Age-old conflicts still seethe, as can be seen
from the terrible bloodshed, and havoc in former Yugoslavia.
The United Nations has set up more peace-keeping missions
in the last three years than it did in its first 45 years of
existence.
The purpose of MERCOSUR is
to harmonize
economies, to reach better and broader understandings with
other economic groups through the provision of mutual
facilities. We hope that the negotiations that have begun
with the European Economic Community, the future North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the Asia-
Pacific countries will bear fruit.
At the same time as we are witnessing these events
with distress and sorrow, we are rejoicing in the signing of
the statement of principles between the Government of Israel
and the Palestine Liberation Organization. This valuable
contribution to world peace is due to the courage and the
clear-sightedness of the leaders on both sides, who have
been able to overcome the burden of ancestral prejudice to
enter into a new harmonious relationship. We also applaud
the participation of countries as mediators
in these
negotiations. They all deserve the world’s admiration.
My Government believes that, in compliance with the
San Francisco Charter,
the Organization will accept as
Members all those States that fulfil the requirements set out
in the Charter.
is being done in its peace missions.
We congratulate the United Nations on the tremendous
work that
This
demonstrates not just that the Organization is alert to the
need to find a solution where any event may cause a breach
of the peace but also that, in doing so, it tries to realize the
hope of peace for suffering peoples, meeting their basic
needs and alleviating their difficulties.
The peace to which we aspire cannot come from sterile
immobility or from armed respite. It cannot be imposed. It
must be dynamic, sincere and generous and must be based
on the principles of solidarity between nations.
Paraguay gives its fullest support to the creation of this
Common Market of the South. We hope fervently that there
will be frank and full cooperation in all the negotiations
between the four countries involved. All our actions should
be really consistent with our aims.
It is our sincere desire
that we may reach an understanding that is just and fair and
of benefit to everyone.
While dealing with economic affairs, I should like also
to express our desire and hope that full agreement will be
reached in the Uruguay Round negotiations. We hope that
the markets will open up increasingly. We wish to see trade
flowing more freely, without any tariff or other barriers and
without subsidies, which undermine the competitiveness of
our MERCOSUR products.
We fully support the principle of free trade. One
cannot hamper trade by protectionism while professing belief
in the principle of free trade.
I have just visited Bolivia, a sister country with which
we have signed joint agreements and I made an offer to its
Government that Paraguay would serve as a link for its entry
into MERCOSUR. I also requested that they themselves, in
their turn, shall serve as a link between MERCOSUR and
the Andean Pact. Through the system of MERCOSUR and
through the Andean Pact, we have established a fresh and,
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
we hope, promising arrangement. Today - 29 September -
we commemorate the battle of Boquerón, a symbol of the
valour of both peoples which we hope will be a landmark
for the future in our search for cooperation, understanding
and peace.
This new era represents a challenge in relations
between nations.
In the process of the globalization of
economies, countries must avoid selfishness. They must
share their prosperity and technological advances in order to
ensure effective progress for all mankind. The European
Community,
the NAFTA countries and the Asia-Pacific
countries should be a dynamic force in economic relations,
and should not set new limitations on world trade.
International coexistence requires that we seek to
establish mutually supportive understandings and agreements
that will strengthen the collective economy and, thus, every
country’s individual economy.
North America provides a very promising example of
this. Mexico, Canada and the United States are proposing
a zone of free trade between countries that have different
cultures, histories, languages and lifestyles. In spite of these
differences they have taken a praiseworthy decision to make
their economies complementary.
NAFTA represents an undertaking to ensure shared
prosperity through collective arrangements. As we enter a
new century, these three countries realize that economic
prosperity depends, as never before, on the opening of new
markets across the world and increasing the volume of world
trade. We hope that when this arrangement is established it
will be of great benefit to the whole of Latin America and
the Caribbean.
Economic development should not run counter to the
preservation and protection of the environment. Both
concepts are valid for everyone, irrespective of differences
in countries’ levels of economic development.
standards for industrialized and for developing countries.
The latter need the cooperation that was promised at that
memorable international meeting.
With regard to social problems on a world scale, drug
trafficking threatens the economic and political stability of
some countries.
In this area too the United Nations should
take the lead in order to combat the scourge of drugs, with
all its disastrous consequences for young people and the
money laundering and terrorism that are its ramifications.
Paraguay is totally committed to the battle against drug
trafficking, the money laundering resulting from it and all
the other crimes that are associated with drugs. This
struggle requires total
international cooperation if drug
trafficking is to be eliminated.
It has to be recognized that
responsibility for
this undertaking must be shared by
producers, consumers and also intermediaries.
The United Nations is preparing for a conference in
1995, which will be a special landmark in the whole of
international coexistence.
I refer to the World Summit for
Social Development that will be held in Copenhagen. The
Government of Paraguay applauds this initiative and offers
its fullest cooperation at the preparation stage and in the
studies. We are also willing to take an active part in the
event itself.
Initiatives of this kind and the 1994 Cairo Conference
on Population and Development deserve our fullest support.
Although, as I have said, the issues to which I referred
earlier are of great significance to my country, I wish to
make the point that the raising of educational standards in
my country is my obsession. For this reason, we are trying
to improve human resources so that we may make use of the
new technology which we sorely lack.
Education is not simply a commitment on the part of
the State; it is a challenge shared by all the productive
sectors of the country. Technology may provide fresh
economic opportunities resulting in new sources of labour.
criteria
Environmental degradation will continue if we keep on
applying such ambiguous
"environmental
conditionality". The great meeting on the environment held
at Rio in 1992, after very lengthy deliberations, points us in
the direction of "sustainable development" - development
that can be made compatible with protection of
the
environment.
as
We need to fulfil the agreement that was reached at
Rio. We must not go back on the commitments undertaken
there. Neither should there be double standards - different
That
is why Paraguay believes that
the Bolívar
Programme is a good precedent for what can be done
between countries determined to face the future by sharing
technologies, innovations and industrial competitiveness.
We also hope that the industrialized countries, or those
that have achieved a high technological level, will show the
necessary will to promote the presence of their companies in
our countries, so that their capital and new technology can
accelerate progress in our developing countries.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
5
We shall always stress the need for a more balanced
treatment of
the social and economic issues on the
international agenda. Attention must not be given to so-
called new global issues at the expense of the problems of
development, the struggle against poverty, the defeat of
ignorance, and the promotion of international cooperation.
After 48 years, men and institutions are able to concede
their mistakes and can strengthen their convictions in order
better to achieve their purposes. The United Nations has
demonstrated such abilities by renewing and adapting itself
to the demands of our changing world. Paraguay is in
favour of this and supports the necessary reforms to adapt
the Charter to the challenges of a new age. In this way will
the United Nations be able to live up to the high ideals and
hopes with which it was created.
To that purpose, it is vital that it redistribute functions
and responsibilities among its bodies, increase coordination
and streamline its processes. The United Nations should be
the forum for the genuine expression of the aspirations of all
Member States and the primary instrument for genuine and
peaceful understanding among all peoples of the world.
We must confront and settle the financial crisis which
weighs so heavily on our Organization.
It is not logical to
assign it tasks without providing adequate means to carry
them out. Let us avoid being moved by political motives to
transform that inadequacy into administrative negligence and
financial paralysis.
Let us do the opposite - let our
Organization be the great forum of the international scene.
Let it be renewed, better, more effective and more equitable.
With timely intervention,
the United Nations has
brought
lengthy conflicts to an end and achieved their
settlement. This praiseworthy work must be recognized and
if, in some cases, the success has not been great, that has
been due to struggles between different power centres. But
today we are all equally ready to work to achieve more
effective disarmament and to establish new international
standards for the use of nuclear energy to benefit mankind
and not to destroy it. We have made considerable progress
but there remains a long way to go before we have full and
complete security in this area. Paraguay will support a
disarmament policy as a commitment to the international
community.
We continue to believe and have always maintained that
the United Nations should assume leadership, with the
support of all Member States, in carrying out the necessary
changes to establish the rule of peace and the human
development to which we all aspire.
My country wishes to underscore the outstanding work
of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to
express its appreciation for his activities aimed at making the
United Nations and its entire system more efficient.
Paraguay has faith in these positive solutions. We
pledge to uphold the legal principles of
international
coexistence and appeal to the loftiest sentiments and the
highest sense of responsibility of all leaders of the world.
My country believes that this can be achieved and urges that
it be made a reality.
No more fratricidal wars. Let us all unite in the war
against underdevelopment, against unemployment, and
against ignorance, which is the worst of all slaveries.
Reiterating our commitment to full support for the
United Nations, we also reaffirm our resolute cooperation
with the international community and express our deepest
desire for peace, prosperity and development for all the
peoples of the world.
I should like to conclude with a message in my native
language, Guaraní:
"Ja johayjhú, ñaño pytyvó, icatú haguaicha ñasé
ténondé oñondivepá. Aguiyéveté."
This means: "Let us love one another, brothers. Let us help
each other to move forward together".
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Paraguay for the statement he
has just made.
Mr. Juan Carlos Wasmosy, President of the Republic
of Paraguay, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
ADDRESS BY MR. GUNTIS ULMANIS, PRESIDENT OF
THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear
an address by the President of the Republic of Latvia.
Mr. Guntis Ulmanis, President of the Republic of
Latvia, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT: On behalf of the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the Republic of Latvia, His
Nations the President of
Excellency Mr. Guntis Ulmanis, and to invite him to address
the Assembly.
President ULMANIS (spoke in Latvian; English
text furnished by the delegation): Mr. President, please
accept Latvia’s congratulations on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth
session. The people of Latvia wish you a successful term as
leader of this body.
Latvia wishes to pay its respects to those nation States
which have recently been admitted to the United Nations and
looks forward to cooperation with them.
for Latvia.
It has been an eventful year
On
18 November 1993, Latvia will celebrate the seventy-fifth
anniversary of the declaration of independence of Latvia in
1918. Our seventy-fifth year of statehood has been marked
by the election and the convening of our Parliament, the
Saeima. The convening of the Saeima was an especially
solemn occasion in that it meant the full restoration of
parliamentary democracy and the Constitution of 1922.
the Saeima completed a
Moreover,
three-year
the
re-establishment of our de facto independence in August
1991 and our admission to the United Nations.
The
re-establishment of Latvia’s independence and the restoration
of its Constitution, following a half century of suspension,
is testimony to the power of democracy, the endurance of
the human will and the supremacy of international law.
the convening of
restoration
included
process
that
To understand the processes currently under way in
Latvia and in our region, it is helpful to note some aspects
of recent history. According to a secret protocol to the
Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact of 1939, signed by Nazi Germany
and the Soviet Union, Latvia was relegated to the Soviet
Union’s sphere of influence, an act which cleared the way
for the Soviet Union’s illegal occupation of Latvia in 1940.
Even though the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact and its secret
protocols were, under international law, void at their signing,
Latvia was forcibly annexed by the Soviet Union shortly
after the occupation.
Although Latvia lost its sovereignty and independence
de facto, its status as a State continued de jure. Latvia’s de
jure status continued to be recognized by many States, and
this position was echoed in their declarations throughout the
fifty-year period of Latvia’s occupation. The continuing
identity of
the State of Latvia was preserved by the
application of the principle that illegal acts cannot validly
change an existing legal situation - ex injuria non oritus jus.
Consequently, when it re-established its independence in
l991 Latvia was quickly able to renew diplomatic relations
with those States with which it had had such relations prior
to its occupation in 1940.
In addition, Latvia continues to
adhere to certain bilateral and multilateral agreements to
which it became party between 1918 and 1940.
I have stressed the matter of Latvia’s continuous identity
between 1918 and 1991 in order to emphasize that Latvia is
not a newly independent State. This fact
is important
because the de jure continuity of Latvian statehood has legal,
political and economic consequences for Latvia, in particular
with respect to our relations with the Russian Federation.
The key to stable and friendly relations between our two
States,
is
recognition by both parties that Latvia was illegally and
forcibly occupied and annexed in 1940 by the Soviet Union.
in both the political and economic spheres,
I should like to express Latvia’s support for the various
efforts by the Secretary-General and the Member States to
promote the maintenance of international peace and security,
in particular, efforts that were initiated by the report of the
Secretary-General entitled "An Agenda for Peace".
Recognizing the pragmatic and forward-looking approach of
the proposals contained in the Secretary-General’s report,
preventive diplomacy in particular, we must also consider
proposals that will similarly address other responsibilities of
the United Nations, including the enhancement of respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms and the promotion
of sustainable development. Latvia’s experience with regard
to the utilization of preventive diplomacy may be useful in
developing such proposals.
I should like to emphasize that Latvia has utilized
preventive diplomacy to the maximum extent possible.
Latvia has initiated or welcomed United Nations and
regionally sponsored efforts in fact-finding and confidence-
building in connection with the issues facing Latvia and our
region. Among these efforts is our recent agreement with
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to
establish a presence in Riga, our capital. These efforts have
resulted in an increased understanding of the situation in
Latvia, providing the United Nations, Member States and
regional organizations with the knowledge and perspective
to
The
Secretary-General, Member States and regional organizations
have been involved, in cooperation with Latvia, in applying
these measures to the most important and urgent matter now
confronted by Latvia - namely, the continued illegal presence
of the military forces of the former Soviet Union on Latvian
territory.
adequately
problems.
respond
our
to
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
7
For over two years, Latvia has sought the removal of
the former Soviet Union’s military forces from its territory,
through bilateral negotiations with the Russian Federation
and with the assistance of the international community. Yet
these forces, now under the control of our large neighbour,
the Russian Federation, are still stationed on our territory.
Last year the General Assembly addressed this issue
under the agenda item entitled "Complete withdrawal of
foreign military forces from the territories of the Baltic
States".
In adopting resolution 47/21 by consensus, the
General Assembly called upon the Baltic States and the
Russian Federation
"to conclude without delay appropriate agreements,
including timetables, for the early, orderly and complete
withdrawal of
from the
territories of Estonia and Latvia". (resolution 47/21,
para. 2)
foreign military forces
The Russian Federation, in joining in the consensus for the
adoption of resolution 47/21, affirmed its obligation to
withdraw its military forces from the Baltic States, which it
had earlier assumed as a participating State of
the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe at the
Helsinki meeting in July 1992.
to
report
to
and
States
the Baltic
A fact-finding mission headed by Tommy Koh,
Ambassador-at-Large of Singapore, recently returned from
Latvia
the
Secretary-General on the implementation of resolution 47/21.
We thank the Secretary-General for his efforts at ensuring
the implementation of this resolution. We also wish to thank
Mr. Stoyan Ganev, President of the General Assembly at its
forty-seventh session, for accepting our invitation to visit
Latvia in July 1993 and witnessing the situation in Latvia at
first hand. I hope that, in addition to reviewing the situation
regarding foreign military forces, Mr. Ganev gained insight
into Latvia’s process of renewal.
Before I report to the Assembly on the present situation
regarding the issue of the foreign military forces on the
territory of Latvia, I should like to express Latvia’s support
for
the ongoing democratic processes in the Russian
Federation, at whose head is the lawfully elected President
of the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin.
I hope that the
political and economic reform process in the Russian
Federation will continue and that political forces there will
solve their problems using peaceful and democratic means.
At critical moments in the past, democratic forces in the
Russian Federation have demonstrated their ability to act
decisively to keep the Russian Federation on the road to
democracy. I am convinced that this will also be the case in
these, for Russia, difficult and complicated times.
Since February 1992, State delegations of Latvia and
sessions of
the Russian Federation have held eight
negotiations on the subject of troop withdrawal from Latvia.
These negotiations resulted in various agreements, which
govern technical matters during withdrawal. Unfortunately,
we have failed to secure agreement on the important
question of a withdrawal timetable. Latvia has consistently
demanded that withdrawal be completed by the end of 1993,
two and a half years after Latvia regained its independence.
The delegation of the Russian Federation has offered final
withdrawal dates ranging from 1994 until 1999, without ever
submitting a concrete timetable or systematic plan for
withdrawal. The problem of the final withdrawal date is
compounded by the demands of the Russian Federation to
maintain three bases in Latvia: the radar station in Skrunda,
the cosmic intelligence centre in Ventspils and the naval
base in Liepaja. We have repeatedly stated, and the
international community, including the Russian Federation,
has concurred, that withdrawal should be early and complete;
furthermore, we cannot permit our soil
to be used for
purposes that may be directed against third countries.
A second principal
issue on which the Russian
Federation has held up its withdrawal from Latvia is its
demand for extraordinary social benefits for pensioned
officers of
the former Soviet Union and the Russian
Federation who are residing in Latvia. For years, the officer
corps of the occupying army was granted favourable access
to apartments, medical care and other social services.
Demands for continuation of such privileges are not only
unacceptable to Latvia, but unjust to all its residents; we
shall not permit these demands to delay the withdrawal
process.
At the beginning of the negotiations between our two
States, in February 1992, agreement was reached on certain
matters. Among these was the requirement that both parties
refrain from uncoordinated, unilateral actions during the
period of withdrawal. The time since then has been marked
by such incidents as the military forces of the Russian
Federation conducting unauthorized troop movements on the
ground, unauthorized naval movements through Latvia’s
ports and unauthorized air sorties in Latvian skies. Contrary
to agreement, fresh recruits have secretly entered Latvia to
replace departing troops.
In the light of the continued presence of these forces,
foreign investment in Latvia, which is necessary for the
development of our small country, has been discouraged. In
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
addition, the military forces of the Russian Federation have
done substantial damage to Latvia’s environment.
civilian labourers and managers from the Soviet Union to
migrate to Latvia.
that
its
seeks
Latvia
an assurance
sovereignty,
independence and territorial integrity will be respected and
that a threat to international peace and security will not arise
from its territory. I hope that
the negotiations with the
Russian Federation, which began yesterday, on 28 September
1993, will be pragmatic in nature and will soon lead to an
agreement providing for the complete withdrawal of foreign
military forces from the territory of Latvia.
Such an
agreement would have the potential to open a new chapter
in the relationship between our
two States, a chapter
containing neither suspicion nor animosity. We could then
even foresee a time when our societies and children would
be free of the prejudices of the past.
a
by
undertaking
The pace of population transfer increased dramatically
leaders initiated a policy of
after 1959, when Soviet
colonization
heavy
for Latvia
industrialization drive there. During the next 30 years the
total population of Latvia increased by 27 per cent. While
the indigenous population grew at a rate of 7.6 per cent,
population growth in the migrant community was 58.5 per
cent, with the result that mechanical growth exceeded natural
growth by close to a factor of eight. I should like to stress
that no other country has lost, as a result of occupation and
colonialism, such a large part of its indigenous population
during modern times.
In no other modern-day country has
the indigenous population nearly become a minority in its
own country, as has happened in Latvia.
Latvia welcomes the complete withdrawal of
the
military forces of the Russian Federation from Lithuania,
which is a step toward improving the security of the Baltic
region.
As I have stated, it is important to recognize that Latvia
was illegally occupied and annexed, and that a principal
consequence of these events is the significantly altered
demographic situation there. This situation must be taken
into account if one is to understand the internal situation in
Latvia.
In 1940, 75 per cent of Latvia’s inhabitants were
ethnic Latvians but today they constitute only 52 per cent of
Latvia’s population. During the Soviet occupation, hundreds
of thousands of persons were deported to Siberia, and many
thousands were arrested and executed. During the Second
World War tens of thousands died, were sent
to Nazi
Germany for forced labour, or were forced to emigrate to the
West in order to escape the Red Terror. In sum, during the
occupation, the pre-war population of Latvia was reduced by
one third. Among the victims who suffered this fate were
the Livs, one of the indigenous peoples of Latvia, who at
present number only a few dozen.
During the post-war years, the deportation and massive
involuntary emigration of Latvians from their native land
was paralleled by a heavy influx of residents of the Soviet
Union.
In 1945, newly arrived Soviet military personnel
were immediately allocated approximately 25 per cent of all
the apartments in Riga, the capital of Latvia. Many of these
apartments had earlier been vacated by Latvian families
which had been deported to Siberia or which had been
forced to flee to the West.
In addition to the introduction
into Latvia of active and retired military personnel, the
Soviet regime, using offers of various privileges, enticed
We believe that the restoration of our independence has
given us the opportunity to improve our demographic
situation. If we can reach a point where Latvians feel secure
about their future, we will then have the freedom to invest
more of our
resources in finding solutions to global
problems.
The change in the demographic situation of Latvia
during the Soviet occupation cannot be conveyed by
numbers alone. Latvians were subjected to discrimination,
in particular with respect to the use of the Latvian language
and professional development. Command of the Russian
language became necessary in both the educational system
and many workplaces, while use of the Latvian language
was eliminated in many spheres. Further, the policy of the
Soviet authorities was to prevent access by Latvians to
professions in various governmental and strategic fields.
With a view to ensuring the survival of the Latvian
people, it has become necessary for Latvia to develop a law
on citizenship which will safeguard the national identity of
its indigenous population. Concurrently, Latvia will uphold
its obligations under international human rights law.
its
restoration of
Latvia has already determined its present body of
citizens through a process of resident registration. In 1991,
along with the
sovereignty and
independence, Latvia restored citizenship to those persons
from whom it had been taken in 1940;
this was done
regardless of their national, religious or ethnic backgrounds,
and citizenship was granted to their descendants as well.
Pursuant to Latvia’s Constitution, it is this body of persons
which participated in the June 1993 parliamentary elections.
Latvia’s present body of citizens includes approximately
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
9
400,000 non-ethnic Latvians, or approximately 25 per cent
of the electorate - a figure that reflects the non-ethnic
Latvian composition of the electorate prior to the occupation
in 1940.
Latvia’s democratically elected Parliament, the Saeima,
will in the near future adopt a citizenship law which will set
the requirements, in accordance with international law, for
obtaining Latvian citizenship for residents of Latvia who
arrived after 1940. Persons transferred into Latvia during the
Soviet occupation exercise freely all rights granted by
international human rights instruments. According to experts
of the Council of Europe, the protection afforded by Latvia’s
legislation is
to that provided by the
constitutional instruments of most States members of the
Council of Europe and guaranteed collectively by the
Council of Europe,
in particular through the European
Convention on Human Rights.
comparable
Historical minorities of Latvia such as Russians,
Belarussians, Poles, Jews and others have their own schools
and active national cultural societies, which help to maintain
each group’s national identity.
A peaceful, legal and pragmatic restoration process has
begun in Latvia. Numerous appraisals by the international
community have affirmed that this process is in fact peaceful
and is being conducted within the confines of international
law.
Latvia has no reason to hide its internal situation and
has thus welcomed numerous examinations of its human
rights record. On behalf of Latvia, I should like to thank the
Secretary-General and the States Members of the United
Nations for the fact-finding mission, headed by the present
Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights, Mr. Ibrahima
Fall, which visited Latvia in October 1992. I should like to
quote from the Mission’s conclusions:
"Latvia is going through a transitional period
following the reestablishment of independence. During
this period the Latvian Government is endeavouring to
redress certain historical
inequities and injustices
perpetrated during Soviet rule from 1940 to 1991.
"This has given rise to anxiety among the
non-ethnic Latvians about their future status and role in
It is this sense of insecurity rather than
the country.
any gross violation of human rights that
is most
characteristic of the situation prevailing in Latvia today.
"The information received and examined by the
Mission does not reveal gross and systematic violations
of human rights in Latvia. Individual violations which
have been reported are limited and not related to
discriminatory policy as such and they should and can
be remedied at the appropriate level. On the positive
it should be emphasized that no instances of
side,
violence, no mass dismissals
from employment,
exclusion from educational establishments, evictions
from apartments, or
reported."
(A/47/748, paras. 21-23)
expulsions were
The report of
the United Nations human rights
fact-finding mission to Latvia is similar to reports submitted
by the Council of Europe, the Conference on Security and
Co-operation in Europe and the European Court of Human
Rights. Despite these numerous affirmations that human
rights are not being violated in Latvia, it has become the
object of political attacks - the Russian Federation constantly
accuses Latvia of human rights violations. Latvia has
expended great efforts and resources
to refute these
unsubstantiated allegations.
resources of
international organizations, including the United Nations,
have been expended.
In addition,
I shall now address the grave financial crisis that faces
the United Nations and has forced the Secretary-General to
take drastic measures to economize. Latvia believes that a
solution to the crisis that is acceptable to all Member States
and based on the principles enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations must be found.
Latvia wishes to bring to the attention of the General
Assembly an ad hoc decision which was made for reasons
of financial and political expediency, but which will in fact
contribute to the financial crisis.
I am referring to the
decision taken by the General Assembly in December 1992
to determine, inter alia, the assessment rates of 15 Member
States, including Latvia, according to an ad hoc method
rather than the standard method for determining capacity to
pay.
The December 1992 decision is not in accordance with
the Charter principle of sovereign equality because the two
different methods for determining assessments result
in
unequal financial obligations for different Member States.
Notwithstanding the fact that Latvia and the other two Baltic
States are not successors to the former Soviet Union, they
have been made to assume excessive financial obligations of
the former Soviet Union and even to accept a portion of its
contribution to the Working Capital Fund.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Latvia is now entering its third year as a State Member
of
to increase our
the United Nations. We expect
involvement in the work of the United Nations and other
international organizations, participating in the search for
solutions to global problems. At the World Conference on
Human Rights in Vienna, we addressed two problem areas
where we should be able to make contributions:
the rights
of minorities and the rights of foreigners.
Latvia reiterates the offer it made at the Earth Summit
in Rio de Janeiro to host an international conference in its
resort city of Jurmala to examine possibilities for redirecting
resources
rehabilitating the
environment.
from armaments
towards
of Latvia in 1938 as a donation to the League of Nations.
May the return of that hall at the Palais des Nations to its
original
justice
constituted by the return of Latvia to full membership in the
international community.
the victory of
splendour
symbolize
It is my belief that the restoration of our independence
will enable Latvia, a small State, to play a greater role in
securing peace and democracy in the world. I am convinced
that together we can leave our children a better world with
more security, more faith and more freedom.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Latvia for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Latvia supports the establishment of the post of United
Nations high commissioner for human rights. We also urge
an increase in the percentage of the regular budget allocated
to the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva.
The position of Latvia regarding non-governmental
organizations is that
they play a valuable role on the
international stage, especially in the area of human rights.
Their access to the United Nations human-rights system
should be increased.
With respect to the debate on restructuring the Security
Council, Latvia supports increasing the number of members
of the Security Council. Such reform must ensure that the
Council is adequately balanced between large and small
States.
Latvia supports the efforts aimed at rationalizing the
structure and the agenda of the General Assembly.
Latvia welcomes the positive processes under way in
the Middle East, South Africa, Cambodia and Haiti. We
hope that, with the efforts of the United Nations and other
international organizations, peace will prevail in the former
Yugoslavia, Georgia, Somalia and elsewhere where blood is
still being spilt.
Latvia has a history of participation in international
affairs,
including its term as Presiding Member of the
Council of the League of Nations.
In order to mark our
historic contribution to international
relations, and to
celebrate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the signing of our
declaration of independence, Latvia has undertaken the task
of restoring a hall at the United Nations Office in Geneva.
This hall, located in the Palais des Nations, and adorned
with amber collected from the shores of the Baltic Sea, was
decorated and endowed by the Government and the people
Mr. Guntis Ulmanis, President of the Republic of
Latvia, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
ADDRESS BY MRS. VIOLETA BARRIOS DE
CHAMORRO, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
NICARAGUA
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): The
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Nicaragua.
Mrs. Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, President of the
Republic of Nicaragua, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic
of Nicaragua, Her Excellency Mrs. Violeta Barrios de
Chamorro, and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President BARRIOS de CHAMORRO (interpretation
from Spanish): Allow me to congratulate you sincerely, Sir,
on behalf of our Latin American and Caribbean region, on
your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session.
Some nations, like Nicaragua, are in transition from war
to peace. We are in the process of shaking off an
inheritance of 50 years of
right-wing dictatorship and
10 years of left-wing dictatorship. At the same time, we are
moving from a centralized economy to a social market
economy.
these three transitions is an
enormous challenge requiring fluid and timely international
political and economic cooperation.
Each one of
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
11
Nicaragua is a special case. My country has had to
endure this triple transition. We are overcoming a post-war
era, building democracy and restoring our economy’s
in the midst of a polarized
strength and dynamism, all
society.
in
contemporary history have had to confront so many
challenges at
the same time and in such difficult
circumstances.
sincerely believe
few societies
that
I
The Governments and organizations that have been
following closely the critical situation in which I found my
country when I took office - with a gross national product
similar
the 1940s and an
unprecedented rate of hyperinflation - can easily understand
the magnitude of our efforts.
to that of an economy of
We need to build a democracy, reconstruct a wounded
society and compete economically with the world, all while
following an economic adjustment plan that leaves us no
resources for social investment. There is hunger in my
country. There is hatred. There are many weapons. But
there is also an absolute desire to build a society at peace.
Nicaragua has been a symbol of war and of hope in this
decade. Nicaragua should continue to be a symbol of hope.
We will achieve this only with international assistance.
With great effort, we have limited inflation to
3.5 per cent annually, but with such difficulty that we were
able to achieve economic growth of only 0.2 per cent in
1992, after eight years of a falling gross national product.
I recognize that the international community has tried
In
to understand the immense complexity of our process.
1990,
the General Assembly granted Nicaragua special
treatment, and called upon the international community to
provide us with effective and timely support. Since then,
my country has fulfilled all agreements and commitments
undertaken with multilateral institutions and the international
community. We are engaged in creating the necessary
conditions
so that private, national and international
investment can contribute to the economic growth of the
country and hence initiate the reconstruction process and the
sustained development needed by Nicaragua.
After paying for oil imports and external debt, my
Government has received international assistance amounting
to an average of less than $12 million a year, which does not
cover the costs of such a difficult and complex transition.
Our economy has stabilized; however, this has been a slow
process and it does not satisfy the aspirations of an
impoverished people demanding the attainment, in a short
period of time, of levels of well-being that they deserve.
The economic problem is our greatest source of
instability, because it creates tensions in the political and
social environment,
jeopardizing national and regional
stability. If foreign aid arrives late, if strong conditions are
placed on it or it becomes a political tool, as happened in
1992 and is happening now, democracy in Nicaragua could
collapse.
My country depends on the financial support of the
international community. Our exports are equivalent to only
$250 million a year, and we need $850 million to finance
our imports and service our inherited external debt.
I have come to the General Assembly, to this forum of
fraternal nations,
to ask the international community to
continue helping Nicaragua. We need the United Nations to
help us to maintain and to guarantee economic bilateral
cooperation at current levels for my country. We need
additional resources to reactivate economic production and
growth, to strengthen the creation of social networks and to
renew the process of conciliation.
We must not forget that on 25 February 1990, to the
surprise of the entire international community, we held the
first free and participatory elections in all the history of my
country. On that day, Nicaraguans laid down their weapons
and we all celebrated the triumph of peace, aware that we
were choosing the path of democracy, freedom, peace and
respect for human rights.
When the time came to vote, every citizen voted against
decades of violence and bloodshed, and as we voted, we
thought about erasing from our minds the sad images of
10 years of war, the orphans, the widows and the maimed.
We voted in the determination to put an end to the tragic
parade of soldiers, many of them children, combatants in a
war between brothers.
This was my first mandate:
to generate a policy of
national
reconciliation; not an easy task in a society
accustomed to political polarization and to confrontation.
Today, three years later, I continue to be committed to
pursuing national dialogue as the only viable way to solve
our problems.
this national
understanding has been met with solidarity and support from
countries and international organizations.
to achieve
The
call
In the national dialogue, we rely on the presence, which
of
enhances
process,
validity
the
greatly
of
the
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
representatives of the Presidents of Central America, a
region that can envision its future only in the larger prospect
of integration and unity with Nicaragua.
to my Central American
The sincere gratitude of my people and Government
goes
the
representatives of the Secretary-General of the Organization
to the Catholic Church and to the
of American States,
Secretary-General of
the United Nations, who have
contributed so much to peace and reconciliation in
Nicaragua.
colleagues,
to
I especially wish to thank the Secretary-General of the
United Nations for his support in the formation of an active
group of donor countries, friends of Nicaragua, which,
within the context of the United Nations, will help us
identify our requirements for external cooperation and the
means for channelling this necessary assistance.
I believe that countries in transition from war to peace,
which have signed international agreements to attain total
pacification, democracy and reconstruction, should have
access to a special fund to enable them to stand again on
their own feet and go forward.
Nicaragua and other countries in Latin America, such
as Haiti and El Salvador, need exceptional treatment because
we cannot compete with nations that have not suffered the
pain of the political, economic and social destruction caused
by war.
When we appeal to the international community, we do
so in the conviction that
the principal efforts for the
reconstruction of our country are our own responsibility as
Nicaraguans, as the actors in our own development. The
Government of which I am President assumes this level of
responsibility in order to prevent our democracy from
regressing.
I reaffirm once more before the Assembly the
commitment I made to the Nicaraguan nation not to rest
until democracy has been consolidated.
I shall continue to work to ensure that freedom of
expression, assembly and association are never again
restricted. My commitment to human rights is firm and
unalterable.
My decision to achieve the institutionalization of the
armed forces in Nicaragua is irreversible. For that reason,
in addition to drastically reducing my country’s army, I am
introducing reforms and laws that will guarantee the total
subordination of the military to civilian authority and clearly
establish fixed terms of office in the upper echelons.
structure,
We are in the process of building a democratic
institutional
including a small, professional,
non-partisan army at the service of the nation as a whole.
Similarly, we are making great efforts to disarm civilian
groups and to prevent the thousands of weapons already
confiscated from being used once again to undermine
Nicaragua’s democratic achievements and so undermine the
regional stability of Central America. Weapons confiscated
by our authorities are burned in public for all to see.
In consultation with other countries of the international
community, my Government has decided to host in our
capital city of Managua,
the second
international conference on new and restored democracies.
We want to share experiences, closely examine the structures
of the new democracies and adopt proposals that will
contribute to their self-betterment.
in May 1994,
The United Nations must respond positively to the
changes in the world today. Nicaragua supports recognition
by the United Nations of the rights of the Republic of China -
Taiwan. We believe it
to recognize the
fundamental rights of the 21 million people who live on that
territory. Nicaragua firmly supports this noble initiative.
is only right
Finally, I share the joy of all our countries at the
historic signing of the declaration of principles between the
Government of
and the Palestine Liberation
Organization. This agreement clearly demonstrates that
peace is possible when the will for dialogue and negotiation
exists.
It should serve as one of the great lessons of our
times and a source of new hope for global peace.
Israel
in God,
We Nicaraguans trust
in the solidarity of
friendly nations and in cooperation by international
the generous, fraternal, sincere hand they
organizations;
stretch out
to us will enable the Nicaraguan people to
achieve the new society of which it dreamt when it voted in
our general elections on 25 February 1990.
We in Nicaragua know that the century that is coming
to an end leaves us some hard lessons. Yet it allows us to
face with courage the great challenges that will enable us to
consolidate a world society inspired by peace, freedom and
progress. For that reason, on the threshold of the new
century, I would like to reaffirm,
in the name of the
Nicaraguan people, our deep commitment to contribute to
the development of a more prosperous and more just world
order. That is the commitment I make to democracy and to
all the peoples of the world.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
13
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Nicaragua for the statement she
has just made.
Mrs. Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, President of the
Republic of Nicaragua, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
high on the global agenda. The world is deeply unjust. The
distribution of mankind’s opportunities is woefully unequal.
This we should not tolerate.
The danger confronting us is that peace in many parts
of the world is threatened by new conflicts, especially those
of an ethnic nature. The continuing proliferation of modern
weapons and weapon technology increases the destructive
potential of these conflicts.
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
Mr. KINKEL (Germany) (spoke in German; English
text furnished by the delegation): Please accept my warm
congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the
General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I wish you
luck and success in your high office. At the same time, I
extend a cordial welcome to the new Members of our
Organization.
Addressing the Assembly 20 years ago, Willy Brandt
said that the Federal Republic of Germany’s purpose in
joining the United Nations was to help serve the cause of
world peace. That has always been, and will remain, the
fundamental aim of German foreign policy. At that time, in
In that year, 1973,
a bipolar world, Germany was divided.
the October war broke out in the Middle East.
In South
Africa the inhuman apartheid regime was dominant. Today
my country is united in peace and harmony with our
neighbours. Today we can congratulate Israel, the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) and neighbouring Arab
countries on a historic breakthrough. Today the policy of
apartheid has been overcome. Without the resolve to seek
peace, these developments would not have been possible.
World peace, which appears to have come closer as
bipolarity has receded, must not remain an unfulfilled vision.
The international community’s desire for peace led to the
founding of the United Nations after the Second World War.
It remains our moral and political obligation to fulfil that
legacy. There can be no more important task. In the quest
for peace we are faced with a new challenge and a new
danger, but we also have a historic opportunity.
We are faced with the great challenge of overcoming
hunger and poverty around the world, of preserving the
natural sources of life, and of creating the foundations for a
long-term global population policy. When people have to
leave their native lands, when human rights are violated,
there can be no peace. Peace is not merely the silence of
guns. Hence, economic and social challenges must be very
the end of
Our opportunity, after
the East-West
confrontation, is to develop the United Nations into what its
founding fathers intended it to be:
the principal guardian of
peace. In performing that role the United Nations must have
the support of the numerous other international organizations
that are functioning successfully today.
I truly believe that we can master the economic,
ecological and social challenges and overcome the danger of
a relapse into a confrontation of States, peoples, cultures and
religions only if we resolutely seize the historic opportunity
to strengthen the global multilateral system and the United
Nations.
Today no country alone can cope with global
challenges. Hence we must counteract nationalism with
German foreign policy is aimed at
multilateralism.
It is committed
strengthening the multilateral world order.
to the goal of European integration.
Its purpose is to
harmonize and create a fair balance of interests. German
foreign policy is therefore a policy within, in support of, and
together with the United Nations.
I agree with the Secretary-General: Peace can only be
preserved if we strike at the roots of conflict. His proposed
agenda for development must go hand-in-hand with "An
Agenda for Peace". Misery, starvation and poverty are still
the overriding problem in many countries.
countries
agreed
on
and
industrial
At the eighth session of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development and at the Rio Conference, the
developing
a
comprehensive partnership for promoting development and
protecting the environment.
For that partnership to be
successful both sides, North and South, must contribute their
share. By carrying out economic and political reforms,
making more efficient use of their funds and cutting military
expenditure, and ensuring greater democratic control and
respect for the rule of law, many developing countries have
embarked on the right course. The World Summit for Social
Development, scheduled to take place in Copenhagen in
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
1995, must be a forum for dialogue on the social issues
re-emerging all over the world.
investment,
The industrial countries have undertaken to support the
efforts of the developing countries by improving the general
conditions for world trade in a spirit of solidarity. Such
assistance can never be more than help towards self-help.
What is required is more entrepreneurial cooperation with
developing countries, more direct
improved
cooperation in the field of technology,
the opening of
markets and the elimination of trade barriers. The Uruguay
Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) must at long last establish reliable rules for free
trade and be brought to a conclusion by December 15.
Germany, one of the leading trading nations, is committed
to these goals. If new trading blocs were to form, with the
attendant conflicting interests, new political confrontations
would soon follow.
Protectionism would be the worst
outcome.
The global economy is in the throes of a fundamental
structural change.
International competition is becoming
more intense. Many highly industrialized societies are
confronted with fresh challenges. Unemployment and
sluggish growth are unexpectedly severe burdens on their
productive capacity, both domestically and externally. On
the other hand, the trend towards a single world economy
opens up the first opportunity for billions of people to offer
their products in all markets.
All of us, industrial and developing countries alike,
must make peace with nature. The United Nations is called
upon to protect the natural foundations of life.
I propose
that the United Nations develop an early-warning system for
environmental disasters. The momentum of the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development must
be maintained. My country is ready for comprehensive
cooperation. Germany can make a special contribution,
particularly as regards the transfer of environment-friendly
technologies.
The population explosion is a threat to the planet’s
equilibrium. Whereas in the eighteenth century the world
population increased by a quarter of a billion in 75 years, it
is now increasing by this number every three years. Most
of this increase is taking place in countries whose economic
and ecological resources are already strained to the limit.
Family planning must be enhanced, the poverty gap reduced,
and education and knowledge disseminated among women
and men alike. A successful International Conference on
Population and Development, to be held in Cairo next year,
is therefore mandatory.
Respect for human rights is a universal obligation.
It
is a focal point of German foreign policy. Human rights and
the protection of minorities belong together. Racism,
cultural arrogance and the delusion of wanting to create
"ethnically clean" areas constitute a threat
to peace.
Yugoslavia is a terrible example of this. Where civic,
economic, cultural and religious rights of minorities are
concerned, the majority may not rule by fiat.
The Declaration and Programme of Action of the
Vienna World Conference on Human Rights represent the
consensus opinion of the community of nations. They
reaffirm the universal validity of the human rights. Now it
is important
I wish to
mention five specific points:
to seek rapid implementation.
Firstly, my country has long advocated the appointment
of a high commissioner for human rights. He should be
authorized to take steps on his own initiative to protect
human rights and to give active support to those countries
seeking to improve the human rights situation.
Secondly, we need an international criminal court. The
International Law Commission has submitted a full draft
statute for such a court. The pressure on those who trample
human rights under foot must be increased now. Those who
torture on this Earth must live in fear of punishment.
Thirdly, in order to prosecute speedily those who are
responsible for the ghastly violations of human rights in the
former Yugoslavia, the Security Council has set up an ad
hoc Tribunal. The elected judges must now begin their work
right away. A chief prosecutor should be appointed without
delay.
Fourthly,
the non-governmental organizations have
become part of the world’s conscience and therefore have an
increasingly important role to play in the defence of human
rights.
Finally, the instruments for ensuring respect for human
rights must be given a higher priority in the United Nations
budget.
is one of
The crisis in the former Yugoslavia, and especially the
war
in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
the most
depressing episodes of our time. A Member of the United
Nations has fallen victim to a war of conquest accompanied
by genocide and mass expulsions. For the first time since
the Second World War, frontiers in Europe are being
redrawn by force of arms. The principles of the United
Nations have been treated with contempt. The credibility of
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
15
our institutions - indeed the credibility of the United Nations
itself - is being put to the test.
If the fighting continues, the winter will prove to be an
awful disaster for the suffering people. It must therefore be
stopped as quickly as possible and steps taken to ensure that
humanitarian aid is provided. We therefore support the
Geneva efforts to settle the conflict, in spite of doubts about
the current plan, and we express special
thanks to the
Co-Chairmen, Lord Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg, for the
difficult job they are doing.
A settlement now seems within reach, but it must be
accepted by all parties to the conflict. No party must impose
its will on another. The Bosnian Muslims must be given
viable territory. We need an assurance that the community
of nations will be resolutely and actively involved in the
implementation of a settlement.
We cannot tolerate a situation in which the Muslims,
who have lived in Europe for centuries, would have fewer
rights than their Christian neighbours. Through preventive
measures we must ensure that the tragedy of this war does
not spill over into neighbouring regions. What is now
required is proposals for controlled disarmament
in the
region. This is a task for the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
After decades of war and bitter antagonism, the Middle
East is experiencing a historic breakthrough towards peace.
We all want
the peace process to become irreversible.
Germany and its partners in the European Community have
undertaken to provide political, economic and particularly
financial support. They have earmarked about a billion
deutschemarks for this purpose.
I should like to express my respect for both sides for
their political courage and their will for peace.
I call upon
those who still hesitate to help sustain the peace process. I
appeal to all to renounce the use of force.
The continuing proliferation of arms in many parts of
the world is still highly disturbing. President Clinton’s
proposals have our support. Encouraging progress has been
achieved in the form of the Convention placing a global ban
on chemical weapons and of the agreement reached on a
mandate for negotiations in the Geneva Conference on
Disarmament with a view to a comprehensive test-ban treaty.
The test moratorium must be extended. There must be no
further testing.
The nuclear and non-nuclear Powers alike are urged to
consolidate the non-proliferation regime. When the matter
comes up for decision in 1995, the Non-Proliferation Treaty
must be extended indefinitely. As the representative of a
country which many years ago unilaterally and bindingly
renounced the possession of nuclear weapons and other
means of mass destruction, I appeal to all Members: accede
to the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
refugees
and the
The laying of mines in large regions in many countries
has become a scourge for the population.
It prevents the
return of
farming.
Thousands have been killed or horribly mutilated.
It must
be stopped.
The European Community has, with our
support, seized the initiative. We need a fund to finance
mine detection and disposal operations.
resumption of
My country’s European anchorage is indispensable on
both political and economic grounds. My Belgian colleague,
Willy Claes, has already explained the position of the 12
members of the European Community.
Stability in Europe cannot remain a privilege of the
Western nations. The peoples of the reformist countries
fought for their freedom and we encouraged them to do so.
We shall not abandon them now. We must gradually open
the road to the Euro-Atlantic institutions for the countries of
Central and Eastern Europe. Those institutions include the
European Community and the Council of Europe as well as
the Western European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO). I am expecting a clear message from
the NATO summit - which is to take place at the beginning
of 1994 - like the one that came from the European
Community summit meeting in Copenhagen. In this process,
no new ruptures must emerge. A lasting peaceful order in
Europe is not feasible without including Russia.
Over the last four years Germany has made a greater
financial effort than any other nation to help the reformist
countries on their road to democracy, the rule of law and a
free market economy. This assistance,
is a major
contribution to conflict-prevention and the safeguarding of
peace.
In the present critical phase, Russia’s friends and
partners - who include the Germans in particular - must
continue to provide political and economic support for
President Yeltsin’s reforms.
too,
I am concerned about developments in Georgia. We
must achieve a cease-fire and work out a viable political
solution. This is a task for the United Nations in particular.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The desire for peace makes it
imperative for all
countries to seek closer regional cooperation.We
support
intra-Africa efforts to resolve conflicts and welcome the
stronger commitment on the part of the Organization of
African Unity.
We are gratified by the democratic changes to be
observed in Latin America in recent years.
Nearly
everywhere democracy and free-market principles have
asserted themselves and sources of conflict have, thank God,
been eliminated.
The Association of South-East Asian Nations has
become an important
instrument for cooperation in the
Asia-Pacific region. European-Asian cooperation must be
intensified.
"An Agenda for Peace" has become the lodestone for
the world Organization’s further development.
I wish to
take this opportunity, Mr. Secretary-General, to express my
thanks for your commitment. The Security Council and the
General Assembly have constructively taken up the Agenda’s
proposals. However, conflict prevention must begin at an
early stage. Preventing fires is better than having to put
them out. We must focus our energy on the possibilities of
preventive
confidence-building measures,
fact-finding and the early detection of conflicts.
diplomacy,
The CSCE must back the United Nations within its
sphere of jurisdiction.
The relations between the two
organizations have been intensified. The CSCE should be
given wider
scope for conflict prevention and crisis
management.
In wars and crises, the Blue Helmets have helped to
protect the civilian population, to prevent the spread of
warfare and to initiate the transition to democracy. Some
80,000 troops from more than 70 countries are engaged in
17 peace-keeping missions around the world. They and the
United Nations Secretariat’s Department of Peace-keeping
Operations deserve our thanks.
One of the most successful operations was the one in
Namibia.
In Cambodia the United Nations has sponsored
free elections and restored hopes of lasting peace after
decades of terror and oppression. Of course - and it is
important to stress this - not all the hopes placed in the
United Nations can be fulfilled, and it would be wrong to
deny that difficulties have been encountered. But what
would happen without the United Nations and the Blue
Helmets? To the critics I therefore say that we need not less
but more commitment to the United Nations.
In Somalia starvation has been overcome.
The
reconciliation process has been overshadowed by incidents
in which troops and civilians have been killed. These are
tragedies, but without
the United Nations Operation in
Somalia, hundreds of thousands would have had to die.
Germany has been providing humanitarian aid within the
scope of this major peace-keeping operation, our largest
commitment of personnel so far within the framework of the
United Nations.
Our involvement in such operations has the backing of
the German people. There is a consensus in our country in
favour of widening our scope for contributing to peace. We
are
engaged in a passionate debate over proposed
constitutional amendments which would enable Germany to
participate in all United Nations operations without
restriction.
A policy for peace also means strengthening the rule of
law as opposed to the rule of the strong.
If the United
Nations is prevented from carrying out its mandate, it will
have to be in a position to authorize the Security Council to
resort to force, as provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter.
However,
the use of military means
should be
considered only if we have a clear political blueprint for
resolving the conflict. Force must always be the last resort.
Consequently, our contribution to the United Nations will
continue to be of a mainly political and economic nature.
Greater emphasis will have to be placed on United Nations
peace-keeping measures
growing
in
responsibilities and demands.
view of
the
First, the United Nations Secretariat’s Department of
Peace-keeping Operations must be improved logistically and
organizationally and in terms of staff.
The German
Government is willing to make further experts available to
the Secretariat.
Secondly, effective crisis management presupposes the
ability to react swiftly. The Secretary-General’s initiative for
the establishment of stand-by forces has my support.
Stand-by forces should not be confined to military units but
should include civilian personnel and experts ranging from
police to election observers. But participation must always
be voluntary and be subject to the fulfilment of national
conditions.
Thirdly, enhancing the efficiency of the United Nations
presupposes a link-up of military forces. The North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) has declared its willingness to
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
17
make its capacities available. The same holds true for the
Western European Union (WEU).
Fourthly, in many countries military training is geared
solely to the traditional duties of the army. The specific
tasks of peace-keeping require a completely different kind of
training. The national preparation of "Blue-Helmet" forces
needs to be coordinated to a greater degree by the United
Nations. For this, common training guidelines are needed.
The United Nations should also create its own training
capacity; that is my view. Common training and exercises
are, at the same time, important steps in confidence-building.
Fifthly,
peace-keeping
sound
financing. The responsibility for peace also includes the
prompt and complete payment of contributions by all
Members.
operations
require
region,
in the Gulf
Humanitarian concerns have been of pivotal importance
for Germany’s involvement in United Nations activities from
the very start.
In the Middle East, in Africa, in South-East
Asia,
in Somalia and in former
Yugoslavia we are providing humanitarian assistance. We
have assumed responsibility for transport, medical care, the
monitoring of disarmament measures and the repatriation of
refugees.
Together with our partners in the European
Community we have called for the creation of a post of
coordinator for humanitarian assistance.
to development.
in peace. My country, Germany, sees this as a priority of its
commitment
is why Germany
participates in missions to observe elections, provides
economic experts, and assists in the creation of democratic
administrative, judicial and police institutions.
That
I should like to stress that a culture of peace is another
prerequisite for lasting peace. Not only governments but
also individual citizens must develop the will for peace if we
want to overcome racial hatred and religious conflict. A
culture of peace encompasses a dialogue between ethnic
groups as well as between religions and cultures. The
Europeans live next door to and in close contact with Islam.
We need bridges of mutual understanding, not new enemy
images. We need to promote education for peace. The
United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO), with its mandate to foster relations
between nations, therefore deserves comprehensive support.
Germany advocates the strengthening of all United
Nations bodies. We do not want a never-ending discussion
on reform, but greater efficiency. We welcome the
Secretary-General’s efforts to reorganize the Secretariat.
The efforts to revitalize the General Assembly and the
Economic and Social Council also meet with our full
support. We would be happy if the United Nations were
better represented in Germany and have therefore made an
offer
technical
cooperation to Bonn.
institutions of
relocation of
the
for
Part of our humanitarian commitment is the readiness
to assist refugees from the civil war, whose situation is very
distressing. We have admitted more than 350,000 refugees
from former Yugoslavia.
I urge the General Assembly to
use every opportunity to strengthen the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Mrs.
Ogata deserves high praise for the job she is doing. More
international solidarity and burden-sharing is called for. We
must not abandon those countries which, as neighbouring or
target countries for the refugees, are particularly affected.
The aim must be to offer shelter to refugees from civil wars
or other disasters near their home countries in order to
facilitate their early return to those countries. For this we
need binding rules.
I therefore propose the drafting of an
international convention to regulate large-scale refugee
movements.
Another focal point of our involvement
in United
Nations activities has been what the Secretary-General refers
to in his "Agenda for Peace" as post-conflict peace-building.
Lasting peace depends on the establishment of democratic
and market-economy structures based on the rule of law.
Investment in the democratization process is an investment
The most important decisions on security and peace are
today made in the Security Council. This is what the
Charter envisaged right from the start. Anyone who wants
peace must strengthen the Security Council.
In its response to the Secretary-General’s request, the
Federal Government has stated that efficiency and credibility
are of equal importance for the future composition of the
Security Council.
Germany is prepared to assume responsibility as a
I stated
permanent member of the Security Council also.
this at the last session of the General Assembly. However,
we will be able to maintain and strengthen the credibility of
the Council only if, in deliberating on reforming it, we also
take into consideration the growing importance of the third
world.
Finally, let me state that Germany wants to be and will
be a driving force in efforts to strengthen the United
Nations. We need to achieve a basic consensus for the
important tasks ahead of us. In my view this consensus lies
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The law protects the weak and
in the rule of law.
legitimizes force where it is unavoidable. The law is an
expression of partnership and is opposed to tyranny and
hegemony.
It is the acceptance of law that creates justice.
Only where justice reigns can peace flourish.
Mr. QIAN Qichen (China)
(interpretation from
Chinese): At the outset I should like warmly to congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the current
session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that given
your proven talent and extensive experience, and with the
cooperation of all delegations, you will steer our session to
full success.
I also wish to express my sincere thanks to
your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his remarkable
accomplishments during the last session.
I would like to
take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome and
congratulations to the new Members which have been
admitted to the United Nations this year.
The world has moved into a transitional period towards
multipolarity since the disintegration of the bipolar structure.
It had been hoped that the end of the cold war would bring
peace and prosperity to the world. Indeed, the prospects of
avoiding another world war and ensuring a lasting peace
have improved. However, contradictions that had lain
dormant during the cold war have begun to emerge, and
manifestations of hegemonism and power politics
in
international relations are on the rise. Peace and devel-
opment, so ardently aspired to by mankind, still face grave
challenges.
The relative stability Europe once enjoyed has been
upset. Many countries are plagued by severe economic
slumps or by political upheaval. Some regions are torn by
ethnic or religious feuds exacerbated by territorial disputes,
leading to intermittent conflicts and armed clashes. A
regional war is raging at the southern end of the Eurasian
land mass. All this can only have a negative impact on
Europe and on the world at large.
In the meantime, a number of developed countries have
developed a "post-cold-war syndrome". Some have sunk
into the longest recession since the Second World War.
In
the new setting,
internal contradictions have sharpened,
political scandals are rife, racism has reared its ugly head,
trade protectionism is on the rise, and xenophobic violence
is spreading. Public disaffection has been manifest, and the
entrenched political establishment has been shaken. This
trend has adversely affected the stability of the countries
concerned and complicated international relations.
The new international environment has led to an even
more dire plight for many developing countries. Increasing
foreign intervention has heightened various internal factors
of instability, thus compounding their difficulties. Their
rights to independence, subsistence and development have
been neither duly respected nor safeguarded. Therefore,
interference from the outside should cease, and the
international community should give top priority to helping
those countries achieve political stability and overcome
economic difficulties. Lasting world peace and stability will
remain elusive if the developing countries are still beset by
persistent political unrest and if
the North-South gap
continues to widen.
There is no denying the
that peace and
development remain the overriding issues of our time. To
preserve peace and accelerate development has become the
pressing demand of the people of all countries, but especially
of those in the developing countries.
fact
Moreover,
The world we live in is as diversified as ever. There
are now more than 180 independent sovereign States, which
differ not only in social systems but also in stages of
development.
they have widely diverse
ideologies, cultural traditions, ethnic identities and religious
faiths. We should recognize and respect those differences
and diversities, and treat each other as equal members of the
international community. We should promote interchanges
in the spirit of seeking common ground while setting aside
differences. We should oppose any attempt to impose a
particular model on large numbers of countries, as diverse as
they are.
We believe
that
there
accepted norms of
can be genuine peace,
international harmony and common development among
States only when international relations strictly conform to
the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter
and are based on the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence
and other
conduct.
Increased economic and cultural interchanges between States
have deepened their interdependence.
is absolutely
necessary that States open up to each other; enhance
exchanges, mutual understanding and cooperation; and share
the benefit of complementarity. But all this will be possible
only on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual
benefit.
international
It
In order to attain the overall objective of peace and
development,
the Chinese Government has on many
occasions called for the establishment of a new international
political and economic order of peace, stability, justice and
rationality based on the Five Principles of Peaceful
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
19
threat of
Coexistence and on the recognition of the diversity of the
world and of the differences among States. Under the new
order, mutual respect and cooperation between States on an
equal footing will replace hegemonism and power politics;
peace talks, dialogue and consultations will replace the use
or
force; and equality, mutual benefit and
accommodation of each other’s needs will replace trade
protectionism and unequal exchanges.
The Chinese
Government is ready to cooperate extensively with all other
countries and will continue to make unremitting efforts for
the establishment of such a new order, and for peace and
development of the world.
The report
"An Agenda for Peace"
(A/47/277)
submitted by the Secretary-General contains many important,
thought-provokinq recommendations and ideas that deserve
careful consideration. We commend the Secretary-General
for his efforts therein. As a permanent member of the
Security Council, China has always supported the positive
endeavours of the United Nations in preserving world peace
and stability, promoting global development and resolving
international disputes. We support the further enhancement
and strengthening of the United Nations constructive role in
preventive diplomacy, in peacemaking and peace-keeping on
the basis of the purposes and principles of the Charter.
As
the frequency and scope of United Nations
peace-keeping operations is growing, we deem it important
and relevant to stress such basic principles of the Charter as
respect for the sovereignty of, and non-interference in, the
internal affairs of Member States. Those principles must be
strictly observed at all times when undertaking preventive
diplomacy,
or post-conflict
peace-building. Prior consent and pledges of cooperation by
the parties must be obtained, and strict impartiality should
prevail in all peace-keeping missions. Only in this way can
United Nations preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping
operations fulfil the underlying purposes of the Charter and
achieve the desired positive result.
peace-keeping
operations
The peaceful settlement of international disputes is an
important principle of the Charter, one which we deem to be
the essence of preventive diplomacy. Everything should be
done to bring the opposing parties to the negotiating table
before the outbreak of conflicts, so that
they can start
consultations to achieve a peaceful settlement. All disputes
between States, regional conflicts or even internal conflicts,
however complex they may be, should be amenable to a
political solution, and nothing should be done to aggravate
the situation.
Not long ago, the Palestine Liberation Organization and
the Government of Israel signed an agreement on mutual
recognition and on the question of self-government for
Palestinians. Although just a beginning, the move was a
major breakthrough in the settlement of the Middle East
question, which has dragged on for nearly half a century.
This agreement was the result of efforts by the international
community and by both Palestine and Israel to settle an
international dispute by peaceful means. We sincerely
welcome and wish to express our congratulations at this
development. We can see from this that as long as a
glimmer of hope remains, one must not give up the pursuit
of a peaceful settlement.
Needless to say, one should adopt a very serious
attitude towards, and firmly oppose, any act of aggression
that tramples on the sovereignty of another country, such as
larger States bullying smaller ones or the strong lording it
over the weak in the international arena. We disapprove of
the indiscriminate use of sanctions or force in the name of
the United Nations. We also believe that humanitarian
missions must not be transformed into military operations
and that a war cannot be stopped by
expanding it.
It must be noted that in a world troubled by recurrent
regional conflicts and interwoven contradictions, the United
Nations alone cannot hope to resolve all
international
disputes.
It has the duty to undertake this task and
maintain international peace and security. But regional
organizations should also be taken into account and
encouraged, as provided in Chapter VIII of the Charter, to
assume greater responsibility and play a more active role in
this regard.
In view of the proliferation of United Nations
peace-keeping operations and the concomitant demands on
the Organization and Member States in terms of manpower,
finance and material resources, we deem it essential that the
United Nations act within the limits of its means and
enhance the cost-effectiveness of such operations.
the ground without
Peace and development are inseparable. Economic
the
development cannot get off
prerequisites of peace and stability. On the other hand,
unless there is sound economic development,
there can
hardly be secure or enduring peace and stability. We
maintain that the United Nations should meet the demands
of
the developing countries for social and economic
advancement and should give this very high priority. This
is the way to make the United Nations an Organization that
all the countries of the world will support and count on.
This is also the way to enhance further the role and prestige
of the United Nations. Proceeding from this consideration,
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
we in China have stepped up preparations for the fourth
World Conference on Women in Beijing,
scheduled for
1995. We also give vigorous support to the convening of
the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen
the same year.
It must be pointed out that unless the international
community helps the developing countries break loose
quickly from poverty and backwardness, there can be no
sustained growth or prosperity for all. Hence, we call upon
the developed countries
to do more to curb trade
protectionism, contribute more funds for development and
environmental protection, cut back debt burden, increase
official development assistance,
reduce restrictions on
technology transfer and open their markets wider so as to
create a favourable environment for the economic recovery
and revitalization of the developing countries. This will
prove a boon to the developed countries themselves. At a
time when the world economy has become increasingly
interrelated, the revitalization of the developing countries
will be a boost to the world and will spur to the economic
recovery and growth of the developed countries.
Since the founding of the United Nations, tremendous
changes have taken place in the world and in the
Organization itself.
United Nations membership has
increased from the original 51 to 184 now, the majority
being developing countries. The Chinese Government is of
the view that, in keeping with developments, the United
Nations should be restructured, and the composition of the
Security Council could be appropriately enlarged to enable
the Organization better to respond to the changes in the
world, meet the concerns and wishes of the membership and
enhance its own role in international affairs. Reform of the
Security Council should enable it better to discharge its
mandate in accordance with the purposes and principles of
the Charter. It is the collective will and common aspiration
of the membership that in the new circumstances the United
Nations
should be better equipped to address major
international issues vigorously and effectively and in a fair
and balanced manner. Therefore, the reform of the Security
Council and other United Nations organs should take due
account of
equitable geographical
distribution and should accommodate the interests of the
developing countries which make up the overwhelming
majority of the membership. Since any reform would affect
the interests of all Member States and involve a revision of
the Charter, views from all quarters must be heard. The
reform plan should undergo extensive discussions and
consultations by the membership and should be generally
acceptable to all.
the principle of
the same time we hold that
The Chinese Government has stated on many occasions
that China stands for the non-proliferation of all weapons of
mass destruction. At
the
ultimate objective of mankind should be the complete
prohibition and thorough destruction of those weapons. Now
that
the Conventions banning biological and chemical
weapons have been concluded, we deem it high time that the
complete prohibition and thorough destruction of nuclear
weapons were put on the agenda.
The international community has expressed concern
over
the issue of a nuclear-test ban.
The Chinese
Government has always stood for a total test ban within the
framework of
the complete prohibition and thorough
destruction of nuclear weapons. We support an early start
to negotiations for a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty
and will work in common with other countries towards a
comprehensive nuclear-test ban at an early date.
China has always exercised great restraint in nuclear
testing. The number of our tests is the smallest among all
nuclear Powers. While a nuclear test ban is necessary, to
undertake not to use nuclear weapons at all is far more
crucial, because this will not only make their testing,
development, production or deployment devoid of any
meaning, but will give great impetus to nuclear disarmament,
which will contribute tremendously to world peace and
security.
If, however, complete prohibition and thorough
destruction of nuclear weapons cannot be achieved soon
enough, then let the nuclear Powers reach an agreement not
to be the first to use nuclear weapons and not to use them
against non-nuclear-weapon States or nuclear-free zones.
This is entirely feasible and should be done as soon as
possible. This will put nuclear Powers to the test to see
whether they are genuinely willing to treat non-nuclear-
weapon States as equals. China long ago unilaterally under-
took not to be the first to use nuclear weapons at any time
or under any circumstances, and not to use or threaten to use
them against any nuclear-free zone or non-nuclear-weapon
State. We call upon all the other nuclear Powers to make
the same pledge and conclude an international convention to
this effect as soon as possible.
Now there
are
international
arrangements
and
conventions that are designed to control arms transfers and
ban certain types of weapons of mass destruction. Such
conventions are aimed at maintaining international and
regional peace, security and stability. The arrangements
designed to control transfers of missile technology should
also take into account such elements as the arbitrary use of
missiles for attacks on other countries. Otherwise, such an
arrangement will become a means by which certain Powers
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
21
can maintain military superiority or play power politics. That
is morally unjustifiable. We oppose the all-too-frequent
arbitrary use of sanctions by one country to bring pressure
to bear on another under the pretext of controlling arms
transfers while engaging in massive arms sales of one’s own
which jeopardize the sovereignty and security of the country
concerned. We also denounce the hegemonic conduct of a
self-styled "world cop" that tramples upon international law
and norms of international relations by endangering another
country’s navigational safety and normal trading under the
pretext of enforcing the ban on chemical weapons and in
disregard of the provisions of the relevant
international
conventions.
Thanks to the policy of reform and opening to the
world, China’s economy has expanded considerably over the
past 15 years and is now in high gear. Our gross national
product rose 12.8 per cent last year, and the current year’s
growth rate will again be in double digits. Our foreign trade
and economic cooperation have been expanding rapidly.
Total trade volume in 1992 was a 5.2-fold increase over
1978, the year before the start of the reform and opening-up,
and represents an annual growth rate of 13.9 per cent.
Investments from overseas have flowed in rapidly. Nearly
50,000 overseas-funded projects involving $58 billion were
approved in 1992. The momentum has continued into the
current year. High-speed growth has helped basically solve
the problem of feeding and clothing a population of over 1.1
billion and put China on the road towards prosperity. It has
also boosted economic exchanges and cooperation with other
countries. This is good for both China and the world.
taken
But we have encountered some problems as our
economy has picked up speed. These problems will be
resolved by accelerating and deepening our reform. We
have
strengthen
macro-control and readjust the economic structure to ensure
healthy, rapid and steady economic growth. We are fully
capable of attaining our objective. We are full of confidence
in the future of our development programme.
of measures
a
number
to
It is an objective reality that China has indeed achieved
impressive economic success. But it does not tally with the
facts to exaggerate our economic strength. Given China’s
vast
land area, huge population and uneven economic
development in different parts of the country, our per capita
gross national product is still quite low. Ours is still a
developing country.
It will require several generations
working very hard for many decades before we can attain
the level of an average developed country.
At this juncture, I would like to draw attention to
assertions recently bruited about on the international scene:
that China’s economic success would entail a military
build-up, or that China would move to "fill up the vacuum",
thus constituting a threat, and so on and so forth. This is
utterly groundless. A China with a burgeoning economy is
an important factor contributing to the economic well-being
of Asia and the world at large. The Chinese people had
long suffered under imperialist aggression, and it regained
independence only after horrible sacrifices in countless grim
struggles spanning more than a century. Nothing can make
us forget the episodes of our history when our country was
subjected to foreign aggression, dismemberment and
enslavement. Our ancient sage Confucius, that great thinker
and statesman, admonished: "Do not do unto others what
you would not like others to do unto you".
Even when China becomes more developed, we will
never engage in aggression or expansionism; nor will we
ever seek hegemony. This is a pledge which has been
enshrined in our Constitution and which has become part of
our consistent and firm basic State policy. It has been borne
out by facts that China is a staunch force for world peace
and stability. Our limited defence capability is solely for
self-defence purposes. Many of our military industrial plants
have been converted to civilian production. Our military
expenditures are the lowest among the major countries. We
have neither troops nor military bases on foreign territory.
We are immersed in economic construction. Therefore, we
need an international environment of enduring peace as well
as long-term amicable relations with our neighbours. We are
ready to cultivate and strengthen similar relationships with
all other countries on the basis of the five principles of
peaceful coexistence.
No matter how the wind may change its direction on
the world scene, China will unswervingly play its part in
preserving world peace and promoting common prosperity
and development.
Mr. JUPPÉ (France) (interpretation from French):
I
should like first to say, Mr. President, that France is pleased
to see the General Assembly meeting under your guidance
this year. Your election is just testimony to the esteem in
which the international community holds your country.
It
also affords us the opportunity to welcome the "silent
revolution" that has been taking place in Latin America over
the past few years, which has put many States back on the
path of national reconciliation, democracy and economic
development.
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The year which is ending will have been as rich in
promise as it has been fraught with danger. Conflicts once
thought
to be insoluble suddenly seem to be on track
towards resolution. On behalf of my country, I should like
to pay tribute to the men in the Middle East, in South Africa
and in Cambodia who found the courage to take the path
towards reconciliation and peace: Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser
Arafat, F.W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela, His Majesty
King Norodom Sihanouk and all those, known and unknown,
who accompanied or even preceded them on this courageous
path.
The agreement between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) opens the way to the
settlement of a conflict which some had despaired of seeing
resolved, and makes it possible to conceive of a radically
new future for the entire region. This revolution gives us
new reason to believe in human will and encourages us
never to consider the hope for peace as a chimera. From us,
it calls for collective effort, including financial effort, in
order to translate this hope into reality as soon as possible.
It also invites us to erase the aftermath of conflicts as
reflected in past resolutions of this Assembly.
But the end of what was for years called the balance of
terror has also led to new kinds of uncertainty and disorder.
Russia is going through a political and economic
transition that could lead to serious internal difficulties, as
the events of the past few days have shown. In that context,
I should like to reaffirm France’s support for the process of
democratization and reform courageously undertaken by
President Yeltsin.
In the former Yugoslavia war has been raging for two
years, with its attendant death, suffering and destruction.
Other regions in Africa, Central Asia, the Balkans and the
Caucasus are falling or could fall victim to this new type of
conflict, resulting from the break-up of States and the
resurgence of nationalist, ethnic or
religious passions.
Elsewhere, States put under a sanctions regime by our
Organization for failing to comply with the obligations of
international
law or with commitments they have made
persist in refusing to take the measures that would permit
them to regain their place in the international community.
Almost everywhere,
the proliferation of weapons is a
fearsome factor for instability.
In the face of the promises and dangers I have just
outlined, France bases its foreign policy on a few guiding
principles. Whether they are found reassuring or disturbing,
I should like to recall them to the Assembly.
The first principle is the desire for independence.
France has amply demonstrated that it is ready to act in
concert with others where the ends are genuinely collective.
But, needless to say, it does so in complete sovereignty.
Exercising freedom of judgement and choice, France refuses
to follow the orthodoxy of the moment or to succumb to
pressures resulting from relative material strengths.
The second principle, shared by many in this Hall, is a
commitment to our fundamental interests. Like every other
State in this Organization, France has its own strategic,
commercial and cultural interests which it seeks to preserve.
While we are open to negotiation and to the mutual
concessions it
implies, we cannot be made to give up
anything we consider to be an essential element of our
security, our prosperity or our culture.
The third principle is devotion to law and justice.
Beyond its own interests, France aspires to help ensure that
inspired by France,
certain fundamental principles first
among others, triumph throughout the world:
the right of
peoples to self-determination and security, human rights and
the right to development.
is France’s perseverance, and at
Finally, one last aspect of our diplomacy, in the service
of
the others,
times
stubbornness. May I recall our resolve - despite obstacles -
in opening up the path that would eventually lead to the
restoration of peace in Cambodia, and our determination to
see institutional legality restored in Haiti.
These unchanging principles dictate the two main lines
of the policy which my country hopes to implement on the
international stage.
Our ambition concerns Europe first of all.
Whatever
the present difficulties, whatever
the
prevailing scepticism, France will not falter in its resolve to
build with its neighbours a strong, prosperous, democratic
and generous Europe, capable of making its voice heard and
of contributing to world peace. This is an irrevocable choice
for us because the peoples of Europe need a plan that brings
them together, and European unity is the only goal that
measures up to the values they share. Moreover,
the
building of a united Europe is the only way to avert the
dangers threatening our continent at this time:
dangers
arising from the resurgence of the most implacable forms of
nationalism and from the persistence of unacceptable
economic disparities. Europe’s success will serve as an
example for other regions of the world as did in its day the
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
23
reconciliation between France and Germany sought by
General de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer.
I have already spoken of the conflict raging in the
former Yugoslavia.
France has spared no effort to put an end to it. As you
know, France initiated most of
the Security Council
resolutions designed to discourage or punish aggressors.
Together with its partners, France provides an essential part
of the humanitarian aid sent there. Its soldiers represent the
largest of the contingents made available to the United
Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), and more than a
dozen of them have paid for their generous presence there
with their lives. It has so far been the only country to send
reinforcements in accordance with resolution 836 (1993) in
order to contribute to the security of the protected areas and
the Muslim populations there. France was, as well, the first
nation to deplore the inadequacy of the actions taken by the
international community in regard to the former Yugoslavia.
The efforts it has made entitled it to tell those who have
been free with their advice and lessons that they might be
better heard if they were agreeing, when they are able to do
so, to commit their own troops to the field. Once in contact
with the realities of the situation, they would undoubtedly
better appreciate the fact that between negotiated peace and
chaos there is no middle ground.
Let us learn the lessons of this painful experience.
It
is essential for us to acquire the means to avoid the
repetition of such a conflict, and to ensure, without waiting
for future progress in the construction of a united Europe,
that preventive diplomacy, military openness and respect for
the rule of law prevail wherever latent tensions remain. This
is the intent of the proposed pact on European stability
which France has submitted to its European partners and to
which it would like to associate Russia, as well as its allies
across the Atlantic, Canada and the United States.
Europe is, of course, far from being the sole horizon of
France’s action. My country has long-standing, close
relations with many parts of the world. For the long-term
organization of the international scene in the aftermath of the
cold war, France naturally turns to the United Nations.
Because it believes in the mission of the United
Nations, France wants a strong and effective Organization.
This goal involves, first of all, the reforming of the
Its enlargement, which has become
Security Council.
necessary today in the light of the world’s evolution, must
be envisioned as the way to increase its effectiveness.
France understands and supports the aspirations of some
of its partners to exercise their international responsibilities
more actively, provided that
they are ready to commit
themselves in the field. However, the expansion of the
Council should not be achieved at the expense of one or
another group of States; in particular, it must preserve the
capacity of the developing countries to make their voices
heard.
In our view, this is an essential requirement.
In their wisdom,
those who drafted the Charter
recognized that only a group of limited size could take
prompt measures to restore peace when confronted with an
urgent crisis. We should therefore take care that
the
projected enlargement does not lead to a paralysis of the
Council.
France hopes that at its present session the General
Assembly will decide to open discussions on ways to reform
the Security Council. A solution will have to be found that
reconciles
for
effectiveness. This is why enlargement, in our view, will
have to be decided according to a formula combining new
permanent members and additional non-permanent members.
to reform with the desire
the will
The Secretary-General is a key institution of the United
Nations. France would like him to be given the means to
carry through the innovative action he has undertaken.
Allow me to pay a tribute to the energy, authority and
courage with which our Secretary-General is carrying out his
missions.
France approves not only of his political initiatives but
also of his tireless efforts to rationalize the functioning of
our Organization. We must combat the proliferation of
institutions, which consumes our resources and threatens the
coherence of our efforts. We must improve the coordination
of activities linked to development and restore to the
Economic and Social Council
its role as a provider of
stimulus and organization. We must combat administrative
waste wherever it exists, without hesitating to punish any
abuses that may be uncovered. Lastly, we must have more
supervision and greater
transparency in peace-keeping
operations.
The Secretary-General still does not have all the means
to exercise his responsibility to the full. France calls on the
Member States to provide him with those means without
delay. Strengthening the Department of Peace-keeping
Operations, establishing a mechanism for a true general
inspection, and setting up a court for budgetary discipline
are, in our eyes, indispensable measures.
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The
third
requirement
for
strengthening
the
Organization is a clean-up of its finances.
peace and collective security, to promote development and
to address global problems whose international
scale
removes them from the individual action of States.
I
Perhaps
should have begun with this point.
According to an old French saying, money is "the sinew of
war".
It is also the sinew of peace. Our projects for this
Organization will be no more than empty words unless we
have the courage to adopt the new measures that its financial
bankruptcy requires.
30
for
following
days
contributions
First, Member States which do not pay their
the
contributions within
should be
Secretary-General’s
call
penalized. France proposes that market-rate interest should
be imposed on all late payments. This firm stance seems
particularly necessary because the payment of accumulated
arrears alone would suffice to resolve the financial crisis. It
is also consistent with considerations of fairness and political
morality. One cannot simultaneously speak of United
Nations reform, justice and international development and
exempt oneself
from the primary financial obligation
resulting from adherence to our Charter.
It is high time to
measure the generosity of words against the yardstick of
arrears due our Organization.
The establishment of a mechanism for a true general
inspection will, as I have said, make it possible to rationalize
the functioning and costs of the United Nations. France will
support all initiatives to supplement the existing procedures
of internal assessment, which have already shown their
limitations despite the judicious reorganization recently
introduced by the Secretary-General.
Lastly, we must adopt an exemplary budget for the
1994-1995 period. We must not hesitate to reduce
expenditures for obsolete activities. We will also have to
provide sufficient funding for the new mandates entrusted to
the Organization. If, from that, it is necessary to consider a
reasonable increase in the ordinary budget, France, which
has never espoused a dogmatic idea of zero growth, will
readily accept this.
These are concrete measures. They require a collective
effort on the part of Member States. But France is
convinced that we can no longer be satisfied, as in previous
years, with marginal adjustments. The very ability of the
United Nations to carry out its mandate is at stake.
France, as you will have realized, is ambitious for the
United Nations. With the support of renovated institutions
and reorganized financing, the United Nations will be able
to meet the great responsibilities incumbent on it: to preserve
Peace is of course the first of our responsibilities.
The present instability in several parts of the world
compels the United Nations to intervene more and more
frequently in order to check the spread of conflicts and allow
a negotiated solution to be sought. France, for its part, has
wished to participate fully in this effort and is today in the
front
rank of States participating in peace-keeping
operations.
This commitment obviously does not confer any
privilege on us. But our experience enables us to cast a lucid
eye over the operations in which we have participated and
encourages us to reaffirm certain principles and to propose
certain common-sense measures that might help increase the
future effectiveness of our action.
First, greater political control is needed over operations
that have become increasingly complex. Purely military
considerations should never thwart - or even obscure -
political ends. Naturally, regional or defence organizations
may make useful contributions in terms of expertise,
personnel or matériel. But the use of force presupposes that
the guardian of the law - that is, the Security Council -
exercises its authority in the name of the international
community. This it cannot relinquish. That is why France
insisted that the Secretary-General’s Special Representative
to the former Yugoslavia should have authority over all
operations under international mandate.
It is important, it
seems to me, that we should maintain this requirement at all
times. By the same token, France insists that the political
ends of the operation in Somalia should not be lost sight of.
Next, we should systematically consider the question of
the timetable of operations.
As a matter of principle,
time-frames should be
explicitly assigned to each operation in the actual resolution
that institutes it.
It is also important to know when to
terminate operations that go on and on, needlessly dipping
into the means of the Organization and its Member States.
France fully supports the Secretary-General’s efforts on this
score.
Lastly, we must
the
Organization to react. The time that elapses between our
decision to create a force and the implementation of that
decision is far too long. How many weeks did we have to
capacity of
expand the
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
25
wait before the air power authorized by resolution
836 (1993) on Bosnia was eventually deployed? And how
many weeks for the ground reinforcements that had been
announced to reach Sarajevo?
We cannot but note that the current procedures do not
meet the criteria for rapid reaction and flexible use which
are called for in this area.
in
discussions
France does not, however, believe that the Organization
it has
should have its own force. On the other hand,
participated
the
by
Secretariat-General on the concept of stand-by units. These
discussions have resulted in original proposals for "tailor-
made" forces for the United Nations.
In this way, the
Organization could have at its disposal support, transport and
communications capabilities which it currently lacks for
carrying out military actions speedily.
organized
France, which has already offered, in a statement made
by the President of the French Republic, to make available
to the Secretary-General a 1,000-strong contingent for peace-
keeping operations at 48 hours’ notice, will take part in this
effort.
These measures will have another advantage. They will
add an extra degree of effectiveness to preventive diplomacy,
which has to be central to the ambitions we have for the
Organization. This policy requires us to develop and put in
place mechanisms for crisis alert, evaluation and prevention.
Several ideas were put forward in the "Agenda for
Peace" - they included use of fact-finding missions and the
effective deployment of United Nations forces - and have
already been applied to certain difficult situations in Africa,
Central Asia and the Balkans.
In this spirit, the United Kingdom and France are ready
to submit to the Secretary-General proposals for compiling
a list of prominent individuals who could intervene promptly
at his
regional
organizations,
equipment -
specifically in the communications field - necessary for
carrying out their mission completely.
in liaison with appropriate
them with
request,
and
provide
It is through concrete initiatives of this sort, which may
seem modest at
that preventive diplomacy will
gradually assume its rightful place in the maintenance of
peace.
first,
The effort made in relation to disarmament in the past
few years, finally, should continue.
Considerable progress has already been made with the
reduction of stockpiles from the cold-war era. But a new
priority is becoming evident:
the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. To attain this
goal, we must be extremely vigilant in the threefold domain
of nuclear weapons, chemical weapons and ballistic
technologies.
the struggle against
In this light, France welcomes the signing in Paris by
nearly 150 States of the Convention banning chemical
weapons,
the first real multilateral disarmament pact of
general scope, and calls on the States which have not yet
ratified this Convention to do so.
It supports the efforts
being made by several groups of countries to institute
systems of control of missile technology, nuclear exports and
the sale of so-called sensitive products.
France asks, finally, that the non-proliferation regimes
be strengthened.
It reaffirms in particular its desire to see
the Non-Proliferation Treaty prolonged indefinitely and
It continues to believe that it is only the
unconditionally.
Security Council
that can decide on sanctions against
irresponsible behaviour. This would be the case if North
Korea were to fail
its commitments to the
International Atomic Energy Agency.
to respect
What guarantees can be given for collective security
and peace if nothing is done to try to resolve the economic
and social disparities that are so often the source of conflict?
We know that there can be no lasting peace without lasting
economic development. That is why the "Agenda for Peace"
unquestionably requires also an "agenda for development".
France, as is known, has consistently spoken for the
interests of the developing countries, particularly the least
developed, in discussion with its industrialized partners.
It
has tirelessly pleaded - sometimes as a voice crying in the
wilderness - for a substantial increase in the level of official
development assistance in order to permit these countries to
enjoy trade advantages without reciprocity, to ease their debt
burden and stabilize raw-material prices. Our resolve in this
matter will not weaken: how can we accept, for example, a
situation in which every year the African countries pay the
World Bank more than they receive from it?
Nor can we accept the persistence, and sometimes the
worsening, of the most glaring situations of distress. France
has not forgotten the depth of the crisis in sub-Saharan
Africa, with which it has so many ties.
It believes it is
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
essential that the basic achievements of cooperation between
the European Community and the African, Caribbean and
Pacific countries, should be maintained, especially with
regard to trade.
Lastly, our third ambition for the United Nations
concerns the vast issue of societal questions, linked naturally
to the requirements of development but distinct from it.
The protection of human rights, the preservation of the
environment, aid to refugees, the struggle against full-scale
epidemics, organized crime and drug trafficking all have a
worldwide dimension. The Organization must address these
problems with the same energy it expends in the search for
peace and the promotion of development.
Several important dates lie ahead of us. Let us apply
without delay the recommendations unanimously adopted at
the Vienna Conference on Human Rights, particularly the
creation of a post of high commissioner for human rights.
Let us prepare for the conferences in Cairo and Beijing and
the social development summit in Copenhagen with all the
necessary determination, so as to reinforce the cooperation
required in addressing demographic problems, the promotion
of women’s rights and the demands for social development.
Great epidemics have always been a threat
to the
world’s nations. But the need for full-scale international
mobilization is becoming particularly acute in the case of
AIDS in view of the havoc of all kinds caused by the spread
of this malady.
I earnestly hope that, as we approach the
second decade of this struggle, the coherence of United
Nations action, and that of its specialized agencies and of all
States and interested organizations, will be equal to this new
challenge. In this context, France proposes the convening of
a conference next year to bring together the main contributor
countries in the war against this scourge in order to improve
coordination of their efforts and give them a new impetus.
In most cases, these phenomena are not new. However,
the challenge they pose to our societies, in the North and in
the South, is of unprecedented seriousness. They affect
underdevelopment as much as they do the excesses of the
consumer society, and our traditional responses are proving
to be inadequate or ineffective. We need new ideas in this
area. The Secretary-General should have broad power to
take initiatives and make proposals in this matter. France
therefore suggests the formation of a group of prominent
figures chosen for their intellectual and scientific abilities
and moral influence to assist him in this vital task at the end
of our century.
Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993
27
Setting forth such ambitions for the United Nations
might have made the sceptics smile a few years ago. With
the end of the cold war the international community has a
historic opportunity:
no longer to dismiss problems but
perhaps to solve them; no longer to limit conflicts but
perhaps to settle them.
Let us remain clear-sighted. This period could be
merely a brief interlude. If we were to hesitate, would it be
long before peoples succumbed to their basest inclinations,
cast off the rules of international law or put themselves - in
the best of cases - under the sole protection of regional,
competing and potentially hostile solidarities?
We do not have unlimited time. It is therefore our duty
to undertake without delay the reforms required to strengthen
our Organization and to realize its new objectives.
I should like to assure the Assembly that in the pursuit
the United Nations can count on
of these twin goals,
France’s firm resolve.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
