United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 15
ELECTIONS TO FILL VACANCIES IN PRINCIPAL
ORGANS
(b) ELECTION OF 18 MEMBERS OF THE
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL
The PRESIDENT:
This afternoon the General
Assembly will continue with the election of 18 members of
the Economic and Social Council to replace those members
whose terms of office expires on 31 December 1993.
As no candidate obtained the required two-thirds
majority in the previous ballot and one seat still remains to
be filled from among the Asian States, we shall now proceed
to the second restricted ballot.
This third round of balloting shall be restricted to those
two States from among the Asian States which were not
elected but obtained the largest number of votes in the
previous ballot - namely, Kazakhstan and Pakistan. This is
in accordance with rule 94 of the rules of procedure.
Ballot papers will now be distributed.
I ask
representatives to write on the ballot papers the name of the
State for which they want to vote.
34th
PLENARY MEETING
Thursday, 21 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
Ballot papers will be declared invalid if they contain the
name of a State other than Kazakhstan or Pakistan and also
if they contain the name of more than one State.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Yahya (Brunei
Darussalam), Mrs. Valle Camino (Cuba), Mr. Silis
(Latvia), Ms. Iiyambo (Namibia) and Ms. Nicolaisen
(Norway) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 3.35 p.m. and resumed
at 3.45 p.m.
The PRESIDENT: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Group B - Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Pakistan
Kazakhstan
161
2
159
0
159
106
116
43
The following State, having obtained the required two-
thirds majority, was elected a member of the Economic and
Social Council for a period of three years beginning on
1 January 1994: Pakistan.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86939 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.34
10 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The PRESIDENT: I congratulate the State which has
been elected a member of the Economic and Social Council,
and I thank the tellers for their assistance in the election.
The following 18 States have thus been elected
members of the Economic and Social Council for a three-
year term beginning on 1 January 1994: Bulgaria, Chile,
Costa Rica, Egypt, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Indonesia, Ireland, Japan, Pakistan, Paraguay, Portugal,
Senegal, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela and
Zimbabwe.
That concludes our consideration of agenda item 15 (b).
PROGRAMME OF WORK
The PRESIDENT:
I should like to inform members
that on Monday, 25 October, in the afternoon, in addition to
the agenda items already scheduled for that meeting, namely
the introduction of sub-item (b) of agenda item 108
(Effective realization of the right of self-determination
through autonomy) and the consideration of agenda item 22
(University for Peace) and agenda item 23 (Programmes and
activities to promote peace in the world), the Assembly will
take up, as the last
item, agenda item 167 (Building a
peaceful and better world through sport).
The list of speakers for agenda item 167 is now open.
The meeting rose at 3.50 p.m.
