United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
4th
PLENARY MEETING
Tuesday, 27 September 1993
at 10 a.m.
NEW YORK
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
AGENDA ITEM 9
GENERAL DEBATE
The PRESIDENT: Before calling on the first speaker
in the general debate, I should like to remind members of
the decision taken by the General Assembly at
its 3rd
plenary meeting, on 24 September,
that congratulations
should not be expressed inside the General Assembly Hall
itself after a statement has been delivered.
May I also remind members of another decision taken
by the Assembly at the same meeting, namely that speakers
in the general debate, after delivering their statements,
should leave the Assembly Hall through Room GA-200,
located behind the podium, before returning to their seats.
I should also like to remind representatives that, in
accordance with the decision taken by the General Assembly
at its 3rd plenary meeting, the list of speakers will be closed
on Wednesday, 29 September 1993, at 6 p.m. May I request
delegations to be good enough to provide estimated speaking
times that are as accurate as possible so that we can plan our
meetings in an orderly fashion.
Mr. AMORIM (Brazil) (spoke in Portuguese; English
text furnished by the delegation):
It is with great pleasure
that I congratulate you, Sir, and the Republic of Guyana, on
your election as President of the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session.
In so doing, I wish to reaffirm the
traditional ties of friendship between Brazil and Guyana. I
am certain that you will contribute to making this session of
the General Assembly a landmark in the path towards
progress and democracy among nations.
I would also like to express to Mr. Stoyan Ganev,
respected jurist from the Republic of Bulgaria and President
of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, our
recognition for the work he accomplished.
The strong and innovative leadership provided by
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali will continue to be
a factor in furthering the work of our Organization.
At the opening of the debate at this forty-eighth session
of the General Assembly, we are, once again, being swept
by the winds of change. A fresh breeze, bringing us the
message that understanding and peace may finally prevail
over selfish interest, is blowing from the Near East, cradle
of some of the most valuable moral lessons on which our
planetary civilization is built.
Man’s adventure on Earth, driven by reason and by
dreams, has unfolded within the tension between self-interest
and solidarity. In the dialectic interaction between solidarity
and self-interest which has shaped and continues to shape
the destinies of mankind, solidarity has just attained a great
victory, allowing us greater optimism about the future and
about the possibility of the materialization of the perpetual
peace of which Immanuel Kant spoke. Indeed, following the
high hopes ushered in by the end of the cold war, we were
forced to postpone any exclamations of joy as we witnessed
the much-heralded new order transform itself into growing
disorder, marked by the re-emergence of conflicts rooted in
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86605 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.4
4 October 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
particularisms, which were supposed to be among the closed
chapters of history.
with their ramifications in the areas of human rights, the
environment and international security.
We have noticed that the inherent preoccupations of the
cold war have shifted from an East-West axis to a North-
South orientation. New concepts have been used to justify
discriminatory acts with repercussions for the countries of
the South. Some of these concepts were presented under the
cloak of humanitarian or moral values, such as the so-called
"right of intervention" and "good governance"; others are
renewed versions of old practices, such as eco-protectionism.
At the same time, the countries of the North tightened their
controls on the entry of dispossessed people from the South,
many of whom came from former colonies. Thus, peace of
mind was to be preserved along with the exclusive privileges
of post-industrial society. At the same time, just when they
were enjoying new heights of freedom, some of the peoples
formerly subjected to authoritarian rule were carried away in
nationalistic exaltation, the consequences of which continue
to parade before spectators who are as shocked as they are
powerless.
It was as "glad tidings", in an almost Biblical sense,
that
the world welcomed the news
that peace and
understanding were possible in a region marked up to now
by pain and conflict. The handshake between Mr. Yitzhak
Rabin and Mr. Yasser Arafat is emblematic of the close of
this century, a symbol indicating that history is not over, as
some have suggested, but rather that it is just beginning,
after a long, dark and turbulent pre-history, in which the
mark of Cain has always prevailed over the profound desire
for lasting peace felt by all peoples.
In this same spirit, I reiterate the solidarity of Brazil
with the Russian people, who continue to face the challenges
of the process of democratic transition, which we are
confident will succeed in their country.
It is therefore with renewed faith in the ability of
mankind to find solutions to the problems it continuously
creates for itself that we begin our work at this forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly.
Exactly thirty years ago, another Minister of External
Relations of Brazil, a career diplomat
like myself,
Ambassador João Augusto de Araujo Castro, pointed out that
the task of the United Nations could be summed up in what
he called the "3 D’s":
Disarmament, Development,
Decolonization. Today, with the virtual elimination of the
last remnants of colonialism, I could paraphrase him by
stating that the international agenda is once again structured
around three "D’s": Democracy, Development, Disarmament,
The changes we have witnessed have not been limited
to the international sphere. Ethical advancements have also
been made in the domestic sphere of countries, where ethics
have prevailed over the petty interplay of interests which
usually makes up day-to-day politics and which leads so
many young people to disbelief and to turn away from the
ideal of citizenship, without which man cannot fully realize
his calling as a social being.
I believe that I can proudly
assert that my country, Brazil, despite the inherent problems
of underdevelopment, has placed itself at the forefront of this
"ethicalization" of political relations, which goes far beyond
the almost bureaucratic concept of "good governance".
We can still hear the echoes - and the world’s most
important opinion makers did not fail to register them - of
the resounding popular campaign which, in perfect harmony
with the legislative and judiciary branches of the Brazilian
Government,
led to the impeachment of a president.
Through an exclusively internal process, which emerged and
developed within the Brazilian people and their legitimate
representatives, a rarely seen lesson in citizenship was given,
by the use of a legal instrument which, though present in
other countries, had never been implemented to its ultimate
consequences as it was in Brazil.
In this process the
Brazilian people counted on the support of a press which,
with courage and boldness, put to good use the freedom it
was once again enjoying after two decades of authoritarian
rule.
Mr. Marker (Pakistan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
It is with justifiable pride that I am able to state, before
this world assembly, that Brazil has etched a mark - and not
a minor one - in the evolution of political institutions. I am
certain that the peaceful and strictly legal and constitutional
manner in which this transition took place in Brazil will be
a necessary reference in books that may come to be written
about the history of democracy in our time. I would like to
stress that the process which led to this feat - and a feat
indeed it was - was set in motion and ran its course neither
as the product of any form of external pressure, nor in
response to any action inspired by standards of governance
imposed from outside, but solely and exclusively as the
result of
the deepest sense of citizenship shared by
Brazilians of every social class.
Since taking office, President
Itamar Franco has
imposed upon himself and upon the Government he leads
absolute respect for the Constitution and for the laws of the
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
3
country and, above all, for the unchanging principles of law
and ethics. Among the constitutional rights of the human
being and of the citizen are those laid down in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, which our Constitution
incorporates and expands upon. Ensuring respect for those
rights - in protecting indigenous populations, in safeguarding
children and families, in guaranteeing political freedom and
access to justice - has been the determined policy of the
current Government, and is the challenge we face after a
long period in which economic growth and social
development did not tread convergent paths.
Within an atmosphere of freedom in which the project
of building an open democratic and pluralistic society is
moving forward, we are seeking to solve our macroeconomic
problems while steering clear of the authoritarian temptation
of
recourse to technocratic formulas based on closed
decision-making structures. Although it may seem, on
occasion, more efficient, technocracy tends too frequently to
impose excessive sacrifices on the poorest and most
vulnerable sectors of the population. The road we are following -
that the Government of President Itamar Franco is following
- is another, perhaps more complex and arduous one, but
certainly one that is more democratic and more capable of
leading to consensual and sustainable results.
human
rights
rule.
the other
Democracy,
The Brazilian Government and society are both aware
that the difficult issues we are confronted with in the area of
human rights are deeply intertwined with the social
imbalances inherited from decades of insensitivity rooted in
authoritarian
and
development make up another indissoluble triad. None of
to complete fruition in the
those terms can be brought
absence of
two;
that
is why the Brazilian
Government attaches such importance to the resumption of
growth and the expansion of employment along with a fairer
distribution of income, the only solid and sustainable basis
with which to ensure social development and the full
realization of human rights. That is also the reason for the
importance attached to programmes, such as the programme
to combat hunger, which have emerged in our society and
which can count on the full and resolute support of the
Government.
We know only too well, however, that problems in the
area of human rights - to which recent incidents that shocked
Brazilian society and the world bear witness - cannot wait
for development to be consolidated and for welfare to reach
all of society. At the same time as we seek to solve them
radically - that is, by attacking their social and economic roots -
we must also attend to the more immediate aspects. To this
end, the Government is determined to act, at different levels,
under the inspiration and the guidance of the President, who
is personally committed to this task.
Transparency in the decisions and actions of
the
Government constitutes an important aspect of Brazilian
politics. Such transparency manifests itself in, among other
actions, the fluid and cooperative dialogue maintained with
segments and organizations of society dedicated to the
struggle for the observance of human rights in the country.
This open and constructive spirit is not restricted, by the
way, within our own borders: we seek and maintain
cooperation on issues related to human rights with other
countries,
non-governmental
organizations, with which we are devising new methods of
action for safeguarding the rule of law and in favour of the
adequate protection of human rights on the basis of mutual
respect.
intergovernmental
and
For this reason,
We do not disregard the fact that impunity may turn out
to be the Achilles’ heel of any policy aimed at the full
implementation of human rights and the elimination of
violence.
the President has personally
determined measures - whose implementation he has been
following - for every case in which the human rights of
children, of indigenous populations, of women or of any
citizen have been violated.
ln this endeavour, he has the
support of Brazilian society, which will not tolerate impunity
as it did not tolerate corruption and the breach of ethical
standards in politics.
With specific reference to indigenous populations, we
are currently proceeding with the necessary strengthening of
the Government’s presence in the Amazon region in order to
protect simultaneously the population and the environment,
both of which are frequently exposed to predatory activities;
these result from an encounter of civilizations that began
five centuries ago and extends up to today.
Here again, the dialectics of solidarity and self-interest
are at work;
the increased effectiveness of actions
undertaken by the Brazilian Government in the Amazon
region, in conformity with the full and irrevocable exercise
of our sovereignty, is fundamental if we are to ensure the
protection and defence of all the region’s inhabitants and, in
particular, those of the Brazilian indigenous protected areas,
which amount to the impressive total of over 800,000 square
kilometres.
The special importance we attach to human rights in the
domestic sphere is also reflected in our diplomatic action, as
was evidenced at the World Conference held in Vienna last
June.
to chair the drafting
The nomination of Brazil
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
committee of the Conference was both an honour and a
challenge; we offered our collaboration with satisfaction with
a view to the Vienna consensus being expressed at the
highest and most democratic level. The Vienna Declaration
and Programme of Action constitute a significant advance in
the promotion and protection of human rights, including by
refining concepts now unquestionably acknowledged as
universal. By reaffirming the interdependence of all human
rights, all of which require equal protection, the Declaration
recognizes that individual rights become little more than
legal fiction if the bearers of such rights and the States
which must guarantee them lack the material resources with
which to ensure them.
international
The promotion and the defence of the democratic
regime inside each country are not sufficient: a vigorous
effort of democratization of
is
essential, in conformity with two notable phenomena of
current times:
the wide consensus on the advantages of
representative democracy and the growing linkage between
the domestic and the international spheres. This twofold
perception leads us of necessity to the recognition that the
democratic ideal is applicable with equal validity to relations
between nations.
relations
We note with satisfaction the establishment of a virtual
consensus on the need to update the composition of the
Security Council.
It is our understanding that the growing
role of the Council in matters which affect the fundamental
interests of Member States corresponds to the need to ensure
a more representative composition, and so enhance the
Council’s legitimacy and its efficiency. The reform of the
Council must be achieved in such a way as not to aggravate
further the imbalance between developed and developing
countries in the decision-making process of the United
Nations.
the definitive
democratic organ within the United Nations system, must
play a decisive role in shaping that process.
The General Assembly, as
The democratization of
the international order protect
relations between nations
demands that
them and
guarantee their rights against illicit acts and abuses of power.
There can be no democratic society if the rule of law is not
strictly observed and if the less powerful are not sheltered
from arbitrary acts by those who wield force and power. In
today’s world, it is no longer admissible to say, in the words
of Pascal’s well-known aphorism,
that "as it was not
possible to make the righteous mighty, the mighty were
made righteous".
The material progress of peoples is to a large extent the
It is beyond
product of their own, irreplaceable efforts.
doubt, however, that such progress is contingent upon the
prevalence of a favourable external environment.
is
therefore imperative that
international society, acting in
solidarity, encourage the creation of conditions for progress,
not for the preservation of privilege.
It
Apart from its intrinsic importance, the development of
all nations is the only factor that can genuinely reduce the
imbalances that are so patently expressed, for instance, in the
growing flow of migrants and refugees. In a global society,
social
justice becomes an indispensable condition for
preventing crises, for alleviating tension, for consolidating
democracy and for promoting human rights.
If we are to undertake a wide-ranging exercise of
preventive diplomacy we must realize that only socially and
environmentally sustainable economic development provides
an effective means to accomplish our goals.
to development and,
In the pursuit of development the United Nations has a
fundamental role to play. We must make sure that the
Organization will act urgently to impart renewed life to its
therefore, also its
commitment
capacities in the economic and social field.
Imbued with
this hope, Brazil has supported and continues to support
vigorously the initiative of an agenda for development. We
are confident that the Secretary-General will present us with
a proposal that will be no less innovative, bold and rich in
ideas than was "An Agenda for Peace".
Similarly, great store is set by the work of
the
Commission on Sustainable Development. Brazil expects
the Commission to be an effective tool for putting into effect
the commitments undertaken in Rio de Janeiro in 1992.
In the same vein we give our wholehearted support to
the holding of the World Summit for Social Development,
a most
timely initiative of the Government of Chile, a
country to which we are linked by close ties of South
American brotherhood and partnership in the Rio Group.
We should not however be misguided by illusions.
Only a dynamic insertion in the cross-currents of trade and
technology will allow developing countries to reap their fair
share of the fruits of progress. To that end we advocate a
strengthened multilateral trading system that can guarantee
both an adequate reward for our effort at trade liberalization
and a normative framework to discourage protectionism and
unilateral measures. Today that entails the need for a
prompt and balanced conclusion of the Uruguay Round,
without discrimination or impositions. The significance of
the Uruguay Round projects
strictly
far beyond its
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
5
Its successful outcome will be
commercial aspects.
instrumental in framing an international order that is open
and propitious for cooperation, thus preventing a splintering
of economic relations into self-contained blocs.
for
the basis
The vigorous involvement of the community of nations
in the pursuit of development must be consonant with the
principle of State sovereignty. Brazil views the sovereign
nation-State as
the legal and political
international order.
It must not be weakened lest we
undermine the very basis of international representation and
of the multilateral system. Attempts to play down the
principle of national sovereignty - which incidentally are
hardly ever targeted at the more powerful States - would be
a step backwards in the effort towards more democratic
international relations. At a moment when we are building
the future multilateral
system we should not allow
differences in power among nations to replace the sovereign
equality of States. The warning sounded by Ruy Barbosa,
the distinguished Brazilian jurist and statesman, at
the
Second Peace Conference of the Hague in 1907, remains
fully valid. In discussing the composition of the Permanent
Court of Arbitration he stressed that if certain proposals
were to prevail, then:
"The great Powers would no longer be more formidable
only as a result of the strength of their armies or of
their fleets. They would also enjoy a superior legal
status in the international judicial forum, thus claiming
a privileged situation in the very institution to which
the administration of justice among nations is to be
entrusted."
The international order we seek to build rests also on
a third pillar, that of disarmament. Brazil, along with its
neighbours and partners in Latin America, particularly
Argentina, has been making an important contribution to
advancing disarmament and international security.
The
revision of
the Treaty of Tlatelolco,
the
establishment and work of the Brazil-Argentina Agency for
Accounting and Control of Nuclear Material (ABACC) and
the Quadripartite Agreement on International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) Safeguards, which have just been approved
by the Brazilian Chamber of Deputies, thus meeting an
important
the
international community with the guarantees of our
commitment to the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
requirement
ratification,
provide
for
We reaffirm our support for the non-proliferation, in all
its forms, of weapons of mass destruction.
In relation to
chemical weapons, we, with Chile and Argentina, have
already signed the Mendoza Declaration in which we
solemnly renounced the possession and production of such
weapons. We were equally active participants in the process
that led to the adoption of the Convention on the Prohibition
of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of
Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, signed in Paris
early this year.
We are gratified by the current observance, although on
a somewhat fragile basis, of a moratorium on nuclear tests.
We hope that the climate resulting from this moratorium will
bring forth the early conclusion,
through multilateral
negotiations, of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty.
Brazil, as is well known, has been participating in a
clearly positive and transparent way in the process of
establishing the United Nations Register of Conventional
Arms.
Brazil’s experience in the field of peace-building and
confidence-building is noteworthy. Brazil shares almost
17,000 kilometres of
land borders with 10 different
neighbouring countries.
No other nation has had
uninterrupted relations of peace and cooperation for so long
and with so many neighbouring States. Very few countries
spend as little on arms - as a percentage of national product -
as Brazil.
At the same time Brazil does not renounce its right to
maintain, in good harmony with its neighbours and partners,
an adequate and legitimate defence capacity. Nor does it
renounce its right to have access to technology necessary for
the well-being of the Brazilian people.
By undertaking firm and unambiguous commitments in
the field of non-proliferation and disarmament, Brazil
believes it is entitled to expect from its more developed
partners unimpeded access to high technology, if necessary
on a commercial basis.
shortcomings, United Nations
Recent history gives proof that, despite persistent and
peace-keeping
serious
operations are important
for overcoming situations of
conflict, some of which are quite old, complex and delicate.
The need for an improved conceptual framework for peace-
keeping operations must be kept under constant review by
the United
the General Assembly.
Nations will
to
maintaining peace and security wherever they may be
threatened. Brazil currently participates with a significant
contingent of military observers in United Nations peace-
keeping efforts. We intend to expand our presence in this
contribute with sober
is expected that
effectiveness
It
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
We remain gravely concerned about the situation of
human rights and democracy in Haiti. The prospect for a
prompt solution to the crisis in that country is high on our
agenda. We look forward to the return of President Jean-
Bertrand Aristide on 30 October.
The restoration of peace in the former Yugoslavia is a
priority for the international community in order to bring to
an end the suffering of the populations involved in that
conflict. A willingness to achieve agreements acceptable to
all parties must prevail in Geneva, as in the capitals of the
former federation. That willingness alone can enable the
United Nations to play its irreplaceable role in bringing
peace to that region.
Our example, and our response to these challenges, will
frame the future order to which we all aspire: an order that
is democratic, stable, disarmed and committed to the
material and spiritual development of all nations.
The humanistic vision that inspires us was forcefully
diplomat,
expressed
João Cabral de Melo Neto, in these words:
Brazilian
by
a
poet
and
"Learn this:
that man is the best measure always,
And more: that life, not death, is the measure of man."
The President returned to the Chair.
The meeting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and
resumed at 11 a.m.
field and we are actively examining ways and means to do
this.
Within that context it is essential to rectify the serious
political and strategic mistake of envisaging the South as an
area of international instability. Quite the contrary, various
regions such as Latin America provide examples of stable
relations of cooperation based on mutual trust, as illustrated
by the vigorous processes of Latin American integration
which, far beyond their mercantile aspects, are the material
expression of a political project aimed at
international
cooperation and solidarity. Such processes, including that of
the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR), are in
stark contrast with the trends of fragmentation seen in other
parts of the world.
Yet another clear demonstration of the potential for
cooperation is taking shape in the Community of Portuguese-
Speaking Countries. Far more than a means of expression,
"lusiphonia" is the hallmark of a frame of mind, a form of
being, a way of life predicated on tolerance and open
relations among different peoples.
The Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South
Atlantic reinforces our links to sister nations in Africa. The
enhancement of political and economic relations within the
Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic is a
goal towards which we are determined to work, having
regard, among other issues, to the constitution of a vast area
free of the nuclear threat. We furthermore expect to have
the pleasure of celebrating the full admission to the South
Atlantic community of a democratic and united South Africa,
free forever from the scourge of racism.
The historic speech delivered by Mr. Nelson Mandela
just a few days ago from this same rostrum warrants the
expectation and confirms the idea that in spite of remaining
obstacles the process of democratization in South Africa is
now irreversible.
We are forced to admit that serious areas of tension
continue to exist in the world. By virtue of our historical
ties of friendship, cooperation and cultural kinship with
Angola, the situation in that country is of particular concern
to us. The international community, through the United
Nations, has a fundamental role to play in the defence of
democracy in Angola and in the utter rejection of the use of
force as a means of achieving political gains. Peace must
prevail
in Angola in full compliance with the Bicesse
Accords and all the relevant resolutions of the Security
Council.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
7
ADDRESS BY MR. WILLIAM J. CLINTON,
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the United States of America.
Mr. William J. Clinton, President of the United States
of America, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT: On behalf of the General Assembly
I have the great honour to welcome to the United Nations
the President of
the United States of America, His
Excellency Mr. William Clinton, and to invite him to
address the Assembly.
President CLINTON: Let me first congratulate you,
Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly
for this session.
Mr. Secretary-General, distinguished representatives and
guests, it is a great honour for me to address you and to
stand in this great Hall, which symbolizes so much of the
twentieth century -
its darkest crises and its brightest
aspirations.
I come before you as the first American President born
after the founding of the United Nations. Like most of the
people in the world today, I was not even alive during the
convulsive world war that convinced humankind of the need
for
this Organization, nor during the San Francisco
Conference that led to its birth. Yet I have followed the
work of the United Nations throughout my life, with
admiration for its accomplishments, sadness for its failures
and the conviction that,
through common effort, our
generation can take the bold steps needed to redeem the
mission entrusted to the United Nations 48 years ago.
I
pledge to you that my nation remains committed to helping
make the United Nations vision a reality.
The start of this session of the General Assembly offers
us an opportunity to take stock of where we are as common
shareholders
in the progress of humankind and the
preservation of our planet.
It is clear that we live at a
turning point in human history.
Immense and promising changes seem to wash over us
every day. The cold war is over. The world is no longer
divided into two armed and angry camps. Dozens of new
democracies have been born.
It is a moment of miracles. We see Nelson Mandela
stand side by side with President de Klerk proclaiming a
date for South Africa’s first non-racial elections.
We see Russia’s first popularly elected President,
leading his nation on its bold democratic
Boris Yeltsin,
journey.
We have seen decades of deadlock shattered in the
Middle East as the Prime Minister of
Israel and the
Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization reached
past enmity and suspicion to shake each other’s hand and
exhilarate the entire world with the hope of peace.
We have begun to see the doomsday weapons of
nuclear annihilation dismantled and destroyed. Thirty-two
years ago President Kennedy warned this Assembly that
humanity lived under a nuclear sword of Damocles that hung
by the slenderest of threads. Now the United States is
working with Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and others to take
that sword down, to lock it away in a secure vault, where we
hope and pray it will remain for ever.
It is a new era in this Hall as well. The super-Power
standoff that for so long stymied the work of the United
Nations, almost from its first day, has now yielded to a new
promise of practical cooperation.
Yet
that
forces
are
fuelling a welcome
today we must all admit
there are two
powerful tendencies working from opposite directions to
challenge the authority of nation States everywhere and to
undermine the authority of nation States to work together.
From beyond nations, economic and technological forces all
over the globe are compelling the world towards integration.
These
explosion of
entrepreneurship and political liberalization. But they also
threaten to destroy the insularity and independence of
national economies, quickening the pace of change and
making many of our people feel more insecure. At the same
time, from within nations, the resurgent aspirations of ethnic
and religious groups challenge Governments on terms that
traditional nation States cannot easily accommodate. These
twin forces lie at the heart of the challenges, not only to our
national Governments, but also to all our international
institutions. They require all of us in this Hall to find new
ways to work together more effectively in pursuit of our
national
interests and to think anew about whether our
institutions of international cooperation are adequate to this
moment.
Thus, as we marvel at this era’s promise of new peace,
we must also recognize that serious threats remain. Bloody
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
ethnic, religious and civil wars rage from Angola to the
Caucasus to Kashmir. As weapons of mass destruction fall
into more hands, even small conflicts can threaten to take on
murderous proportions. Hunger and disease continue to take
a tragic toll, especially among the world’s children. The
malignant neglect of our global environment threatens our
children’s health and their very security. The repression of
conscience continues in too many nations. And terrorism,
which has taken so many innocent
lives, assumed a
horrifying immediacy for us here when militant fanatics
bombed the World Trade Center and planned to attack even
this very Hall of peace.
Let me assure the Assembly that whether they be the
plotters of those crimes or the mass murderers who bombed
Pan Am flight 103, my Government is determined to see that
such terrorists are brought to justice.
At
this moment of panoramic change, of vast
opportunities and troubling threats, we must all ask ourselves
what we can and what we should do as a community of
nations. We must once again dare to dream of what might
be, for our dreams may be within our reach.
For that to happen, we must all be willing honestly to
confront the challenges of the broader world. That has never
been easy. When this Organization was founded 48 years
ago,
the world’s nations stood devastated by war or
exhausted by its expense. There was little appetite for
cooperative efforts among nations; most people simply
wanted to get on with their lives. But a far-sighted
generation of leaders from the United States and elsewhere
rallied the world. Their efforts built the institutions of post-
-war security and prosperity.
We are at a similar moment today. The momentum of
the cold war no longer propels us in our daily actions. And
with daunting economic and political pressures upon almost
every nation represented in this room, many of us are
turning to focus greater attention and energy on domestic
needs and problems, and we must.
But putting each of our economic houses in order
cannot mean that we shut our windows to the world. The
pursuit of self-renewal in many of the world’s largest and
most powerful economies - in Europe, in Japan, in North
America - is absolutely crucial, because unless the great
industrial nations can recapture their
robust economic
growth, the global economy will languish. Yet the industrial
nations also need growth elsewhere in order to lift their own.
Indeed, prosperity in each of our nations and regions also
depends on active and responsible engagement in a host of
for example, a thriving and democratic
shared concerns:
Russia not only makes the world safer, it also can help to
expand the world’s economy; a strong GATT (General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) agreement will create
millions of jobs world wide; peace in the Middle East,
buttressed as it should be by the repeal of outdated United
Nations resolutions, can help to unleash that region’s great
economic potential and calm a perpetual source of tension in
global affairs; and the growing economic power of China -
coupled with greater political openness - could bring
enormous benefits to all of Asia and to the rest of the world.
We must help our publics to understand this distinction:
domestic renewal is an overdue tonic; but isolationism and
protectionism are still poison. We must inspire our peoples
to look beyond their immediate fears towards a broader
horizon.
Let me start by being clear about where the United
States stands. The United States occupies a unique position
in world affairs today: we recognize that and we welcome
it. Yet, with the cold war over, I know many people ask
whether the United States plans to retreat or remain active
in the world; and if active, to what end? Many people are
asking that in our own country as well.
Let me answer that question as clearly and plainly as I
can. The United States intends to remain engaged and to
lead. We cannot solve every problem, but we must and will
serve as a fulcrum for change and a pivot point for peace.
In a new era of peril and opportunity, our overriding
purpose must be to expand and strengthen the world’s
community of market-based democracies. During the cold
war, we sought to contain a threat to the survival of free
institutions; now we seek to enlarge the circle of nations that
live under those free institutions.
For our dream is of a day when the opinions and
energies of every person in the world will be given full
expression, in a world of thriving democracies that cooperate
with each other and live in peace.
With this statement, I do not mean to announce some
crusade to force our way of life and doing things on others
or to replicate our institutions. But we now know clearly
that throughout the world, from Poland to Eritrea, from
Guatemala to South Korea, there is an enormous yearning
among people who wish to be the masters of their own
economic and political lives. Where it matters most and
where we can make the greatest difference, we will therefore
patiently and firmly align ourselves with that yearning.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
9
Today, there are still those who claim that democracy
is simply not applicable to many cultures and that its recent
expansion is an aberration, an accident in history that will
soon fade away. But I agree with President Roosevelt, who
once said:
"The democratic aspiration is no mere recent
phase of human history.
It is human history."
We will work to strengthen the free market democracies
by revitalizing our economy at home, by opening world
trade through GATT,
the North American Free Trade
Agreement and other accords, and by updating our shared
institutions, asking with you and answering the hard
questions about whether they are adequate to the present
challenges.
We will support the consolidation of market democracy
where it is taking new root, as in the States of the former
Soviet Union and all over Latin America, and we seek to
foster the practices of good government that distribute the
benefits of democracy and economic growth fairly to all
people.
We will work to reduce the threat from regimes that are
hostile to democracy and to support
liberalization of
non-democratic States when they are willing to live in peace
with the rest of us. As a country that has over 150 racial,
ethnic and religious groups within our borders, our policy is
and must be rooted in a profound respect for all the world’s
religions and cultures. But we must oppose everywhere
extremism that produces terrorism and hate.
And we must pursue our humanitarian goals of
reducing suffering, fostering sustainable development and
improving health and living conditions, particularly for our
world’s children.
On efforts from export controls to trade agreements to
peace-keeping, we will often work in partnership with others
and through multilateral
institutions such as the United
Nations. It is in our national interest to do so. But we must
not hesitate to act unilaterally when there is a threat to our
core interests or to those of our allies.
The United States believes
an expanding
community of market democracies not only serves our own
security interests, it also advances the goals enshrined in this
body’s Charter and its Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.
that
For broadly based prosperity is clearly the strongest
form of preventive diplomacy, and the habits of democracy
are the habits of peace.
rooted in
Democracy is
compromise, not conquest. It rewards tolerance, not hatred.
Democracies rarely wage war on one another. They make
more reliable partners in trade, in diplomacy, and in the
stewardship of our global environment. And democracies,
with the rule of law and respect for political, religious and
cultural minorities, are more responsive to their own people
and to the protection of human rights.
But as we work towards this vision, we must confront
the storm clouds that may overwhelm our work and darken
the march towards freedom.
If we do not stem the proliferation of the world’s
deadliest weapons, no democracy can feel secure.
If we do not strengthen the capacity to resolve conflicts
among and within nations, those conflicts will smother the
birth of free institutions, threaten the development of entire
regions and continue to take innocent lives.
If we do not nurture our people and our planet through
sustainable development, we will deepen conflict and waste
the very wonders that make our efforts worth doing.
Let me talk more about what I believe we must do in
each of these three categories: non-proliferation, conflict
resolution and sustainable development.
One of our most urgent priorities must be attacking the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction - whether
nuclear, chemical or biological - and the ballistic missiles
that can rain them down on populations hundreds of miles
away.
We know this is not an idle problem. All of us are still
haunted by the pictures of Kurdish women and children cut
down by poison gas. We saw SCUD missiles drop during
the Gulf War that would have been far graver in their
consequences if they had carried nuclear weapons. And we
know that many nations still believe it is in their interests to
develop weapons of mass destruction or to sell them or the
necessary technologies to others for financial gain.
threatens to grow.
More than a score of nations likely possess such
weapons and their number
These
weapons destabilize entire regions. They could turn a local
conflict into a global human and environmental catastrophe.
We simply have got to find ways to control these weapons
and to reduce the number of States that possess them by
supporting and strengthening the International Atomic
Energy Agency and by taking other necessary measures.
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
I have made non-proliferation one of our nation’s
highest priorities. We intend to weave it more deeply into
the fabric of all of our relationships with the world’s nations
and institutions. We seek to build a world of increasing
pressure for non-proliferation but increasingly open trade and
technology for
live by accepted
international rules.
those States
that
Today, let me describe several new policies that our
Government will pursue to stem proliferation. We will
pursue new steps to control
the materials for nuclear
weapons. Growing global stockpiles of plutonium and
highly enriched uranium are raising the danger of nuclear
terrorism for all nations. We will press for an international
agreement that would ban production of these materials for
weapons for ever.
As we reduce our nuclear stockpiles, the United States
has also begun negotiations towards a comprehensive ban on
nuclear testing. This summer I declared that to facilitate
those negotiations, our nation would suspend our testing if
all other nuclear States would do the same. Today, in the
face of disturbing signs, I renew my call on the nuclear
States to abide by that moratorium as we negotiate to stop
nuclear testing for all time.
to fight
I am also proposing new efforts
the
proliferation of biological and chemical weapons. Today,
only a handful of nations has ratified the chemical weapons
Convention.
I call on all nations - including my own - to
ratify this accord quickly so that it may enter into force by
13 January 1995. We will also seek to strengthen the
biological weapons Convention by making every nation’s
biological activities and facilities open to more international
scrutiny.
I am proposing as well new steps to thwart
the
proliferation of ballistic missiles. Recently, working with
Russia, Argentina, Hungary and South Africa, we have made
significant progress toward that goal. Now we will seek to
strengthen the principles of the Missile Technology Control
Regime by transforming it from an agreement on technology
transfer among just 23 nations into a set of rules that can
command universal adherence.
We will also reform our own system of export controls
in the United States to reflect the realities of the post-cold-
war world, where we seek to enlist the support of our former
adversaries in the battle against proliferation. At the same
time as we stop deadly technologies from falling into the
wrong hands, we will work with our partners to remove
outdated controls that unfairly burden legitimate commerce
and unduly restrain growth and opportunity all over the
world.
As we work to keep the world’s most destructive
weapons out of conflicts, we must also strengthen the
international community’s ability to address those conflicts
themselves. For as we all now know so painfully, the end
of the cold war did not bring us to the millennium of peace.
Indeed, it simply removed the lid from many cauldrons of
ethnic, religious and territorial animosity.
The philosopher Isaiah Berlin has said that a wounded
nationalism is like a bent twig, forced down so severely that
when released, it lashes back with fury. The world today is
thick with both bent and recoiling twigs of wounded
communal
identities. This surge of bitter conflicts has
placed high demands on the United Nations peace-keeping
forces. Frequently, the Blue Helmets have worked wonders.
In Namibia, El Salvador, the Golan Heights and elsewhere,
United Nations peace-keepers have helped to stop the
fighting, restore civil authority and enable free elections. In
Bosnia, United Nations peace-keepers, against the danger
and frustration of that continuing tragedy, have maintained
a valiant humanitarian effort. And if the parties to that
conflict take the hard steps needed to make a real peace, the
international community - including the United States - must
be ready to help in its effective implementation.
In Somalia, the United States and the United Nations
have worked together to achieve a stunning humanitarian
rescue, saving literally hundreds of thousands of lives and
restoring conditions of security to almost the entire country.
United Nations peace-keepers from over two dozen nations
remain in Somalia today - and some,
including brave
Americans, have lost their lives - to ensure that we complete
our mission and that anarchy and starvation do not return
just as quickly as they were abolished.
Many still criticize United Nations peace-keeping, but
those who do should talk to the people of Cambodia, where
the United Nations operations helped turn the killing fields
into fertile soil for reconciliation. Last May’s elections in
Cambodia marked a proud accomplishment for that war--
weary nation and for the United Nations. And I am pleased
to announce that
recognized
Cambodia’s new Government.
the United States has
United Nations peace-keeping holds the promise to
resolve many of this era’s conflicts. But the reason we have
supported such missions is not, as some critics in the United
States have charged, to subcontract American foreign policy,
but to strengthen our security, to protect our interests, and to
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
11
share among nations the costs and effort of pursuing peace.
Peace-keeping cannot be a substitute for our own national
defence efforts, but it can strongly supplement them.
Today there is wide recognition that the United Nations
peace-keeping ability has not kept pace with its rising
responsibilities and challenges.
Just six years ago, about
10,000 United Nations peace-keepers were stationed around
the world. Today the United Nations has some 80,000
deployed in 17 operations on four continents. Yet until
recently,
if a peace-keeping commander called in from
across the globe when it was night-time here in New York,
there was no one in the peace-keeping office even to answer
the call. When lives are on the line, we cannot let the reach
of the United Nations exceed its grasp.
As the Secretary-General and others have argued, if
United Nations peace-keeping is to be a sound security
investment for our nation and for other United Nations
Members, it must adapt to new times. Together, we must
prepare United Nations peace-keeping for the twenty-first
century. We need to begin by bringing the rigours of
military and political analysis to every United Nations peace
mission. In recent weeks in the Security Council, our nation
has begun asking harder questions about proposals for new
peace-keeping missions.
to
international peace? Does the proposed mission have clear
objectives? Can an end point be identified for those who
will be asked to participate? How much will the mission
cost? From now on the United Nations should address these
and other questions for every proposed mission before we
vote and before the mission begins. The United Nations
simply cannot become engaged in every one of the world’s
conflicts. If the American people are to say "Yes" to United
Nations peace-keeping, the United Nations must know when
to say "No".
there a real
threat
Is
also committed to working with the United Nations to reduce
our nation’s assessment for these missions. The assessment
system has not been changed since 1973, and everyone in
our country knows that our percentage of the world’s
economic pie is not as great as it was then. Therefore, I
believe our rate should be reduced to reflect the rise of other
nations that can now bear more of the financial burden.
That will make it easier for me as President to make sure
my country pays in a timely and full fashion.
Changes in the United Nations peace-keeping operations
must be part of an even broader programme of United
Nations reform. I say that, again, not to criticize the United
Nations but
to help improve it. As our Ambassador,
Madeleine Albright, has suggested, the United States has
always played a twin role in regard to the United Nations:
"First friend and first critic."
Today, corporations around the world are finding ways
to move from the industrial age into the information age -
improving service, reducing bureaucracy and cutting costs.
Here in the United States, Vice President Al Gore and I have
launched an effort literally to reinvent how our Government
operates. We see this going on in other Governments
around the world. Now the time has come to reinvent the
way the United Nations operates as well.
I applaud the initial steps the Secretary-General has
taken to reduce and reform the United Nations bureaucracy.
Now we must all do even more to root out waste. Before
this General Assembly is over, let us establish a strong
mandate for an office of inspector general, so that it can
attain a reputation for
for
effectiveness. Let us build new confidence among our
people that the United Nations is changing with the needs of
our times.
toughness,
integrity,
for
The United Nations also must have the technical means
to run a modern, world-class peace-keeping operation. We
support the creation of a genuine United Nations peace-
keeping headquarters with a planning staff; with access to
timely intelligence; with a logistics unit that can be deployed
on a moment’s notice; and with a modern operations centre
with global communications.
United Nations operations must not only be adequately
funded but also fairly funded. Within the next few weeks,
the United States will be current on our peace-keeping bills.
I have worked hard with the Congress to get this done.
I
believe the United States should lead the way in being
timely in its payments, and I will work to ensure that we
continue to pay our peace-keeping bills in full. But I am
Ultimately, the key for reforming the United Nations,
as for reforming our own government, is to remember why
we are here and whom we serve. It is well to recall that the
first words of the United Nations Charter are not, "We the
Governments", but "We the peoples of the United Nations".
That means, in every country, the teachers, the workers, the
farmers,
the
children, from the most remote village in the world to the
largest metropolis - they are why we gather in this great
Hall; it is their futures that are at risk when we act or fail to
act; and it is they who ultimately pay our bills.
the professionals,
the mothers,
the fathers,
As we dream new dreams in this age when miracles
seem possible, let us focus on the lives of those people, and
especially on the children who will inherit this world. Let
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
us work with a new urgency, and imagine what kind of
world we could create for them over the coming generation.
Let us work with new energy to protect the world’s
people from torture and repression. As Secretary of State
Christopher stressed at the recent Vienna Conference, human
rights are not something conditional, bounded by culture but,
rather, something universal, granted by God. This General
Assembly should create, at long last, a high commissioner
for human rights.
I hope it will do this soon, and with
vigour and energy and conviction.
Let us also work far more ambitiously to fulfil our
obligations as custodians of this planet, not only to improve
the quality of life for our citizens and the quality of our air,
water and the earth itself, but also because the roots of
conflict
roots of
environmental neglect and the calamities of famine and
disease.
so often entangled with the
are
During the course of our campaign in the United States
last year, Vice President Gore and I promised the American
people major changes in our nation’s policy towards the
global environment. Those were promises to keep, and
today the United States is doing so. Today we are working
with other nations to build on the promising work of the
United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development.
We are working to make sure that all nations meet their
commitments under the global climate Convention. We are
seeking to complete negotiations on an accord to prevent the
world’s deserts from further expanding. And we seek to
strengthen the World Health Organization’s efforts to combat
the plague of AIDS, which is not only killing millions, but
also exhausting the resources of the nations that can least
afford it.
And let us make a new commitment to the world’s
children. It is tragic enough that one and a half million
children have died as a result of wars over the past decade.
But it is far more unforgivable that during that same period
40 million children have died from diseases completely
preventable with simple vaccines or medicines. Every day
- this day, as we meet here - over 30,000 of the world’s
children will die of malnutrition and disease. As the
Director of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),
Jim Grant, has reminded me, "each of [those children] had
a name and a nationality, a family, a personality and a
potential".
We are compelled to do better by the world’s children.
Just as our own nation has launched new reforms to ensure
that every child has adequate health care, we must do more
to get basic vaccines and other treatments for curable
diseases to children all over the world.
It’s the best
investment we’ll ever make. We can find new ways to
ensure that every child grows up with clean, drinkable water
- that most precious commodity of life itself. And the
United Nations can work even harder to ensure that each
child has at least a full primary education - and I mean that
opportunity for girls as well as boys.
To ensure a healthier and more abundant world, we
simply must
slow the world’s explosive growth in
population. We cannot afford to see the human race double
by the middle of the next century. Our nation has at last
renewed its commitment to work with the United Nations to
expand the availability of the world’s family planning
education and services. We must ensure that there is a place
at the table for every one of the world’s children. We can
do this.
At the birth of this Organization, 48 years ago - another
time of both victory and danger - a generation of gifted
leaders from many nations stepped forward to organize the
world’s efforts on behalf of security and prosperity. One
American leader during that period said this: "It is time we
steered by the stars rather than by the light of each passing
ship." His generation picked peace, human dignity and
freedom. Those are good stars. They should remain the
highest in our firmament.
Now history has granted to us a moment of even
greater opportunity, when old dangers are ebbing and old
walls are crumbling. Future generations will judge us, every
one of us, above all by what we make of this magic
moment. Let us resolve that we will dream larger, that we
will work harder, so that they can conclude that we did not
merely turn walls to rubble, but instead laid the foundations
for great things to come.
Let us ensure that the tide of freedom and democracy
is not pushed back by the fierce winds of ethnic hatred. Let
us ensure that the world’s most dangerous weapons are
safely reduced and denied to dangerous hands. Let us
ensure that the world we pass to our children is healthier,
safer and more abundant than the one we inhabit today.
I
believe - I know - that together we can extend this moment
of miracles into an age of great works and new wonders.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the United States
of America for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
13
Mr. William Clinton, President of the United States of
America, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
The meeting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and
resumed at 12.05 p.m.
ADDRESS BY MR. CÉSAR GAVIRIA TRUJILLO,
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Colombia.
Mr. César Gaviria Trujillo, President of the Republic
of Colombia, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the Republic
of Colombia, His Excellency Mr. César Gaviria Trujillo, and
to invite him to address the Assembly.
those who stand at
President GAVIRIA TRUJILLO (interpretation from
Spanish): Nearly all
this rostrum
represent the dreams of their countrymen. Many who come
to this Hall bring with them the hopes of their peoples,
which have been shattered by violence,
intolerance,
selfishness or misunderstanding. But all, without exception,
bring with them their own vision of the world; the sum of
those visions will provide a model for the world in which
we live and die and in which our children will live and
grow. It is therefore a great honour for me to address once
more so many men and women of all origins and all
destinies. The world listens expectantly to what we say
here,
the world has confidence and faith in the
commitment of the United Nations to action on behalf of a
better future for all mankind.
for
Today, as we begin this session, I believe that those of
us who have worked for
the triumph of peace and
democracy are living at a crucial moment. Without doubt,
there is room for optimism, but our work is far from done.
The end of bipolarism has not by itself brought the
feeling that peace, progress and justice are now nearer or
more possible. While bloc confrontation has disappeared,
we are seeing the resurgence of harsh ancient nationalisms
and fanaticisms that threaten peace and stability, and the
presence of extreme poverty and social
injustice in the
majority of the world’s countries.
Even as we meet here, thousands are dying, victims of
racism, xenophobia, fratricidal wars, hatreds which have fed
on themselves for centuries, territorial disputes, or the simple
and terrible inability of mankind to provide everyone with
that which all are promised: freedom and equal opportunity.
At
the same time, we feel
the
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in areas of Africa,
in many Eastern European nations and in other parts of the
world.
increasing pain at
rivals
During this session we will also hear of hopes and of
dreams of peace and reconciliation that until now seemed
impossible. I speak, for example, of the gradual abolition of
racial segregation in South Africa.
I point also to the fact
that
like Israel and the Palestinian Liberation
Organization have had the courage to declare mutual
recognition and respect.
That Yitzhak Rabin and
Yasser Arafat can negotiate with courage and fortitude,
amidst their own memories of war, proves that when history
is written, the greatness of the human spirit can flourish and
prevail.
Although we know that the road ahead is still long and
difficult,
the Israelis and the Palestinians have the
recognition and support of the international community for
their efforts to find peace. The agreements reached are
further proof that the political will to reconcile is capable of
healing even the deepest wounds.
Much of the history of the twentieth century has been
written with the blood of victims of war, religious disputes
or blind quests for power. Too much history has already
been written by tyrants.
The builders of the twenty-first century must be men of
peace and work rather than of violence. The arms they use
to build the future must not be cannons and bullets, but
rather the wisdom, ingenuity and vision of men of initiative.
Political activity, with its great capacity to transform
reality, has in a few short years generated far-reaching
changes in the former Soviet Union, Central and Eastern
Europe, the Middle East and my own region, Latin America.
Never before have so many millions of people around the
world enjoyed freedom.
We Colombians, for example, have in just a few years
achieved significant political, economic and social changes
aimed at developing a new democratic century that is more
open, more
pluralistic, more
decentralized and more just.
participatory, more
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Our new Constitution was
conceived with the
participation of all sectors of public opinion,
including
ex-guerrillas, indigenous people, industrialists, human-rights
activists, environmentalists and millions of ordinary citizens.
Our 1991 Constitution is the navigational chart of a new
Colombia heading for the next millennium.
On the economic front, we have replaced our old model
of a closed economy with an open one, in which external
markets have to become, increasingly, the engines of growth.
We are integrating our economy with the world and are
hence demanding that other nations open their markets to
our products. We are advocates of free enterprise, economic
integration and free trade. The results have been very
satisfactory: we have diversified and increased our exports,
significantly lowered inflation, reduced unemployment and
increased economic growth.
On the social front, we have substantially increased
public resources available for financing new programmes of
investment in our people. With this effort we shall double
our present per capita income by the beginning of the next
decade. By that time life expectancy in Colombia will be
similar to that of many industrialized countries. Our
illiteracy rate will be less than 3 per cent and our infant
mortality rate will be lower than 18 deaths per thousand
births.
In Colombia we understand that political democracy
must go hand in hand with economic opportunity, because
a lasting true democracy can be achieved only through
economic development and social
It would be
difficult, after all, for people who had fought so hard for
freedom to find that the tough road to democracy led to
poverty, marginalization or social stagnation.
Political
freedom with economic opportunity:
this is now the
definition of democracy.
justice.
The developing world has placed its hopes
in
international trade as the instrument to create prosperity for
In a global economy it is impossible to achieve social
all.
well-being without
competition,
productivity, efficiency and growth.
economic
freedom,
Perhaps we now have, more than ever before,
the
conditions for an unprecedented increase in the flow of
goods, services,
technology and knowledge between the
industrialized countries and the developing countries and,
therefore,
for economic growth and the creation of
employment and social well-being for all.
For
such as
these reasons,
this hemisphere’s
liberalization
processes,
the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA), the Andean Group, the Group of
Three, the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR)
and the integration of Central America and the Caribbean,
are not just integrative trade agreements, but also represent
real remedies for poverty.
I wish to stress the importance of NAFTA as a decisive
step in the right direction to liberalize trade relations, to our
mutual benefit, between north and south. It is time to leave
behind outdated fears and commit ourselves to a relationship
that will undoubtedly result in stronger economic growth and
hundreds of thousands of new jobs for all. Those of us who
are supporters of an integrated, open and dynamic
hemispheric economy fully support the visionary efforts of
President Bill Clinton to achieve final approval of this treaty.
And on a global scale it is critical to conclude the
Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) successfully. This will be possible only if we
truly respect the multilateral character of that organization.
It cannot be a matter of the most powerful agreeing among
themselves about what is in their own interests. We hope
for the conclusion of the Uruguay Round, but not at any
cost. We seek effective solutions to address the concerns of
the least developed countries, with emphasis on dismantling
agricultural protectionism.
We are deeply concerned that the attitude of many of
the principal actors in the global economy has come to
resemble dangerously that of another era, the years before
the Second World War, when nations isolated themselves
within their borders and produced goods for captive
domestic markets.
Defending at any cost the selfish interests of privileged
rural minorities in the industrialized countries takes bread off
the tables of millions of poor peasants who only want the
right to compete on an equal footing. That selfish attitude
is the greatest cause of poverty in the poor countries.
We live in a world where frontiers between nations
ought to be seen as points of convergence, not of division;
where cries for independence should be replaced by shows
of interdependence; where, for many developing nations, the
euphoria of political change has passed and what is needed
is economic growth and the creation of jobs.
Protectionism and isolationism belong to outdated,
perverse rhetoric. Do we really want to live in a world
turned upside down, where the largest and strongest
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
15
economies deny the smallest ones the right to compete, or
where the origin of goods and services is more important
than their quality or value?
The world must see that open markets and free trade are
perhaps the best hope for serving the collective interests of
both north and south, not simply favours graciously granted
to the developing world by the industrialized world. Free
trade is truly good business for everyone.
The economies of the developed world are made up for
the most part of mature markets
that have already
experienced their greatest periods of expansion. The short-
sightedness of protectionism lies in its ignoring the growth
potential represented by investment in and trade with nations
that represent the future of the world’s economy.
As President of Colombia, I want
to reaffirm my
nation’s commitment to the defence of free trade, for we
have invested in it our hopes
for development and
well-being.
too, we see in free trade the best
So,
contribution that
the industrialized world can make to
consolidating democracy and freedom in developing
countries. Colombia is asking for free trade, not economic
aid;
assistance;
competition, not insurmountable barriers.
the opening of markets, not mere
trafficking,
from narcotics
In our fight against international organized crime, which
terrorism,
profits
money-laundering, arms trafficking,
the flow of illegal
chemicals and various forms of corruption, my country many
years ago took a clear decision: Colombia will not rest until
these criminals activities are wiped from the face of our
land.
Innocent Colombians are continuing to lose their lives
in the fight against evil multinationals. My deepest
convictions and my respect for the memory of so many
countrymen who have sacrificed their lives compel me to
call once again on all nations to contribute to the solution of
a problem that is global in its scope.
My people’s brave efforts alone - or nearly so - cannot
put an end to international organized crime; this will require
determined action with courage and political will, on the part
of many more nations. We cannot counter sophisticated
international organized crime by simply developing national
or bilateral strategies. We require a comprehensive,
multilateral effort that focuses on legislative cooperation;
coordinated initiatives;
intelligence
information; a sufficient commitment of financial and human
resources; cooperation in the judicial field; and, perhaps
most important, strong political will.
exchange of
the
From its inception, the United Nations has had the dual
mission of maintaining international peace and security and
of promoting the social and economic development of all
peoples of the world. Even though we have been successful
in advancing collective global security, we cannot say the
same as concerns the areas of social welfare and economic
development.
I call upon the international
community to achieve, with courage and dedication, an
agenda for development. Only then will the goal of a lasting
and stable peace be reached, for without social justice, peace
cannot be permanent.
Today,
I should like also to mention Colombia’s renewed
commitment to three issues of great global importance:
the
defence and promotion of human rights, the fight against
organized crime and the preservation of the environment.
In Colombia, we have made a major and successful
effort to create a culture that promotes, respects and defends
human rights. Today, we have the institutional foundations
to ensure that Colombia’s society will overcome human
rights violations. The efforts to strengthen Colombia’s
judicial system has borne fruit. We are defeating impunity.
To this end, we will participate with great interest in
the high-level meeting that, on our initiative, will soon take
place during this plenary session.
Its main purpose will be
to review the global strategy against the plague of narcotics
trafficking, with a view to seeking coordination of concrete
measures, the renewal of specific commitments and, finally,
the strengthening of the decision to continue with this joint
struggle.
fragile ecosystems and of
With regard to the preservation of the environment,
Colombia is fully aware of the importance of its magnificent,
varied and sometimes
its
biodiversity. Accordingly, we have adopted institutional
changes that will allow us to fulfil
in its entirety a
commitment that stems not only from our Constitution but
also from our collective conscience and our stewardship of
a treasure we shall not squander.
Colombia supports sustainable development, respects
the terms of the agreements reached at the Earth Summit and
is working with its neighbours, with other nations and its
own communities to devise strategies that will allow it both
to benefit from and to preserve its natural resources.
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
I wish to conclude by congratulating the President of
the General Assembly, the Ambassador of Guyana, Mr.
Samuel
Insanally, an outstanding representative of my
region. We also welcome the new States Members of the
United Nations. On behalf of Colombia, we welcome them
to this universal fraternity, which is enhanced by their
presence.
At
the same time, I want publicly to express my
country’s satisfaction at having coordinated the work of the
Group of 77 this year. Thanks to the collaboration and
harmony that prevailed among all its members, we made
important advances in defence of
the
developing world.
the interests of
But
the satisfaction of seeing the United Nations
strengthened each year by the presence of new Members
should not hinder us from reaffirming Colombia’s position
in favour of the restructuring of this Organization, especially
with regard to reforming the Security Council and to
redefining the relationship between the General Assembly
and the Security Council. We hope that in this respect an
open and a democratic and multilateral debate will take
place.
I have come here today to ask a question that has been
on the minds of all peoples, in all parts of the world, who
have been on the side of the revolution of freedom: why
have so many millions of people in the former Soviet Union,
in Central and Eastern Europe, and in countries throughout
Asia, Africa and Latin America fought so hard? What is it
that so many hoped to achieve by taking, at the cost of
immense sacrifices, the road to democracy and its freedoms?
I believe that the only answer is that they have seen, for
the first time, the possibility of transforming these dreams
into realities. And they have taken that road because they
want to a leave a legacy of freedom to their children and to
future generations.
With the help of God and our strong solidarity, we are
certain that they will prevail.
The PRESIDENT:
the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of
Colombia for the statement he has just made.
On behalf of
AGENDA ITEM 9 (continued)
GENERAL DEBATE
ADDRESS BY MR. MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA,
PRIME MINISTER OF JAPAN
The PRESIDENT: The Assembly will now hear a
statement by the Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr. Morihiro Hosokawa, Prime Minister of Japan,
was escorted to the rostrum.
The PRESIDENT: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of Japan, Mr. Morihiro Hosokawa, and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. HOSOKAWA:
I should like first of all to extend
my heartfelt congratulations to you, Mr. President, who also
serve as Guyana’s Ambassador to Japan, on your election
last week to the presidency of this session of the General
Assembly. Let me also express my deep appreciation to the
previous President, Mr. Ganev, for his achievements during
the past year, particularly in pursuing General Assembly
reforms.
I want
to take
this opportunity to commend
Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali for his selfless devotion to
the cause of global peace and for his bold efforts towards
United Nations reform.
Finally, I warmly welcome the representatives of the six
new Member States that have joined the United Nations over
the past year.
the first
time in 38 years.
In Japan, the reins of government recently changed
The coalition
hands for
government that emerged has appointed me Prime Minister.
Political changes in Japan are part of the dramatic changes
in the international community since the end of
the
East-West confrontation. The post-cold-war era has opened,
not just a new page, but a whole new chapter in Japanese
politics. This means an era of basic reform in three main
areas, namely, political, economic and administrative
reforms.
I believe these reforms are vital in strengthening
Japan’s bonds with the international community.
Mr. César Gaviria Trujillo, President of the Republic
of Colombia, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
As I devote my attention and energy to these domestic
reforms I have come to the United Nations General
Assembly on my first official visit abroad.
I have done so
because Japan believes that the United Nations has a crucial
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
17
role to play in the maintenance of international peace and
security.
I also wished personally to convey Japan’s
determination to contribute, both financially and in terms of
personnel, to various United Nations efforts.
I strongly urge all nations
Conventional Arms is essential.
to participate in this endeavour.
In extending its official
development assistance, Japan continues to pay full attention
to such trends as military expenditures in recipient nations.
Further, I wish to state again that Japan continues to
feel a sense of remorse over its past actions and that it is
firmly resolved to make further contributions to the goals of
world peace and prosperity.
As for the current situation in Russia, Japan continues
to support President Yeltsin in his reform efforts.
Japan
strongly hopes that a political environment which reflects the
will of the Russian people will soon be created and that the
reforms will be further promoted.
Today, the primary objective of the United Nations and
its Member States is to establish world peace on the basis of
the universal principles of freedom, democracy and respect
for human rights.
There are four areas
in which the international
community must direct its greatest efforts in pursuit of this
objective.
I shall begin with the issue of disarmament. The Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is the
centre-piece of efforts to prevent
the spread of nuclear
weapons. I wish to affirm that Japan supports the indefinite
extension of that Treaty beyond 1995.
is critically
important that countries which have not yet acceded to the
Treaty do so to enhance its universality. At the same time,
the indefinite extension of the NPT should not mean the
perpetuation of the possession of nuclear weapons by the
nuclear-weapon States.
It
and Russia
Japan thus welcomes the progress made towards nuclear
disarmament by the United States
and
emphasizes that all nuclear-weapon States must work in
earnest to achieve further progress in nuclear disarmament.
We hail the decision to commence substantive negotiations
aimed at a comprehensive nuclear test-ban. For its part,
Japan will work actively to help reduce world stockpiles of
nuclear weapons. For example, we are ready to assist in the
dismantling of nuclear weapons in the former Soviet Union.
We also strongly urge North Korea to dispel international
concern about its development of nuclear weapons by, for
example, fully implementing the safeguards agreement with
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
On the transfer of conventional arms, the effective
the United Nations Register of
implementation of
The second point I wish to make is the importance of
diplomatic efforts in the prevention of conflicts. The value
of regional security arrangements and bilateral or multilateral
political and security dialogue is undeniable in preventing or
settling armed conflicts.
In this connection, I was deeply moved by and heartily
welcome the historic signing of the declaration of principles
for Palestinian interim self-government by the Israelis and
I pay a sincere tribute to their political
the Palestinians.
leaders for taking this courageous step.
It is essential that
the international community support this agreement actively
and promptly in order to realize peace in the region. Japan
will continue to play a constructive role in the multilateral
negotiations that are part of the peace process. I am pleased
on this occasion to announce Japan’s intention to extend
about $200 million in assistance to the Palestinians over the
coming two years. This assistance will include grant aid for
food and medicine and concessional loans for infrastructure.
Humanitarian considerations, particularly respect for
human rights, are inseparable from the issue of peace.
Where there is war, human rights are often neglected.
Conversely, in countries where respect for human rights has
been firmly established, hostilities are less likely to break
Japan must actively contribute to the solution of
out.
humanitarian problems.
I would like to see my fellow
countrymen and women roll up their sleeves and work side
by side with people from many other countries, whenever
and wherever humanitarian activities are called for.
The third area of focus is economic development as a
foundation for peace-building. Today, the market economy
has become a common language in most nations of the
world, including many of the former socialist States. The
development of the global economy based on principles of
market economy should be urgently promoted.
Japan and
other
to
developing countries in their development efforts, as well as
to former socialist countries in their political and economic
reform efforts.
It goes without saying that assistance to
countries in transition must not come at the expense of aid
to developing countries.
industrialized nations must provide support
Already the world’s top donor of official development
assistance in absolute terms, Japan recently established its
Fifth Medium-Term Target
expand such
to further
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Japan intends to provide official development
assistance.
assistance totalling between $70 billion and $75 billion over
the five-year period beginning in 1993. As part of its aid
efforts, two weeks ago Japan hosted, in Tokyo, the Third
Mongolia Assistance Group Meeting. Next week,
in
cooperation with the United Nations, we will hold the
International Conference on African Development in Tokyo.
The fourth item I would like to address concerns global
issues such as the environment and population. The urgent
need to solve the problems of the global environment cannot
be overemphasized.
Japan is willing to assume a leading
role in international efforts to tackle environmental problems.
In so doing, we will draw upon the experience and
know-how we have gained in overcoming serious pollution
problems at home. Not only is Japan developing new
technologies for environmental protection, it is taking the
lead in transferring such technologies to developing countries
through the International Environmental Technology Centre
of the United Nations Environment Programme, which was
set up in Japan last year. At the 1992 United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development,
Japan
pledged approximately $7 billion to $7.7 billion in
environment-related official development assistance over the
five years beginning 1992.
In fact, Japan has already
implemented more than one fourth of that amount.
Population problems often lead to poverty and famine.
Solving these problems is therefore crucial to the goal of
sustainable development and will require a broad-based
approach including education and public information efforts.
With these thoughts in mind, Japan will sponsor a meeting
of eminent persons on population and development next
January, prior to the International Conference on Population
and Development to be held in Cairo next year.
The year 1995 will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the
founding of the United Nations. Since the birth of this
Organization immediately following the Second World War,
the international climate has changed dramatically.
In the
meantime, United Nations membership has grown from 51
States in 1945 to the present 184. Today, the international
community is placing ever- higher expectations on the
United Nations. But serious reform efforts are necessary if
the United Nations is to respond to these expectations and
meet the new demands awaiting us at the threshold of the
next century.
I would like to comment on three specific areas in
which reforms are necessary - namely, peace-keeping, the
structure of
the Security Council, and United Nations
administration and finance.
Last year, Japan enacted the International Peace
Cooperation Law enabling it
to
United Nations peace-keeping operations. Since then, it has
dispatched Japanese personnel to Angola, Cambodia and
Mozambique.
Japan intends to continue to promote such
cooperation in the future.
to contribute personnel
Among recent United Nations peace-keeping operations,
the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
(UNTAC) stands out as a major achievement. I would like
to take this opportunity to express my deep respect for the
efforts of UNTAC personnel and all the countries concerned.
The success of the operation in Cambodia owes much to the
comprehensive framework for peace that was put in place
and the
international
community. I am convinced that its experience in Cambodia
will provide the United Nations with useful insights for its
future activities.
received from the
support
it
Ensuring the security of the personnel engaged in
United Nations peace-keeping operations is a task of high
priority to the international community, and I hope this issue
will be the subject of thorough debate at the current session
of the General Assembly. Other issues demanding our
attention are the need to determine a so-called "sunset" for
each peace-keeping operation to evaluate each operation
properly and to review strictly the activities of an existing
operation in deciding whether to extend its mandate. Japan
also strongly hopes that the Peace-keeping Reserve Fund,
which was established last year, will be fully funded and
used effectively.
The sharp increase in the number of regional conflicts
has meant a dramatic expansion of the role of the Security
Council. Accordingly, it is necessary that the functions of
the Council, which has the primary responsibility for
maintaining international peace and security, be strengthened.
It is important that those countries having both the will and
the adequate capacity to contribute to world prosperity and
stability be actively engaged in that effort. The views
expressed by many Member States, including our own, in
response to a General Assembly resolution on this subject
last year, generally indicate the need to expand the
membership of the Security Council, while ensuring that its
effectiveness is maintained.
Japan intends to participate
constructively in the discussion on Security Council reform.
Today the United Nations finds itself in extremely
serious financial straits. In particular, the rapid expansion of
peace-keeping operations has made it increasingly difficult
for this Organization to meet its financial needs promptly.
Without adequate financial resources, the United Nations
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
19
would be powerless to engage in any activity, no matter how
meaningful it may be.
I would like to remind all United
Nations Member States how important it is that they face
this reality and fulfil their obligations.
Boutros-Ghali, we would like to pay a special tribute for his
tireless efforts to uphold the principles of the United Nations
Charter, and to promote international peace and security in
the world’s current difficult circumstances.
At the same time, I note with concern the frequent
allegations of inefficiency or wastefulness at the United
Nations.
I hope the United Nations will make the utmost
efforts to meet the need for greater financial discipline and
effective budgetary control.
Japan is prepared to do all
it can to discharge its
responsibilities in a United Nations reformed with the
previous three points taken into account.
When the forerunner of the United Nations, the League
of Nations, was established in 1920, the renowned Japanese
educator Mr. Inazo Nitobe was appointed as one of its
Deputy Secretaries-General. Mr. Nitobe, who had sought to
introduce Japan’s philosophical
traditions to the world,
remarked that
the Japanese place great value on moral
principles. I would like to conclude my address by offering
a quote from one of Mr. Nitobe’s lectures which reflects my
own view on the evolving bonds between Japan and the
international community:
"An international mind is not the antonym of a
national mind ... The international mind is an
expansion
as
philanthropy or charity ... should begin at home."
national mind,
just
of
the
The PRESIDENT: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I thank the Prime Minister of Japan for the statement he has
just made.
Mr. Morihiro Hosokawa, Prime Minister of Japan,
was escorted from the rostrum.
Mr. FILALI (Morocco) (interpretation from Arabic):
It gives me pleasure, at the outset, to extend to you the
congratulations of the delegation of Morocco on your
election to the Presidency of the forty-eighth session of the
General Assembly, and to express to you our best wishes for
success in the discharge of your important duties.
I would
like to assure you of our full cooperation in ensuring the
success of our deliberations.
To the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, I should
like to express our appreciation for the wise manner in
which he conducted the work of our deliberations during the
To our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
past session.
I should also like to welcome to our midst the many
new Members who have joined our Organization in recent
months.
As we approach the end of fifth decade since the
establishment of our Organization, it is proper to evaluate its
successes in attaining the goals set by the Conference of San
Francisco in 1945, with a view to maintaining world peace
and security and ensuring development, prosperity and social
justice in a world free from the scourges of war, bigotry and
racism.
Our Organization was built on the ruins of a World
War.
It was therefore natural that the effects of that war’s
aftermath left their imprint not only on the United Nations
Charter but also on the rules that govern its work as well as
on its structure.
The rivalry between the two blocs contributed to the
weakening of the effectiveness of the Organization in
addressing international issues. However, to do justice to
our Organization, one cannot but speak of its historic
achievements
in liberating people from the yoke of
colonialism and foreign domination, its opening of its forums
to dialogue between all nations, promoting cooperation
between nations and peoples and its working for
the
settlement of conflicts by peaceful means.
The end of the cold war, the collapse of what used to
be called the Eastern Bloc and the sudden disintegration of
the Soviet Union, were important and unexpected events of
historic proportions. They transformed the world situation
and altered its parameters. The result was a radical change
in international relations, a profound shift in the balance of
power and the emergence of underlying ethnic and national
extremist trends which were suppressed under the former
rule. Those have brought civil wars, unspeakable tragedies,
suffering and destruction to many countries.
While it has been difficult under such circumstances to
find quick solutions to the old problems of the world as
some would have hoped, new issues have arisen that have
monopolized the attention of the international community,
demonstrating the inadequacy of the means available to the
United Nations and the United Nations inability to keep pace
with the changes on the international scene.
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The often-sought intervention by the United Nations in
areas as diverse as the peaceful settlement of conflicts and
the organization and supervision of elections has resulted in
an increase in its volume of work and has justified the call
for the strengthening of the Organization and support for its
work. Consolidating the role of our Organization is of great
importance and enjoys the steady support of my country.
Positive, vital and commendable as it may be, the role
of the Organization remains, nevertheless, of limited impact
and effectiveness because the Organization’s Charter and
structure have not evolved sufficiently and because it lacks
the financial resources that would enable it to meet the
requirements of its international mandates in all their various
aspects.
Those transformations have given rise to new concepts,
notions and priorities,
such as preventive diplomacy,
post-conflict peace-building, and brought to the fore such
issues as those of human rights and of intervention on
humanitarian grounds in the course of the ongoing global
debate on what is termed "the new world order" that is in
the making.
Moreover, the Summit meeting of the Security Council,
held in January 1992 in New York, was a testimony to a
common ambition to develop and regulate international
action in such a way as to make it capable of meeting the
requirements of the new situation in the world. As a current
member of the Security Council, Morocco - represented by
His Majesty King Hassan II - took part
in that historic
meeting and did not fail to express the sensitivities and
concerns of the Muslim, Arab and African world, and
contribute fully in the formulation of the final declaration.
thoughts
and
his
recommendations
It is also in this context that the Secretary-General
presented
about
peacemaking and peace-keeping in his report "Agenda for
Peace", which was favorably received by Member States.
We believe that those thoughts, concepts and activities are
a positive endeavour on the whole, but they contain certain
aspects which might prove to be dangerous and even
damaging. It is therefore imperative that those thoughts and
concepts be clarified, with a view to defining their goals
through an all-embracing dialogue between all States. This
would lead to a consensus genuinely reflecting the concerns
of all members of the international community.
It is also necessary, now, to supplement those thoughts
with views and reflections on how to correct the economic
situation which does injustice to the rights of the developing
world, whose economic interests have not been included in
the international agenda.
Nowadays, human rights issues are the subject of
heated debate. Morocco, which firmly believes in the
universal character and the comprehensive nature of those
rights, regards them as a basic pillar of governance, social
justice and civil liberties in any State. However, my country
is equally of the view that the concept of human rights
should be attuned to the values, cultures, traditions and the
differing levels of development of countries, without any
imposition of any particular concept of such rights. In other
words, the political dimension of human rights should not
prevail over the social and economic one, which covers the
basic needs of man including food, clothing, health care and
shelter.
Our constant interest in and tireless efforts towards
maintaining international peace and security and the settling
of conflicts by peaceful means will be futile so long as the
socioeconomic imbalance between the developed and
developing countries continues to increase daily.
The
economic crises in the developing world have been greatly
aggravated: unemployment and economic stagnation have
been compounded by persisting problems in international
trade, by foreign debt and by falling prices for raw materials.
Morocco deplores the lack of genuine dialogue between the
North and the South, which has created a situation in which
sub-Saharan Africa claims less than 1 per cent of the world’s
income while the developed countries, with only 15 per cent
of the world’s population, control more than 80 per cent of
world income.
The discussions in international economic forums are
almost exclusively centered on topics of direct concern to
developed countries while the role of developing nations in
the management of the world economy continues to be
almost non-existent.
In that respect, we regret that the
request made by the current chairman of the Non-Aligned
Movement to meet with the leaders of the G-7 last July in
Tokyo,
the present
management of the world economy on the developing
countries, was turned down.
to explain the consequences of
My country is convinced that unless the world economy
is collectively managed in a manner that would take into
account the interests of all countries without exception, it
would be futile to look forward to an era in which global
peace and security may prevail, and in which well-being and
prosperity may be attained by all peoples of the world.
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
21
While we concede that the advanced countries too face
a difficult economic situation, we maintain that they still
have the potential and the ability to lend a helping hand to
the developing world.
We also maintain that
the time has come for the
developed countries to demonstrate true solidarity with the
developing countries by giving them access to the economic
decision-making process, and by helping them to develop
their economies and improve their social standards. To this
end,
the developed countries could liberalize the world
economy, open their markets to the products of the Third
World, increase their investments in developing countries
alleviate the debt-burden of those countries and enhance the
effective transfer of technology to them.
By the same token, we believe it is necessary for world
economic relations to embark upon a new phase of genuine
partnership and shared responsibility, within the context of
economic interdependence.
Such a new approach would prove much more
beneficial to the countries of the North since deterioration of
the economic and social situation in the South would
inevitably have a negative impact on the security, stability
and development of the North.
While calling for a meaningful contribution by countries
of the North to development, the countries of the South
remain mindful of the need for self-dependence. Therefore
most countries of the South have made the necessary
adjustments, strengthened the structures of their economies
and enhanced cooperation among themselves, by using
available forums such as the Group of 77 and the Movement
of Non-Aligned Countries.
Morocco, which has always demonstrated its utmost
is still
readiness to promote South/South cooperation,
committed to participate actively in these efforts,
in
particular with the African countries. Our keen interest in
Africa stems naturally from solid bonds of common history,
goals and destiny which link us to that continent whose
concerns and ambitions we fully share.
The lack of stability that characterizes the international
to a very
economic situation led the African continent
alarming crisis which has been exacerbated by the falling
prices of raw materials, a deterioration in the terms of trade,
the heavy foreign debt-burden and drought.
Despite the adoption by the forty-sixth session of the
General Assembly of a new agenda for the development of
Africa and the new reform programme adopted by the
majority of African countries in conformity with the
recommendations of the international financial institutions,
the situation in our continent remains critical and calls for an
exceptional effort to overcome this crisis.
for example, by writing off
In this context, Morocco spares no effort to assist many
African countries,
loans,
extending valuable assistance in the areas of health care and
education, and allocating more than 90 per cent of its
international cooperation budget to the assistance of African
countries.
Mr. Marker (Pakistan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Moreover, Morocco has endeavoured, in consultation
with other African countries bordering the Atlantic Ocean,
to set up, in collaboration with the United Nations and the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
(FAO), a legal framework and relevant structures to create
multilateral cooperation in the field of fisheries in order to
safeguard the vital interests and national resources of these
countries.
The present is a crucial period of transition in the
history of international relations, which, while it is marked
by new and promising prospects of international cooperation,
is fraught with the danger of the many hotbeds of tension
which proliferate around the world and which give cause for
concern.
The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the grip
of a devastating war that irks the world conscience. This
has been the result of the Serbian aggression against the
sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Bosnian Serbs especially have not hesitated to
perpetrate the crimes of genocide, ethnic cleansing, rape, and
the destruction of houses of worship and historical and
cultural monuments in furtherance of their shameful designs,
in violation of the principles and norms of international law.
It is regrettable that the many settlement plans and the
endless meetings have resulted in nothing other
than
rewarding the Serbian aggressor and increasing pressure on
the Muslim majority of that country. Having been unjustly
deprived of the legitimate right to self-defence, the Bosnian
Government had to make successive unilateral concessions.
The Kingdom of Morocco cannot but strongly condemn
the Serbian aggression aimed at the dismemberment of the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a Member State of the
Organization.
It profoundly deplores the inertia of the
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
to
ensure
proper
international community and the inability of the United
Nations
and
implementation of the principles enshrined in the Charter
and in international law, those principles which have been
repeatedly recalled in resolutions, often adopted under
Chapter VII, by the Security Council.
compliance with
Somalia has
recently experienced a
and
destructive civil war which led to a dreadful famine that
decimated tens of thousands of its people. A multilateral
humanitarian rescue operation was launched with the aim of
promoting national reconciliation and restoring the rule of
law and the good functioning of government institutions.
cruel
Morocco was one of the first countries to show its
active solidarity with that sisterly African country in the
framework of a multilateral humanitarian mission. My
country sent an important military contingent to alleviate the
suffering of the Somali people.
In this context, Morocco
volunteered to set up a complete military hospital in which
more than 100,000 patients have received treatment.
Unfortunately, we have recently seen the situation in
Somalia change as a result of deadly confrontations that
have claimed numerous lives. While deploring these tragic
developments and condemning these reprehensible acts, we
remain convinced that
the solution to the Somali crisis
hinges on continued negotiation and dialogue between all the
parties, with the assistance of the United Nations, in order to
achieve a genuine national reconciliation that would ensure
peace, security and prosperity for our brethren in Somalia.
and
Angola remains in the grip of a destructive civil war
despite the peace agreement between the Government of
Angola and the National Union for the Total Independence
of Angola (UNITA), which agreement was supported by the
community
international
the United Nations
Organization.
Inspired by its solidarity with the Angolan
people, and determined to promote peace and security in this
the Kingdom of Morocco, on several
part of Africa,
occasions has assisted the two parties
in resolving
outstanding problems through dialogue and negotiation. As
a member of the Security Council, Morocco has voted in
favour of all resolutions on this issue in the hope that the
two parties would implement the Abidjan protocol, prepared
with the help of the United States of America, the Russian
Federation and Portugal, so that an end could be put to the
cycle of war and destruction, and thus allow Angola to usher
in an era of peace, security and stability.
In South Africa, the cycle of violence continues to
claim innocent victims. This must not slow down or side-
track the democratic process or the current efforts aimed at
transforming South Africa into a democratic, united and non-
racial State. It is a source of satisfaction that the process of
constitutional reform is proceeding despite the bloody acts
of provocation perpetrated by extremists from various sides.
Morocco, which has always encouraged dialogue
between the parties concerned, wants
its
satisfaction at the establishment of a transitional Executive
Council. We are hopeful that the parties will continue the
dialogue and the process of reconciliation.
to express
Moreover, Morocco supports the appeal of Mr. Nelson
Mandela, made before the Special Committee against
Apartheid on 24 September 1993, for the lifting of the
economic sanctions against South Africa. We are convinced
that such an action will result in alleviating the economic
burdens borne by the people of South Africa and will thus
contribute to resolving their internal and external problems
and give new momentum to the settlement process.
Two weeks ago, the Middle East entered a new era as
a result of the mutual recognition between the Palestine
Liberation Organization and Israel, and the signing of an
agreement allowing for a regime of self-rule, initially in the
Gaza Strip and Jericho.
Those two historic events have had a great impact on
the situation in the Middle East, as this is the first time that
the Palestinian and the Israeli sides have officially and
publicly expressed their willingness to coexist and to
recognize one another.
Despite the strong impact of those two events, Morocco
believes that the path to a genuine, comprehensive settlement
of the Arab-Israeli conflict is still long and that patience and
perseverance are required in order to circumvent the many
obstacles and difficulties that beset the process.
This first decisive step should be strengthened and
should be accompanied by a good measure of progress in the
other bilateral negotiations. A real solution in the Middle
East can be achieved only if the momentum for peace is
allowed to run its full course and reach its goal with the
consent of all the peoples of the region.
To shoulder these responsibilities at this crucial and
historical juncture, it is necessary to mobilize all efforts and
to bring together all people of goodwill in order to achieve
a just and comprehensive settlement
that would be
acceptable to all parties. Such a settlement should restore to
the Palestinian people their rights, including their right to an
Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993
23
implement the provisions of resolution 809 (1993) in all its
aspects.
It was in the same spirit of cooperation and
reconciliation that Morocco agreed to the Laayoune meeting
of last July where Sahrawis, in particular, from within the
territory and from the region of Tindouf, took part and
initiated a brotherly and positive dialogue.
A close examination of conditions prevailing in the
world as we stand on the threshold of the next century
would clearly show that the strivings of humanity in the
areas of world peace, justice and welfare fall short of the
hopes it set out to realize and that the challenges in the way
of meeting those goals are still difficult and numerous.
What is most needed now is a new code of conduct for
international relations, a code that would take into account
the concerns of all peoples and countries of the world,
restore balance to international dealings and bring the
principles of justice and partnership to the management
independent State on their soil with Jerusalem as its capital.
It should also ensure the withdrawal of Israel from the other
occupied Arab territories in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan, in
conformity with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967),
338 (1973) and 425 (1978).
Only then can the Middle East, afflicted by war,
violence and tragedies for more than half a century, enter
upon an era of peace, security, disarmament, stability and
cooperation between all the States of the region; this would
bring about development, welfare and prosperity.
In the Maghreb subregion, the Kingdom of Morocco
firmly believes in the principles that formed the foundation
of the Arab Maghreb Union; we adhere to the goals of the
Union. We are firmly convinced that the future of the
region and the prosperity of its peoples, linked as they are
by history, language, religion and a common destiny, depend
on the achievement of that unity.
The Arab Maghreb Union has recently encountered
some difficulties and obstacles. This, in our view, is only
natural. However, we are determined to overcome such
difficulties and to go forward in order to fulfil the ambition
of the Maghreb people to build an effective structure of
cooperation and solidarity for themselves.
In the area of relations with the rest of the international
community, Morocco and the other members of the Arab
Maghreb Union view with special importance their relations
with countries of the European Community on the one hand,
and with its member States on an individual or
Mediterranean basis on the other. The results achieved
within the framework of dialogue and cooperation among
countries bordering the Mediterranean are encouraging. We
hope therefore that
the current difficulties, which have
prevented the resumption of that dialogue, will be overcome
soon in order to promote a balanced regional cooperation
between the northern and southern flanks of the Western
Mediterranean.
With regard to the so-called question of the Western
Sahara, the Settlement Plan is being implemented, and the
Secretary-General continues to bring all new developments
to the attention of the Security Council. The Kingdom of
Morocco, which has always cooperated with the Secretary-
General and striven to facilitate his mission, has given its
consent in principle to the compromise he proposed in the
interpretation and application of
the criteria for voter
eligibility. We are confident that the Secretary-General will
not fail to inform the Security Council of Morocco’s sincere
and loyal cooperation and our constant
to
readiness
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
of world affairs. We hold the view that the United Nations
is the most suitable forum for discussions on this issue and
for attaining our common goals.
The PRESIDENT: We have heard the last speaker in
the general debate for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.
