1United Nations
G E N E R A L
A S S E M B L Y
FORTY-EIGHTH SESSION
Official Records
President: Mr. INSANALLY
(Guyana)
__________
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
AGENDA ITEM 112 (continued)
INTERNATIONAL DRUG CONTROL
HIGH-LEVEL PLENARY MEETINGS TO EXAMINE
THE STATUS OF INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
AGAINST THE ILLICIT PRODUCTION, SALE,
DEMAND, TRAFFIC AND DISTRIBUTION OF
NARCOTICS AND PSYCHOTROPIC SUBSTANCES:
DRAFT RESOLUTION A/48/L.12
The PRESIDENT: The first speaker is Ms. Wilma
Zafra Turbay, Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs of Colombia,
on whom I now call.
Ms. ZAFRA TURBAY (Colombia) (interpretation from
Spanish): Colombia attaches the greatest importance to
these high-level plenary meetings on international drug
control, which are being held within the framework of the
United Nations General Assembly. We are pleased to have
actively promoted this event at precisely the time when
interest in the subject appeared to be declining.
Undoubtedly,
this is the proper platform for
the
generation of effective and decisive responses from the
international community to the implacable challenge that the
illicit
traffic in narcotics and psychotropic substances
represents.
40th
PLENARY MEETING
Wednesday, 27 October 1993
at 3 p.m.
NEW YORK
effective response from all States in order that we may
together eradicate its harmful effects on world society.
Colombia views with concern the indications of
increased illicit consumption and production of and
trafficking in narcotics and psychotropic substances. We
are also alarmed by the growing incidence of drug-related
crimes, such as narco-terrorism, arms and explosives
trafficking, the diversion of precursor chemicals and money
laundering.
Despite the significant efforts of
the international
community, we can say - calmly, but with concern - that
drugs are as great a problem as ever; the problem is made
worse by the indolence of some and the inadequate
application of the strategies to which we have all committed
ourselves at the international level.
My country has made a special effort to strengthen its
judicial system through institutional reform, including new
investigative mechanisms and indictment procedures. Today
we have more robust institutions that facilitate the strict
application of justice within the framework of the State’s
modernization process.
At the international level, Colombia has participated
actively in the strengthening of cooperation. We have made
available to the international community such areas and
means as we can, as well as the best of our human, financial
and technical resources,
in order to achieve a greater
exchange of information and experience.
In this context, I
am pleased to give the Assembly confirmation of the
Colombian Congress’s approval in August of the United
Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances, adopted in Vienna in 1988.
Drug trafficking has acquired new dimensions and ever
more sophisticated mechanisms, demanding a clear and
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned
within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Section,
Room C-178, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
93-86988 (E)
Distr. GENERAL
A/48/PV.40
17 November 1993
ENGLISH
2
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The scope of drug-related phenomena is so vast that
international instruments alone are not enough to overcome
this scourge. Each State must adopt and implement them
internally, showing genuine commitment. The outcome of
this struggle will remain in doubt as long as there is
tolerance for such things as the free trade in and diversion
of chemical precursors; the existence of tax and financial
havens
laundering illegal profits; and arms and
explosives trafficking linked to drugs.
for
In order to dismantle the financial apparatus of the
criminal organizations involved, international action must be
geared towards enabling financial systems and enforcement
agencies swiftly to exchange information on suspicious
transactions.
Although only a small amount of illicit capital enters
the Colombian economy, measures have been implemented
to detect money laundering. Thanks to the joint initiative of
the private sector and the State security and investigative
bodies, the detection of money laundering has been made
easier, both inside and outside the country, in collaboration
with other Governments.
There is a clear link between illicit trafficking in arms
and explosives and the violence associated with drug
trafficking. The failure to control the sale and export of
arms in some countries,
in addition to the enormous
resources of the criminal organizations, has made this one of
the most profitable businesses.
The environmental degradation caused by illegal
cultivation, through the indiscriminate destruction of forests,
continues to cause irreparable damage to the Andean and
tropical ecosystems. Furthermore, the erosion caused by this
cultivation has a drastic effect on water resources, a subject
of vital importance on the international agenda.
I must also mention the grave problem of the use and
consumption of narcotics and psychotropic substances. My
country views with particular concern the sustained rise in
demand throughout the world. The international community
must promote an overall evaluation of demand-control and
demand-prevention policies in order to develop renewed
strategies.
States,
non-governmental organizations and private sector groups is
indispensable for achieving the objectives of preventing drug
addiction and treating and rehabilitating addicts.
cooperation
between
Active
We must reinforce the legal and financial mechanisms
so that international cooperation will be more efficient in its
various spheres of action.
These include cooperation
between judiciaries to exchange information and evidence to
expedite the indictment and trial of drug-traffickers; the
harmonization of legislation so that there will be efficient
action in matters of control and prevention and a real
decrease in criminality; and technical cooperation to make
possible the dissemination and standardization of strategies
and mechanisms aimed at preventing and curbing such
activities.
to make
I suggest to the Assembly that the United Nations
Commission on Narcotic Drugs should meet at the highest
level
adopt
recommendations and specific measures; and design new
strategies to bring greater efficiency to the attainment of the
proposed goals and encourage States to show the firmest,
clearest political will to implement the proposed actions.
evaluations;
necessary
the
Colombia is pleased to announce that
in order to
promote research in this field and put at the service of
countries affected by this curse the experience Colombia has
acquired over recent years, the creation of a Centre for
International Studies and Research on Drug Trafficking,
where we hope, with other interested countries, to enhance
knowledge and improve strategies for combating this sinister
scourge of humanity.
(UNDCP), which is
I should like to take advantage of this important
occasion to express the Colombian Government’s recognition
of the work being done by the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme
the
coordinating body for international cooperation within the
United Nations system.
to
emphasize the importance of endowing that Programme with
the resources necessary to ensure its timely and effective
operation. The current level of its budget allows only for
the carrying out of pilot programmes in certain areas and
countries, whereas the problem calls for universal attention.
However, we also want
Once again, in this battle in which we are all engaged
we exhort all Governments to express their political will,
realistically and with tangible commitment. What is at stake
is the well-being and survival of mankind. We must devote
ourselves with determination to building a society founded
on the human being as a rational, creative and feeling entity
who seeks to approach the new millennium in peace and
harmony.
Our hopes and the future of our children depend on the
responsibility with which we act in the present.
The PRESIDENT: I now call upon the representative
of Myanmar.
Mr. MIN (Myanmar):
I should like to begin by
expressing the satisfaction of the delegation of Myanmar at
seeing you, Sir, preside over the high-level plenary meetings
of the General Assembly on drug-abuse control.
In your
opening address to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
3
session you rightly emphasized the need for a collective
vision to turn individual dreams into reality.
In no other
human endeavour is there a more compelling need for such
vision than in our efforts to rid the world of the scourge of
illicit drugs.
In the past two decades the use of illicit drugs has
spread at an alarming rate, affecting the individual, the
family, the community and society in nations around the
globe. The illicit production, distribution and consumption
of drugs have become a most serious problem, one that
represents a global challenge requiring a global response. It
is therefore encouraging to note that there is today a growing
awareness in the international community of the need to take
a firm stand to overcome the threat posed to mankind by the
drug problem. The holding of these high-level plenary
meetings is a manifestation of that awareness and the
leadership role that the United Nations plays in the field of
drug-abuse control. My delegation is confident that these
meetings will give us an opportunity to evaluate the
implementation of the Global Programme of Action adopted
by the General Assembly at its seventeenth special session
in 1990 as well as to enhance international cooperation.
Myanmar believes that concerted action will be required
at the international and national levels to meet the challenge
posed by illicit drugs.
In this regard, Myanmar has been
shouldering its responsibilities both at home and abroad. In
parallel with the anti-narcotics campaigns being carried out
within the country, we have also been participating actively
in international forums dealing with illicit drugs, from the
special session of the General Assembly devoted to narcotic
drugs to the World Ministerial Summit to Reduce Demand
for Drugs and to Combat the Cocaine Threat. As earnest of
our commitment, we acceded to the 1988 Convention against
Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
in June 1991. Subsequently, in January 1993, the Myanmar
Government enacted the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances Law, which harmonizes its statutes with the
It also
major international treaties to which it is a party.
eliminates loopholes in earlier statutes with respect
to
corruption, asset seizure and conspiracy.
In keeping with the 1990 Global Programme of Action,
Myanmar has been cooperating with the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) and
neighbouring countries to expand activities aimed at reducing
the supply of illicit drugs and eventually eliminating opium
In June 1992 the
cultivation in the country completely.
Myanmar Government
signing
agreements with the People’s Republic of China and the
UNDCP, as well as with Thailand and the UNDCP, in order
to collaborate in addressing the problems of
illicit
production, trafficking and abuse. The Governments of
Myanmar and Laos have also agreed to cooperate in this
took the initiative of
the Governments of
regard. As delegations are aware,
Myanmar, China, Laos and Thailand yesterday signed here
in New York a Memorandum of Understanding with the
UNDCP. Myanmar also signed a drug-control agreement
with India in April of this year and aims to work out a
similar agreement with Bangladesh.
We are confident that those cooperative efforts at the
subregional
level will result, not only in the effective
elimination of opium cultivation and trafficking in narcotic
drugs and chemicals used in the refining of heroin and the
production of other illicit drugs, but also in reducing the
demand for local consumption and concurrently addressing
the problem of HIV-AIDS infection associated with
intravenous drug abuse.
Myanmar has been unrelenting in its war against the
illicit production, trafficking and consumption of drugs since
it regained its independence in 1948. In recent years efforts
have been stepped up, and my Government has been
implementing a nation-wide drug-suppression programme.
We realize that the illicit-drug problem is complex and that
it must be addressed comprehensively. Accordingly, our
national programme is multifaceted and covers the whole
gamut of drug-control activities, from law enforcement and
education to crop substitution and medical treatment.
In the past it has been our strategy to focus mainly on
the destruction of poppy fields, sometimes carried out
manually and at other times by aerial spraying of herbicides.
While such efforts have had some success in addressing
production and trafficking problems, the practice of shifting
cultivation and drug production along and across border
areas, coupled with the rough terrain and mountainous
topography, makes effective control difficult, with the result
that the overall impact of these measures has been limited.
The situation has been aggravated by the presence of heavily
armed drug-trafficking groups in the drug-producing border
areas.
launched,
With the advent of the State Law and Order Restoration
Council, a new approach was adopted. Recognizing that the
drug problem cannot be divorced from the problem of
poverty, my Government
in 1989, a new
programme to raise the living standards of the national races
in the border regions in order to narrow the gap between the
city dweller and the rural folk. The new approach is aimed
at winning the hearts and minds of the local populace by
raising their awareness of the insidious effects of drug abuse
and the human misery and suffering that opium and other
illicit drugs leave in their wake. The cornerstone of the new
approach is the provision of alternative sources of income to
the farmers who depend entirely on the cultivation of the
opium poppy for their livelihood. Accordingly, emphasis is
now being placed on programmes designed to generate
4
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
alternative incomes, such as crop substitution,
breeding, trade promotion and mineral exploration.
livestock
those achievements, but, given their significance, allow me
to repeat them.
In parallel with its anti-narcotic-drug programmes, the
Government has been implementing since March 1989, on
a priority basis, a programme for the development of border
areas and national
A separate Ministry was
established in 1992 to ensure the development of the border
areas and to eradicate poppy cultivation.
races.
The new approach of the Myanmar Government is in
keeping with the strategy recommended by the Secretary-
General in his report on the implementation by Member
States of the Global Programme of Action. It provides for,
among other things, the stimulation of rural development in
opium-producing areas as another key element of the opium-
elimination strategy. As stated in the report, one common
feature of the producing areas is that they are relatively
remote, mountainous and not well
integrated into the
mainstream of national economic and social development.
The aim of the rural development programmes is to reduce
the isolation of such communities in those areas by
improving the transport and communication infrastructure
and social services, as well as by introducing alternative
crops for their livelihood. The Myanmar Government has
been implementing just such a programme, with the
objective of improving the transport and communication
infrastructure in the Shan, Kachin, Rakhine, Chin and Kayah
states and in the Sagaing division, which are the constituent
units of the Union of Myanmar bordering on neighbouring
countries.
The two parallel programmes of my Government - one
on narcotic drugs
and the other on development -
complement each other.
Significant results have been
achieved. As a result of the constructive measures taken by
the authorities, and reflecting their complete trust and
confidence in the policy of national reconciliation espoused
by the State Law and Order Restoration Council and in its
goodwill and sincerity, 10 armed groups have now returned
to the legal fold. They are now cooperating with the
Government
in promoting peace and prosperity in their
respective regions.
Representatives of the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) and other visitors to
Myanmar have been given the opportunity to acquire
firsthand knowledge of
the illicit-drug problem in the
country. United States Congressman Charles B. Rangel,
Chairman of the House Select Committee on Narcotics
Abuse and Control, and a number of his colleagues from
both the United States Senate and House who visited
Myanmar
the current year saw for
themselves recent Myanmar Government achievements in the
field of narcotics control. I have already mentioned some of
in the course of
in New York,
Myanmar signed drug-control agreements with China
and UNDCP, and also with Thailand and UNDCP, in 1992.
In April 1993, Myanmar signed a drug-control agreement
with India and has already agreed to sign one with Laos.
Yesterday, here
a Memorandum of
Understanding was signed between the Governments of
Myanmar, China, Laos and Thailand and UNDCP. The
main objectives of the agreement are to eliminate opium-
poppy cultivation through economic-and-social-
development programmes, eliminate trafficking in narcotic
drugs and chemicals used in refining heroin, and reduce the
demand for and local consumption of narcotic drugs.
its new statute.
In cooperation with international partners, the Myanmar
Government arrested 12 alleged traffickers earlier this year
on a conspiracy charge under
The
Government enacted a new drug law in January 1993 to
harmonize its statutes with the major international treaties to
which it is a party. Drug task forces in the country have
been increased from 5 in 1988 to 16 in 1992. Additional
task forces will be formed as required. Statistics for 1992
show that seizures of heroin by the authorities rose by nearly
50 per cent while opium seizures rose by more than 35 per
cent over the previous year’s totals. Seizures of heroin are
nearly the
reported from Thailand,
notwithstanding the fact that the United States has placed
Myanmar on the list of countries decertified as a
non-cooperating country in the fight against narcotics
trafficking.
those
same
as
study
based
The Myanmar Government and the United States Drug
Enforcement Administration (DEA) have carried out an
opium-yield
from
representative areas of the country. This is the first study of
its kind in the country. Regarding cooperation between the
Myanmar authorities and the United States DEA, I should
here like to quote the following passage from the report of
the head of the DEA Country Office in Yangon:
samples
on
taken
"During the entire period of DEA presence in
Myanmar, there is not a single instance in which a
cooperative DEA/Government
of Myanmar
investigation has been compromised. There are very
few countries in which DEA agents are assigned that
can make such a claim".
The Myanmar authorities have responded fully to DEA
requests for investigative assistance. In this regard, the same
official states:
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
5
"In some instances, the Government of Myanmar
provided more information than was actually requested
in the first place".
narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and related
activities have heightened social and economic problems and
increased violence within many of our countries.
The endeavours of the Government of Myanmar to
develop border areas are registering significant progress.
One manifestation of such progress is the return to the legal
fold this month of the Kachin Independence Organization,
one of
country.
Significantly, representatives of the Kachin nationals stated
at a press conference held at United Nations Headquarters on
14 October that they are resolved to end poppy cultivation
in their state by 1995.
armed groups
in the
largest
the
From what I have stated, it should be quite evident that
the Myanmar Government has taken serious measures to
address the problem of drug abuse and illicit trafficking. A
head start has been made. However, we are aware that only
through concerted international efforts can the world
overcome the challenge posed by illicit drugs. The untold
suffering and misery that drug addiction wreaks upon our
societies and nations demand that we work together to put
an end to drug abuse and illicit trafficking.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): I call
on the representative of Venezuela
Mr. TAYLHARDAT (Venezuela) (interpretation from
Spanish): The United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP) represents the concerted efforts of the
United Nations and its Member States to combat
the
production, sale, demand for, traffic in and illicit distribution
of drugs and psychotropic substances.
It will be possible to appreciate the full scope and value
of the global strategy of international action, which is given
concrete form in the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme, only with the passing of time and to the
extent that all States incorporate in their legislation and
internal policies the general guidelines laid down in the
instruments adopted in recent years. I refer in particular to
the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline of Future
Activities of 1987 and to the Global Programme of Action
of 1990. Unquestionably, the full implementation of the
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which was initiated by
my country, is a central element of this action.
Venezuela approves of the important work being done
by the United Nations, and particularly by the Executive
Director of the UNDCP, Mr. Giorgio Giacomelli, in the fight
against drugs.
It
is a fact
the harmful effects generated and
propagated by the consumption of and illicit trafficking in
that
Our awareness of the fact that, far from improving, this
situation is growing more serious requires us to continue
examining its causes and its effects on the socio-economic
order of our peoples so that we may take the most
appropriate corrective measures.
The
situation
geographical
its
advantageous position on the sea, extensive border areas and
means of communication - continually exposes it to the risk
of being used by drug trafficking organizations as a transit
country.
of Venezuela -
Transit operations are not confined to the use of our
territory as a connecting point in international drug traffic.
Because of the capacity of drug traffickers for offence,
transit operations also undermine border security,
the
integrity of foreign trade,
the stability of the financial
system, the civic and moral integrity of our officials and
citizens and our public health, as well as national
sovereignty in its fullest context.
The so-called transit countries are not only used for the
transport of illegal drugs; they are also used in the transport
of the chemicals employed in the clandestine manufacture of
drugs and in the transfer of the capital generated by such
activities, which, once it is rendered legitimate, is returned
to the State where the criminal organization is based.
In spite of the dangerous implications of this,
the
special situation of transit countries has been an aspect of
the general problem of drug trafficking that
is rarely
considered by the international community. To ensure a
more effective worldwide struggle against drug trafficking,
we must analyse and examine in depth the situation of these
countries and the turmoil they experience as a result of the
negative impact of the drug problem on their social and
economic structures.
For these reasons, Venezuela believes that the problems
of transit countries must be viewed in a broader context.
We are pleased that the draft resolution we will be adopting
at the end of this debate takes this concern into account.
Venezuela’s awareness of its position has prompted us
to extend our efforts at prevention, control, supervision,
investigation and full
international cooperation to the
multiple phases of international drug traffic in transit, and to
associate the problem with security and national defence.
Internal
be
considered entirely independently of the situation generated
trafficking
operations
cannot
drug
6
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
by transit traffic. The largest drug seizures continue to be
made from operations on international drug routes. This
does not allow us to draw any conclusions about the internal
situation, particularly not if we take into account that the
various operations taking part in the transit process do not
always correspond to the levels of criminal organization
based within the territory. These operations may be dictated
by attempts to avoid repressive activities in a given region.
of
certain
commercial
As a result of intensified vigilance along our borders,
investigations
in
neighbouring States and of the transit of persons, among
other actions carried out by the police, have made it possible
to intercept certain international connections which sought to
use our territory to transfer illegal capital outside of the
country.
activities
This investigation, which is being carried out now and
is still at a confidential stage, is an important precedent for
the establishment of the crime which doctrine and the new
Venezuelan law identify as the legitimation of capital, and
for the definition of a more precise outline of illegal drug
transit operations.
On the basis of our past experience, we believe it
that, within the activities of prevention and
important
community mobilization,
the
re-education of drug users who are being rehabilitated, with
a view to increasing their job skills as an effective means of
reducing the demand for illicit drugs.
a place be made
for
The attraction of trafficking in narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances lies in the possibility of obtaining
large profits in a short amount of time. The two columns on
which this business is founded are supply and demand,
which are so closely related that it is almost impossible to
consider the problem and its consequences without taking the
importance of both into account.
In recent years, national and international actions have
focused primarily on combating supply. This has, to some
extent, diverted attention away from effective policies for
putting an end to illicit demand. In numerous international
meetings and forums, the growth of that essential element of
the problem has been noted, as well as the preference of
traffickers for importing and distributing drugs in those
places where their market value is highest.
This disturbing picture reminds us of the need to
promote large-scale strategies to prevent
the clandestine
movement of drugs in those States where there is a great
demand for illegal drugs. A shrinkage of the market would
be effective, since without profitable places to sell
the
product there would be no incentive to produce and cultivate
it. At the same time, this would alleviate the situation of the
transit countries.
This key aspect of the problem demands that we take
into account paragraph 4 of article 14 of the 1988 United
Nations Convention against Illicit Trafficking in Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (the Vienna Convention)
and give priority to those programmes aimed at eliminating
or reducing illicit demand.
To prevent
the diversion towards unlawful uses of
chemicals and precursors legally used by industry, Venezuela
has, since 1985, been implementing an administrative regime
of supervision and control of the commercial operations
which import and export these products.
The recent reform of the special drug law of 1984 was
approved by the Venezuelan legislature to improve and
expand the earlier regime, adapting it to the stipulations of
the 1988 Vienna Convention and to the guidelines contained
in the model law drawn up by the Inter-American Drug
Abuse Control Commission
the
Organization of American States.
In accordance with this
legislative reform, import and export operations must be
registered and must obtain a special permit. The procedure
by which these authorizations are granted is subject to the
guidelines set out in the Vienna Convention.
approved
and
by
To ensure the effectiveness of the import control
established by the country, exporters must, in turn, exercise
greater vigilance and supervision over their exports and must
also speed up the system of exchange of information on
commercial operations involving these products.
In general, we would consider the expansion of the
voluntary system of estimating quantities required for
industrial use - similar to the system established for narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances - a significant stride
forward in drug-abuse control.
The drug problem should not be considered solely from
the individual points of view of producer, transit, consumer
or money-laundering countries nor yet exclusively in a
global or universal way. A regional orientation is also
required, which would take advantage of the capacity for
cooperation among the countries of a given region affected
by this scourge and of the potential for coordination in
defining joint policies and actions.
One step in this direction could be, for example, for the
countries of the American continent and the Caribbean to
agree on the objective of converting the region into a drug-
free zone by the first decade of the next century. We realize
if all
that
those
concerned - producer,
and money-
this is an ambitious objective, but
transit
consumer,
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
7
laundering countries - were to define a joint plan, even if we
had not achieved the objective by the date mentioned, at
least we would have made considerable progress by
developing a concerted and coordinated programme to
combat the problem of drugs in all its dimensions. Similar
initiatives in other regions of the world would also be
beneficial.
My country is firmly convinced of the essential role of
international cooperation in the fight against
the drug
problem. Venezuela resolutely supports all initiatives and
actions the international community has undertaken along
these lines.
The PRESIDENT: Before calling on the next speaker
in the debate, I should like to inform the Assembly that, in
view of the large number of Member States whose names
are still inscribed on the list of speakers, the plenary meeting
this afternoon will go beyond 6 p.m., until at least 7.30 p.m.,
as an extraordinary measure and thanks to additional
conference services made available to these high-level
meetings. Once again I appeal to delegations to try to stick
to the limits prescribed.
The General Assembly will continue and conclude the
debate on this item tomorrow afternoon.
I now call on Mr. Zainuddin Abdul Bahari, Director of
the Anti-Drug Task Force of Malaysia.
this
Mr. BAHARI (Malaysia): Our meetings here mark yet
again the international community’s common resolve to
address collectively the scourge of drug abuse and illicit
trafficking. This series of meetings is significant and timely
as the war against
scourge is far from over.
According to reports from the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs (CND) and the International Narcotic
Control Board (INCB), the situation remains grim and we
are fighting losing battles in certain regions. Our meetings
therefore provide the opportunity to take stock of these
developments and to dedicate ourselves to the onerous tasks
ahead of all of us. To achieve decisive results, efforts to
combat drug abuse and illicit
trafficking require a
comprehensive, continuous, balanced and multidisciplinary
approach.
My delegation shares the belief that
the status of
international cooperation to combat drug abuse and illicit
trafficking needs to be re-evaluated. The profusion of
multilayered, interrelated issues and participants has made
the fight against drug abuse and illicit
trafficking an
extremely difficult and complex undertaking. We need to
better coordinate our work in order not to lose sight of our
objectives, priorities and strategies while maintaining our
In this regard, the
cohesiveness in fighting this menace.
United Nations System-Wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse
Control and the Global Programme of Action should be
continuously reviewed and updated.
It is imperative that the United Nations take the lead
role in rationalizing the work to avoid duplication and
ensuring coordination and complementarity. The report of
the Secretary- General on "Implementation of the United
Nations System-Wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control"
(A/48/329) mentions only a few agencies such as the World
Health Organization (WHO),
the International Labour
Organization (ILO),
the United Nations Development
Programme
(UNDP)
and the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Obviously other
agencies need to take an active part in this fight.
UNDCP was formed to fulfil the need to address the
drug menace collectively, with the United Nations playing a
central role of coordination. In playing that role, the United
Nations must make its activities consistent with and
complementary to the efforts and commitments of national
Governments. The UNDCP should endeavour to cooperate
with, and optimize the activities and actions of, States rather
than doing the job for them. The UNDCP should also take
its guidance from the CND, the main policy-making body.
The CND itself, which has been expanded, should now be
more active and effective.
The development of national master plans to implement
the Global Programme of Action is a good starting point for
international cooperation in this area. To be effective, the
Programme should be implemented in tandem with national
policies and strategies. Malaysia commends the UNDCP for
its initiatives at regional and subregional levels to assist
nations in the implementation of the Programme, particularly
in the development of national master plans. Malaysia
developed a sectoral master plan for anti-narcotics measures
as early as 1985, and we reiterate our readiness to render the
necessary assistance to the UNDCP in formulating strategies
in developing such master plans.
In conjunction with international and national strategies,
societies must be sufficiently well informed and sensitized
so that
they can respond positively to these initiatives.
Malaysia supports the thrust of the approach envisaged by
the Global Programme of Action for an international strategy
encompassing the reduction of illicit supply of narcotic drugs
and psychotropic substances; the curb on demand through
prevention of drug addiction and treatment; rehabilitation and
social reintegration of addicts;
the suppression of illicit
manufacture of and trafficking in drugs; and the regulation
of
in drugs for medical and
scientific purposes.
the international market
8
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
report mentions
Prevention is a key element in the fight against drug
abuse. The Secretary-General’s
two
important principles relating to demand reduction. The first
principle involves the question of a demand-reduction
programme which requires the involvement of all sectors of
society and the international community.
The second
principle focuses on specific vulnerable target groups.
Sufficient and relevant
legislation must be enacted and
adequate resources must be allocated as prerequisites to any
sustainable
demand-reduction
programmes.
implementation
of
Malaysia’s own experience confirms that drug-demand
reduction measures have an important role in the war against
the scourge of drugs abuse and illicit trafficking. We are
also convinced that for these measures to be effective the
commitment of national Governments is required. The
provision of legislation for the screening of suspected drug
addicts enables us to estimate the magnitude of the drug-
abuse problem.
the
formulation of demand-reduction strategies.
It is equally
that confirmed drug addicts be subjected to
important
mandatory treatment and rehabilitation. Compulsory and
effective treatment can make a substantial contribution to
reducing the demand for illicit drugs.
This provides a sound basis for
demand
substantial
These measures
financial
allocations, which may be beyond the financial capability of
many countries. Our review should therefore look into
alternative financing for these activities, particularly the
question of the involvement of the private sector and
non-governmental organizations.
efforts
the regional
Institutionalizing collaborative
in demand
levels is important as well.
reduction at
Malaysia strongly believes that
the establishment of a
mechanism to deal with demand-reduction issues is long
overdue.
In this connection, it is recommended that the
UNDCP establish regional meetings structured along the
lines of
the Meetings of the Heads of National Law
Enforcement Agencies (HONLEA).
production. The issue is not as simple as that relating to
crop substitution, as it
involves the question of social
development, cultural particularity and the security of the
poor peasants who are forced to cultivate coca or opium.
Until and unless the enormous scale and implications of this
problem are appreciated, all well-intended measures will
prove to be ineffective.
The cornerstone of
the United Nations effort
to
eradicate drug production should be based on providing a
practical alternative means of subsistence to drug growers.
One interesting proposal by the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) calls for debt swap,
whereby part of
the official debt payment of heavily
indebted countries would be set aside for alternative
development activities. In welcoming this proposal, we wish
to emphasize the need for clear guidelines to ensure that the
objectives are met.
drug
aspect
the
fight
the years,
focused primarily on law enforcement
The suppression of illicit drug trafficking is another
against
abuse.
relevant
in
there has been an
Unfortunately, over
overemphasis on and an inequitable allocation of resources
to this particular aspect. Most countries in their initial
efforts
and
interdiction. The United Nations itself has been and remains
influenced by this line of thought, which has manifested
itself in its overemphasis on drug-law-enforcement measures.
This has perhaps been inevitable because of the initial
perception that if the flow of drugs can be stopped, the drug
problem can be eradicated. The truth, however, is that
suppression of drug trafficking and distribution is not the
panacea to the drug problem. Today, no country can claim
to have succeeded in reducing the inflow of drugs. There
has been no reduction in the illicit production, manufacture
and consumption of and trafficking in drugs. Indeed, on the
contrary, there has been an increase in the production of
drugs. There is thus a need for a balanced and equitable
approach by UNDCP in its programmes and activities,
without veering predominantly towards law enforcement.
The recent Asian HONLEA meeting in Seoul brought
to the fore a disturbing observation. There appears to be a
decline in the focus on drug issues among national
Governments. It is ironic that this should be so, particularly
in view of the growing emergence of drug-related problems
such as the transmission of the HIV virus, AIDS, and money
The international community should show
laundering.
greater commitment
to and determination in enforcing
measures to control and prevent the drug problem.
The eradication of illicit drug production is another area
requiring early international action, given the general
acceptance of
the linkage between poverty and drug
instruments on this matter:
We agree with the observation in the reports of the
Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the International Narcotics
Control Board and UNDCP on the need for member
countries to show their commitment to the fight against drug
abuse by ratifying and acceding to the three major
international
the Single
Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, the Convention on
Psychotropic Substances of 1971, and the United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances of 1988. Participation will ease
national control efforts and enable countries to participate in
international activities. This is vital in the case of the newly
independent countries, whose non-participation in these
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
9
instruments will make them targets for drug traffickers.
Malaysia ratified the 1988 Convention early this year.
National laws need to be updated in compliance with
It goes without saying that
international drug treaties.
countries should have an adequate legal framework to deal
with the drug problem because the lack of basic drug laws
would impede international cooperation. This is particularly
relevant to the newly independent States, such as those in
Europe and the former Soviet Union.
United Nations specialized agencies, including UNDCP
and the United Nations Commission on Crime Prevention
and Criminal Justice, and international
law-enforcement
organizations need to interact and share, and collaborate in
efforts to cope with organized-crime organizations and their
involvement
in terrorism and gun-running financed by
revenues they obtain from the illegal drug trade. Malaysia
has always advocated the need to standardize the treatment
of drug-related offences. No criminal should have the
liberty to seek refuge or safe haven in countries that impose
minimal punishment for crimes related to drugs, whether it
be for illicit trafficking or for money laundering. There
must be a commonality of penalties that are meted out,
allowing for sufficient deterrence of
the perpetrators.
Malaysia has the harshest of penalties, which is a reflection
of our strong commitment to working towards a drug-free
society while demonstrating our equally strong abhorrence
of drug-related offences.
Before I conclude, allow me to reiterate Malaysia’s
position that we need to continuously review our joint efforts
in fighting this menace. The threat from drug abuse and
illicit
trafficking is constantly changing in form and in
intensity. We must be ahead of the criminals in our
enduring task to defeat them. We must continue to hold on
to our beliefs and principles. We must resist the temptation
to engage in unilateral action to change the shape of the
problem by considering the legalization of drugs or their
classification as soft or hard drugs.
Finally, we must
strengthen our collective international determination and
efforts to fight this scourge against humanity successfully.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): I call
on Mr. Carlos Larreategui, Attorney-General of Ecuador.
Mr. LARREATEGUI (Ecuador) (interpretation from
Spanish): Before I begin my statement, I should like to
express to the representative of Panama my delegation’s
sorrow at the passing of his Foreign Minister, Mr. Julio
Linares.
challenge posed by drug trafficking, which, together with
terrorism, violence and corruption, threatens social peace and
democracy and seriously jeopardizes the future of our
peoples.
It
is possible that at
this stage of the proceedings
everything, or almost everything, has already been said on
the subject. Perhaps all that will be new in my words will
be the way I speak them. Thus, and in order to comply with
your recommendation, Sir, that we be brief, I shall confine
myself to setting forth in broad terms what my country is
doing and plans to do on the subject that has brought us
together and what
from the international
community.
it expects
My country’s geographic situation has, regrettably,
made it a link in the chain of the illicit transit of drugs
between South America and the United States and Europe.
In our region, Ecuador is a bridge between the producers of
coca and the processing and distribution centres. At the
same time, the chemical precursors used in refining centres
pass through Ecuador and return via the same route with
processed drugs on their way to consumer markets.
Moreover, my country is an important
the
laundering of illicit money.
locus for
My country’s complex position notwithstanding, the
national Government has responded firmly and soberly to the
criminal activities threatening not only the moral fibre of
society but the integrity of its legal, social and public-order
institutions. The reaction of our competent authorities to
these challenges has been swift and harsh. At the level of
police action, we have imprisoned the main perpetrators of
these crimes and seized their property - of which they have
a great deal.
In the past year, we have confiscated some
7,079 kilos of cocaine, 306 kilos of coca paste and 216 kilos
of marijuana. At the administrative level, we have set up a
National Council
and
Psychotropic Substances, over which I have the honour to
preside.
This autonomous and independent body is
responsible for the prevention of the manufacture and the
control and inspection of chemical precursors and, through
the Ministry of Health, the rehabilitation of drug users.
the Control of Narcotic
for
Furthermore,
the Government of Ecuador, under
Mr. Sixto Durán Ballen, has adopted a firm and resolute
policy in its tireless fight against illicit drug trafficking.
This position was reiterated at the recent summit meeting of
the leaders of the Rio Group held in Santiago de Chile. To
that end, we have mobilized all the human, technical and
material resources available to the nation.
Ecuador has come to this great gathering - in which we
consider it a great privilege to participate - convinced that
we have a singular opportunity to meet,
the
together,
This year, we have adopted a five-year national plan to
prevent and control the use of drugs, with the following
objectives:
to reduce supply and demand; to make total
10
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
prevention a daily exercise in order to make our population
physically, psychologically and socially sound; to include
preventive education in the normal and remedial educational
curriculums, backed up by a wide-ranging plan for training
teachers; to protect each Ecuadorian as the greatest and best
source of intellectual, material, historical and cultural wealth;
to commit ourselves to involving the voluntary sector,
particularly non-governmental organizations, in programmes
and projects combating drug abuse; to coordinate actions
with specialized bodies in order to buttress, at the technical
and operational levels, the agencies that are implementing
the national plan;
to promote
alternative crops and for
industrializing and marketing
beneficial products that can counteract drug production,
consumption and traffic; and to rescue ethical and moral
values in the individual, the family and society.
to adopt programmes
In the legal field, Ecuador has signed and ratified many
multilateral instruments to do with drugs, and I should like
to point out that Ecuador was one of the first countries to
ratify the 1988 Vienna Convention against Illicit Traffic in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which has been
incorporated into the Law on Narcotic and Psychotropic
Substances that Ecuador promulgated on 17 September 1990.
On the bilateral level, Ecuador has signed a number of
conventions with the countries of the Andean area and with
Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Mexico, and also with
Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States of
America.
that
My delegation welcomes the Organization’s initiative of
holding these high-level meetings in order to alleviate the
concern felt by many countries
the subject of
international cooperation in the war on drugs would be put
on the back burner.
In this regard, we agree with
Mr. Giorgio Giacomelli, Executive Director of the United
Nations
International Drug Control Programme, who
reminded us yesterday that drugs are a world-wide threat at
least as great as any other of the ills that are afflicting
humankind at this time of crisis.
In this connection, Ecuador is convinced that
this
difficult enterprise requires States to stand shoulder to
shoulder in solidarity. For its part, my country will continue
to be assiduous in adopting internal measures to combat the
manifold adverse and corrupting manifestations of the drug
traffic.
Along these lines, we also believe that there should be
an equal degree of commitment on the part of the consuming
countries, which must view this great crusade as a great
campaign in which the principle of equal responsibility is
unequivocally recognized. This is why it is becoming ever
more urgent
for enough resources and international
assistance to be allocated to help us fulfil the obligation to
eradicate this ignominious scourge, an obligation that our
sacred duty towards the future of our peoples imposes on us.
As many other speakers have emphasized, the war on
drugs requires resolute and coordinated action by all the
world’s peoples, and in which there is no room for
indifference. My country will continue undaunted in the
struggle it has begun, and will offer its cooperation to other
States, in so far as we can, in order to ensure that the
objectives we are determined to achieve are indeed fulfilled.
The moment demands less rhetoric and more action.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on General El Sayed
Lotfi Gheith, Assistant Minister of the Interior of Egypt.
Mr. GHEITH (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic): It
is my great pleasure and honour to participate in this high-
level meeting on behalf of General Hassan El Alfy, Egyptian
Minister of the Interior, who sends the Assembly his sincere
compliments and best wishes for this General Assembly
meeting.
This meeting reflects the international community’s
determination to continue its all-embracing struggle against
the narcotics evil. It also demonstrates the sincere desire of
our peoples and Governments to expand our drug combating
activities and to devise more effective techniques in dealing
with this problem, which continues to be one of the gravest
issues both at the national and international levels. We are
confident
this meeting will be able to formulate
effectual recommendations which, when implemented, will
contribute to the cause of peace and security the world over.
that
Egypt was one of the first States to recognize the
gravity of the problem of narcotics. To Egypt’s credit is the
fact that it was the first State in the world to enact the first
law to criminalize hashish cultivation and importation, in
1879 and the first to establish a law enforcement agency, in
1929, specializing in combating illicit drugs, namely the
Anti-Narcotics General Administration, over which I now
have the honour of presiding.
Egypt has participated effectively in promoting
international efforts to combat and control drugs through
accession to various international conventions in this respect.
Egypt has continued to play an active role in the
Commission on Narcotic Drugs since its inception in 1946,
and is also a member of its subcommission for the Near and
Middle Easts.
At the regional level, Egypt plays a vital role in both
the Arab and the African spheres. It focuses on cooperation
and coordination with the various States concerned in
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
11
combating the illicit traffic in drugs in our region as well as
the transit trafficking targeting other regions of the world.
Egypt has organized and/or participated in numerous
conferences for Heads of Arab and African drug law-
enforcement agencies, and our joint efforts have resulted in
prosecution of a number of significant international cases in
Egypt as well as in a number of other States.
In the area of training, Egypt contributes greatly to
training officers of Arab and African drug law-enforcement
agencies, and participates in implementing United Nations
strategy for training in the region. Our efforts in this
direction have received a considerable boost when Cairo was
chosen, in 1990, as the headquarters for the first United
Nations Regional Training Centre established in Africa.
At another level, we also cooperate with a number of
friendly States, particularly Federal Germany, in organizing
joint courses for African officers.
Within the parameters set by the principal goal of this
meeting, namely the assessment of our efforts and
achievements in the area of international cooperation over
the past few years, I should like to present Egypt’s views
and efforts, primarily in respect of the implementation of the
1988 United Nations Convention and the Global Programme
of Action.
In the field of criminalization and punishment, Egypt
enacted in 1989 a new law, for which the 1988 Convention
was the main source of many of its provisions.
Concerning the
confiscation of narcotics
assets,
Egyptian legislation permits confiscation of the proceeds of
drug related crimes, and of any land or means of
transportation used in committing such crimes. Egyptian
authorities accord a high priority to cooperation with all the
States concerned in this field within the framework of
international conventions and national legislation. We hope
to benefit,
from the training and
consultative services as well as from the technical assistance
that will be provided by the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme to Member States in the context of
the efforts aimed at implementing the Global Programme of
Action.
in the near
future,
to transit under
surveillance by its
Egypt sometimes allows drug consignments to enter its
territory or
law
enforcement agencies. We have used this method
successfully in arresting traffickers and in prosecuting
several significant international cases, in cooperation with
police and customs authorities of a number of Arab, Asian
and European States, as well as the law enforcement
agencies of the United States of America.
With respect to the control of precursors, chemicals and
solvents used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and
psychotropic
such
substances under customs and security controls with the
ultimate aim of controlling all other substances listed in
tables I and II of the 1988 Convention.
substances, we have put
several
In connection with transit traffic in narcotics, Egypt
cooperates with friendly States in joint programmes to fight
narcotics transit traffic operations; those programmes make
use of a detailed and accurate database.
The delegation of Egypt appeals to the United Nations
and all its Member States to take urgent and effective steps
to support combating activities in Africa and to redouble
their contribution to that effort - which, so far, has not
exceeded 6 per cent of United Nations drug-control outlays
in 1992, a very modest contribution indeed given the grave
indications that Africa is being increasingly targeted in the
area of transit trafficking.
I should also like to stress the
importance of extending assistance to Africa in alleviating
the effects of certain problems that exacerbate the drug
situation in the
such as unemployment,
indebtedness, drought and desertification. Such problems
should be addressed through the creation of better
opportunities for development in Africa and through opening
the markets of affluent States to Africa’s products.
continent,
With respect
to detection and eradication of illicit
cultivation, Egyptian law enforcement agencies continue to
vigorously deploy efforts aimed at detecting and eradicating
illicit drug cultivations with the help of the assistance
extended to us under
the long-term United Nations
programme scheduled to run until 1995. We have signed the
latest of the relevant conventions of that programme in Cairo
on 28 September.
In the area of extradition, Egypt cooperates with other
States, both in terms of extradition and also in the exchange
of prisoners, in consonance with the norms of international
law, with the reservation concerning extradition of foreign
prisoners in drug related cases, namely that extradition
should take place after service in Egypt by such prisoners of
the full sentence passed by Egyptian courts.
On behalf of my Government, I wish to convey our
sincere appreciation to the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme (UNDCP) and its Executive Director,
Mr. Giorgio Giacomelli, for the active support
that has
enabled us to strengthen our efforts aimed at reducing the
area of illicit cultivation and to limit the flow of drugs into
Egypt and other countries.
12
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
On the other hand, we hope that, in coordination with
the competent United Nations organs and with developed
countries, the UNDCP will adopt an international programme
that uses advanced technology for the accurate and timely
detection and eradication of illicit cultivation in various
regions.
Such a programme should be devised in
consultation with producer States and must embody restraints
that would safeguard the national security and sovereignty of
such States while taking into account environmental and
population safety considerations.
Our aspiration after a drug-free world will be realized
neither through good intentions, no matter how sincere, nor
through country-specific efforts, no matter how effective
they may be. The attainment of that goal requires a sincere
dedicated collective effort through the mechanisms created
by international instruments, in a new spirit that transcends
formalities and narrow interests and that opts decisively for
carrying through the much needed international struggle
against this horrific scourge.
that confront
I seize this opportunity to appeal
to the General
Assembly to call upon world leaders to intensify their
mutual cooperation in facing up to all
the threats and
challenges
the international community,
especially those posed by drug trafficking and terrorism.
Creative action in this respect is certainly the best legacy we
can bequeath to our children and grandchildren - and to all
mankind, which yearns for a better, brighter, more secure
and prosperous world.
The PRESIDENT: I call next on His Excellency Mr.
George Ioan Danescu, Minister of the Interior of Romania.
Mr. DANESCU (Romania)
(spoke in Romanian;
English text furnished by the delegation): I wish on behalf
of the Romanian Government to convey our best wishes to
all participants in these important meetings of the General
Assembly devoted to the problem of drug abuse and drug
trafficking. We are most favourably impressed by the
international
firm
commitments by Heads of State or Government to expand
those efforts into coordinated activities and to set priorities
in the international fight against
the illicit production,
consumption and trafficking of drugs.
and by the
community’s
efforts
As a result of the political, economic and social changes
achieved during the transition period in Romania,
the
institutions of the rule of law have been created; hence,
human rights and fundamental freedoms are fully observed
and
to
international standards.
respected, without
discrimination,
according
The new direction recently promoted in our society in
the economy and politics have been
the fields of law,
For
the
perceived in various ways.
population, these began a process of genuine freedom, but
for some people they represented new possibilities for
criminality, with drug-related crime holding a prominent
place.
the majority of
The opening of our borders led to an enormous growth
in the number of persons and vehicles and the quantities of
goods entering and leaving Romania.
That opportune
situation has been exploited by networks of drug traffickers
who use Romania as an important bridge linking East and
West.
In addition to Romania’s special geographical position,
we must also consider the present situation in the former
Yugoslavia. Owing to the ongoing conflict in that country,
the hard core of drug trafficking has shifted to the second
segment of the "Balkan route", as it has been called - which
includes Romania. That is how criminal organizations avoid
losing large quantities of drugs that net them substantial
sums of money.
In that connection, I must note that the huge sums of
money generated by drug trafficking attract Romanian
citizens as well.
Foreign criminal organizations send
representatives to try to make connections among Romanian
criminals;
and
internationalization of drug trafficking.
organization
promotes
this
the
Another category of Romanians involved in this kind of
crime are individuals who left the country many years ago
and settled abroad.
Some have been recruited by
international networks, and serve as their couriers or
intermediaries. Over the years, they have accumulated large
sums of money which, after December 1989, they invested
in Romania, where they returned to live. The mafia-like
organizations to which these people belong are stretching out
their tentacles to our country; there are indications that some
of the dirty money produced by drug trafficking is being
laundered in Romania.
But in spite of all that, we may safely say that no
market for drugs has been created in Romania, and that
Romania remains free of drug addicts. The only individuals
identified as drug addicts have been foreign residents or
foreigners in Romania for one reason or another.
Given such considerations we may assert that Romania
is merely a transit country for drugs bound for Western
Europe, while at the same time it is being used as a turn-
round point for the cocaine coming from South America.
Apart from what I have mentioned so far I should like
to add that
the Romanian legislation on drugs which
regulates the activity of the competent authorities was
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
13
adopted in 1969, a fact which somewhat hinders their
activity. A new draft law on narcotics has been worked out
and submitted for discussion and passage to Parliament. We
can also say that we have taken an important step forward
by ratifying the United Nations Convention against Illicit
Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, the
Vienna Convention of 1988.
Fully aware that good results in the fight against drug
abuse and drug trafficking can be achieved only on the basis
of close cooperation with similar authorities in other
countries, we have made efforts to secure such cooperation
with organizations from Europe, America and Asia.
The exchange of information and the material support
granted by the United Nations and other organizations from
the above-mentioned continents were of the utmost help to
us in the struggle against drug trafficking in our country.
As to the amount of seizures in Romania, they range
between seizures of several grams and seizures of several
tons. While in 1991, 35.82 kilograms of drugs were seized,
in 1992 the amount was 30.521 kilograms, and since January
1993
been
ll,396.165 kilograms. Among the most frequent drugs seized
in 1993 we should mention cannabis, with a capture of
ll,183.160 kilograms.
amount
seized
drugs
has
the
of
We are also witnessing an intensification of
the
activities carried out by criminal organizations from South
America, which are diversifying their methods of introducing
into Romania cocaine bound for Western Europe, with the
participation of criminals from Canada, the United States of
America and Romania.
As to the licit production and the legal trafficking in
narcotic substances and products and of precursors and
essential substances, strict controls operate both in the
institutions
that produce medicine containing narcotic
substances and in those producing opium poppies for
medical use. All these steps that have been taken jointly by
interested bodies and organizations from Romania explain
why there have been no cases of the diversion to criminal
activities of drugs and precursors from licit production
sources. For the same purpose, measures have been taken
by interested ministries to authorize the importation and
exportation of the chemical essentials and precursors that
could be used for the illicit manufacturing of drugs.
Given this package of regulations we can firmly state
that in Romania there are no clandestine laboratories; and no
synthetic drugs have been discovered so far.
Although we have no drug addicts among Romanian
citizens and therefore no deaths from overdose - at least not
the Romanian authorities have been
recorded lately -
confronted with a relatively new phenomenon that
is
spreading fast. This is the inhaling by some young children
and teenagers of volatile substances, which are not drugs in
the proper sense of the term, but which, in our opinion,
could lead to the taking of genuine drugs. With respect to
steps have been taken in
such persons educational
conjunction with educational bodies,
teachers, charitable
organizations, schools and medical institutions.
The quite striking proportions of the drug problem
require the elaboration of new strategies, new objectives and
international
cooperation mechanisms which, while
respecting and observing the sovereignty of States, should
act more efficiently against
trading
operations of those persons who make fortunes by means of
illegal drug trafficking and who endanger the stability of
many societies of the world.
the international
Romania, a signatory of all United Nations programmes
and resolutions aimed at developing international cooperation
in the fight against drug abuse and trafficking, intends to put
into effect the recommendations and conclusions of this
session of the General Assembly so as to limit the effects of
this scourge as much as possible.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Spanish): I now
call on Mr. Jorge Ramón Valdés, Attorney-General of
Panama.
Mr. VALDES (Panama) (interpretation from Spanish):
Mr. President, the delegation of the Republic of Panama
wishes to pay its respects to you and hopes that your
presidency will be successful.
a
as
Seen
socio-economic
drug
consumption has been reflecting growing tendencies that are
extremely disquieting, and our children, our youth and our
national identity have been deeply affected by this dreadful
scourge, in spite of the efforts to combat it.
phenomenon,
The Government of the Republic of Panama, at all
levels, has resolutely undertaken the implementation of a
policy aimed at putting into practice measures to prevent,
combat and curb drug abuse, narcotrafficking and the use of
our financial and trade system for money-laundering, while
at the same time making efforts to prevent the legitimization
of activities arising out of narcotrafficking.
We are convinced that through preventive education we
shall be able to combat this dreadful scourge and steal a
march on crime, and that by educating youth and adults we
shall achieve a deeper betterment of the human being and
enhance self-esteem, thereby creating true social awareness
against drugs by erecting a cultural barrier that will protect
14
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
our population from the harmful consequences of drug
trafficking.
We have also designed new national strategies, taking
integrated
into account primarily the development of
prevention policies by mobilizing our communities through
massive education of students at primary, secondary and
university levels. We have also developed programmes for
specialized training for civil servants, members of civic clubs
and the staff of private enterprises throughout the country.
With regard to activities aimed at curbing the illicit
drug traffic and related crime, we would point out that the
Public Ministry - in an effort to strengthen the activities of
the Specialized Secretariat for Drug-Related Crimes in the
Attorney-General’s Office, the offices in charge of summary
proceedings and the Judicial Technical Police, which under
the law now comes under the Ministry’s supervision -
created and installed in all judicial districts throughout the
country specialized sub-secretariats for drug-related crimes.
These entities are responsible for any activity with regard to
summary proceedings, including issuing search warrants, for
drug-related crimes.
Their work has already produced
results throughout the country, especially in the provinces
which, because of their geographical peculiarities and the
development of economic activities, are choice locations for
drug-processing.
Knowing full well that for an effective fight against this
scourge it is necessary to have international cooperation, the
national authorities have carried out a considerable number
of operations jointly with the anti-drug agencies of the
United States, INTERPOL and the German police, among
other agencies, and have succeeded in confiscating large
quantities of drugs and other items connected with this
traffic.
With regard to international legislation, we must make
special mention of the fact that the 1988 United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances (the Vienna Convention) was
recently submitted to our legislative assembly for ratification
and is being debated. Thus Panama continues to reaffirm its
policy of international cooperation with a view to the
eradication of drug trafficking and the consumption of illicit
substances.
that
We wish to point out
the treaty between the
Republic of Panama and the United States of America on
mutual legal assistance in penal matters was ratified by
Panama by law 20 of 22 July 1991 and we hope it will enter
into force when it is ratified by the Congress of the United
States and formalized by an exchange of notes for the
mutual benefit of our two countries. At the time of a
revision of the Special Law on Drugs, we concluded that it
its articles and to
was necessary to reform some of
incorporate new types of crime with a view to regulating
illicit conduct not envisaged in the current legislation.
regard
to
provisions with
In view of all this, the Public Ministry, making use of
the legislative initiative granted to the Attorney-General of
our country, has submitted to our parliament a draft law
designed to reform the current legislation on drugs. The
draft makes provision for restructuring the penal standards
in the field of international drug trafficking. We have
incorporated
aggravating
circumstances in the purchase, sale and transshipment of
drugs; regulation of the procedure for the delivery of drugs
under surveillance and undercover operations. It is intended
that goods seized because of a connection with drug-related
crimes be used in campaigns for the prevention of crime,
rehabilitation, and the suppression of drug trafficking.
In
addition, we have established two offices of the public
prosecutor which specialize in drug-related crimes and which
would have competence and jurisdiction throughout
the
country.
All these changes are aimed at the formulation of a
special law on drugs, the fundamental purpose of which is
maintenance of the struggle against drug trafficking through
the preventive functions of the penal law.
As regards the laundering of drug-related money, we
can see that every day we are confronted by new methods
used by drug dealers to separate their income from illicit
sources from their principal source, through the creation of
complex financial transactions which give the appearance of
legitimacy to their funds. To deal with this situation, the
Government of the Republic of Panama has in its judicial
system a number of measures for enforcing the controls for
the prevention of the laundering of money derived from drug
trafficking. Under
law on drugs there is
provision for sanctions against all those who, in one way or
another, participate in the crime of money laundering.
the special
Another measure taken by the Government to curb this
activity is Cabinet decree No. 41 of 1990, which requires
banks to obtain proper identification of their clients and to
have them provide information about the sources of deposits
and the purposes of cash withdrawals amounting to more
than $10,000.
Our Supreme Court has issued various rulings and
judicial orders imposing on the people involved in these
operations an obligation to supply all
the required
information to the penal authorities on a given bank account
while making it clear
the
confidentiality of certain bank accounts. However, this has
nothing to do with the concept of secret accounts.
that our country respects
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
15
To this end and in order to maintain a salutary financial
centre, the members of the national banking community have
issued a number of agreements concerning the identification
of financial transactions involving cash, cheques, travellers
cheques and other payment orders with blank endorsements.
The Bankers’ Association of Panama, which brings together
almost all the banks in the country, has laid down rules that
prevent members from making improper use of its services.
The Republic of Panama, which is based on the
principles of protecting life, strict legality, respect for legal
institutions, both basic and operational, both national and
international,
is determined to use whatever means are
available to put an end to the terrible scourge of drug
trafficking.
In the face of this phenomenon, which is changing
constantly, the objectives of the Republic of Panama may be
stated as follows: first, our primary responsibility is to
protect
the physical, mental and emotional state of the
people affected by chemical substances; secondly, we must
protect the national political, social, economic and financial
structures against organized crime, whose participants try to
use our geographical position and our financial and trade
system for their own purposes; thirdly, we must strengthen
the links of cooperation and international solidarity through
bilateral and multilateral conventions to curb drug trafficking
in all its manifestations.
We should like to sum up the position of Panama in
this great struggle by the civilized world against
the
increasing threat of drug trafficking, in the words: Panama
is fighting! And it is fighting despite the fact that the drug
barons are trying to use the country, because of its location,
as a springboard for their deadly cargoes. But we are not
daunted by economic limitations or transitory political
changes. Panama is organizing. We are legislating and are
perfecting our police and investigation activities. We have
strict regulations against money laundering. All our efforts
are directed against drugs. We are complying literally with
conventions and treaties, and we are beginning to see
positive signs which should be an example and model for
other nations that have to contend with similar problems. It
is with pride that we say that Panama is fighting and is
achieving its goals.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Roan Perera,
Secretary to the Legal Committee of the National Dangerous
Drugs Control Board of Sri Lanka.
Mr. PERERA (Sri Lanka): The delegation of Sri
Lanka welcomes the convening of these high-level plenary
meetings on international drug control to examine the status
of international cooperation against drug abuse and drug
trafficking. The according of special importance to the
subject and this stocktaking exercise by the international
community are timely. The question of international drug
control does indeed demand high priority, given the political,
economic and social dimensions of the problem and the
grave threat that it poses to the health and life of our people,
particularly the youth of our countries.
Moreover, new and alarming dimensions of drug
trafficking have emerged in the post-cold-war period. The
ramifications of
the nexus between narcotics peddlers,
terrorists and the illicit arms trade now go beyond the
socio-economic sphere and pose an ever-increasing threat to
peace and security within and between nations in many parts
of the world. The residue of the excessive armament
inventories of the cold-war era has resulted in open arms
bazaars. All types of armed groups, including powerful
commercial interests that drive the illicit drug trade, have
access to this sophisticated military hardware.
Drug
peddlers, terrorists and gun runners seem to have joined
forces
networking
arrangements to provide the funding and the logistics for this
deadly trade in illicit drugs and arms.
international
elaborate
create
to
The results of this self-sustaining cycle of violence and
social disintegration are only too evident in the increasing
number of terrorist and drugs-related conflicts around the
world. International preventive diplomacy and efforts in the
area of national political reconciliation will not be fully
successful so long as the flows of illicit arms and of illicit
drugs support each other.
These act as a formidable
counterforce to political efforts, at national and international
levels, towards the prevention or resolution of conflicts. The
terrorists will have no incentive to turn away their financiers
and enter the democratic process of political expression, and
the drug dealers will have no incentive to discard their
"valued customers", unless the international community takes
concerted and integrated action against this twin evil of
narco-terrorism and the illicit arms trade.
Mr. Kabir (Bangladesh), Vice-President,
took the
Chair.
The
growing
complexity
the multifaceted
dimensions of
the problem of drug abuse and drug
trafficking therefore require a carefully coordinated policy
and a plan of action at
regional and
international levels.
the national,
and
The Government of Sri Lanka recently adopted a
national plan on drug abuse and drug control which takes
into account the national, regional and international aspects
of
the National
Dangerous Drugs Control Board is the principal agency in
Sri Lanka dealing with the question of drug control. The
functions of the Board relate to all aspects of prevention and
this question. At
the national
level,
16
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
reduction of drug abuse, the control of the supply of drugs
and the treatment, rehabilitation and social reintegration of
drug addicts. The Police Narcotic Bureau, which is a
specialized unit within the police department, deals with
suppression of
trafficking of narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances.
illicit
On the aspect of demand-reduction programmes, the
National Dangerous Drugs Control Board has taken a series
of measures focusing on special
target groups such as
educational institutions. We are conscious of the need to
implement demand-reduction programmes in a supportive
environment with the active support of parents and
community leaders. At the regional level, during the first
week of this month Sri Lanka hosted a regional seminar,
under the auspices of the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC), to work out modalities for
the prevention and reduction of drug abuse in the South
Asian countries.
With regard to the treatment, rehabilitation and social
reintegration of drug addicts, the Dangerous Drugs Control
Board implements a programme of treatment, rehabilitation
and reintegration in close cooperation with non-governmental
organizations which are active in the field of drug control.
Draft legislation has also been finalized by the Board’s
legislative committee to provide a comprehensive legal
framework for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug
offenders. The law envisages treatment and rehabilitation of
drug offenders through institutions managed by the Board as
well as through private institutions which are subject to
supervision by the Board. The draft legislation also provides
for a court order for treatment and rehabilitation in lieu of a
penal sentence, in appropriate cases.
It also provides for
voluntary submission to treatment and rehabilitation.
In the field of international drug control, Sri Lanka is
a State party to the principal international legal instruments.
Sri Lanka recently ratified the United Nations Convention
against Illicit Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances of 1988 and also the 1971 Convention on
Psychotropic Substances. At the regional level, Sri Lanka is
a party to the SAARC Convention on Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances, which was adopted in 1991 and
which entered into force on 15 September 1993. The
SAARC Convention reaffirms and supplements at
the
regional level the principal international legal instruments in
the field of drug control.
A coordinated programme of international cooperation
is essential for dealing with the problem of narcotic drugs,
given the transboundary dimensions of this problem. The
1988 United Nations Convention provides a comprehensive
legal
the problem through the
establishment of drug offences as grave criminal offences,
to combat
regime
the incorporation of the "extradite or prosecute" principle
and the related concept of universal jurisdiction in relation
to drug offences and measures to promote international
judicial cooperation to address such acts of criminality. We
also note that the draft statute for the establishment of an
international criminal court
formulated recently by the
International Law Commission covers the offences under the
1988 United Nations Convention,
further
elaboration is required on some elements of the matter
relating to the Court’s jurisdiction.
although
A legal workshop for South Asian countries on the
implementation of the 1988 United Nations Convention,
sponsored by the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP), is currently being held in Colombo.
We are very grateful
to UNDCP for sponsoring this
workshop in Sri Lanka; it will no doubt benefit the Asian
countries. A well-coordinated programme of cooperation at
the regional
level would undoubtedly supplement and
strengthen measures of international drug control.
The development of mechanisms for the exchange of
information and intelligence related to drug offences forms
an important part of the international strategy to combat the
problem. Sri Lanka took the initiative within the SAARC
forum for the establishment of a mechanism for enhancing
the effectiveness of law-enforcement action in the region and
for maintaining channels of communication for the secure
and rapid exchange of information between the concerned
agencies of Member States. A Regional Drug Offences
Monitoring Desk has now been established; it is located at
the Sri Lanka Police Narcotic Bureau. A directory of
national focal points of concerned agencies of SAARC
countries has also been finalized. These measures for
mutual assistance already implemented in the SAARC region
could form the basis for wider cooperation, as envisaged
under the United Nations Convention.
Sri Lanka, for its part, stands ready to enter into
cooperative arrangements with countries of other regions on
the question of drug trafficking. Only a comprehensive
network of arrangements at
the bilateral, regional and
international
the threat posed by
international drug trafficking, which, unless effectively
countered through a well-coordinated global plan of action,
would end the political, economic and social fabric of all
nations.
levels could meet
Sri Lanka is therefore pleased to support
the draft
resolution on international drug control, which provides a
framework for enhanced international cooperation in drug
control and the fight against drug abuse.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Guatemala.
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
17
Mr. MARTINI HERRERA (Guatemala) (interpretation
from Spanish): Before taking up the subject before us, I
should like to express, on behalf of the Central American
Community, our deepest sympathy to the people,
the
Government and, especially, the Mission of Panama, and to
the family of His Excellency the late Minister for Foreign
Affairs of the Republic of Panama, Mr. Julio Linares, who
died early this morning in this city, where he had come to
take part in these meetings of the Assembly.
The Central American countries of Costa Rica, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama have
decided to participate jointly in dealing with in one of the
most important aspects of international relations, one that has
negative effects on the social and economic development of
all
the nations of the world, be they industrialized or
developing.
The impact of drug crime, its scope and its invasion of
our societies upset and erode our basic social, economic,
cultural, political and legal structures, thus endangering the
very political stability of nations and bringing about an
unbridled increase in violence, corruption and insecurity.
session of
The seventeenth special
the General
Assembly was devoted to the international fight against the
abuse of and illicit trafficking in drugs, and it culminated in
the adoption of the Political Declaration and the Global
Programme of Action on international cooperation against
the production, supply, demand, and illicit trafficking in and
distribution of narcotics and psychotropic substances. Last
year the General Assembly decided to devote four plenary
meetings this year to an evaluation of the progress made.
The Central American countries believe that
the
activities of the international community in the struggle to
eradicate this problem have been effective, albeit of limited
scope. On the one hand, sophisticated monitoring and
communications systems have made possible seizures of
such substances worldwide. On the other hand,
the
underlying causes of production and unlawful trafficking in
drugs have not been properly tackled.
The poverty, destitution and despair of large portions of
the population, particularly in rural areas, create a fertile
field in which the cartels and other organized groups can
devote their substantial profits to the production of illicit
crops. This has a negative impact on the environment
because of land clearance and the use of herbicides and
other chemical substances that find their way into rivers and
lakes, or stay in the soil.
Many countries have been adversely affected by
political
pandemics,
recessions and economic restructuring, all of which have
geopolitical
conflicts,
changes,
upset the usual harmony of society. Drugs have come to be
viewed as promising a temporary escape. Worse still, the
production of and traffic in illicit substances are the major
source of funds for armed groups seeking political power
through fratricidal wars.
The unfavourable international economic situation plays
a preponderant role in increased drug production. The
prevailing theory of supply and demand and free-market
trends in international trade have led to a drastic fall in the
prices of legal export products.
In Central America, for
example, the drastic drop in the price of export commodities
has caused a deep economic recession. The industrialized
countries have begun to implement
trade measures that
restrict the import of bananas into their markets. Some of
our countries have been threatened by the application of
foreign labour laws, to the detriment of our legal production.
The countries involved are also the market par excellence
for our drugs, for, again in accordance with the law of
supply and demand, consumers in the industrialized countries
are prepared to pay excessive sums for narcotics, but do not
want to pay a fair price for lawful products. A long-term
response to the problem of drug trafficking would be to
increase the productivity of and income from conventional
agriculture. We must promote dynamic agricultural
development on the basis of viable international agreements
guaranteeing fair, remunerative and stable prices for the
producers of licit goods. This is a topic the General
Assembly must now take up seriously.
The Central American countries have tackled the
problem of narcotics in the businesslike manner it demands.
The Central American Presidents have referred to the need
to promote international as well as subregional cooperation
in the fight against drug trafficking. They are well aware of
the special geographical position of Central America, which
international cartels have taken advantage of, using the
region as an air and maritime bridge for drugs en route to
northern markets. They know that the region’s technological
and financial resources are too limited to carry out more
careful monitoring of drug trafficking.
It is time people
understood the immense seriousness of the problem.
Nevertheless, the Central American region has increased
the financial resources it devotes to the international effort
and has initiated plans and programmes on prevention,
investigation, intelligence gathering and information. We are
also putting in place systems to monitor, control and register
air, sea, land, lake and river traffic. Efforts are being made
to locate clandestine landing areas, aircraft refuelling points,
warehouses and raw materials. We are working to locate
and destroy poppy and marijuana crops, as well as other
similar crops for which Central America provides fertile soil.
18
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The Central American countries have cooperated with
international agencies and organs and have held seminars on
the technical assistance the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme can provide.
They have
participated with other interested countries, particularly the
United States of America,
in efforts to combat drug
trafficking,
in strict compliance with the principles of
international law respecting the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of all States, and have signed extradition
agreements that make it possible to apprehend and try drug
lords. Central America rejects, however, the extraterritorial
application of the laws of other countries on its territory and
any attempt
to pursue such policies, whether within or
outside the region.
Central America believes the international community
must reaffirm the priority given in the Global Programme of
Action to the prevention and reduction of the illegal use of
narcotic substances, for which purpose sufficient resources
must be allocated. At the same time, we consider that much
more information and additional financing are required to
help the region wage more energetically the war against
illegal drug production and trafficking.
The sophistication of
international cartels and the
overall international economic situation have resulted in
limited achievements for the Global Programme of Action
and national and subregional programmes. Crop substitution
programmes have not been effective enough. Governments
in the North seem to be concentrating on attempting to
persuade Governments in the South to halt the cultivation
and processing of drug-related crops and to prevent their sale
abroad. That approach, however, ignores the fact that the
driving force behind the drug trade is its enormous
profitability, owing to the increased demand in the North.
That problem has not been effectively tackled.
The Central American countries are parties to the
international drug-control instruments, including the United
Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances of 1988. Their Governments
have received for consideration a plan to establish a Central
American standing commission on the eradication of the
production, trafficking, consumption and use of narcotics and
psychotropic substances, which was drawn up at the ninth
Summit meeting of Central American Presidents, held in
Puntarenas, Costa Rica, in December 1990.
It
is hoped that
the proposed Central American
commission will begin to function at an early date, because
we are convinced that
its activities could significantly
promote cooperation between the countries of the region in
this struggle. The convention creating the commission is to
be signed at
the fourteenth Summit meeting of Central
American Presidents, to be held in Guatemala at the end of
this month.
Last February an anti-drug conference attended by
Central American Heads of Government was held in Belize
City to consider coordinating regional efforts to combat the
illicit production, trafficking and consumption of drugs. In
its Final Declaration it deplored the drug scourge and
reaffirmed the commitment to make every effort to prevent
the region’s being used for such purposes. It expressed the
conviction that only through regional efforts could a solution
be found to the problem created by the use of the region for
illegal production, trafficking and consumption.
The Central American Governments reaffirmed on that
occasion the importance of coordinating their efforts with the
Inter-American Drug Abuse Control Commission, with the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme and
with the United Nations Latin American Institute for the
Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders in
Costa Rica.
The Central American Presidents who met in Panama
stated:
"We reiterate our vigorous condemnation of the
production of, trafficking in and illicit consumption of
drugs. We reaffirm our commitment to make every
possible effort to prevent our countries from becoming
a base for drug trafficking, as this leads to actions
perpetrated against society and violates the fundamental
human rights of individuals. At the same time, we
agree to intensify regional cooperation and international
cooperation to eradicate this scourge".
Domestic legislation has been improved in each country
where this was needed, and in some cases new legislation
has been enacted.
In Costa Rica, a National Drug Council
was established, and the Ministry of Justice adopted a drug
programme. The Assembly of El Salvador enacted a law
governing drug-related activities, thus introducing certain
changes into older legislation.
In September, the anti-drug
division of the civilian national police was instituted. It has
established relations based on cooperation and exchange of
information with the countries in the area: Colombia,
Mexico and the United States.
In Guatemala, a Commission Against Drug Addiction
and Illicit Trafficking was created. A law on drug-related
activities has been enacted, allocating more resources to this
problem, and norms, methods and procedures were adopted
to implement justice speedily and efficiently. In Nicaragua,
a National Drug Commission has been created.
The
National Assembly has already received for study a draft
law, on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, and
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
19
penal legislation on this subject does not allow the release on
bail of any criminals involved in drug trafficking.
drugs, and its complexity is due to the huge profits possible
in the illicit drug trade.
to treat,
The Central American region is well aware of the need
to adopt programmes and measures, on a regional basis, in
order
the social
reinsertion of persons affected, particularly young people,
and is also aware of the need for adequate educational
programmes.
rehabilitate and bring about
The Central American countries are convinced that
without an improvement in the economic conditions of the
region, their efforts to combat drugs will have only a very
limited effect. And that is why we would emphasize once
again the need to enhance international cooperation and
establish an ongoing programme in our countries, including
programmes to deal with the production and marketing of
alternative agricultural products. We need an improvement
in terms of trade, we need investments that help our
economies, a reduction in our debt, and we need support for
our economic and social development, respecting all the
while the environment and the culture of our peoples.
The international community, and in particular the
United Nations, must serve as a central forum to promote
cooperation and improve general living standards. The fight
against narcotics must be given top priority.
It must move
ahead and in this way, our planet can be shared in a peaceful
and healthy way by one and all.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Police General
Chavalit Yodmani of Thailand.
Mr. YODMANI (Thailand):
It is a great pleasure and
honour for me to address the Assembly today.
These special meetings of
the General Assembly
reaffirm the priority that the United Nations attaches to
international drug control.
task as high-level
representatives of various Governments is to review the
progress made to date and inject
the process with the
political will that is so essential to the movement towards
eradication of the problem.
Our
The problem of the abuse and illicit
trafficking of
drugs, as we all are aware, has dramatically increased in
scope and complexity. Despite drug-control measures, the
demand for and illicit production and trafficking of drugs
continue to rise.
It is painfully clear that serious problems
related to the use of drugs have emerged, among them HIV
and AIDS resulting from intravenous drug use and violent
crimes caused by drug addiction and the drug trade. The
diversity of the drug problem is also reflected in the
diversion of chemicals used for the illicit production of
Thailand has fully committed itself to the fight against
this drug menace. What we have done is self-explanatory.
Thailand is a Party to the 1961 Convention amended by the
1972 Protocol, and also to the 1971 Convention. Even
though we have not yet acceded to the 1988 Convention, we
have already put many of the measures provided in the
Convention into action. We are proud to say that much of
what we have done is in line with the strategies outlined in
the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline and the Global
Programme of Action. We have set our priorities within the
context of a clearly defined and achievable national strategy
which provides the proper balance between the demand for
drugs and a reduction in the drug supply.
Thailand would like to commend the United Nations for
its adoption of the Global Programme of Action, which
outlines the integrated strategies on drug abuse control.
However, the implementation of the Global Programme of
Action can be achieved only through the concerted efforts of
every nation in translating the words of
the Global
Programme of Action into concrete action. We are of the
view that
the Global Programme of
Action, technical assistance and financial support from the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP),
in cooperation with other United Nations
specialized agencies, should be provided to the relevant
countries, particularly the developing ones, for the drafting
of their master plans on drug control. The necessary support
and the provision of adequate resources would enable the
countries to effectively implement their programmes.
to help implement
the scourge of drugs.
The subregional concept initiated by UNDCP is another
laudable example of international cooperation in the fight
against
Thailand fully supports
UNDCP’s initiative, because we believe that one country
alone cannot effectively overcome the problem. Countries
that belong to the same geographical region should join
hands and work together to eliminate this pervasive evil.
In this belief, Thailand has been working closely with
all the member countries of the Association of South-East
Asian Nations (ASEAN) in a concerted effort
to fight
against drugs. Thailand also initiated the First Ministerial
Conference on Cooperation on Drug Abuse Control between
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Myanmar and
Thailand in March 1992, which resulted in a Joint
Declaration of
firm
commitment to alleviate the drug problem. To strengthen
cooperation between the three countries and to translate the
Declaration into practical action, a Three-Year Narcotics
Control Assistance Plan was drawn up by the Royal Thai
Government to provide training in the fields of both supply
the three countries
stating their
20
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
and demand reduction to officials from the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic and Myanmar. The implementation of
this Plan will begin next year.
Moreover, Thailand participates actively in the UNDCP
subregional project between Myanmar and Thailand, and
yesterday we signed the Memorandum of Understanding
between the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Myanmar,
the People’s Republic of China, Thailand and UNDCP,
which will serve as a cooperative framework on narcotics
control in that subregion. This will open a new chapter of
concerted efforts between all parties concerned.
The war against drugs will never be won if demand
reduction efforts are overlooked; new kinds of drugs will
always arise to replace old ones. Sometimes substances that
are not even narcotic drugs are used, such as glue and other
volatile substances. Thus, the problem lies mainly with the
individual. Demand reduction should help the individual
resist those destructive habits and encourage him or her to
live a healthy and useful life in society. Most importantly,
this effort should be supported by the people, as they are the
ones who know and face the problem. The Royal Thai
Government has tried to encourage greater participation by
the people in our anti-narcotics programmes, and the results
are quite satisfactory.
Before I conclude, I would like to say that we have
come a long way and still have many roads to travel and
hills to climb, but the knowledge that we are not alone
makes this journey much easier. So I would take this
opportunity to extend my heartfelt thanks to all the countries
that have cooperated with us and helped us in our narcotics-
control efforts. I would also like to reiterate Thailand’s firm
policy against drugs. We pledge to do our best and stand
ready to work with all countries to keep the momentum
going, because if we are to defeat this global menace, we
must be united in purpose and act together.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Eamonn
Doherty, Senior Drugs Coordinator of Ireland.
Mr. DOHERTY (Ireland): Let me begin by saying that
I fully support
the speech made by the Deputy Prime
Minister of Belgium on behalf of the European Community.
Let me also say what a signal honour it is for me to be
present here at these high-level plenary meetings of the
General Assembly on drugs.
I strongly believe that by
adopting a Political Declaration and a Global Programme of
Action in February 1990 we gave an important impetus to
the international community to take positive action in the
fight against a major scourge which threatens the very fabric
of all our societies, a disease which threatens the future of
our young people and thus the future of mankind.
During
Ireland’s
of
presidency
representatives of
the European
Community in 1990 I had the privilege of chairing the first
meetings of the European Community’s senior coordinators
in the fight against drugs. This group was composed of the
personal
the Heads of State and
Government of the twelve member States of the European
Community, and its coming into being underlined the
seriousness with which these senior political figures viewed
the problem of drugs. During the first half of 1990 we drew
up and presented to the European Council in Dublin the draft
of the European Plan to Combat Drugs. This Plan was
finalized in December 1990 under the Italian presidency, and
forms the cornerstone of European policy in the fight against
drugs.
Under the Irish presidency we also put in place a very
important group in the fight against drugs, one which I am
happy to say carries the name of the Dublin Group.
In
bringing together the United States, Canada, Australia,
Japan, Norway and Sweden with the European Community
and its member States and the United Nations International
Drug Control Prograame (UNDCP), it provides a forum for
informal consultations which play an important role in
directing the policies and actions of the countries involved.
In order to respond positively to situations in different parts
of the world, regional groups and within them mini-Dublin
groups were established in major capitals in order to analyse
and respond effectively to the drug problem in different
regions and to enhance the overall understanding of the
problem.
However, I believe that, despite the important role
which we can play in the European Community and through
groupings such as the Dublin Group, in the fight against
drugs we need to coordinate our activities on a world-wide
basis through the United Nations if we wish our efforts to
work effectively towards the eradication of a problem which,
though it may take different forms in different countries and
regions of the world, still remains a problem we must all
face in common. The drug problem is a classic example of
a global challenge. Despite the efforts we have all made
nationally, regionally and internationally, and despite our
many successes, I do not believe we can say that we have
seen any major improvement in the drug-abuse problem.
Whilst we have been fortunate, insofar as the drug
problem in Ireland is small by international standards - due
in small part to the close family structure of our society - it
is a matter which has always been accorded a high priority
by successive Irish Governments. Both enforcement and
rehabilitation measures are kept under constant review, and
we have seen an increase in seizures of drugs and in the
number of people charged with drug offences, particularly
importation and trafficking.
In 1992 there was an increase
of 13 per cent in the number of people charged under the
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
21
Misuse of Drugs Acts. At the same time, there was an
increase of 20 per cent in the number of drug seizures.
However we are very conscious at all times that arrests and
seizures will not by themselves provide the answer to the
problem; for that reason we pay close attention to the
important issues of health care and rehabilitation.
Despite all these measures, we in Ireland have seen a
gradual deterioration in the level of abuse, particularly of
cannabis resin.
In line with our priorities we are at this
point in time critically examining the national policy on all
aspects of the problem including the adequacy of the
resources available to the various enforcement, education and
other agencies involved.
Whilst we will continue to enhance our national
programme, it is only through a concerted international effort
that we can hope to make any impact on the scale of the
problem facing us.
It is a problem which is so widespread
that we regularly find further areas into which its tentacles
have reached. We must not
look to the problem of
production alone but to the reasons for production. We must
not look to the problem of consumption alone but to the
reasons for this consumption.
We must
take account of the economic and social
factors which play an important role in many of the producer
countries. When we talk of alternative development and
crop substitution, we must ensure that what we are offering
is a real alternative and a substitute crop for which there is
a real market. We must also look to how we deal with the
traffickers, who have great wealth and power and who have
a vested interest in ensuring the production of the illicit
crops which have made them so powerful.
We, in determining our actions, must take account of
the fact that drug trafficking, from the patterns which we
have seen, appears to consist of tightly knit, highly organized
networks that span across countries and regions throughout
the world.
Seizures which have taken place appear to
represent only a small percentage of what is being trafficked
as evidence suggests that they rarely affect market prices.
This is a clear indication of the enormity of the problem
which faces us.
When we turn to the problem of consumption, we must
turn our attention to the underlying socio-economic factors.
In our Western world we find drug addiction problems both
among the poor and socially deprived of our populations and
among the relatively well off. We must try to understand
and come to terms with the broader deprivations of our time
that give rise to the drug abuse problem in the different
strata of society. Above all we must emphasize the
important and central role of drug awareness education.
This education needs to take place in the home as well as in
the school and, I believe, it must begin at a very early age
if we are to enable children to resist the pressures of peer
groups and be alert to the dangers which are facing them.
We must pay attention to the problems of drugs and crime
and the relationship between them. We must look at all
times to the relevance and efficacy of programmes for the
rehabilitation of drug abusers.
However, while we must tackle the problems caused by
consumption in our societies, we must also tackle the root
cause of the problems. To do this we must tackle the
problems of drug trafficking and drug pushing. We can
succeed in this area only through ensuring effective
coordination and cooperation between our law enforcement
agencies and between our criminal justice systems. In this
endeavour the United Nations has an important role to play
in helping to bring about the best possible conditions to
enable this cooperation to exist on a broad international
scale. Within Europe we are seeking to improve this
coordination and cooperation through the establishment of
EUROPOL. We must never lose sight of the fact that we
are engaged in a battle against organizations which operate
on a multinational basis and which have huge financial
resources. The structure of these organizations, and in
particular their ability to launder money in major money
markets, needs to be tackled comprehensively.
As I said at the beginning of my intervention, we are
facing up to a global problem which threatens the very
fabric of our society. In this endeavour, unless we pool our
information, our technology, our research, our understanding
and our resources to deal with it effectively, we may stand
guilty of leaving a pernicious heritage to generations yet
unborn. Despite the obstacles we may encounter, we can
never afford to give up the fight. A huge burden has been
placed upon us and we must, each of us, find the courage
and the strength to challenge it and to win.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Brigadier General
Benny Arad, Executive Director of the Anti-Drug Authority
of Israel.
Mr. ARAD (Israel): On behalf of my delegation, I have
the honour of addressing the General Assembly on a topic
that unites us all:
the global fight against drug abuse.
During the last decade, narcotics consumption has
become one of the most serious threats against our society,
endangering our most valuable national resources:
our
community members and our youth.
Israel’s drug-fighting policy,
like that of many
countries, strives to balance the vast demands of the struggle
with the limited resources of the national budget. In spite of
restricted resources, efforts are being made to address the
22
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
social issues confronting Israeli society, amongst them the
drug problem.
The Anti-Drug Authority (ADA), as the national bureau
for planning, coordination and promotion of activities, deals
with a subject of an interdisciplinary nature, while our main
focus is on reduction of drug supply and demand. The
Authority’s mandate includes formulating comprehensive
nationwide policies in all areas of the fight against drug
abuse and promoting and expanding the network of
intervention services in the various areas of this battle.
These are coupled through the coordination of all the efforts
of
Israel’s governmental, non-governmental and public
agencies in the campaign against drug abuse.
During the period of its existence,
the ADA has
formulated a national strategy against drug abuse based on
broad interministerial coordination and cooperation.
Israel, through the ADA, has invested great efforts in
the improvement of interdiction methods along the borders
and at the points of passage along them. The ADA is
promoting the application of more severe sentences for drug
offenders and especially drug dealers. There is also an
increase in the number of prosecutions of such offenders.
Prevention programmes are already conducted in a growing
number of schools, and the intention is to reach all schools
and all grades in the future. Many activities have been
initiated and implemented in the field of public education.
The treatment and rehabilitation infrastructure has been
improved. Research on drug abuse problems is encouraged,
and many academic programmes for the training of skilled
personnel to combat all aspects of drug abuse are under way.
Despite Israel’s limited resources, the ADA, under clear
instructions from the Prime Minister, continues tirelessly to
wage the war against illicit drugs, and in this spirit, the
Government of Israel has each year since 1989 increased its
budget allocation for ADA’s activities.
The need to fight the drug menace is haunting Israel as
well as many other countries. Prevention, treatment and law
enforcement all require not only great efforts but also huge
resources. The drug users and hard-core addicts need the
right combination of facilities, treatment, rehabilitation and
other resources that it is our duty to provide.
Israel is located in a region known as a centre of world
drug trafficking.
Indeed, there is no production of illegal
drugs of any kind in Israel itself. However, in our part of
the world, the intensive drug activities along our borders,
together with drugs imported to Israel from other countries,
pose a tremendous threat to the fabric of our society.
While the prime responsibility in fighting illicit drugs
lies with each State, it is also a point of departure for
binational, regional and multinational cooperation. The
unique balance of strength and weaknesses that exists in
each country’s war on drugs correlates with the adequacy of
its national policies and programmes in the functional
disciplines of treatment, prevention, law enforcement and
interdiction. These elements, which lend themselves to the
position of contributor or beneficiary on the international
level, are interrelated with decisions taken by the United
Nations and thus catalyse the work of development and
progress in terms of global cooperation and striking a
balance in the allocation of resources.
Israel is ready to cooperate with every nation in its
region and outside it in the fight against narcotics and other
drugs. Such cooperation is especially vital considering that
Israel and its neighbouring countries are situated so closely
to the drug- production centres and their smuggling routes.
Israel and its neighbours are being used not only as drug-
transit
but
and
local-consumption targets.
drug-trade
countries,
also
as
As the prospects for peace in the Middle East grow, we
have to remember that peace is made not only between
Governments but also between people. The time has come
to establish lasting cooperation and information exchange
links between neighbouring countries in every aspect of drug
warfare, along with frequent exchanges of operational
information leading to successful drug interdiction by
respective drug-enforcement entities.
We call on our neighbours and the world community to
unite with us in the campaign against narcotic drugs as part
of the efforts to promote peace in our region and all over the
world. We urge our neighbours to establish a regional
committee, open to all countries of the Middle East region,
to combine resources, efforts and expertise and present a
unified front against drug abuse and its implications.
Israel is eager to participate in the implementation of
programmes that will reduce demand and inhibit the supply
of narcotic drugs. Only by combining and coordinating our
efforts can we create the conditions essential to eradicating
this global scourge.
It is our responsibility to reduce the
severity of this plague, which crosses all national boundaries,
and the untold suffering it causes.
We share the view that drug enforcement alone cannot
provide the ultimate solution to the drug problem. However,
along with other long-term measures for demand reduction,
drug-law enforcement through effective interdiction will play
a key role in the immediate, short- and medium-term drug
warfare as long as disruption of the drug-trafficking routes
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
23
remains a major means of cutting down the supply of drugs.
Israel is a party to the Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs of 1961 and its amendment. Israel is also a party to
the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971. We
have taken all
these
Conventions. We are also proceeding to amend our
domestic legislation to ratify the 1988 Convention as soon as
possible.
the necessary steps to implement
and
level.
agreements
The State of Israel has made sincere efforts to establish
international cooperation on a binational as well as a
multinational
Since 1991 we have signed a
Memorandum of Understanding
of
cooperation with the United States of America, France and
Chile. We are trying to activate an existing agreement with
Italy. Likewise, we hope to promote such agreements with
other countries to stimulate binational cooperation and
exchange of information on methods against drug abuse.
Israel
invites the international community to share the
knowledge it has accumulated in all the domains of the fight
against drugs.
We believe that the United Nations should adopt a
stricter approach to the use of heroin, which is the main
drug threat
in most countries. We encourage the
establishment of a central data system in each country to
keep track of intervention methods and list individuals who
are known as drug users or offenders.
In addition, we
recommend the establishment of an international information
centre for exchanging information on intervention methods
that are applied in the various aspects of fighting drug abuse.
Since ADA’s establishment, we have cooperated with
the United Nations drug-fighting bodies and taken all the
necessary steps to achieve the drug-fighting goals set by the
United Nations. Since 1990, representatives of the United
Nations programmes - starting with the former Director of
the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control and the
President and representatives of the International Narcotics
Control Board - have visited Israel and gained first-hand
knowledge of our commitment to preventing and fighting
drug addiction and trafficking. These representatives had the
opportunity to see at first-hand the drug-fighting scene in
Israel and to learn about our methods and special
programmes. They were impressed by Israel’s intervention
programmes and the high quality of our professionals. We
are looking forward to establishing mutual working relations
with the United Nations
International Drug Control
Programme and to giving professional assistance to other
nations.
The Government of Israel wishes to stress its total and
unwavering commitment to fighting the drug scourge and to
participating fully in all international efforts with each and
every State.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on Mrs. Katalen Szomor
Molnar, Executive Secretary of the Interministerial Drug
Committee of Hungary.
Mrs. SZOMOR MOLNAR (Hungary): I am honoured
to participate on behalf of the Government of the Republic
of Hungary in these high-level meetings of the General
Assembly dealing with the global problem of drug abuse and
the ways and means to enhance the coherence of the
system-wide activities in this field.
We are convinced that implementing a comprehensive
multidisciplinary strategy at each level of society is the only
way to guarantee success in the worldwide fight against drug
abuse. Also, as has been stated in United Nations forums -
first at the International Conference on Drug Abuse and
Illicit Trafficking in 1987 in Vienna - and laid down in the
Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline,
various
resolutions of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the
General Assembly and, most importantly, in the Global
Programme of Action, a well-balanced approach to drug
demand and supply reduction has to be implemented on
global, regional, national and local levels.
in
Because of the international and highly sophisticated
nature of drug criminality, and also because of the global
nature of the epidemic of drug misuse of our age - well-
coordinated international control and preventive actions
based on the policy prepared and approved by the competent
United Nations bodies are called for to give guidance to
Governments in implementing their national drug strategies
and in carrying out a drug policy under the guidelines of the
Global Programme of Action.
Hungary is party to the 1961 and 1971 United Nations
drug Conventions and by the end of this year, following the
adoption of the necessary legislative measures, we are going
to ratify the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic
of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988.
The Hungarian Government established an Inter-
ministerial Drug Committee in 1991,
in which the
representatives of 18 ministries and national agencies are
taking decisions on our drug strategy and coordinating its
implementation. The Committee is supported by working
groups whose tasks are the drawing up of draft legislation
and professional guidelines, strategic planning, evaluation of
activities,
areas of precursors,
treatment as an alternative to prison,
money-laundering,
training plans, national
treatment
prevention
drug-testing
laboratories.
in prison, national
epidemiology
and so on,
in the
policies,
and
24
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
As a result of the war in former Yugoslavia, the main
transit line of the Balkan drug trafficking route is now
traversing Hungary and my country must cope with the
increased problems arising there from illegal
transit,
increased illegal marketing, alarming trends of growing drug
abuse and its interaction with the problems of social
marginalization of larger groups, together with a shift in
drug using habits from softer to harder drugs, including
abuse of poppy.
As a country with a well-developed pharmaceutical and
chemical industry, we are striving to prevent diversion of
psychotropic substances and precursors into illegal channels.
Our legislation on precursors, in effect since 1990, now
covers all the 22 substances.
We are aware of the importance of preventing money
laundering by legal means as well as by establishing a
voluntary reporting system within financial institutions. The
relevant legislation is to be taken up by the Parliament at the
end of this year.
A newly emerging problem in our
region is the
advocacy of the so-called advantages of legalizing soft, and
hard, drugs. Radical groups are trying to get the support of
the mass media to achieve this objective. This problem
would require a more active involvement by the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) in
order to counter these negative tendencies.
The Government of Hungary has responded to these
challenges by establishing the necessary institutional
arrangements. The national police have established a crime
and drug prevention network on national and county levels,
and the public health service has national, county and city
level medical officers who deal with the various aspects of
the drug problem. We have 130 health education institutions
disseminating information on the dangers of substance abuse.
Hungary has already taken innovative steps to establish
a well-functioning system of multisectoral national and
county level bodies entrusted with organizing prevention
activities.
These steps show that we have done a lot, nationally,
to prevent any aggravation of the drug abuse situation. At
the same time, we should like to count on continuing
from UNDCP and from other
guidance and support
multisectoral
for
example, the Pompidou Group.
international organizations,
such as,
We encourage UNDCP to continue its efforts to
harmonize the various levels of international cooperation
against drug abuse in order to allow for the maximum use of
resources and eliminate overlap and duplication of efforts.
We fully support the demand reduction resolution from
the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its thirty-sixth session
inviting international organizations, governments
and
non-governmental organizations to formulate strategies in the
drug demand reduction field through defining target groups
and developing special prevention programmes adapted to
local social and cultural environments, to develop expertise
through training and also to outline damage reduction
programmes and programmes to prevent
the spread of
human immunodeficiency virus epidemics.
the global
In the light of
importance of demand
reduction, UNDCP should further develop its research
activities with a view to providing Governments with
primary prevention programmes
that have undergone
scientific evaluation in UNDCP, thereby minimizing adverse
effects.
Hungary,
after 25 years of membership in the
Commission on Narcotic Drugs,
is fully aware of the
importance of well-balanced supply and demand reduction
policies and the need for innovative approaches and adequate
funding in the primary prevention field, and fully supports
the leading and coordinating role of UNDCP in the
world-wide action against drug abuse. We are ready to
contribute our share to our common endeavours in this
important area.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on Mr. Devi Prasad
Ojha, Member of Parliament of Nepal.
Mr. OJHA (Nepal): The menace of drug trafficking
and abuse has emerged as a major challenge confronting
mankind. The illicit use of and traffic in narcotics and
psychotropic substances have become a social plague
afflicting both the developed and the developing countries.
That humanity could be so deeply mired in the commerce of
degradation and death is indeed a sobering thought.
As the criminal organizations running this trade have no
respect for international frontiers, no State on its own is in
a position to counter the problem. Concerted actions and
cooperation at the international level are the only weapons
against this scourge.
It is now commonly agreed that the one law the drug
traffickers do not break is the law of supply and demand.
So long as there is demand for substances and the money to
pay for them, the traffickers will find a way of meeting that
demand. The war against drugs will be won or lost on the
ability of the international community to restrict the supply
and at the same time reduce demand for narcotic drugs.
The global menace of drugs calls for a global response,
and the United Nations offers the best forum for this kind of
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
25
coordinated action. An effective international response
would depend a great deal on close coordination and reliable
funding of the multidisciplinary programme of action. What
is required is more extensive cooperation between national
law enforcement agencies in interdiction and narcotic
intelligence.
a
of
comprehensive
There is also an urgent need to further strengthen
incentives for the cultivation of substitute crops within the
framework
development
programme. Assurances of a steady market for substitute
products are an essential step towards reducing the illicit
production of raw materials. A global programme also
cannot overlook the social and humanitarian aspects of the
problem.
rural
The adoption in 1990 by General Assembly at
its
seventeenth special session of the Political Declaration and
Global Programme of Action reflects the determination of
the international community to coordinate its efforts in the
fight against drugs. The declaration of the 1990s as the
United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse has given
expression to the sense of urgency within a time-frame for
action. This has led to an intensification of actions at the
national and inter-State levels.
Although the problem of drugs has not
reached
epidemic proportions in Nepal, we have initiated a series of
measures in keeping with the Global Programme of Action.
At
the
chairmanship of the Home Minister. A master plan has been
formulated with the assistance of UNDCP.
the apex is the coordination committee under
to treatment,
Within our resource constraints, we have been giving
rehabilitation and
increasing emphasis
reintegration of drug offenders and abusers.
Increasing
attention is being given to education and public information
campaigns to generate awareness among the masses. We are
trying to establish a nationwide network aimed at mobilizing
basic community-level forces and the private sector in the
fight against drugs. There is an active campaign to interdict
trafficking in illicit drugs and to counter their production.
To this end, the Government’s enforcement department is
being steadily strengthened.
At the regional level, we are active partners with other
members of the South Asian Association for Regional
Cooperation (SAARC) in pursuing drug-control activities.
SAARC has already carried out several major programmes
involving policy makers,
law enforcement agencies and
professionals in the field of demand reduction. We now
have in our region a SAARC Convention on Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances, which will help us coordinate
our efforts in this area at the regional level.
Over the past four decades, the United Nations has
taken important steps in the fight against drugs at
the
international level. The Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs of 1961, its 1972 Protocol, the 1971 Convention on
Psychotropic Substances and the United Nations Convention
against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances of 1988 constitute a comprehensive system of
international control and a framework for cooperation against
trafficking.
the
resources
The United Nations
allocated to the Programme
International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP) is the single drug control programme,
created by the General Assembly in 1990. Lack of adequate
financial and human resources and administrative bottlenecks
should not be allowed to hamper the mandate of that
important Programme. The General Assembly has to ensure
that
are
commensurate with the heavy demands on it.
In that
context, I wish to refer to the valuable assistance provided
by UNDCP in our national drug-control efforts. We also
commend the quality of the workshops and expert-group
meetings held under the auspices of the UNDCP within the
framework of
the Decade against Drug Abuse. My
delegation urges greater efforts by the agencies of the United
Nations system to incorporate and coordinate drug-related
activities
in keeping with the
System-wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control.
in their programmes,
The war against drugs is one that mankind cannot lose.
My delegation hopes that the review of the implementation
of the Global Programme of Action at this session of the
General Assembly will intensify international cooperation to
end this nightmare.
The PRESIDENT:
I call next on the Permanent
Representative of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, His
Excellency Mr. Alounkeo Kittikhoun.
Mr. KITTIKHOUN (Lao
People’s Democratic
Republic) (interpretation from French): The convening of
high-level plenary meetings to examine the status of
international cooperation against the illicit production, sale,
demand,
and
psychotropic substances is a clear reflection of how seriously
the international community is approaching this important
question. My delegation welcomes these plenary meetings,
and hopes they will give new impetus to international
cooperation in this sphere.
distribution
narcotics
traffic
and
of
Despite vigorous efforts by countries at
the local,
regional, bilateral and multilateral levels, and despite certain
encouraging developments, the overall world situation with
respect to drug abuse and illicit trafficking continues to
deteriorate. Unfortunately, there is no sign that this alarming
situation will improve in the near future. In conformity with
26
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
the Declaration and the United Nations System-Wide Action
Plan on Drug Abuse Control adopted by the International
Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, and with
the Political Declaration and the Global Programme of
Action adopted by the General Assembly at its seventeenth
special session - all of which remain fully valid - the
international community is called upon to take the necessary
measures and to do everything possible to eliminate the
scourge of drug abuse and illicit trafficking.
It is in the
interest of countries throughout the world, producers and
consumers alike, to work together in this difficult struggle,
for without effective, sincere cooperation, we are all doomed
to be the losers. And if we all lose the battle, the big
winners will be the traffickers.
The fight against drug abuse and illicit trafficking is a
difficult and complex undertaking. We think it must be
waged in strict conformity with the principles of the United
Nations Charter and international law, in particular those
regarding respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity
of States and the inadmissibility of the threat or use of force
in international relations. These are sacrosanct principles
jealously defended by our peoples; they must be observed
when we promote international cooperation in this sphere.
Like many other countries, the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic knows the disastrous consequences of drug abuse.
We all understand the scope of the problem and that we
must do everything to fight this scourge. Proceeding from
that premise, my country took the important decision to
accede to the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961
and has participated in international conferences, seminars
and forums on the problem of drug abuse, all in the hope of
making our modest contribution to the efforts of
the
international community to eradicate this problem. We note
the complexity of the 1988 Vienna Convention against Illicit
Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances; it
involves a number of obligations requiring thorough analysis.
Serious consideration of the Convention by the competent
authorities is under way in my country.
It
In 1990 we established a national commission for
control and monitoring of drugs under the chairmanship of
a Vice-Minister.
is an independent body with the
involvement of several relevant ministries; its permanent
Its main
secretariat is at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
task is to coordinate all activities relating to drugs.
It
initiates programmes, plans new activities,
follows up
ongoing operations and collects data on production, traffic
and abuse of drugs. The commission is still in its youth and
needs international assistance in many areas if it is to be
able to shoulder its weighty responsibilities.
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic is one of the
South-East Asian opium-producing countries. One of our
ethnic minorities, the Hmongs, has cultivated opium for
generations.
In order to reduce opium production the Lao
Government currently has four integrated rural development
projects under way. Three of these projects receive technical
assistance from the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme (UNDCP) and financial contributions in
the form of grants from Germany, Japan, Norway and
Sweden.
the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) contributes with loans on
concessional terms. The fourth project is entirely financed
by the United States of America. On behalf of the Lao
Government and people I should like to take this opportunity
to express our most sincere thanks to UNDCP, IFAD and the
Governments of those friendly countries for their important
assistance.
Just as important,
The main objective of these development projects is to
offer opium producers viable alternatives on the economic,
social and ecological levels. We are pleased that the results
are fairly encouraging so far. A large number of Hmong
villagers have voluntarily abandoned the growing of opium.
These development projects have given them hope in their
efforts to raise their standard of living, and many of them
feel that their way of life now is much better than it has
been for several generations. The report (A/48/286) of the
Secretary-General on the implementation by Member States
of the Global Programme of Action, recognizes that opium
production in Laos has fallen considerably. Similarly, the
United States State Department said in a 1993 report:
(spoke in English)
the world’s
"Laos,
third largest opium-producing
country, is the only one of the top three to reduce its
potential opium production in each of the past three
years (estimated production declined 13 percent in 1992
from 1991)".
(spoke in French)
In this fight against drug abuse the Lao Government
also emphasises suppression.
In 1992, 77 people in
possession of cannabis, heroin and opium were arrested and
prosecuted under the law. In 1993, the number was 99. We
intend to continue our efforts resolutely so that we can make
our modest contribution to international cooperation in this
area. At the regional level the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic attaches great importance to its cooperation with
the People’s Republic of China, the Kingdom of Thailand
and Myanmar, with assistance from the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme. The Memorandum
of Understanding which we have just signed here in New
York with our partners, the People’s Republic of China,
Thailand, Myanmar and the UNDCP, offers an important
framework for effective cooperation in the future. With firm
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
27
resolve and with multifaceted and sincere cooperation we
hope to be able to attain our objectives.
The PRESIDENT: I now call on the representative of
Benin.
Mr. KPAKPO (Benin) (interpretation from French):
As the Secretary-General has emphasized in his message on
the occasion of these two days of special debate, drug abuse
and illicit trafficking in drugs have become a real scourge,
which is constantly expanding.
The very large number of speakers on this subject
shows
the constant concern felt by the international
community in the face of the disaster that drugs represent for
our societies. The unanimous determination to fight such a
disaster is a source of encouragement for our delegation.
In Africa the drug phenomenon, which has been
steadily growing worse since the 1980s, constitutes an
additional social problem for a number of countries already
tormented by so many ills.
Indeed, the African continent
has become the very crossroads for illicit drug trafficking of
all kinds because of the extremely limited material and
financial resources available to our countries to fight this
phenomenon.
The devastating consequences of drug abuse and the
illicit
trafficking in drugs are everywhere the same:
increased crime, more violence, more juvenile delinquency
and a worsening social situation in general. That is why the
ongoing debate is particularly important to us.
Mrs. Hassan (Egypt), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meetings devoted to the matter give
the
international community an opportunity to reaffirm the
priority it attaches to the problem of controlling narcotic
drugs.
At its seventeenth special session the General Assembly
adopted on 23 February 1990 resolution S-17/2, containing
a Political Declaration and Global Programme of Action in
which it spells out its objectives and the measures to attain
them. The General Assembly also proclaimed the period
1991-2000 the United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse.
In this connection Benin congratulates the Secretary-
General on the major report he has submitted on the
implementation by Member States of the Global Programme
of Action, and gives its support to the recommendations in
it.
It is important to note that, in pursuit of the goals of the
the United Nations
of Action,
Global Programme
International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) was
established in 1990.
It is only right to emphasize here the
very positive contribution that that Programme has made at
the national level as it seeks to help the developing countries
in particular to build up their ability to fight drug abuse and
illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs.
We are happy to note that progress has already been
made, particularly in West Africa, Central Africa and East
Africa,
is
necessary so that collectively we can cope with the scourge
of drugs in Africa.
in consolidating the regional cooperation that
To help developing countries meet their obligations, the
United Nations must give more priority to technical
cooperation in monitoring, preventing and reducing drug
addiction so as to eliminate the still growing illicit demand
for narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
We shall be able to put an end to drug abuse and the
crime it causes only by prevention efforts based on
information, education and action campaigns.
Member States should encourage the executive bodies
of the specialized agencies of the United Nations to attach
greater priority to their drug control activities. Such priority
will have to be backed by allocations of additional resources
to these bodies, particularly the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme.
international
At another level, the measures aimed at controlling
narcotic drugs adopted by the international community
cannot be successful unless all States parties abide
scrupulously by the provisions of
treaties
regulating the growing, producing, manufacturing, trading
and use of narcotic drugs. That is why Benin, which has
already ratified the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of
1961 and the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances,
is taking further steps to accede to the United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances of 1988.
These international
Conventions represent basic legal instruments which each
country must draw upon in drafting its own national
legislation.
to promote the implementation of
In conclusion, I repeat that the delegation of Benin is
deeply convinced that only the adoption of effective and
sustained measures at the national, regional and international
levels
the Global
Programme of Action will allow us to win the fight against
drug abuse and the illicit trafficking in drugs. We hope to
see our deliberations result
the
international community’s determination to wage a fierce
struggle against one of
the most disastrous scourges
humanity has ever faced.
in a strengthening of
28
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic): I now
call on the representative of Lebanon.
(Lebanon)
Mr. MAKKAWI
(interpretation from
Arabic): Drug abuse is a grave scourge that afflicts all
It has had serious adverse effects on the
human societies.
social and economic life of
large groups of people.
Combating that scourge has required and continues to
require concerted action by all nations and by international
organizations. The United Nations has played a crucial role
in the development of a global strategy against this growing
menace.
Recognizing the magnitude of this threat and assuming
its responsibilities towards the world community, Lebanon
has spared no effort, even during the darkest days of the
bloody years of the strife that devastated its territory, in
trying to curb the cultivation of narcotic plants and the
processing of and trafficking in illicit drugs. To this end, as
this Assembly is aware, our national efforts have persisted
despite our extremely limited resources, the decline of the
rule of law and the weakness of governmental organs due to
the general conditions
that prevailed in the country.
Furthermore, Lebanon has continued to be an active member
of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP)
effective
cooperation with
International Criminal Police
Organization (Interpol) even throughout that period.
has maintained
close
and
and
the
location - at
Lebanon’s geographical
the crossroads
between the East and the West, between the centres of illicit
drug-production and drug-consumption markets - has made
it, on the one hand, a transit route for opium and hashish
supplies exported to Europe and, on the other, a trade route
for cocaine shipments originating in Latin America.
In
addition,
living conditions of
Lebanese farmers and the disruption of licit crop production
and export activity for an extended period of time during the
civil war, inclined some toward the cultivation of narcotic-
drug plants. The lure of ready markets was too strong to
resist especially in view of the virtual absence of central
government authority and the weakness of local government
law-enforcement agencies.
the extremely difficult
The difficult internal security situation afforded drug
traffickers good opportunities for increasing their production.
Thus, the land area used for cultivation of illicit narcotic
In
plants was expanded to 16,000 hectares in 1987.
addition, manufacturing facilities were built,
trafficking
networks were organized and expanded and illegal seaports
were developed and operated for illicit purposes.
Against
this backdrop the Lebanese Government,
following the re-establishment of its authority through the
Taif national reconciliation pact, made it one of its top
priorities to launch a firm and relentless drive against all
aspects of illicit drug activity:
cultivation, production,
distribution and trafficking.
Over the past three years, all fields of narcotic-drug
plants in the Beka’a Valley have been eradicated.
In fact,
the last two hectares of such plants, grown in rugged terrain,
were destroyed this year. The fact that Lebanon is now
totally free of such plantings is cause for celebration and a
source of pride.
I repeat: Lebanon today is totally free of
such plantings. Thanks to the combined efforts of the
Lebanese Internal Security Forces, the army and the customs
service, sizeable amounts of narcotic drugs have been seized
and large numbers of traffickers have been arrested. The
following figures are quite illustrative:
in 1990 588
kilograms of hashish were seized, along with 33 kilograms
of heroin and 17 kilograms of cocaine.
In addition, 372
traffickers were arrested. In 1993, on the other hand, up to
30 September, some 13,700 kilograms of hashish had been
seized, along with 45 kilograms of heroin and 263 kilograms
of cocaine, while 858 traffickers had been arrested.
The Drug Control Division of the Judiciary Police has
been reinforced with officers and equipment, and four new
branch offices have been added in major cities, despite our
scarce resources. Also, all illegal seaports that were used for
drug smuggling have been destroyed.
The Lebanese drug-control
and law-enforcement
agencies have maintained extensive and close cooperation
with their counterparts in Europe and the United States. The
wide scope of cooperation, which included 30 operations of
controlled delivery under surveillance has yielded remarkable
results. Several international smugglers and traffickers have
been arrested and their clandestine operational networks
dismantled. Considerable amounts of narcotic drugs have
also been seized.
The Lebanese Government pursues a very stringent
policy towards those who farm and traffic in drug plants.
To a large extent,
it has succeeded in eliminating the
domestic distribution networks which constitute, as in other
countries,
the most formidable of the global strata of
production, shipment and consumption of illicit drugs. At
the same time, the Lebanese Government is in the process
of enacting new legislation to stiffen punishment of those
convicted of drug-related crimes. A High Inter-Ministerial
Committee, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, has been
set up to develop and define the general policy parameters
of combating drugs.
The international missions which recently visited
Lebanon have expressed satisfaction over the efforts made
by the Lebanese Government to combat illicit drugs and the
effectiveness of the measures it has taken in this regard.
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
29
The international observers have also verified that, as a
result of the Government’s policy of eliminating illicit
plantings,
"some 500,000 Lebanese civilians living in 240
villages in the north-eastern Beka’a region, who up to
that point had relied on opium and hashish for their
livelihoods, are now forced to seek new and alternative
means of earning a living."
Lebanon has emerged from its long, painful plight with
a devastated infrastructure and severely disrupted basic civil
services. The Lebanese administration is seriously hampered
by enormous shortages in its operational resources, with
negative implications for the operational functions of the
police and security apparatus, including the drug-control
machinery. In sharp contrast, drug traffickers and smugglers
have access to state-of-the-art technology, which they exploit
in expanding their illicit activities and transactions.
suffer
societies
Lebanon has duly sought to discharge its obligations in
the area of combating the illicit cultivation, manufacture and
trafficking of narcotic drugs. Therefore, it expects to receive
from the Governments of friendly countries, especially those
whose
from widespread drug-related
problems, material and technical assistance towards the
development of a substitute economy in the Lebanese areas
which, for many years, have depended on narcotic drugs as
a major economic and financial source of revenue. The
Lebanese Government is in need of external aid for its
development projects in remote areas and for the creation of
substitute crops that would ensure adequate and licit
livelihoods for the farmers, with a view to discouraging them
from engaging in illicit cultivation. We also hope that the
United Nations and its specialized agencies will make
effective contributions towards that goal.
I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Executive
Director of the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme, Mr. Giacomelli, for the interest he has shown
in the needs of Lebanon.
In this context, may I draw
attention to the fact that Lebanon’s share of the United
Nations offerings in this area has been limited to a single
multifaceted programme whose value did not exceed
$1,129,000. We sincerely hope that future assistance to
Lebanon will be commensurate with its actual and urgent
needs.
The concepts of global interdependence and solidarity
should unite us in our common struggle against this scourge,
wherever it appears and in all its aspects. However, we feel
that confronting this problem in its first stage, namely the
stage of cultivation of narcotic plants, is perhaps the most
cost-effective method. A "nip it in the bud" approach would
be most appropriate in dealing with this scourge.
Furthermore, Lebanon is in need of assistance to
establish clinical facilities and counselling programmes to
treat and rehabilitate the victims of this serious social
problem.
In this context, Lebanon is now seeking to
establish, with the cooperation of the Arab Ministers of the
Interior, a pan-Arab rehabilitation centre in Lebanon to treat
drug addicts from Arab and Middle Eastern countries.
large. However, under
Lebanon, which has traditionally played a leading role
in the cultural and economic life of the entire region,
continues to have the potential and fervent desire to maintain
its creative and pioneering role in its immediate region and
in the world at
the present
circumstances, Lebanon is in need of support and assistance
from friendly Governments and international organizations
in order to help the Government enhance its effectiveness
and carry out reconstruction and development programmes
throughout the country. Our current economic and social
plans focus on the development of our human resources and
the revitalization of our national institutions.
The PRESIDENT:
I now call on The Honourable
Phandu Skelemani, Attorney-General of Botswana.
Mr. SKELEMANI (Botswana): By now, we all know
that the problem of the illicit production, sale, demand and
distribution of narcotics and psychotropic substances has
been with us for a very, very long time. The nations of the
world have individually, regionally and internationally tried
to grapple with this problem, with varying degrees of
success. There is no doubt in my mind that, in order to
achieve any reasonable measure of success in the war
against drug abuse and drug trafficking, greater practical
international cooperation is necessary.
I am sure that by now we have all realized that,
although it is necessary to bring the nations of the world
together every now and then and to sign treaties, meaningful
progress can be achieved only when individual States do all
within their power to help each other.
The causes of illicit drug trafficking are many and
varied. Poverty, greed and decadence are, in my view, some
of the primary causes.
It therefore appears to me that we
should pay greater attention to the identification of the
causes of illicit drug trafficking, because it is only when we
clearly understand why our people engage in illicit drug
trafficking that we can come up with solutions likely to have
an impact. If there is no crop substitution for a peasant who
grows as a lucrative cash crop plants from which drugs are
made, what hope is there of dissuading that peasant from
growing such plants?
I am aware that resolution 47/99 of 16 December 1992
I also believe that the actions we
calls for introspection.
30
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
take in the fight against illicit drug trafficking will invariably
reflect our perception of what the root causes of the problem
are. Consequently, Botswana, although it has not yet acceded
to the 1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic
in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, has taken
what we consider to be the primary practical steps necessary
for the implementation of that Convention, among others.
In 1990, Botswana enacted the Mutual Assistance in
Criminal Matters Act. As that Act states, its object is to
facilitate the provision, and obtaining by Botswana, of
international assistance in criminal matters. Under this Act,
we are able to help other countries to obtain evidence,
identify witnesses and suspects in Botswana. We can
execute requests for search and seizure and confiscation of
property in respect of offences. Thus we have enabled
ourselves to make the necessary applications to our courts on
behalf of other States or authorities. The State also has the
power to send to other States persons required as witnesses,
even if such persons are prisoners, as long as the usual
safeguards are given by the other State.
We have also enacted the Proceeds of Serious Crime Act
1990, which also allows the State where a person has been
convicted of a serious crime to apply to court for a
confiscation order in respect of proceeds of that crime. A
serious crime is an offence punishable by not less than two
years’ imprisonment. This definition does not apply in the
case of the enforcement of a foreign confiscation order,
which, I might add, will be enforced whatever the minimum
punishment in the other country. This Act also allows us to
apply for a restraining order - ex parte - to ensure that the
probable proceeds of serious crime are not dissipated before
a trial is concluded.
The aim of those pieces of legislation is to ensure that
drug traffickers, among others, do not benefit from their
criminal activities. They should know that their ill-gotten
gains will not be safe in Botswana, as the legal framework
now exists which allows for such gains to be followed and
confiscated.
Although Botswana is not a producer of any of the
illicit narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, save a
small
amount of marijuana - or dagga - we have
nevertheless deemed it necessary to punish severely those
who traffic in those substances. Even though as a lawyer
one does not want the executive to dictate to the courts what
punishment to give in any given case, we have had to
provide for minimum sentences of 10 years’ imprisonment
for traffickers. This minimum sentence has obviously had
some effect, as the number of persons caught with illicit
drugs has dropped significantly.
I should also mention our 1990 Extradition Act. Such
laws, we believe, are important in any international fight
against drug traffickers. On the basis of reciprocity, we are
willing to extradite even our nationals for trial or sentencing
outside our jurisdiction. There are very few exceptions to extradition -
and these are universally accepted - such as that the offence
is punishable by death in the other country whereas it is not
so punishable in Botswana. But the accused may still be
extradited if agreement is reached that the death penalty will
not be imposed.
Let me turn finally to those areas where it is not within
our power to legislate or easily find an effective solution. A
few of our nationals have as a result of either poverty or greed -
or both - become involved in illicit trafficking in habit-
forming drugs. We have tried and continue to try to
accelerate rural development. We have received help from
many of our friends through bilateral arrangements and,
indeed, from the United Nations. A lot remains to be done
and a lot can be achieved only through international
cooperation.
Practical
cooperation
between
investigating
and
prosecuting agencies can be improved. We have to realize
that it is not much use catching only the small fish:
it is the
drug barons we must aim for. We need stricter legislation
on both corruption and money-laundering. Banks should not
simply accept unexplained huge deposits. Greater access to
banking records should be possible. Indeed, people ought to
be required to explain life styles beyond their known
legitimate means. I am pleased to say that we in Botswana
are busy preparing legislation to deal with this kind of
corruption.
training.
The success of small jurisdictions like ours will depend
to a very large extent on the help we can get from the
international community. Our law enforcement agencies
need greater
For example, we need police
accountants to go through the accounts of suspects. We
need help also to mount educational programmes against the
evils of drug abuse and the corruption associated therewith.
We are clearly very far from producing drug-free societies,
and we probably will never be able to achieve a
100 per cent cleansing. Yet we must continue to fight with
greater vigour, especially in the face of the sophisticated
methods used by drug traffickers the world over.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic): I call
next on the Director-General and Chief Executive of the
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency and Assistant
Inspector-General of Police of Nigeria, His Excellency
Mr. Bappah Jama’are Muhammad.
Mr. MUHAMMAD (Nigeria): My delegation is pleased
to be participating in these high-level meetings to review the
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
31
international cooperation against
the illicit
status of
production, sale, demand, traffic and distribution of narcotics
and psychotropic substances, especially since the adoption of
a Political Declaration and Global Programme of Action at
the seventeenth special session of the General Assembly,
held in February 1990.
The escalation of drug abuse and illicit
trafficking
continues to endanger the health of individuals and to
threaten the very fabric of society, particularly with respect
to national security, economic stability and social welfare.
The Political Declaration’s proclamation of the United
Nations Decade against Drug Abuse, 1991-2000, was a
recognition of the need for effective national, regional and
international action to promote the Global Programme of
Action.
My delegation has risen to the challenge, particularly at
the national and regional levels. Our National Drug Law
Enforcement Agency has been strengthened and reorganized.
In that connection, six operational zones have been created;
interdiction and investigation activities are coordinated from
these zones. Each zone has the mandate to monitor closely
the international airports, sea ports and land borders. The
Agency has also established a Narcotics Communications
Initiative Committee charged with the close study of the
modes of operation of drug traffickers.
In addition, it is
hoped that its training school in Jos, Plateau state, will be
upgraded by the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP) to a regional training centre to service
anglophone West African countries.
Nigeria was one of the first Member States to ratify the
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988.
It has also
entered into bilateral agreements with many countries in the
areas of drug trafficking and abuse, and has prescribed stiff
penalties against drug offenders.
In view of my country’s
acknowledgement of the role of controlled delivery systems,
which make for greater harmony and mutual trust between
countries, Nigeria has successfully put
into practice a
controlled delivery system with the British Government.
regard since its establishment.
My delegation acknowledges the role of the UNDCP,
the
International Narcotics Control Board and the
Commission on Narcotic Drugs in the fight against the drug
scourge. The UNDCP, in particular, has played a major role
in this
Through its
organization of seminars and workshops, and particularly
through its support for the activities of the Heads of National
Drug Law Enforcement Agencies (HONLEA), the UNDCP
has been playing a major
the
international community to eradicate the drug menace.
However, the UNDCP needs the resources to implement its
laudable policies and programmes. We therefore hope that
role in the efforts of
the international community will continue to extend much
needed resources to the UNDCP.
There is also a need to complement
the efforts of
economically disadvantaged States by providing them with
the necessary resources. In this respect we reiterate the need
to give serious consideration to the sharing of proceeds
confiscated from convicted drug traffickers with the States
where they are domiciled. This is especially necessary
where such States have materially assisted in investigations
by providing a direct,
timely and unimpeded flow of
information leading to the arrest of the traffickers and the
confiscation of the proceeds of their crime. The availability
of such resources will certainly complement the efforts of
the relevant drug-enforcement agencies by making them
more proactive in combating the drug menace. We also call
for an upward review of the present sum of $3.3 million
allocated to more than 50 States in Africa for technical
cooperation in drug matters, out of the total appropriation of
$57.7 million.
It is the view of my delegation that to facilitate the
monitoring and rapid interception of drug traffickers
operational information should be readily exchanged at the
appropriate levels.
the
establishment and maintenance of focal points for the
exchange of such information by Member States.
To achieve this, we call
for
My delegation supports draft resolution A/48/L.12,
which provides that the services of experts could be engaged
by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs in its policy-making
role, where necessary. We believe that such an arrangement
would allow for the injection of new and viable ideas into
the operations of both the Commission on Narcotic Drugs
and the UNDCP. Because of the importance we attach to
them, we also agree with the suggestion in the draft
resolution that such issues be further discussed by the high-
level segment of the Economic and Social Council next year.
international cooperation is
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to reiterate its
conviction that
the main
requirement for effectively combating the drug nightmare.
The fight against drug trafficking and drug abuse also
requires
the
sophistication of drug traffickers. I am convinced that, given
the constant threat of this deadly scourge, we can no longer
rely on mere ineffective clichés, but must take positive
action.
imaginative
constant
ideas
to match
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic): The
next speaker is Major-General Salahuddin Tirmizi, Director-
General of the Anti-Narcotics Task Force of Pakistan, upon
whom I now call.
32
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Mr. TIRMIZI (Pakistan): It is my honour and privilege
to deliver this statement on behalf of my country on this
important agenda item dealing with the control of narcotic
drugs.
I should like to begin by expressing my delegation’s
appreciation to the President of the General Assembly for his
important statement on international drug control. I should
also like to thank the Secretary-General for his reports under
this item and for his statement, which was read out by Mr.
Giorgio Giacomelli, Executive Director of
the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP).
My delegation is deeply alarmed by the magnitude of
the escalating trends in drug abuse, the illicit trafficking,
demand, production, supply and distribution of narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances. Those activities pose a
grave and persistent threat to the health and well-being of
nations and a challenge to the political, economic, social and
cultural structures of all societies. They affect the lives and
dignity of millions of human beings, most especially young
people.
The proliferation of narcotic drugs not only
accounts for an upsurge in crime, violence and corruption,
but is a constant drain on human, financial, intellectual and
other resources, thus impairing the capacity of countries in
their efforts to achieve social and economic development.
in
control
drug-abuse
cooperation
The extraordinarily high level of illicit consumption,
trafficking and production of narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances necessitates a comprehensive approach to
international
and
counter-offensives at the international, regional and national
levels. The universal concern and determination to take
effective, coherent and concerted efforts against the drug
problem culminated in the adoption by the General
Assembly at its seventeenth special session in 1990 of the
Political Declaration and Global Programme of Action.
Since its creation in 1991 the UNDCP has been doing an
admirable job to coordinate all United Nations drug-control
activities and to implement
the Programme of Action
adopted at the seventeenth special session.
all
of
all
the
aspects
problem in
No strategy to control this scourge can succeed without
addressing
its
manifestations. Production and supply of illicit narcotic
drugs are inextricably linked to demand. Until recently the
international efforts to curb the menace were rather lopsided,
concentrating mainly on supply reduction. My delegation is
happy to note that due recognition is now being given to the
importance of reducing demand.
In his message on the
occasion of the International Day against Drug Abuse and
Illicit Trafficking earlier this year, the Secretary-General
stated that:
"While there must be no lessening of efforts in the
other areas of drug control, the emphasis must now
shift to demand reduction."
We also share the view that demand reduction should be part
of a comprehensive and balanced approach to the long-term
goal of eliminating drug abuse.
The Government of Pakistan attaches high priority to
the eradication of the drug menace from the country. Our
efforts are aimed at various aspects of
the problem,
particularly supply-reduction programmes and curbs on illicit
drug trafficking. Those initiatives include programmes for
the eradication of the production of narcotic substances, the
elimination of processing and trafficking, the treatment and
rehabilitation of addicts and community intervention on drug
abuse.
the
These
include
establishment of
A number of important administrative and legislative
measures have been taken in the recent past to control the
problem.
the
Anti-Narcotics Task Force, which, like the existing agencies
directly involved in drug control, investigates cases of drug
trafficking and prosecutes the criminal under the law. The
Anti-Narcotics Task Force Ordinance empowers the Force to
search, investigate and arrest those involved in the drug
trade. In order to deal quickly with crimes related to drugs,
such cases are being referred to special courts for speedy
trials.
the
In December 1991,
the Government of Pakistan
promulgated an Ordinance amending the relevant law to
provide for the destruction of seized narcotics. As a result,
huge quantities of
seized narcotics have since been
destroyed. In September this year, the Dangerous Drug Act
of 1930 was amended to the effect that courts may order
a person sentenced to
forfeiture of
imprisonment for a term of two years or more.
The
previous law provided for such a forfeiture if an accused
was sentenced to life imprisonment. Also in September,
relevant provisions of law have been amended to include the
death penalty in case of certain serious offences relating to
drug trafficking. Also, through a Presidential Ordinance,
legal lacunae regarding the definition of opium have been
removed from the relevant laws.
assets of
Pakistan has made significant progress in curbing the
production of narcotics. Since the crop season of 1978-79,
the acreage under poppy cultivation has been reduced from
80,500 acres to about 15,000 acres in 1992-93.
The
production of opium has been reduced from 800 tons in
1978-79 to about 150 tons in 1992-93. This has been
possible through the implementation of a variety of
crop-substitution and area-development schemes and the
provision of economic incentives and alternate means of
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
33
income to the traditional poppy growers. The Government
has also undertaken infrastructural development projects by
building new roads, schools and irrigation channels to ensure
socio-economic development in such areas.
As a result of intensified interdiction measures, the law
enforcement agencies seized 3,378 kilograms of opium,
3,129 kilograms of heroin and over 160,000 kilograms of
hashish during the first 8 months of this year. Our law
enforcement agencies are also maintaining a close liaison
with their counterparts in other countries as well as with
INTERPOL in order to exchange information about drug
traffickers and to take legal action against them.
Together with preventive measures through effective
and rigorous law enforcement, education provides the
possibility of keeping people away from drugs. In Pakistan,
a programme is under implementation to educate the masses
and the target groups about the ill effects of drug abuse.
Attention is also being given to training persons in the field
of prevention throughout the country so that they in turn will
train community workers.
Governments and intergovernmental organizations alone
cannot resolve this problem. Therefore, every effort is being
made to utilize available resources at the local level among
families,
teachers, social workers, religious leaders and
health-care workers and to mobilize non-governmental
organizations to combat this scourge.
In the regional context, the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC) is pursuing drug control
activities through a technical committee on the prevention of
drug trafficking and drug abuse. Between 1988 and 1992,
this committee carried out 20 major subregional programmes
involving key policymakers and other professionals in the
field of law enforcement and demand reduction. Pakistan is
a party to the SAARC Convention on narcotic drugs.
Similarly,
Economic Cooperation
Organization has also established anti-narcotics committees,
thus providing another important regional framework for
cooperation in combating drug trafficking.
10-member
the
in
and
prevention
and
The Global Programme of Action focuses on several
areas of cooperation in the multilateral context. These
include the increased involvement of specialized agencies,
other United Nations bodies and international financial
institutions
alternative-
development
programmes.
Significantly, the International Monetary Fund has singled
out the drug problem as one of five global priorities.
In
developing countries, drug trafficking is linked to poverty.
The programmes of
institutions
relating to poverty eradication therefore have great bearing
on eliminating the drug menace.
that
crop-substitution
is important
international
activities
financial
It
financial
generous
international
assistance to developing countries, especially those that have
launched a crusade against illicit drugs.
institutions
provide
My delegation also accords high priority to the need for
allocating the necessary financial, personnel and other
resources for drug control activities within the United
Nations system. It is therefore essential to provide a greater
amount of resources to the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme both through the regular budget
and through voluntary extrabudgetary contributions in order
to enable it
to respond effectively to the needs and
requirements of developing countries in combating the drug
problem.
In the context of economic assistance, we believe that
priority should be given to farmers in the poppy-growing
areas and that
industrial units should be established to
generate alternative income sources and employment
opportunities. The cultivators of substitute crops must also
get better access for their products in the international
markets.
assumes
fundamental
law enforcement
agencies involved in drug control programmes in developing
countries are in need of modern equipment to enhance their
professional
The developed
countries can play an important role in the provision of such
equipment, meeting high operational costs and training the
personnel of the enforcement agencies.
skills and effectiveness.
Here,
importance.
Furthermore,
international
cooperation
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the scourge
of drug abuse can only be tackled by effective international
cooperation. A clear strategy is in place in the resolutions
and decisions of the seventeenth special session. Let us
renew our resolve to make the Global Programme of Action
a success by concerted action on the international, regional
and national levels. For its part, Pakistan remains resolutely
committed to taking all possible actions to eliminate and
eradicate the narcotics problems.
is
pertinent to bring to the notice of the Assembly that the
Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mrs. Benazir Bhutto, in her first
cabinet meeting held yesterday, identified the eradication of
the narcotic drug problem as one of the six priority areas of
her Government.
In this context,
it
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic): I call
on Mr. Jean-Marie Kacon Gervais, Permanent Representative
of Côte d’Ivoire.
Mr. GERVAIS (Côte d’Ivoire) (interpretation from
French): Over the past two decades and especially since
1980, the abuse and illicit trafficking of drugs have grown
at a frightening pace, sparing no national borders and
without
regard to the socio-economic development of
countries around the globe. Hence, this phenomenon has not
34
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
bypassed Africa any more than it has bypassed any other
continent.
Africa but now on its way to becoming a way for people to
forget their harsh living conditions.
Already weakened by an unprecedented economic crisis,
and without having been forearmed, our countries have
found themselves in the grip of a complex criminal and drug
problem with all the social consequences it entails. We had
to start from scratch in learning about this new threat, which
is
of
underdevelopment.
question
delicate
no-less
the
bound
to
regional and international
We had to learn very quickly that eliminating this
global scourge required steadfast political will and fortitude
in mobilizing major human and material resources on the
national,
levels. With that
awareness, most African Governments have shown their
political will by acceding to international legal instruments
relating to the fight against drug abuse and illegal trafficking
in narcotics and psychotropic substances.
They have
likewise made praiseworthy endeavours to try to stop the
growth in, or even diminish trafficking in and consumption
of, drugs. Despite their modest means, they continue today
to confront the threat.
Yet all these efforts seem not to have borne fruit. The
dimensions and complexity of the phenomenon exceed all
predictions, and the rudimentary means available to our
States are far from being able to respond to a global
problem. Though not the main victim, Africa today seems
to have become integrated into this vast illegal enterprise as
a fulcrum of activity.
How did this come about? Why this explosion of drug
trafficking and narcotics use in our countries? The causes
are many, but
relate principally to Africa’s current
socio-economic situation, which is illustrated by several
factors.
The first is poverty. The continuing impoverishment of
Africans is a major factor in the increased trafficking in and
production and abuse of drugs.
Secondly, the low prices of our export products make
our peasants turn, under the influence of traffickers,
to
clandestine cultivation of cannabis or to other kinds of
unorthodox agricultural enterprises;
the profits may be
illegal, but they are far greater than those generated by
traditional crops. It is true that we have not yet reached that
point, but persistent
low export prices and the ongoing
impoverishment of the rural masses make us fear that we
shall.
Thirdly,
the economic crisis, with its attendant
marginalization, layoffs, unemployment and school-leaving,
encourages drug abuse, previously unknown in sub-Saharan
Fourthly, civil war, famine, natural disaster and drought
with their attendant poverty, violence, corruption and
community destabilization also encourage the spread of
drugs in our countries, at least in terms of their production
and sale as substitute resources.
Fifthly, our borders are porous, owing to insufficient
trained customs and police personnel and to a lack of
funding for surveillance and control. Before we knew it,
Africa gradually was becoming a favourite site for
traffickers: a transit area without major risks for contraband
from many sources. Statistics show that the quantity of hard
drugs seized in Africa in 1991 was six times that reported in
1990. This is exponential growth. How can we fail to be
aghast?
Obviously, Africa alone cannot allocate the considerable
resources needed for an effective fight against a phenomenon
of
is
indispensable if we are to dismantle the networks in our
capitals, which have become drug-transit strongholds.
International
dimensions.
cooperation
these
In that connection, I cannot fail to pay a well-deserved
tribute to the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP), whose sustained assistance to our
Governments is helping us strengthen our machinery in the
fight against drugs. There is no need here to speak of
UNDCP’s crucial role in its sphere of activity. Faced with
the complexity and seriousness of drug-related questions, it
coordinates activities to avoid wasted effort and useless
outlays. It redounds to the Secretary-General’s honour that
he conceived of coordinating anti-drug activities through a
more rational allocation of responsibilities.
We are pleased that
the UNDCP regional office
organized a seminar, held from 15 to 19 March 1993 at
Abidjan, for foreign-affairs officials of States members of
the Economic Community of West African States and the
Economic Community of Central African States, to inform
and train them on the drug problem. The participants, from
27 countries members of
those subregional economic-
integration organizations, recommended measures aimed at:
ratification by all States of the Conventions of 1961, 1971
and 1988 and harmonization of their national legislation to
further building of
strengthen the anti-drug struggle;
subregional
the
establishment of a subregional and regional anti-drug
structure; further intensification of international cooperation;
provision of basic and advanced training for officials
responsible for the prevention, repression, treatment and
social reintegration of addicts; bolstering of measures against
laundering drug money; and recognition of the need to
cooperation
regional
through
and
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
35
increase assistance to Africa, the most vulnerable of the
continents. They also recommended UNDCP assistance in
the areas of prevention, repression and social reintegration.
Those recommendations were ratified at the Cairo summit
meeting of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which
declared the anti-drug struggle to be a high priority for
African States.
Turning to my own country, Côte d’Ivoire, I need
hardly remind members that we were the first in Africa to
establish a ministry for the anti-drug struggle; this reflected
our keen awareness of the dangers of the drug phenomenon.
Had it not been for the deep economic crisis we are facing,
that department would have continued to exist and to
coordinate our efforts in the fight against the production, sale
and use of narcotics. None the less, my Government
remains convinced of the soundness of current programmes,
which are coordinated by an interministerial committee for
the anti-drug struggle.
But alas, faced with the size of the job, our needs are
In
immense and our available means are modest indeed.
order to eradicate this phenomenon, we will require the
means to inform and sensitize our peoples on the real danger
of drugs. In order to put an end to the production of drugs,
other sources of income must be found or our traditional
cash crops must be made profitable enough to discourage
unlawful agricultural speculations involving drugs and
psychotropic products.
the very heart of
In an excellent report produced by the United Nations
Secretariat, mention is made, in substance, of the fact that
drug-produced revenues are at
the
economies in crisis.
It must thus be feared that our rural
populations, discouraged by excessively low prices for
production and export, will only exacerbate this danger.
Any positive result in the fight against drugs must depend on
our economic growth. Only by promoting development will
it be possible to put an end to this phenomenon, spawned by
poverty and the impoverishment of rural and urban masses.
From this perspective, the eradication of poverty would
appear to be one of the first measures to be taken. At the
same time, the international community should agree to
mobilize substantial funding to enable the UNDCP to
dispose of the means without which the Programme cannot
hope to attain its objectives.
Moreover, the frozen assets of drug traffickers should
serve to strengthen cooperation, not only on the bilateral
level between consumer and producer countries, as has been
the case until now, but also among transit countries such as
our own.
It is from the need to eliminate this scourge that
the notion of shared responsibility invoked by General
Assembly resolution 47/102 takes its full meaning.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic): I now
recognize Colonel Saleh Mohammed Al-Sheikh, Assistant
Under-Secretary of the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Interior in
charge of humanitarian affairs.
Mr. AL-SHEIKH (Saudi Arabia) (interpretation from
Arabic): The narcotic trade is expanding on an international
scale.
Therefore the competent agencies engaged in
combating drugs are intent upon alerting the world to the
threat posed by the unprecedented spread of that trade. The
prices of certain drugs, such as heroin, have actually dropped
in some regions due to availability and excess supply, yet
the profits realized are abundant and vary from place to
place, on the long road from the producing countries to the
distribution and consumption areas.
Drugs are smuggled by the most effective methods of
camouflage, sometimes by resorting to bribery and the
temptation of material gain and, if the need arises, by force
and coercion. Consequently, it has become much more
difficult to combat the international drug trade in general,
especially now,
in view of the increasing tendency of
traffickers to launder their ill-gotten gains through the
collusion of networks of middlemen. Some countries and
financial centres are now known to be places where money
laundering operations are carried out without difficulty or
hindrance. The task of drug combating agencies, therefore,
has become much more difficult and complex. Drug
trafficking is no longer the trade of small-time pushers; it
has become big business and the preserve of huge
international and regional cartels which use the most modern
methods of smuggling, distribution and money laundering.
Some studies indicate that the financial returns of the drug
trade have outstripped by far the revenues of the petroleum
trade in its entirety.
the
serious concern for
It is no wonder then that the drug problem has become
the source of
international
community as a whole because of its dangerous effects and
the medical, security and economic problems it causes. It is
a scourge that threatens the very existence of humanity and
could lead to the disintegration of the family and the
disruption of any country’s social fabric. We in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia consider the danger posed by
drugs to be more lethal than the most destructive weapons
of modern warfare.
The Kingdom, having witnessed the vast and dangerous
spread of drugs in many countries, did not wait for this
lethal scourge to attack it. Saudi Arabia has taken all
possible steps and precautions to prevent an internal drug
problem from arising. The Kingdom continues to deploy all
possible efforts at every local, regional and international
It has signed international agreements to fight the
level.
spread of narcotics and psychotropic substances;
it has
36
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
enacted legislation to combat the smugglers and pushers of
these poisons; and it has encouraged bilateral agreements
and signed quite a number of them.
Drug combating efforts will not succeed except through
total and close cooperation and coordination between all the
agencies and authorities
involved in drug combating
activities in every country. Such cooperative efforts have
successfully forestalled many attempts to smuggle drugs.
The war against drugs and the criminal organizations which
traffic in them will not be effective without joint action by
all concerned parties. That is why the Arab countries,
including the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, have agreed on
concerted strategies to ensure cooperation in the war against
drugs by sharing information in order to forestall attempts to
smuggle drugs into any Arab territory.
The 1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit
Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
calls on the parties to the Convention to enact laws in
conformity with its provisions. The Convention represents
the most effective means of combating the drug trade
through the revitalization of international cooperation and
mutual assistance, and by seeking the means of preventing
drug smugglers from reaping the benefits of their illicit
activities.
It encourages the enactment of legislation to
criminalize money laundering, and aims at preventing
international borders from becoming barriers that hinder
efforts to bring offenders to justice, since drug trafficking
recognizes no boundaries.
legal
assistance,
In response to the Convention, the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia has entered, through its competent authorities, into
agreements for the extradition of criminals and the exchange
of
laundering
operations, and prepared a new anti-drug law, now in the
final stages of formulation, which conforms to the 1988
Convention. The Government of Saudi Arabia will thus be
enacting the most modern laws in the fight against the drug
trade.
criminalized money
The delegation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia wishes
to remind the distinguished delegates that in addition to the
aforementioned steps taken to prevent the spread of drugs,
we must concentrate on the local priorities such as informing
the public on the moral, medical, social and economic
dangers of drug abuse; enacting stringent laws against drug
traffickers; making treatment available to the victims of the
drug trade; and setting up effective anti-drug agencies
equipped with the latest technologies.
I wish to reaffirm that Saudi Arabia resolutely supports
every international effort to combat the drug trade through
cooperation and constructive dialogue founded on a deep
respect for the experiences of States and peoples and their
particular cultural heritage.
rather
from a
sense of
that drug trafficking does not
Saudi Arabia’s interest in supporting the United Nations
programmes and the international cooperation mechanism
does not stem from the scope of this scourge in the
Kingdom, but
international
responsibility, on the one hand, and from our conviction, on
the other,
recognize
international borders. Our reading of the direction the drug
trade is taking, on the international level, in the 1990s gives
us cause for concern because of its expanding scope and the
increasing sophistication of its methods. Such a situation
presents the international community with major challenges
at a time when it is striving to promote ethical behaviour
and to fight drug pushers by every possible means.
satisfaction
views with
Our Government
the
international efforts now being deployed with a view to
strengthening cooperation in the area of security at
the
regional and international levels. Saudi Arabia particularly
appreciates the efforts of the United Nations and its Member
States to create the appropriate climate for strengthening
international efforts in the area of combating drugs.
I should like to emphasize the need to formulate a
comprehensive strategy that would combine theory and
practice as well as prevention and enforcement. To achieve
such an objective, we have to cooperate as States, agencies
and organizations toward the creation of a world community
that would be able to live in security, safety and prosperity.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic): I now
call on His Excellency Mohammed Taryam, the Director
General of Security Affairs in the Ministry of the Interior in
the United Arab Emirates.
Mr. TARYAM (United Arab Emirates) (interpretation
from Arabic): At the outset, I should like to pay tribute to
the tireless efforts and the constructive contributions of the
Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the International Narcotics
Control Board and the United Nations International Drug
Control Programme.
I would like to reaffirm our
commitment
the functions and tasks
contained in the Global Programme of Action on
international cooperation against drugs, in the context of the
United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse.
to carrying out
The problem of drugs is undoubtedly one of the most
important and pressing issues that affect the security and the
very future of mankind, given its grave consequences.
In
addition to its local aspect, it is a global problem, because it
impacts
and security
conditions of most countries of
the world. We are
convinced that this problem cannot be effectively addressed
social, political
economic,
the
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
37
at the local level alone or by local thinking alone. The
problem of drug abuse is not confined within the national
borders of any one country, but transcends those borders and
impacts other countries. Herein lies the global aspect of the
problem. We cannot claim or delude ourselves that there is
one single country on this planet that could consider itself to
be immune to the pernicious evils of drugs that endanger
mankind as a whole and whose gravity is exacerbated from
one year to the next.
In promotion of international action, we continue to
work with the United Nations Development Programme, the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme, the
International Narcotics Control Board, the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs of the Economic and Social Council, and the
narcotics branch and other international organizations and
organs. The diffusion and exchange of information as well
as participation in seminars and training programmes offered
by these organs are of vital importance.
The development of new kinds of drugs and the
continued efforts by drug traffickers to promote these new
drugs throughout the world despite international efforts to
combat
their endeavours have combined in making the
problem more complex and intractable.
Mankind has made enormous progress since the
conclusion of the first Convention on drugs in Shanghai in
1908.
Since then many international conventions and
protocols have been concluded in an attempt to realize the
aspirations of the world community after a formula whereby
the problems of supply, demand and trafficking of illicit
drugs may be brought under control. So far we have 15
such conventions and protocols. Most important are the
Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, as amended
by the 1972 Protocol,
the Convention on Psychotropic
Substances of 1971, and the United Nations Convention
against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances of 1988. All of these instruments represent
resolute international efforts over a long period of time to
rationalize world action and strategy at the national, regional
and international levels against the illicit use of drugs.
The United Arab Emirates has developed a local
strategy based on the global strategies developed by
international and regional organizations and on the Arab
strategy developed by the Pan-Arab Bureau for Drug
Control. In deference to the international conventions in this
regard to which my country is a party, we try to harmonize
our local conditions accordingly. Competent authorities in
the United Arab Emirates try to harmonize our national
legislation on combating drugs with the provisions of those
conventions. We are also drafting a law on the laundering
of proceeds from crime with particular emphasis on drug-
related crimes.
the need for
Our strategy focuses on the reduction of demand and
the prevention of drug use by developing an approach that
takes into account
increasing awareness,
treatment, rehabilitation side by side with law enforcement
measures. This is supervised and followed up by a higher
national committee against drugs whose efforts are directed
towards prevention of the entry of these toxic substances
into our country. Regional and international cooperation and
exchange of information are essential in this respect.
comprehensive
and
The United Arab Emirates hosted on 3 October 1992
the World Conference of Experts
in Drug Control.
Thirty-one States and nine international organizations
participated in that Conference which, at the conclusion of
its work, made
important
recommendations calling for consolidation of all efforts by
States and for cooperation by international organizations in
confronting this menace which endangers all mankind by
exchanging information and expertise and by organizing
local, regional and international meetings. While there is
good faith in promoting international cooperation to confront
these problems, we call for an expansion of this cooperation
on the basis of the United Nations Convention against Illicit
Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of
1988. This Convention provides a good legal basis for such
cooperation.
In this context, we urge those countries that
have not acceded to and/or ratified that Convention to do so
without delay. We also call for training programmes under
the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to
be stepped up in both quantity and quality, especially with
regard to the training of police and customs agents who are
in charge of
in combating drugs.
Beneficiary countries should contribute their own inputs and
their assessment
they may
continue to be improved.
to such programmes so that
law enforcement
With regard to the question of paying compensation to
farmers in the producing countries and the development of
substitute crops, my country supports the recommendations
of international conferences on combating drugs.
We feel that the United Nations, with its specialized
agencies, is the world body most qualified to implement
those recommendations and translate them into realities in
order to promote international cooperation in the area of
substitutive rural development, and put an end to the dangers
to the environment that arise from illicit cultivation.
In
order to avoid economic and social dislocation in the
producing countries,
the international community should
provide technical, economic and financial assistance to those
countries with a view to promoting substitutive development,
while combating trafficking across the transit countries and
diminishing the capability to satisfy the demand for drugs in
the consuming countries. My delegation also calls for
stringent measures in the area of monitoring the returns of
38
General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
drug trafficking and for the international criminalization of
the practice of money laundering.
Combating the abuse of and trafficking in drugs is part
and parcel of the need to comprehensively address the
economic and social problems that beset the countries of the
world in a manner that would enable those countries to
achieve sustainable development and political stability. It is
self-evident
situations of
economic recession and the natural disasters that afflict
many countries have very serious consequences that tend to
augment
the numbers of those who take refuge from
adversity by giving in to the temptation of drug abuse and
addiction.
the political upheavals,
that
In conclusion, I should like to reaffirm that combating
drugs is not merely a national or regional question, but also
an international issue that must be addressed in the interests
of all mankind.
The PRESIDENT (interpretation from Arabic): I now
call on Dr. Isaac Barreto Ribeiro, President of the Federal
Drug Council of Brazil.
Mr. BARRETO RIBEIRO (Brazil) (interpretation from
Spanish): The subject of drugs belongs to a class of
problems about which two things can be said with certainty.
The first
is that we recognize the global scope of the
problem. The second is that we are aware that any proposed
solutions require broad international cooperation.
For this reason, both the clear political will of States, as
shown by the implementation of international agreements,
and the effective implementation, by common accord, of
measures to deal with the problem might seem to give us
sufficient
reason to imagine a future in which drugs,
although still a cause for concern, would no longer be a
serious threat to the very survival of society.
Yet it is rather surprising that recent reports on the
problem give the impression that, despite all that has been
done, the drug situation is in many respects the same as it
was some years ago. That is certainly not because of inertia
or lack of action.
The drugs division of the Federal Police, in trying to
stamp out drugs, is currently carrying out 11 programmes.
First, there is the cannabis eradication programme.
In
1992 more than 2 million cannabis plants were uprooted.
The same year about 19.5 tons of consumption-ready
cannabis were confiscated. This year we have already
uprooted more than 2.1 million cannabis plants. Rural
farmland used for illegal planting can be confiscated and
returned to the State.
Second, there is the programme to eradicate epadú, also
known as Brazilian coca. As a result of the activities of the
Federal Police, the amount of land used to cultivate epadú
is diminishing year by year.
Third, we have a programme to combat organized
crime.
This involves exchanging information on drug
traffickers between various specialized agencies that deal
with combating drugs.
Fourth, we have a programme to combat the cartels.
As proof of the success of this programme, the Federal
Police have been able to prevent almost 7,000 tons of
cocaine from coming onto the consumer market.
Fifth,
there is a programme to control precursor
chemicals and derivatives used in manufacturing drugs.
Using computers, we have been able to achieve better
control over the flow of substances under international
control.
Sixth, we have a programme employing trained sniffer
dogs to interdict illicit drugs.
Seventh, we are running a programme of symposiums
to raise awareness of the dangers of drugs.
Eighth, there is a programme to monitor our rivers and
coasts.
Ninth, we have a programme to intercept
radio
communications in the Amazon region.
Tenth, we have a programme to interdict drugs in our
ports and airports.
Eleventh, we have a computerization programme so that
we can set up a data bank.
These are the main activities currently being carried out
by the Federal Police in trying to stamp out illicit drugs.
In the area of prevention and rehabilitation, the Federal
Narcotics Council, the central body responsible for national
drug policy in Brazil, has approved a national drug plan,
whose
available
information on the drug situation, training drug prevention
agents, mobilizing the community and improving the
relevant legislation.
systemizing
the
guidelines
include
In order to achieve the goals of our national drug
first,
policy, we have identified the following strategies:
development of an epidemiological census so that we can
view the problem from all aspects in as much detail as
possible;
system of
prevention; thirdly, together with the press, the carrying out
setting up a national
secondly,
40th meeting - Wednesday, 27 October l993
39
ethical principles. The fight against drugs must be a fight
for ethics, waged ethically.
It must also be a struggle that
does not lose sight of the principles of law and, above all,
respect for human rights.
The meeting rose at 8 p.m.
of consciousness-raising and prevention campaigns; fourthly,
training experts in drug prevention; fifthly trying to raise
communities’ awareness so that they will support campaigns
to prevent and treat drug abuse and to rehabilitate addicts;
sixthly use of
the primary
prevention mechanism; and, seventhly, adapting the basic
health care system to treat drug users.
the education system as
Brazil has always tried to contribute to the international
cooperative effort to combat drugs. Similarly, it has always
tried to increase the means available to meet this challenge
on the domestic front.
Since taking office President
Itamar Franco has
impressed on the Government the importance of respecting
