United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
37th Meeting
Wednesday, 19 October 1994, 10 a.m.
New York
A/49/PV.37
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 95 (continued)
Social development, including questions relating to the
world social situation and to youth, ageing, disabled
persons and the family
International Conference on Families
The President (interpretation from French):
I call
first on the Parliamentary Secretary of State, Ministry of
Welfare of the Republic of Hungary, Mr. Mihály Kökény.
Mr. Kökény (Hungary): Let me state at the outset
that the Government of the Republic of Hungary joined
with pleasure and enthusiastic dedication in the United
Nations initiative proposing that 1994 should be the
International Year of
the Family. Our pleasure and
dedication were fuelled by the recognition that the family
is a fundamental resource of the community and of society,
and that, due to the manifold conflicts inherent in today’s
world, an increasing proportion of families need continual
social support.
rowing between the Scylla of an overburdened State
budget and the Charybdis of the political unpopularity of
social budget reform offering less-than-universal benefits.
This scenario requires increased efforts to educate the
public about the viability of various options, about the
long-term costs of attempting to maintain a virtually
defunct system and about the strength of solidarity based
on cooperating families.
In my country all significant political elements agree
with the slogan offered by the United Nations for this
special year:
"Building the smallest democracy at the heart of
society."
We understand and recognize that the family - the heart
of society - is also the smallest unit of democracy. We
believe that democracy begins with the family. A
democratic society can be built on the basis of democratic
families alone. Conversely, families that are democratic
in their internal relationships can develop and function
exclusively in democratic societies.
This need for support
is particularly prevalent
in
today’s Hungary. As members are aware, my country is in
This process, accompanied by
a state of
economic
social
conflicts. Our Government and vulnerable Central and
Eastern European Governments have been described as
transition.
recession, has generated numerous
the Family has,
In Hungary the Year of
in
accordance with the recommendations of the United
Nations, been intended as neither a single, isolated action
nor as a representative campaign. It has been considered
as an opportunity to call attention to the problems of
families and, as such, perhaps to start rational political
and social actions with a permanently beneficial influence
on the lives of families.
94-86732 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
37th meeting
19 October 1994
The direct
the family is evident
impact of unfavourable demographic
changes on the life of
in the
continuous reduction in the number of children per family
in Hungary as well as in many other Central and Eastern
European countries. This issue should not be considered
exclusively from the standpoint of social policy. As we all
know, a community of brothers and sisters creates a better
and socially healthier environment for the child. The
number of children is partially dependent on the scale of
values prevailing in the family. For instance, how intense
is the motivation and will of the parents to take on the
responsibility of bringing up more children? On the other
hand, there are also economic factors to consider: Are
there enough resources to support more children without
bringing the family’s standard of living below the society
average? We intend to consider both these factors in the
course of developing Hungarian social policy. We are
firmly committed to the development of a social policy that
would provide more comprehensive support for families
with several children.
intend to introduce more measures
With regard to governmental measures, the system of
family allowances will be developed further in Hungary.
We
favouring
unemployed parents and impoverished families with several
children. A child care allowance will be available on
condition of citizenship as of 1 January 1995.
The
legislative preparations for the Act on Child Welfare and
Protection have started. The Government will submit the
draft bill to the Parliament early next year.
With this in mind, let me raise a point for further
consideration. A United Nations statement on family-policy
guidelines, similar to the Declaration of the Rights of the
Child, is lacking. Such a document may promote the
elaboration of national family strategies in Member States.
Perhaps
for Social
Development will dwell upon this issue.
the forthcoming World Summit
The International Year of the Family has been marked
by numerous national and international programmes in
Hungary. Among the international events, we could
mention the family conferences held jointly with our
neighbouring countries. Many families met during these
events, which shows that borders and walls previously
separating them have now disappeared.
I must also
mention the noble gestures made by our families who have
hastened to help refugee families that have been separated
and driven from their homes.
International charity
organizations have been of great help in this work.
2
thanks
I would like to express our
to the
representatives of the States present here who have
informed us about
their national programmes. We
the Salt Lake City Family Patron City
consider
Programme to be an excellent
initiative. Over 21
Hungarian cities have joined it, and in the years to come
it plans to operate an international network among the
family-patron cities.
I consider it very important to change our current
concept of the family. Stepping out of narrow frames, it
should be able to integrate the right to coexistence of all
those who - as Austrian Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat put
it so aptly at the Twenty-third Conference of Ministers of
Family Affairs in Paris -
form the community of
generations bearing responsibility for each other within
the family. We can now see the United Nations in the
same way: as a family of nations bearing responsibility
for each other.
In the course of the Year of the Family, Hungary
has opted for the path of development by choosing the
family. Our motto for the Year of the Family expresses
this well: everyone needs a family, and the family counts
on everyone. We thank the General Assembly for giving
us this Year.
Finally,
let me read out a message from Mrs.
Zsuzsanna Göncz, wife of His Excellency the President of
the Hungarian Republic,
to the participants of
the
International Conference on Families in New York:
"I would like to take this opportunity to express
my appreciation for the valuable efforts made by the
United Nations to look for solutions and responses
to the burning questions of social problems we are
facing today. I firmly believe that the family, as the
smallest unit of society, is the most suitable cell for
people to discover all forms of traditions and, at the
same time, to learn the various rules of our social
life. Therefore, I believe there is a pressing need for
recognizing the irreplaceable role of the family and
making every effort to restore its honour, for the
sake of mankind and future generations. Being a
mother as well as the wife of the President of the
Republic of Hungary, I hope that with my humble
charity activities I can contribute to the revival of
the family in Hungary.
I wish the General
Assembly all the best in its work and success in its
noble efforts."
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on His Excellency Mr. Aleksander Luczak, Deputy
Prime Minister and Minister of Education of Poland.
Mr. Luczak (Poland): I am honoured to address this
Assembly of representatives of States from all over the
world.
It is a matter of special satisfaction to me that it was
Poland that first came up with the initiative to proclaim an
International Year of the Family, following its earlier
proposal to draw up a Convention on the Rights of the
Child.
In proposing that the United Nations proclaim an
International Year of the Family, we were guided by the
belief that the family has always played an essential role in
fulfils
the lives of
extremely important
and
It enables people to express themselves in
educational.
everyday life and stimulates positive emotions.
individuals and society alike.
functions, both economic
It
Indeed, the family constitutes a universal social unit
which closely integrates the interests of the individual and
the public. Basically,
it performs a similar role in all
countries,
regardless of social and economic systems,
religious beliefs or social and regional circumstances. The
leading moral, political and religious authorities have been
turning to the family as the most durable asset and primary
hope for
the family is the first and
irreplaceable educator, the basis for the transmission of the
values system and inter-generational experience.
the future,
for
The people of Poland have always cherished family
life. The Polish family has preserved national culture and
transmitted its values to the young generations, even though
by the eighteenth century the country had disappeared from
the world political map. The family played a distinctive
role in maintaining national identity.
The fundamental political,
social and economic
transformations in today’s world have a bearing of their
own on the functioning of families. As a result,
the
priorities of social and individual values are changing, as
are the norms, patterns and models of life. Yet nothing can
replace the family in its educational and social functions.
Therefore, it is of singular importance to draw the attention
of
the international community to the need for a
comprehensive approach to the family in order to ensure
the family’s development and provide it with satisfactory
living conditions and protection.
To some extent these issues were tackled by the World
Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna last year.
37th meeting
19 October 1994
and
governmental
The same issues are also being pursued by various
international
non-governmental
organizations. Documents produced by these forums,
the recent Cairo
including the Final Document of
Conference on Population and Development,
the
Maastricht Treaty’s provisions regarding social policies
and the papal proposal for a charter of the rights of the
family, to mention but a few, tend to define a universal
family policy. Efforts are being made to formulate a
universal declaration on the rights of the family that could
be adopted by the General Assembly. This is surely a
challenge, in view of the different family-life traditions in
various countries. I hope, none the less, that obstacles to
such a declaration will be surmounted.
Systemic changes under way in Poland, including the
advanced stage of
transition to a market economy,
necessitate the prompt elaboration of a new concept of
social policies, particularly with respect to families. It is
important that such efforts be woven into a coherent
system covering legal regulations, financial and in-kind
subsidies and services offered by public institutions.
During the ongoing transformations in Poland, a host
of negative phenomena affect families: falling standards
of living; rising unemployment; and emigration or job-
seeking abroad. Credit facilities for housing are scarce
and expensive. Companies have drastically reduced the
scope of social benefits. Consequently, the economic and
social security of many families has diminished.
It is
incumbent upon the Government to cushion the negative
side-effects of transition - without altering the essential
direction of reform.
During the International Year of the Family the
Government of Poland has taken specific actions in
favour of the family:
The 1994-1997 Programme of Socio-Economic
Policies contains a comprehensive pro-family
package. Some of its measures have already
been set in motion.
Reform of the social security system is subject
to intensive analysis.
Tax privileges have been introduced to favour
married couples and single parents.
An improved mother-and-child and young
people’s health- care programme is being
implemented.
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
A system of family doctors is planned.
Family-friendly hospitals are being created.
A debt-reduction programme in respect of public
schools taken over by local councils, subsidized
from the State budget, is in operation.
The State budget covers arrears of interest for
housing credits owed to banks.
Many ad hoc steps have been taken to help
children with disabilities and to help young
people.
We are aware that all
this is far from sufficient.
Unfortunately,
the country’s present economic situation
does not permit us to do more, nor can we afford to
increase our budget deficit.
The United Nations did well to focus on the family in
1994. The family has become the subject of wide-ranging,
active and constructive international collaboration. Support
for the family is a fundamental social responsibility for
every Member State, whatever its social and political
systems and no matter what differences exist in terms of
religion or customs. Let me take this opportunity to
the
express our appreciation to the Coordinator of
International Year of
staff
for
discharging their responsibilities in successfully preparing
for this important event.
the Family and his
Many activities directly related to the International
Year of the Family have been launched in Poland. Last
April we hosted in Warsaw the XVIII
International
Congress of Families, organized in close cooperation with
the World Organization for the Family, with broad support
from the Catholic Church in Poland.
Smaller-scale events have also taken place, including
conference organized by the Polish Consumers
Further symposia and conferences on the
a
Federation.
family are planned.
The National Committee for the Year of the Family is
active in Poland.
It was set up on the initiative of the
Polish Parliament and is headed by the Speaker of its lower
Chamber. One of the Committee’s top priorities was, in
accordance with United Nations guidelines,
to initiate
national and local actions to alleviate the hardships of
everyday life of families and assist
the resolution of
conflicts within the family.
4
37th meeting
19 October 1994
The Committee succeeded in organizing summer
holidays for a large number of children from low-income
families and for children requiring special care. On its
initiative, a number of local committees were formed in
the provinces. Together with other nongovernmental
organizations, those committees launched social welfare
activities and the counselling of women and set up clubs
and care centres for children,
the elderly and young
people from low-income families and from families at
risk.
To this end,
The observance of the International Year of the
Family in my country will
thus contribute to the
elaboration by the Government and non-governmental
organizations of various forms of assistance to the family
and its members in this difficult period of systemic
transformations.
the Polish National
Committee has outlined as its long-term objectives and
following up to the International Year: elaborating a
national programme of action in favour of the family,
women and the younger generation; making necessary
amendments to laws and regulations so as to improve the
condition of family life and the well-being of the younger
generation; introducing national and local measures to
ease the hardships of everyday life of families; interesting
the media in family issues; promoting such values as
mutual respect, tolerance, solidarity and responsibility
within the family; persuading researchers to take up the
subjects of the modern family and its perspectives;
organizing conferences on the role and function of the
family under present conditions of social development;
and increasing cooperation with national and international
organizations on family-related issues.
We are determined to continue working together
towards the multifaceted development of the family,
taking advantage of
such forthcoming international
occasions as the World Summit for Social Development,
to be held in Copenhagen next spring, or the Fourth
World Conference on Women to be held next autumn in
Beijing.
When the International Year is over concern for the
welfare, stability and sustained development of the family
should continue to be at the centre of the attention of the
international community, the United Nations system, and
regional and non-governmental organizations. My
Government fully supports extension of the efforts to
attain the noble goals of the International Year of the
Family and shares the lasting commitment of the United
Nations to the family.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on the representative of Portugal.
Mr. Soares (Portugal): It is a great honour for me to
address the International Conference on Families on behalf
of my country and to have this opportunity to express views
on such crucial issues as those relating to the International
Year of the Family.
The Parliamentary State Secretary in the Federal
Ministry of Families and Senior Citizens of Germany has
already addressed the Conference on behalf of the 12 States
of the European Union, expressing positions that Portugal
fully subscribes to. Nevertheless, I would like to convey
some reflections relating to matters of great interest to my
country.
When 1994 was proclaimed the International Year of
the Family, the General Assembly reiterated that the United
Nations had acknowledged that families were the basic
units of social life.
In the same vein, the major United
Nations instruments on human rights and social policy call
for the widest possible protection to be accorded to the
family.
In my country the family occupies a key position in
the political and social system. We believe that the family
is an essential element in achieving the cohesion of the
social fabric.
It is within the family that individuals can
begin to develop their personalities to fulfil themselves as
human beings, and it is within families that the different
generations can find better opportunities to come together
and interact.
These concerns found a place in the Portuguese
Constitution, which states that the family, as a fundamental
unit of society, is entitled to the protection of society and
the State and to the creation of all the conditions necessary
for the personal realization of its members.
The family as a source of moral values is an age-old
reality for us, one that has stood the test of time and
resisted the challenge of fashion and circumstance. The
Portuguese policy on the family takes into account
modernity and progress and is inspired by the development
and improvement
it
remains deeply committed to the humanistic values of a
people and nation with many centuries of history.
living conditions, but
in material
The International Year of the Family was therefore,
from the Portuguese point of view, a most welcome
initiative, and Portugal has participated wholeheartedly in
37th meeting
19 October 1994
its observance. I should like to recall that we established
a Commission for the International Year of the Family,
presided over by the Prime Minister. Among other
activities, the Commission undertook a programme to
heighten public awareness of the theme "Family, a value
to be promoted". The Commission carried out its work
in close cooperation with local and regional authorities,
schools, churches and non-governmental organizations, in
order to achieve the goal of creating, among policy
makers and the public at large, greater awareness of the
family as the natural and fundamental unit of society.
I should also like to avail myself of this opportunity
to thank the Coordinator of the International Year of the
Family, Mr. Henryk Sokalski, for the support he gave us
and to congratulate him and his collaborators for the
excellent work that has been done so far.
The International Year of
the Family should
constitute the starting-point of a long-term process.
Its
follow-up deserves special attention. We must ensure that
the ideas and recommendations that were put forward will
materialize in concrete actions.
Next year two important world conferences will take
place - the World Summit for Social Development and
the Fourth World Conference on Women to be held in
Beijing - in which issues related to the family will be at
the centre of the debates. In this context, I should like to
underline our main concerns on family policies.
Our basic aim will be to promote the widest possible
protection and assistance to the family as the basic unit of
society, so that it may fully assume its responsibilities
within the community, and at the same time to ensure the
promotion of equal and full enjoyment of the human
rights of all family members, with special emphasis on
the equal rights, responsibilities and participation of
women.
As has frequently been said on other occasions, the
family, as the natural and fundamental group unit of
society,
is the fullest reflection of the strengths and
weaknesses of a community. As such, the family is the
ideal framework for an integrated and comprehensive
approach to social policies. The promotion of a strong
and dynamic family is an important element
in the
construction of an equally strong, democratic and dynamic
society.
In conclusion, allow me to express the hope that the
the Family will
the International Year of
work of
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
37th meeting
19 October 1994
contribute to the fulfilment of one of the themes of the
United Nations - to build the smallest democracy in the
heart of society.
The President (interpretation from French): The next
speaker is the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Labour,
Human Services and Social Security, of the Republic of
Guyana, Ms. Claudette Moore, upon whom I now call.
Ms. Moore (Guyana): It is indeed a great honour for
me to address this meeting on a matter of considerable
importance to my country and to the international
community of nations.
I bring with me the hope that this
debate will assist in the furtherance of our work in the
International Year of the Family, and particularly in the
elaboration of an international plan of action.
the disabled, youth, and the work
moral and legal,
environment. Members of the subcommittees were drawn
from government agencies and from non-governmental
organizations.
However, we did not leave the matter there, for it
was recognized that the public must be sensitized. Hence,
the Minister of Labour, Human Services and Social
Security, whose Ministry was designated as the focal
point, delivered a New Year’s message outlining the
theme, objectives and programme for the Year. He also
expressed the hope that the activities would
"leave a lasting impression upon our minds and
permanently guide our actions related to the uplifting
of the family and our nation".
The situation of the family is precious in Guyana, a
land of six peoples who nevertheless have one destiny, for
we subscribe to the dictum that a nation is as strong as its
families. In fact, the President of the Cooperative Republic
of Guyana,
in the
International Year of the Family in January 1994, made the
point that:
in addressing a rally to usher
Immediately following this announcement, non-
governmental organizations, and in particularly the
Church, initiated a launching ceremony at which the main
speaker was His Excellency Dr. Cheddie Jagan,
the
President of Guyana. Programmes of awareness extended
through March 1994 and involved government officials as
well as Guyanese families.
"The family is obviously the nucleus of all social,
economic and political aspects of life, bound together
by blood, unity of purpose and, most of all, tradition.
And this family nucleus influences future generations."
The United Nations declaration of 1994 as the
International Year of the Family was timely and afforded
us, not only the opportunity to refocus on the importance of
the family, but to formulate a national plan of action which
could take us beyond the end of 1994 and into the twenty-
first century.
In this connection a National Coordinating Committee
was established in November 1993 to give effect to those
efforts. The objectives of the National Committee were,
first, an increased awareness of family issues at the level of
government as well as in the private sector; secondly, the
stimulation of efforts to respond to problems affecting and
affected by the situation of families; an improvement in the
collaboration among national
and non-governmental
organizations in support of multisectoral activities and,
lastly, building upon the results of international activities
concerning women, youth, the aged and the disabled.
Given the broad objectives and the seriousness
it was found desirable to
attached to each objective,
establish subcommittees under the following headings:
I shall now focus on the more serious work of the
subcommittees that I identified earlier.
The Moral and Legal Sub-Committee has produced
a draft family code. This was disseminated across the
nation on 15 May 1994, which was observed as the
International Day of Families. Work will continue with
a view to incorporating all the views and issues that
should be contained in such a code. This Sub-Committee
has also begun to work on proposals for the establishment
of a family court, with some input from senior legal
professionals.
The Sub-Committee for the Disabled will shortly
execute plans that have been made for what is called
Disability Awareness Month, which will commence on 4
November 1994 and will culminate, on 3 December, in
observance of the International Day of the Disabled.
The activities that are planned will focus on the
mentally retarded, the physically handicapped, the visually
handicapped, and the deaf and blind. The Ministry of
Health, as Guyana’s lead Ministry on disability, is in the
process of
reorganizing and expanding the National
Rehabilitation Committee as a National Commission on
Disability, one of whose first
tasks will be the
formulation of a national disability policy.
6
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
37th meeting
19 October 1994
Guyana can be described as a young country as 40 per
cent, or more, of its population are below 35 years of age.
Programmes to demonstrate the importance of youth and
the complementary nature of
family members in the
development of literacy skills, civic consciousness, moral
education
in
collaboration with the Commonwealth Youth Programme as
part of our observances.
values were
undertaken
family
and
This approach, involving the training and guidance of
semi-literate people by literate members of society, was
intended to emphasize the position and status of the family
as a key social institution, to reinforce family ties and to
have a multiplier effect on the rest of society.
to youth,
Consistent with its commitment
the
Government submitted a paper on national youth policy in
June 1994. It is intended that the mechanisms established
will provide young people with scope for self-expression
and will make provision for appropriate programme
development.
The efforts of the Work Environment Committee, on
the other hand, are geared to securing the involvement of
the private sector and social-service institutions to assist in
improving working conditions for people with family
responsibilities. We have set as the major focus the
achievement of the International Labour Organization’s aim
of ratification of Convention 156 during this year or shortly
thereafter. In August 1994 a national workshop was held,
with representatives of government, trade unions, employers
and non-governmental organizations participating.
It is
noteworthy that, as a consequence, Guyana has fulfilled all
preliminary legal
this
Convention.
requirements for
ratification of
Conventions 100, 111 and 142 having been ratified,
the Constitution of Guyana provides every citizen with the
right to work and to free selection in accordance with social
requirements and personal qualifications.
It also provides
for men and women to enjoy equal rights and the same
legal status in all spheres of economic life. In addition, the
Equal Rights Act 1990 removes all forms of discrimination
based on sex and provides for equal opportunities for men
and women. The work of this Committee is therefore
concentrated
social
infrastructure that is necessary to alleviating the burden of
family responsibilities on the productivity of workers.
establishment
the
the
on
of
The establishment of adequate care facilities for
children in and out of school, elderly people and other
family members is currently being examined. As an
extension of our work in this area, Guyana will join other
countries in the Caribbean in a regional workshop later in
It is hoped that efforts will then be combined
the year.
to develop strategies
the
Convention at the regional level.
implementation of
for
Guyana has signalled its commitment
to "the
emergence of a global humanitarian order" in which
international development and cooperation will focus on
the welfare of people. The circumstances of people who
comprise a family unit are many and varied. Nevertheless,
if given the necessary resources and support
through
appropriate legislation and policy, families could play a
major role in advancing development.
Changes in the structure and composition of families
have been almost universal, but important socio-economic
and cultural functions performed by families should be
preserved and transmitted to succeeding generations.
Guyana will therefore seek to ensure that a plan of action
is informed by the deliberations and activities of the
International Year of the Family, with goals peculiar to
our local situation but consistent with the universality of
the human family.
The President (interpretation from French): The
meeting began at 10.10 a.m., yet only eight out of 184
delegations have representatives in the Hall. The eight
delegations, which include those of
three
speakers in the debate, are those of Egypt, Germany,
Hungary,
the United Arab
Emirates, the United States of America.
India, Poland, Portugal,
the first
I now call on Ms. Mercedes Pulido Briceño,
Minister for the Family of Venezuela.
Mrs. Pulido de Briceño (Venezuela) (interpretation
from Spanish): The Government of Venezuela attaches
particular importance to the discussion of social matters.
When we speak of social matters we necessarily look to
the major agent in the building of society, which is, of
course, the family.
The International Year of the Family, as one of the
major political and economic events that have affected
our lives, has been a focus for action and for recognition
of the fact that the aspirations of society go beyond the
obvious, beyond the mere meeting of basic needs, and
seek fulfilment in people’s hopes and values.
Venezuela has welcomed large waves of immigrants.
In the framework of a mixture of races, we have a society
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In our society the
characterized by egalitarian values.
family has been the meeting place between the aspiration to
equality on the one hand and, on the other, the need to
make up for many deficiencies. Cultures meet in the
family, and social mobilization is part of that reality.
of
years
socially.
The many
We are aware that there may be discrimination, but
above and beyond this we have a society which is hard to
classify
extolling
individualism have not undermined our families. Their
daily lives are marked by friendship,
interaction and
solidarity. We are grateful for this opportunity, at such a
difficult
time, to focus our attention on the family, to
discover all the ways in which it is organized, as a flexible
and clear response to the need to adapt to new times. The
realities of shortages and changes in family life in our
society demonstrate that decisions based solely on the quest
for material and technological progress are outdated. Now
more than ever we must address the cultural values and
aspirations that give meaning to our lives as we face the
future.
be
How can
coexistence
achieved without
strengthening people, the basis of the entire life cycle. The
institution of the family is the basic cell, because that is
where we are born, where we live and where we die. Until
recently, the family was a purely private setting; we were
indifferent to it; we did not want to get involved in the
discussions that were part of everyday life. We wanted to
devote ourselves only to ensuring the normalcy of the
collectivity. However,
today family
violence, crime, drugs, abuse and slavery are part of family
relations. They are part of our families’ daily lives, based
on traditional habits and values that will determine our
future.
the fact
is that
How can we envisage democracy if the family does
not understand the need to strengthen democratic links from
the very moment we come into the world? Can we claim
to be able to face the future without identifying the right
kinds of social relationships, limiting ourselves to satisfying
basic, partial needs? Poverty is not simply a matter of
social indicators.
It is a culture of survival, in which
humans wear themselves out day after day trying to look
beyond the next 24 hours. In this world, there is not time
to develop options or opportunities or aspirations to build
social relations that go beyond the immediate.
Responsible parenthood, which is a reality in our
region, is not simply a matter of will. Among our young
people today, 30 per cent are excluded from the school
system, while 20 per cent leave the school system for a life
8
37th meeting
19 October 1994
of poverty. One cannot be a responsible parent if one
does not have the ability to produce the income that is
necessary to provide for the needs of a household, if
society has not redefined the role of men vis-a-vis the
advancement of the status of women, if poverty means a
lack of prospects for the future. How can one assume
responsibility without
into
account?
those factors
taking all
The International Year of the Family has involved
opening up new channels for discussion in Venezuelan
society. The disabled; children with special problems; the
elderly - who have been ignored up to now; street
children; working children; those bound by slavery, to a
certain point, in the rural areas; mothers who themselves
are only children; what we call
the feminization of
poverty:
these are all factors which cannot be dealt with
in isolation.
of
our
percent
Thirty-eight
population -
580,000 families - lives in a state of critical poverty.
Many of them are products of migration. Our country, in
this context, is a symbol of prospects for the future. We
are not yet able to deny this opportunity to other peoples,
but we must also face our inability to find our own
identity. Social problems associated with poverty result
in a lack of participation in society. Our challenge is not
just to develop social-integration policies; we must aim
for a model of development which will make it possible
to include major sectors of society, with their own
particular and very real circumstances, and change the
nature of current participation so as to develop an overall
vision.
What has been the strategy of our country? Three
major problems have been the focus of our attention.
First, there are the children under six years of age. Here,
in addition to health, nutrition and education indicators,
we have seen a great expansion in household-centred
programmes and day-care programmes,
in which the
working mother, is given the option of being incorporated
into civil society through other channels that enable them
to do more than just meet basic needs, channels for
participation in local decision-making, channels for
participation in the decentralization of the country.
The second major problem is the eight- to sixteen-
year-old category. We have not forgotten the adolescents.
We are talking, really, about children under six and about
18-year-olds. This is our major social challenge. That is
why we have a wide-ranging programme - like our
Ayacucho Fund - that uses oil income for the training of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
human resources in higher education. We have allocated
4 billion bolivars for training our citizens, for integrating
our young people from 8 to 16 years old into the labour
market.
The diversification of the local economy could be an
option for the future, but at the present time, our local,
informal economy, without technology or social security,
does very little to incorporate our young people.
I should
like to take this opportunity to outline the major options
involved in our definition of family policy.
Mrs. Burmester de Maynard (Uruguay),
Chair.
took the
Public policies, focused solely on caring for vulnerable
sectors of the population, are merely a segment of the
concept of integration. Family policies should regard the
family as a component of the social, political and economic
elements.
I wish to make another point that I find interesting.
While it is very tempting to focus on the most vulnerable,
we also need to develop élite groups that have the ability to
shape and direct that sector.
If the State is to have an
authoritarian and centralizing role, it must involve all the
groups of civil society, not simply as interlocutors of the
State, but as interlocutors of a society which is also capable
of diversification.
There are two aspects to the readjustment of family
policies.
First, we believe that assistance policies are
needed. When we have such large sectors that are poor, we
cannot expect
them to have the strength to make the
journey by themselves.
It has often been said that we
should not give the people fish, but should teach them how
to fish. But we wonder if it is not also necessary to give
them the strength to hold the fishing-rod.
The second aspect relates to social-investment policies
in which the conditions are established for the family to
play its socializing role. We cannot blame families for not
playing that role if we take away from them the tools for
change. Why do we take the family into account
nowadays? Because technological and material progress
have failed to respond to our needs for development as
human beings.
If, as has been stated in the context of the
social summit, we really want
to design participative
policies, then family policies must provide for relations of
interdependence; of globalization of
the problems of
society; of reinterpretation of the values of equity, solidarity
and civil responsibility. The collectivity must be rebuilt as
37th meeting
19 October 1994
an expression of all human beings. Only in this way can
we say that we are really caring for our people.
The President (interpretation from Spanish): I now
call on the representative of China, Mr. Wang Xuexian.
Mr. Wang Xuexian (China) (interpretation from
Chinese): The United Nations is a big international
family composed of 184 Member States.
It is therefore
not only appropriate but also very important for this big
family to devote these meetings of the General Assembly
to a commemoration of the International Year of the
Family. This in itself shows that the question of the
family has become an issue of greater significance to the
international community as well as an important item on
the agenda of the United Nations.
On behalf of the Chinese Government, I wish
warmly to welcome the convening of these meetings. We
deeply appreciate the fruitful work carried out by the
Secretariat of the United Nations, the regional preparatory
meetings and, in particular, Mr. Sakolski, Coordinator for
the International Year of the Family.
Since the adoption by the General Assembly at its
forty-fourth session of the resolution which proclaimed
1994 the International Year of the Family, countries in all
parts of
the world have made positive responses.
Centring on the year’s theme of "Family Harmony and
Progress", national Governments and the international
community as a whole have all worked enthusiastically in
the wide-ranging preparations for
These
activities have helped draw people’s attention to the
question of
family, deepened their understanding of
various economic, social and population elements of the
issue of family, enhanced the various countries’ efforts in
formulating or adjusting their
family policies and
programmes, and promoted international cooperation in
the sphere of the family.
the Year.
towards
It has always been an important part of the Chinese
culture to attach importance to families and their values.
This tradition has been enhanced by the development of
family relations
equality, democracy and
harmony. We the Chinese have always taken pride in our
happy and harmonious families. China now has more
than 260 million families; they constitute the structure of
China’s modern society, abounding with unprecedented
vitality. The healthy build-up of these families, which
enables people to live in harmony and friendship,
is
conducive to the stability and development of the entire
society. The Chinese Government has responded actively
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to the International Year of the Family and carried out a
series of
the
following events.
instructive activities,
including some of
In May last year, China had the honour to invite
representatives or observers from 26 countries and regions
and 17 United Nations agencies and non-governmental
organizations to participate in the Asia and Pacific Regional
Preparatory Meeting for the International Year of the
Family, held in Beijing.
The meeting was highly
successful, and the Beijing Declaration it adopted was
viewed with favour by all sides.
In February 1993, the Chinese Government set up its
own Coordinating Committee composed of representatives
of a dozen Government departments and organizations.
Over the past year China has carried out many diverse
activities, organized and guided by its national Committee.
On 15 May this year, Beijing celebrated the
International Day of the Family. Many specialists, scholars
and governmental officials participated in the activities,
going into the main streets and outdoor public places to
explain and give advice and answer questions on China’s
family law and to share their specific legal and scientific
knowledge.
Before the ceremony,
On the same day, the award ceremony for the Model
Family was held.
there were
nation-wide activities in connection with the choice of the
model family. Thirty families won gold, silver and other
honourary awards. They are all families that have made
significant contributions to society and enjoy family
harmony and rich family life, thus winning great respect.
Special television programmes on the family, including
performances by individual families, have been shown.
Similar performances have also been telecast at the grass-
roots level in both urban and rural areas.
Seminars on family culture have been conducted for
an exchange of views and useful experiences and to put
forward recommendations for future work.
The International Symposium on the Family and the
Next Generation was held to discuss the building of family
culture and youth education.
10
37th meeting
19 October 1994
These activities are very popular among the Chinese
people and have helped deepen people’s affection for
their families.
It is well known that the family is the natural and
basic unit of society and plays a very important role in
social development. The family is both the beneficiary of
and the active participant in social development. Without
happy and harmonious families,
is impossible to
maintain a happy and harmonious society. We therefore
believe that
the
International Year of the Family to continue in the
interest of individual families as well as all mankind.
The Chinese Government and people are willing to work
with other members of the international community and
to make their due contribution to collective efforts.
the activities of
is essential
for
it
it
Finally, we wish to express our sincere hope that all
families in the world will have a life full of sunshine and
love, that every child in the world will grow up loved and
cared for, that all the elderly will be well provided for
and live in comfort, that all families in the world will
enjoy harmony and progress, and that society will enjoy
peace and development.
The President (interpretation from Spanish): I call
on the Permanent Representative of Paraguay, Mr. José
Félix Fernández Estigarribia.
Mr.
Fernandez
Estigarribia
(Paraguay)
(interpretation from Spanish):
I have the honour of
speaking on behalf of the Group of Latin American and
Caribbean States at this meeting on the International Year
of the Family.
If we look at
the Constitutions of all
This commemoration is particularly timely, now that
the subject of the family has been reinstated on our
agendas.
the
countries in our Group, we find that, for the most part,
they explicitly guarantee the rights of
the family.
Furthermore, none of us can turn our back on the
important debate that the family is deeply engaged in
today. Although we accept the family’s historical values,
it is at present in a state of flux because of the staggering
changes that have taken place in world society.
When we speak about change in our societies and its
influence on the issue now before us, it cannot escape us
that the family is at the same time and from another
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
standpoint a powerful renovating agent. It is in the family
that generally accepted knowledge is reassessed and subtly
added to and changed, without losing sight of the essential
values of our common civilization.
For this reason strengthening our democracies also
involves intensifying the debate on the role of the family
because of its influence as a first educator of free and
egalitarian consciences.
This of course is a long-standing concern of the
United Nations. To prove that assertion, we need only
glance again at the remarkable Convention on the Rights of
the Child, one of the most broadly ratified instruments.
fail
For
that
reason we cannot
to mention the
momentous conclusions of the regional preparatory meeting
which took place in Cartagena, Colombia, from 10 to 14
August, and which reflect the aspirations of the region. In
this vein, and only by way of reference in view of the
importance of each and every one of its results, we should
like to refer to the way in which the text addresses the
question of variables in the composition of the family and
the widespread concern about how poverty affects the
family structure.
We should bear in mind that families, particularly
those living in marginal urban and rural areas, are involved
in new forms of survival, including in many cases, self-
managing organizations which permit them in solidarity to
tackle the economic crisis while playing a leading role in
the process of change in society.
With regard to social commitment, despite the difficult
economic situation, and notwithstanding the scarcity of
resources, Governments in many of our countries have
striven to focus their attention on families beset by the
problems of poverty, particularly those in extreme poverty,
in the form of social support programmes designed to
improve their living conditions.
The basis for the recovery of the family, which is
needed for greater promotion of human rights, equality
between the sexes,
freedoms and greater
emphasis on the rights of the child, will be determined by
the extent of international cooperation and governmental
concern.
individual
37th meeting
19 October 1994
In this respect we should like to bring forward a new
point of concern about the scope of the family.
In the
last decade of the twentieth century there have been two
major trends - the ageing of the population and the
development of family structures. These trends may be
regarded as different aspects of modernization and call for
a substantive response from Governments and from
various members of the family.
As a result there is a need to broaden our knowledge
about the way in which changes in family and household
structures are associated with changes in the age structure
of the population.
In particular, we need a better
understanding of the way in which the proportion of
elderly people has grown as a result of the influences and
effects that stem from economic and social change and at
the same time the influence that growth has had on those
changes.
Previously it was believed that the ageing of the
population was a phenomenon that was particularly
characteristic of the developed countries. However,
United Nations forecasts indicate that the ageing of the
population most strikingly affects the developing world,
as shown by the following statistics.
In a study carried out by the Economic Commission
for Latin America and the Caribbean it was estimated that
in 1980 there were more than 23 million people aged over
60 in Latin America. A total of 40 million is forecast for
the year 2000, and 93 million for the year 2025. At the
same time, life expectancy at birth will rise in Latin
America from 51.2 years for the period 1950-1955 to 71.8
years for the period 2020-2025. This indicates that this
region cannot be considered a "young region", as there is
an accelerated demographic transition taking place
towards lower birth and mortality rates.
that
We trust
in 1995 at
the Fourth World
Conference on Women in Beijing and the World Summit
for Social Development
in Copenhagen major steps
forward will be taken in the process of consolidating the
family structure.
For these reasons, on behalf of the Group of Latin
American and Caribbean States and on behalf of my
country I
should like to reaffirm our unswerving
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
37th meeting
19 October 1994
commitment to strengthening our efforts in order to give
reality to the principle that every person has the right to
form a family and that in the formation and development of
that family men and women have the same rights and
duties.
aforementioned into consideration, we are happy to note
that there is a general understanding among the members
of
the international community on the relationship
between conditions for development and the well-being of
the family.
The President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now
call on Ms. Ruth Wijdenbosch, Chairperson of the National
Committee for the Year of the Family of Suriname.
Ms. Wijdenbosch (Suriname): The proclamation by
the United Nations of the International Year of the Family
has offered all Governments
and non-governmental
organizations the opportunity to highlight the importance of
the family, increase awareness of family issues, strengthen
national efforts to respond to problems affecting the family
and create greater understanding of societies for the specific
difficulties the family is facing in our rapidly changing
world.
The preparatory meetings at regional and international
level, combined with the facilitating activities of
the
secretariat of the International Year of the Family, have
produced many valuable proposals which have guided
national
national
programmes.
formulating national
programmes to support the family has been fully taken up
by most States Members of the United Nations and the
reports presented on the implementation of the programmes
are strong testimony to the success of this undertaking.
The challenge of
formulating
committees
their
in
We firmly believe that to guarantee a more successful
implementation of these programmes, a framework of
conditions should be met in order to create opportunities for
development, to affirm an improvement in standards of
living, and a higher quality of life for the family.
The International Year of the Family has provided us
with a unique opportunity to give human development in all
its aspects the high priority it deserves in the context of the
recently held International Conference on Population and
Development and the forthcoming World Summit for Social
Development, and Fourth World Conference on Women to
be held in Beijing. These meetings give the international
community the opportunity adequately to address the
problems of poverty, unemployment, disintegration and
disease and how they affect
Taking the
the family.
12
The interrelationship between the position of the
family,
sustained economic growth and sustainable
development has been the leading approach in the
formulation
national
programme of Suriname. This is reflected in the theme
chosen for the International Year of the Family by the
national committee, namely, "The Family in Changing
Socio-economic Circumstances".
implementation
and
the
of
The Suriname National Committee, which was
established in June 1993 by the Minister for Social
Affairs and Housing, attributes high priority to the social
and human dimensions of development. We are aware of
the fact that, by placing the human being in the centre, a
vital contribution can be made towards our common goal
of achieving sustainable human development. Therefore
we support the integration of programmes to promote the
development of
the family into overall social and
economic development planning. The concept that social
and family issues are a secondary matter in contrast with
the primary process taking place in the political forums,
is a serious mistake.
individual members.
The history of Suriname and the multi-ethnic
composition of its population have resulted in a variety of
family structures. Therefore, the Government has given
due consideration to the specific social, economic and
cultural priorities and needs of the various family types
and their
In Suriname we
distinguish the following family structures: the nuclear
family, a two-generation family which can be seen in our
society in many variations such as the two-parent family,
the step-family and the adoption family; the extended
family, the most common variations of which are the two-
and three-generation families; the reorganized family; and
the single-parent family.
Please allow me briefly to explain the difficulties the
single-parent family is confronted with in my country.
The single-parent family, in most cases with a woman at
its head, can be found in the capital as well as in the rural
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
areas. In Suriname, 25 per cent of the working women are
also head of the family, and the number is increasing as a
result of the economic crisis my country is going through.
Studies have shown that the majority of these women have
a low education level and, therefore, exercise the lowest
paid professions. At the same time, they suffer the most
from the economic crisis, which compels them to use
survival strategies, such as looking for additional income,
adjusting the expenditure of their income by saving on food
and other basic needs, and by involving their children in
income-generating activities to increase the family income.
The Government of Suriname is fully aware of the
situation of this specific group and has therefore committed
itself, in accordance with the Programme of Action of the
International Conference on Population and Development,
to give
to needy
single-parent families through ensuring credit and funding
for women’s
the
Government also guarantees elementary services in the
fields of health, education and housing for this vulnerable
group.
attention and assistance
Furthermore,
self-help
groups.
special
Let me now turn briefly to the activities carried out by
the Suriname National Committee. The Committee, which
is chaired by the Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly
of Suriname, consists of 14 representatives of ministries and
religious and non-governmental organizations.
The
Government of Suriname fully supports the Committee and
underlines the importance of the role of the family in our
society. The Suriname Committee has decided that its role
is not to implement a programme of activities or launch a
set of new initiatives on its own, but rather to increase
awareness of family issues all over the country and to
encourage organizations to respond to the problems and
needs of the family, and to offer technical and financial
support to do so.
In this respect, the Committee, at the beginning of the
year, brought together a variety of organizations active in
the field of strengthening the role of the family, which
identified 28 projects in the areas of health care, food
production, education, youth, the advancement of women,
and research and data collection. Some of these projects
have already been implemented, while some will be
executed in 1995. The United Nations Children’s Fund
selected and is in the process of financing three of these
37th meeting
19 October 1994
projects:
the recruitment of foster families, a health
project in a number of Amerindian villages and a school
garden project which teaches children how to till the land.
Other projects were financed by several local funding
agencies, the private sector and the Government.
The Suriname Committee is of the view that the
issues of gender equity, equality and the empowerment of
women constitute the basic pillars of
the family
programmes and that they can facilitate the efforts to
achieve the common goal of sustainable development.
For this reason,
the role of women in the national
programme for the family has been underlined.
a
to
recommendation
We are committed to the process of integrating the
programme of action for the family in our national
development programme, taking into account the strong
links between the well-being of the family and sustainable
development.
In this regard, the Committee is in the
process
the
preparing
of
Government to establish a national institute for the family,
which will act as a coordinating body for all present and
future policies and activities of governmental and
non-governmental organizations involved with issues
regarding the family and development. We are of the
firm belief that this activity in the sphere of institutional
strengthening, when combined with activities in the field
of research and data collection, and with the necessary
international support of organizations such as the United
Nations Population Fund and the United Nations
Development Programme, will have a positive impact on
the Surinamese family.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the Organization
the praiseworthy initiative of organizing this
for
to
Conference,
exchange experiences and discuss follow-up activities on
an issue of such great importance for all our countries and
peoples.
enabling national
committees
thus
The President (interpretation from Spanish): I call
next on the representative of the Russian Federation, Her
Excellency Mrs. Ludmilla Bezlepkina, Minister for Social
Protection.
Mrs.
Bezlepkina
(interpretation from Russian):
(Russian
Federation)
I am greatly honoured to
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
address the Assembly on the question of the family. The
Russian Federation is a strong supporter of the ideals and
principles of the International Year of the Family; we base
our family policy on the permanent and unchanging value
of the family for the life and development of the individual
and on its importance to society in terms of raising new
generations, achieving social stability and progress, and
supporting social peace and harmony.
On that basis, the Russian Federation attaches great
importance to this question, which the General Assembly is
rightly discussing. We greatly appreciate the efforts of
United Nations experts in carrying out the activities of the
International Year of the Family. We convey special thanks
to Mr. Henryk Sakolski, whose participation in the work of
the International Scientific and Practical Conference on the
Family and the Development Process, held at Moscow in
November 1993,
that
Conference. The report of the Conference was published
in an edition of 1,500 copies and has been useful to a large
number of scientists and practical workers.
importance
enhanced
the
of
37th meeting
19 October 1994
These are all characteristics of our times. Above all, we
should be concerned about protecting the interests and the
rights of children, who are totally dependent on the
decisions and actions of adults; but
their future will
depend on what those decisions and actions are.
to
the
are
equal
The interests of the family are not taken into account
in determining the processes of historical development.
As a consequence, families frequently do not manage to
adapt to social changes. Society as a whole pays a very
high social price for this. Have we really been creating
and are we still creating systems and structural institutions
that
of
industrialization, urbanization, the emancipation of women
and the shift of productive activity outside the family
structures that create and promote conditions for the
family to carry out its main functions? The family, as a
fundamental
the
State and other social institutions, is not being given by
senior officials and management organs its proper role,
and sometimes the interests of the family are simply
ignored.
intermediary between the individual,
continuing
processes
I believe that today it is not all that important to take
stock of what has been done this year, the International
Year of the Family. Russia has submitted to today’s
Conference on the question of the family a brief report
entitled "Policy Relating to the Family and the Holding of
the International Year of
the Family in the Russian
Federation". Those wishing to do so are welcome to
familiarize themselves with it. We will be able to discuss
the results of the International Year of the Family at the
fiftieth session of the General Assembly.
I can state with
full confidence that the activities carried out at the federal
level and also at the regional and local levels met with
broad support and approval on the part of both the local
authorities and the population, and helped to achieve social
peace and harmony even in the very complex and
contradictory times of this transitional period in the social
and economic development of Russia.
Today I should like to draw attention to world-wide
trends whose emergence at the national level is causing
great concern. I refer to the reduction in the level at which
the family, as a social institution, can provide its members
with social and physical security. The factors at work here
are the growth of poverty, violence, the number of orphans,
loneliness, drug addiction, prostitution and alcoholism.
14
in the determination of
The next point is that the interests of the family are
not
the
taken into account
interrelationship between employer and employee. The
latter is frequently considered as a work resource, but not
as a worker with family obligations. If we correlate this
to the objective reality which is characteristic of Russia
and, indeed, for many other countries, where both parents
in the family are working,
this on the one hand is
progressive from the point of view of equal opportunity
for men and women, but it also requires the adoption of
an appropriate policy regarding the responsibility of both
parents in bringing up the children and caring for the sick
and the elderly, a policy of equalizing intra-family
relations. The State, for its part, must actively help to
develop a system of social services and their provision
and assure the right and opportunity for their use, as well
as
and guarantees of
employment.
corresponding regimes
the
Only through such an approach can we talk about
real ways of achieving the rights and freedoms of the
individual on the principle of the elimination of all forms
of discrimination, particularly discrimination against
women. Only such an approach can ensure greater
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
37th meeting
19 October 1994
participation and the corresponding greater responsibility of
women, involving them in the management of resources
and in taking decisions at all social levels.
The President (interpretation from Spanish): I now
call on His Excellency Mr. Pawan Kumar Bansal,
Member of Parliament of India.
the interregional
level, particularly for
Today we cannot but see the need for a high level of
coordination in the role of the United Nations and effective
action at
the
countries of eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
Recognizing the high degree of importance of social law as
a basis for achieving economic and political cooperation for
sustainable development, I feel it necessary and important
to strengthen the role of cooperation at the regional level,
in this case, the role of the Economic Commission for
Europe.
On the basis of the above, and given the importance
of the efforts and initiatives of the United Nations and
UNICEF in the interests of our children, and of
forthcoming events in the area of social policy - the World
Summit for Social Development, to be held in March 1995,
and the Fourth World Conference on Women in September
1995 - I am proposing that we declare the period 1995-
2005 the Decade of the Family.
I propose that we work
out a plan of action for this decade that takes into account
the reality of achieving evolutionary development and
progress, and that defines measures and standards for
protecting the fundamental functions of the family and their
development and adaptation to the new realities and
challenges of life.
The experience of the past decade in improving the
status of women and the disabled confirms the rightness of
such an approach. Our common efforts at the international
and national levels will help us move into the twenty-first
century on the basis of the principles of real priority
interests of
the individual and spiritual and moral
development which to a great extent, is assisted by the
family. This is a phenomenon of the progress of the
evolutionary development of society and of the individual,
who is able to react to the challenges of life on the strength
of the principles and ethics of his or her lofty human
potential. Achieving this must be the goal of the further
historical development of the family’s economic, political
and social transformations.
Allow me to wish all the participants in the General
Assembly every success in achieving these noble goals.
Mr. Pawan Kumar Bansal (India):
It is most
appropriate that we should be celebrating the International
Year of the Family this year and addressing related issues
in the General Assembly. The International Conference
on Population and Development, held recently in Cairo,
provides the backdrop for our deliberations.
India believes that the family is the basic building-
block of society. Good family values have been able to
contain tension, conflict, crime and violence in society,
particularly in the young, and have protected to a large
degree the rights and safety of children, engendered social
compact and responsibility, and directly contributed to the
internal peace, growth, stability and harmony of society.
It is of paramount importance that United Nations
activities on human rights education should draw upon the
best of successful family traditions and values from all
societies and promote them around the globe in the
interest of more peaceful societies, and the preservation
of human rights and social values for all mankind.
Individuals have not only rights
in society, but
responsibilities to society as well, and to the global family
as a whole, as is reflected in the ancient Indian concept
of "Vasudhaiva Kutumbhakam", that is, the world is but
a family.
India has been implementing active and holistic
family-welfare strategies over
several decades with
positive results. This is based upon the interconnections
literacy, economic and social development and
of
population control.
In India, the family has been the
basic unit of stability and integration in a society of free
choice.
are
significantly based on voluntary participation.
family-welfare
Indian
programmes
The Indian Government spends about half a billion
dollars annually on its family welfare programme. India’s
family welfare programme is funded by the central
Government.
In an effort to impart dynamism to our
family-welfare programme, a focused and result-oriented
action plan has been developed over the last few years.
Some of its key features are:
improving the quality and
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
37th meeting
19 October 1994
of
services;
available
developing
to the
family-welfare
funds
a
outreach
mechanism to make
state
governments on the basis of their performance in the
reduction of the birth rate;
increasing the coverage of
younger couples; involving voluntary and non-governmental
organizations in a big way to promote active community
participation;
intersectoral
coordination mechanisms at the national, state, district and
block levels and, most important, at the village level.
and evolving higher-level
India fully accepts the goal of universalizing services
for sexual and reproductive health care, of meeting the
unmet needs by the year 2015, as envisaged at Cairo, and
of removing all programme-related barriers by 2005. We
aim to implement the Cairo Programme of Action at the
national level, with international cooperation as appropriate
and in accordance with the United Nations Charter.
However, India expressed reservations on the linking of
debt relief with government
in family and
development programmes at the Conference on Population
the
and Development
implementation of
the Cairo
Conference on the subject of the family and population is
the sovereign right of a State,
in consonance with its
national laws and development priorities.
in Cairo, since we believe that
the recommendations of
investment
In India, we have also realized that development
activities undertaken with the active participation of the
beneficiaries and the community have a greater chance of
success and can be more cost effective. India has benefited
from the rich tradition of voluntary action from the
beginning of our independence movement under Mahatma
Gandhi, and today voluntary and non-governmental groups
play an important and supportive role along with the
Government
including those
concerning the welfare of women, particularly at the grass
roots.
in development activities,
In India, the term "weaker sections" embraces the
socially and economically disadvantaged sections of our
population.
The Constitution of India recognizes the
special needs of these specific groups and makes a number
of provisions to protect and promote their interests. It is in
this tradition that
the constitutional provision on the
directive principles of State policy has informed the policy-
making of successive Governments in India in order to
ensure social justice for all. The disadvantaged sections
16
constitute about 25 per cent of the population. Their
development is being pursued through some of the largest
affirmative-action programmes in the world in their
favour in education, employment and other areas. The
Government
non-governmental
organizations in the promotion of the economic and social
development of the weaker sections.
involved
also
has
The disabled constitute about 1.9 per cent of our
population. Today, special emphasis is placed by the
Government on rehabilitation programmes for slum
dwellers, comprehensive legislation for the rights of
people with disabilities, and wider education of the
disabled.
for developing
technologies for the disabled was launched in 1988. We
have also set up special employment exchanges and
special cells for handicapped persons all over the country.
A national programme
The Integrated Rural Development Programme and
the Prime Minister’s New Employment Scheme support
training programmes for youth towards self-employment
in all Indian states. These programmes provide technical
and basic managerial skills as well as loans and subsidies
to youth in the age group of 18 to 35 years and to
families living below the poverty line, to enable them to
become self-employed.
of
the
by
and
development
India has registered considerable success in the
functioning
cooperative
movement in a democratic society. This is acknowledged
in the Secretary-General’s report on the subject
in
document A/49/213. We endorse some of the conclusions
of the report: First, cooperative enterprises provide the
organizational means by which a significant proportion of
humanity is able to take into its own hands the tasks of
creating productive employment, overcoming poverty and
achieving social
Secondly, cooperatives
contribute substantially to the common good in market
economies, principally by improving the efficiency and
quality
assuring
democratization and environmental rationality. Thirdly,
an effective working partnership between Governments
and cooperative movements might be an important means
to allocate and mobilize societal resources effectively.
Other conclusions of the report need further study.
integration.
economy,
also
but
of
the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Just as the needs of the family, youth, women and the
aged are best met in a just, democratic and tolerant society,
cohesive, well-knit family traditions, in turn, contribute to
the building of such a society. The societies which have
overlooked the importance of traditional family values in
their pursuit of personal excellence and prosperity are today
re-emphasizing the role of the individual within the family.
In this International Year of the Family, let us reaffirm our
faith in the family as the nucleus of a healthy and orderly
society.
The President (interpretation from Spanish):
on the representative of Malta, Mr. Joseph Cassar.
I call
Mr. Cassar (Malta): These Meetings of the General
Assembly are significant not only because they coincide
with the observance of the International Year of the Family,
but also, and even more, because they reflect
the
importance Member States ascribe to the family.
Throughout history,
the family has always been
considered the basic unit of society. The International
Conference on Population and Development in Cairo again
acknowledged and reaffirmed this fact. Malta is honoured
to have contributed to the negotiations which ensured that
this principle was given the attention it merits in the
Conference’s final document.
The family is an essential element for secure social
development. It provides a source of mutual love, respect,
solidarity and affection and acts as a support system for its
individual members, encouraging personal growth and
respect for individual rights.
The family transmits values from one generation to
another and is a powerful agent for social, political and
cultural evolution -
a primary vehicle for development,
industrialization and urbanization. The family, however, is
also influenced by the nature and pace of change.
It is
today subject to numerous pressures that make it extremely
vulnerable and thus it requires, more than ever before, the
support of other institutions.
The international community’s celebration of
the
the Family is a long-overdue
International Year of
acknowledgement.
In preparation for this International
Year of the Family, Malta had the privilege of hosting the
37th meeting
19 October 1994
United Nations Europe and North America Preparatory
Meeting in April 1993 and the World NGO Forum in
November 1993. The Valletta Declaration issued by the
Europe
and North America Preparatory Meeting
reaffirmed a wide-ranging commitment to the family and
invited
intergovernmental
organizations and Member States to encourage and
support
to family
matters.
regional cooperation with respect
the United Nations,
Malta has noted with great interest, and supports, the
recommendations of the Coordinator of the International
Year of the Family calling for appropriate action to be
taken with a view to including family-oriented elements
in the work of the Commission on Human Rights. By
safeguarding and promoting the values and unity of the
family, we further strengthen the protection of human
rights.
The Government of Malta believes that the State
should concern itself with helping and consolidating the
family. It can never be in the true interest of the State to
weaken the family unit. The State should support and
protect the family and facilitate its role. Such a role
requires the safeguarding of human rights, ranging from
the equal rights of men and women to social security;
from the right to education to the right to life of the
unborn child.
In giving its support, the State should not exploit the
family in order to ensure a larger or smaller work force.
Parents have the exclusive right to plan the size of their
family in accordance with their own beliefs and
convictions. Decisions of this nature should not be made
under pressure by the State through such methods as
limiting the number of children eligible for State
subsidies.
Since Malta’s independence 30 years ago, successive
Governments in Malta have worked to give tangible form
to these convictions. The enactment of Act XXI of 1993
by Parliament, after weeks of public discussion, has given
a new dimension to family life. The law provides for a
concept of marriage based on the recognition of the
fundamental principles of equality between the spouses
and, necessarily, on their common consent.
In marriage
and within the family, husband and wife are recognized,
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
in practice and in the eyes of the law, to be equal partners.
They are jointly responsible for the care and upbringing of
the children and are expected to reach agreement on all
matters of importance to family life. The status of women
has been enhanced through fundamental changes that give
the necessary recognition to the dignity of the person - a
dignity shared by all individual members of the family.
The Government of Malta believes that discrimination
on the basis of gender should be eliminated in a democratic
society. Women should not be discriminated against. They
should have the right to decide to work outside the home
and have the right to the same remuneration as their male
counterparts. The acknowledgement of such rights in no
way diminishes the important and significant contribution
to society of women who choose to exercise their right to
devote all of their time to bringing up their children and
looking after the family. For such choices to be truly free,
States should promote child day-care services, subsidies for
full-time family workers, and retraining opportunities for
women who rejoin the work force after an absence of some
years.
for
stable
its members
psychological milieu
My Government believes that the family offers the
best
personality
development, as well as the niche where one assimilates
moral values and cherished social customs. The family
offers
the basis of a satisfactory and
meaningful life. Above all, it provides solidarity to all its
members, particularly those with special needs owing to
disability, emotional stress or ageing.
In this respect, the
family, given the necessary support by Government and
non-governmental organizations,
is the ideal organ for
enhancing the chances for persons, whatever their special
needs, to remain integrated in society.
In the light of these principles, the Government of
Malta strives to support the family rather than to supplant
it. Social security is universal, and assistance is provided
to the unemployed and to persons without any source of
income. Children’s and family allowances are granted by
the State, and special benefits are available for
the
chronically ill, the disabled and other marginal groups. An
allowance is given to persons who give up employment to
care for a disabled or an elderly relative. Pensions for the
elderly and the disabled provide adequate financial income
to ensure integration.
together with
These benefits,
18
37th meeting
19 October 1994
universal health care, help foster solidarity and diminish
that stress which persons with special needs exert on the
family.
Protection and assistance help the family to fully
assume its responsibility as the basic unit of society. As
the natural environment for children and youth, and the
most desirable support system for the elderly and the
disabled, the strengthening of the family should be given
intergovernmental
priority by national Governments,
organizations
non-governmental
organizations.
concerned
and
In recent years, the family and social change have
been the subject of considerable discussion in Malta. The
remains strong and
family has become smaller but
strategic in the social structure of our community.
Its
strength has helped it evolve and respond to various
economic, social and psychological pressures.
The
Government and non-governmental organizations,
in
supporting the family, emphasize preventive measures
such as counselling before and during marriage. In cases
of marital breakdown, hostel facilities and accommodation
at affordable rents are provided whenever possible.
Residential facilities are available for children taken in
care, but in this respect fostering is preferred to long-term
institutionalization.
During the past 30 years, economic development and
increasing
been
the
instrumental
in raising the standard of living. This
process has been further strengthened by free and
universal access to education at all levels.
employment
level
of
have
Drug abuse is a cause of concern. The welfare
services, in close cooperation with the health authorities,
the police and the Catholic non-governmental organization
Caritas, provide comprehensive counselling, detoxification
services and programmes aimed at overcoming the
problem and encouraging full integration.
In major
instruments,
international
the United
Nations and the international community have proclaimed
the inalienable and fundamental human rights of persons
and have repeatedly declared that the family, as the basic
unit of society, is entitled to protection by society and the
State. These abundant references to the family should be
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
embodied in a coherent and comprehensive document on
the functions, responsibilities and rights of the family.
Such an international document on the family would have
a direct impact on its members and on the role of the
family in society. It would further rather than preclude the
protection of the rights of the family and of its individual
members.
That
is why my Government believes that
in the
follow-up to this Year of the Family, we should harmonize
our efforts to consolidate peace and democracy with efforts
to promote social justice on a global scale. Families can
realize their full potential only in a world where peace and
freedom prevail and in a just society free from inequities.
Poverty, hunger,
the
degradation of the environment, armed conflict and other
calamities greatly impede the normal development of the
family in vast areas of the world.
racial discrimination,
illiteracy,
Political and economic instability have uprooted
millions from their homes.
In a spirit of international
solidarity, many States have welcomed the victims of these
modern-day scourges.
It is hoped that in such instances
family reunification will be given the importance it
deserves.
Subsidiarity is a key principle of contemporary
society. Our efforts to bring decision-making close to those
most affected by it should find immediate resonance in
matters which have a direct
impact on the family.
Believing as we do that the family is the basic unit of
society, we should strive to fortify its protection and
support. The erosion of the family as an institution cannot
but result in fissures which threaten the stability of those
very societies which we cherish most.
The President (interpretation from Spanish): I should
like to inform the Assembly that
the representative of
Brazil has requested to be allowed to participate in the
debate on this agenda item, although the list of speakers
was closed yesterday morning.
If there is no objection, I shall
the
Assembly decides to allow the name of the delegation of
Brazil to be included in the list of speakers.
take it
that
It was so decided.
37th meeting
19 October 1994
The President (interpretation from Spanish): I now
call on the Deputy Permanent Representative of Japan,
Mr. Shunji Maruyama.
Mr. Maruyama (Japan): Before commencing my
remarks, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr.
Henryk J. Sokalski, Coordinator for the International Year
of the Family, for his excellent work in promoting
observance of the Year.
It
the
is universally recognized that
family
constitutes the basic unit of society and that it assumes
diverse forms and functions which reflect the diversity of
individual preferences and social conditions. It acts as a
leading agent in promoting the well-being of the larger
social entities that are built on it, and it thus plays a
critical role in social development. Everywhere,
the
family provides both physical and spiritual support for its
members, and particularly for
those who are most
vulnerable, such as children, working adults, and the
aged. Our common principles and values - human
dignity, equality,
responsibility and
cooperation - are first shaped and nurtured in the family.
respect, mutual
Bearing all this in mind, the Government of Japan is
in full accord with the objectives of the International Year
of the Family, which provides Member States with an
excellent opportunity to re-evaluate and promote the
family’s unique role and functions in various aspects of
our life. The Year is an occasion to promote the concept
of the family as the smallest working democracy, one that
operates at the very heart of society.
it
Japan welcomes
the vast array of
initiatives
undertaken by Member States in support of families, and,
for its part,
is carrying out a number of public-
information activities in observance of the Year. Among
the events organized by the Government of Japan are
seminars and concerts, and the issuance of special
commemorative stamps. Local governments and non-
governmental organizations are also making important
contributions in promoting the role and functions of the
family in bringing about social progress.
These activities help the people understand the
objectives of the International Year of the Family, one of
which is the creation of a society of equals that gives
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
family responsibilities.
special priorities to the needs of the vulnerable. My
country attaches particular importance to promoting policies
and measures that contribute to a more equal partnership
in particular, an equal
between men and women and,
sharing of
This is especially
important in the light of the trend towards smaller families
in Japan, which often diminishes the ability of the basic
social group to care for its members, particularly children,
I would like to take this
the disabled and the elderly.
opportunity
that
this
commemorative Year Japan ratified the Convention on the
Rights of the Child as part of its effort to address such
concerns.
in April
announce
of
to
This series of plenary meetings of
the General
Assembly has given us an invaluable opportunity to
familiarize ourselves with the various policies and
programmes being adopted and executed by other Member
States. The many examples we have heard of the success
of these efforts spur us to make further efforts of our own.
My delegation believes that in following up the Year we
should pay greater attention to the family in the national
policies we formulate. It is imperative that our policies be
based on respect for the individual, rather than focusing on
the family as a whole.
These high-level
The pivotal role of the family in the development
process will be a key issue at the upcoming World Summit
for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference
on Women.
forums can make an
invaluable contribution to ensuring the success of the Year
and an effective follow-up to it. As we come to the end of
the International Year of the Family we should remain
active in promoting the inherent strength of the family and
in strengthening its role and functions in contributing to
national,
sustainable
development.
international
regional,
and
Mrs. Sirelkhtim (Sudan), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
The President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now
call on the Permanent Representative of the Netherlands,
Mr. N. H. Beigman.
Mr. Biegman (Netherlands): In the Netherlands, the
working definition of a family is "a living unit in which the
20
37th meeting
19 October 1994
care and the upbringing of the child takes place". We
attach great importance to the breadth of this definition
and to the concept of "living unit". Government policies
and specific measures may affect these living units, but
they are not focused on or geared to families as such.
They focus on the individual citizens, and particularly the
children, belonging to the families, or the living units.
As has been stated on earlier occasions,
the
Government of the Netherlands, because of this national
policy, was at first somewhat reluctant to accept the idea
of an International Year of the Family. However, the
Netherlands Government ultimately decided to join in the
preparations, and it established an independent National
Committee provided with a substantial Government
subsidy and corporate sponsorship.
Special attention has been given to a number of
activities and projects in fields such as living units in
which there are young children, focusing on people in
socially deprived conditions and people in "special"
circumstances; assisting migrant
living units in the
process of integration into Netherlands society, using
specially designed methods to educate very young
children and their mothers; enhancing the equality of the
various living units in the Netherlands, based on cultural,
finally,
religious
consciousness-raising,
the
consciousness of fathers.
preferences;
particular
and
raising
personal
and
in
Hence, after this somewhat hesitant start, the year of
the family in the Netherlands has provided a basis for
socially relevant activities and projects. The Netherlands
National Committee participated actively in the closing
conference of the International Year of the Family in
Montreal last week, with a view to fostering acceptance
and recognition of alternative family arrangements. Two
international congresses, in October and November, will
supplement this development, one on "Children on the
Move", dealing with the situation of abducted, adopted
and refugee children, the other with single-parent families.
Please allow me to explain, briefly, the Netherlands’
position and to elucidate what we consider to be "a
family". The family concept as such generally implies a
variety of notions. While the Netherlands recognizes the
family as a basic unit of society, we also recognize the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
diversity of family life, lifestyles and structures within and
between societies. This diversity has been confirmed by
findings of the World Economic Survey, which states that
at present about 35 per cent of all households worldwide
are run by women. Government policy in the Netherlands
is therefore geared to individuals in all
their various
situations. This includes families, comparable social units
and those who do not
live in a family. We wish to
underline that in our society, apart from the traditional
family comprising a married father and mother and their
children, other forms of living together also exist: for
example, single-parent units - mostly only a mother with
her children - and unmarried individuals who live together,
of opposite sexes or of the same sex.
In our opinion, it is not for a government to hand
down a judgement regarding these various forms of living
together. The government should focus on the upbringing
and education of children. In our opinion, children should
be the focus of our attention, whether they are living at
home or have left home but remain dependent - for
example those who, because of their studies or for various
other reasons, are temporarily away from home - or, of
course, are homeless. Because its policy is focused on
children rather than on the family as such, the Netherlands
does not have anything like a family policy, which makes
it difficult for us to go along with international positions
regarding such policies. They just do not apply to the
situation in the Netherlands.
In a worldwide context, family structures, traditions
and values differ so markedly that it seems unlikely that
international consultations on family matters could result in
widely applicable international measures to strengthen
family life. The Netherlands Government is concerned that
a debate at the global level could become value-laden and
might specifically be used to promote negative views about,
or even bias and discrimination against, types of households
other than the traditional nuclear family.
In closing, let me stress that we feel very strongly that
attention to families in all their varieties should never lead
to diminished attention to the rights of the individual.
In
the end, all living units are composed of individuals, and it
is respect for the rights and dignity of the individual that
can promote greater understanding between people, nations
and cultures.
37th meeting
19 October 1994
The President: (interpretation from Arabic): I now
call on Mr. José Bernard Pallais Arana, the Vice Minister
for Foreign Relations of Nicaragua.
Mr. Pallais Arana (Nicaragua) (interpretation from
Spanish): The staggering changes taking place on the
international scene affect the scope of relations between
States themselves as well as relationships among social
groups, which within those societies have their separate
identities, lifestyles and cultures. The family, commonly
regarded as the basic unit of society and the focus of the
social organization network, is undergoing a rapid process
of change, which in some societies is affecting the very
concept of the family. The Cairo Conference reaffirmed
the concept of the family as a natural and fundamental
nucleus of society.
The acute needs stemming from the demands of
development, economic growth, structural adjustments and
extreme poverty have all had an effect on the structure of
the family, leading to the mass incorporation of women
into the labour market, changing the relations between the
sexes, thereby having an impact on the size of families
and giving rise to an increase in early motherhood and the
breakdown of marriages.
In countries where conflicts
have taken on a dimension of social violence, families
have been affected by forced separation, displacement and
family disintegration.
In all these cases children are
affected the most.
Our country took an active part in the regional Latin
preparatory meeting
the
American-Caribbean
International Year of
the Family, organized by the
Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ECLAC), and on that occasion we adopted the
Cartagena Declaration and the regional proposal for the
preparation of courses of action to assist the families of
Latin America and the Caribbean.
for
That Declaration recognized the complex processes
of change taking place in the institution of the family in
Latin America and the Caribbean; the close relationships
between the family and the processes of democratization
and peace; the importance that cooperation among the
countries of the region and support from international
agencies and non-governmental organizations has for the
policies, plans and programmes in support of families.
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
We are certain that the agreements reflected in that
Declaration and in the regional proposal will help to
strengthen the family as a leading actor in providing for its
own well-being; will promote its integration in relations of
equity, solidarity, cooperation, affection and respect; and
will foster broad-ranging and responsible concerted action
between the Government and society for the overall benefit
of the family.
In the governmental programme outlined by Her
Excellency President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, there is
a clear statement of political resolve to direct resources to
the full ethical, economic and social recovery of the
Nicaraguan nuclear family, after a decade of political and
military conflict.
The family passes on values and rules of behaviour
and plays an important role in economic, political, social
and cultural aspects of society. It is the smallest social area
for
the
enhancement of the well-being of the individual.
interaction on a day-to-day basis and for
Traditionally,
the Nicaraguan family has assigned
different roles to men and women; however, this situation
has changed as a result of socio-economic factors that have
arisen in recent decades and have led to growing
participation by women in economic activity, thus leading
to a redefinition of the roles of men and women.
Nicaragua’s political Constitution stipulates that the
family is the fundamental nucleus of society and has a right
to the protection of society and the State and to the
safeguarding of its rights. The present Constitution, and the
laws adopted under the Constitution, provide for the rights
of the family.
President Chamorro has paid particular attention to the
restoration of the moral principles and values of the
Nicaraguan family, to the promotion of respect within the
family unit and, above all, to the promotion of family unity
as the primary foundation of society and a fundamental
factor in national reconciliation.
The Government of
Nicaragua is today determined to conserve such basic
values of the Nicaraguan family as solidarity among family
members and, above all, the family’s educational function
as a transmitter of moral and civic values.
22
37th meeting
19 October 1994
In carrying out the objectives of the International
Year of the Family the Government of Nicaragua has set
up a National Commission for the International Year of
the Family, with the participation of representatives from
various State Ministries, non-governmental organizations
and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF).
The
social
cabinet
specific
the National
entrusted
including
the
Commission with
duties,
family code to
preparation of a preliminary draft
legislation,
the
consolidate
existing
dissemination of the goals of the International Year of the
Family at the national and international levels and the
performance of activities designed to promote family
integration in the community.
and
update
The process of curricular change being carried out
by the Ministry of Education has placed special emphasis
on the promotion of family values as the basic axis of
human development and democratic life. Since 1993
parents have been actively participating in that Ministry’s
consultative councils and in schools and institutes at the
basic-education level.
One of
the main functions of
the Nicaraguan
Institute for Women is the protection of women in the
family and society in an attempt to integrate them, on an
equal footing, into the country’s economic and social
relationships, with special emphasis on the overall health
of women and children.
At the same time, the programmes of the Ministry of
Health dedicated to so-called reproductive health place
special emphasis on promoting women’s self-esteem and
on strengthening the family nucleus and unit.
The
to improve the
Ministry of Health,
population’s quality of life, has introduced profound
changes in the organization and the provision of services.
Management has been made more democratic through
community participation by the creation of departmental
health councils, which have had a decisive impact on the
organization of services and their effectiveness.
in an effort
Similarly, the policies of the Ministry of Labour
have attempted to guarantee a minimum wage to workers
free from gender-based discrimination, in keeping with
the basic needs of the average Nicaraguan family and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
as
such
incentives
urban and rural labour demands. The Ministry has also
tried to achieve collective agreements and compacts to
guarantee
insurance,
supplements based on seniority, maternity protection and
indemnity based on seniority at
the end of the labour
contract. Further, the Nicaraguan Institute for Agrarian
Reforms is proceeding to assign crop-land titles to families
in order to promote the preservation of family heritage, thus
maintaining family unity.
accident
But above and beyond the International Year, the
family is the principal focus of the Chamorro Government’s
policy of national reconciliation. We believe that peace is
a process that must begin in the Nicaraguan family, a
family that has been divided by a decade of wars and
antagonisms of all kinds. We believe that we have taken
a significant step along this arduous path and that our
achievements will be irreversible.
The President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now
call on His Excellency Mr. Reaz Rahman, Permanent
Representative of Bangladesh.
Mr. Rahman (Bangladesh):
Five years ago the
Assembly decided to proclaim the year 1994 the
International Year of the Family. Since then, concentrated
preparatory work has been undertaken by Governments, the
United Nations Secretariat, specialized agencies, regional
Commissions and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to give substance to the importance of the
family and to highlight awareness of it on the part of
policy-makers and the public - the family not only as the
basic unit of social
for
promoting environmental supportive growth, societal justice,
democracy and human rights at all levels of society. We
would like to pay a special tribute to President Amara Essy
for his opening address and to the Secretary-General for
comprehensively outlining the steps taken to project this
issue now and in the future.
life but as a key motivator
In launching the International Year of the Family and
declaring 15 May as the annual International Day of
Families, the international community seeks to highlight the
need for continuity in promoting implementation and
follow-up measures that will keep the basic notion of the
family in the foreground and the family’s importance as a
crucial agent in and beneficiary of the development process
37th meeting
19 October 1994
and as an essential nucleus in society for generating moral
and ethical values.
Several key perceptions have emerged that are
gaining widespread recognition and that need to be further
encouraged and strengthened. First and foremost, there
is the perception that major instruments of the United
Nations, be they on human rights or on the evolution of
social policies or global programmes of action on
development, are increasingly being centred on the human
being and are, in turn, calling for the widest possible
protection and assistance to be accorded to the family.
A second fundamental element
is gender equality,
women’s equal participation in employment, shared
parental responsibility and the significance of the rights of
children. Third is the recognition that, despite diversity
in the various concepts of the family in different social,
cultural and political systems, there are many common
elements in the problems faced by families in all parts of
the world.
is the growing
awareness, as the President of the General Assembly
pointed out, that
Perhaps most
important
"social policies must respond to holistic, family-
centred principles." (Official Records of the General
Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meeting,
35th meeting, [p. 8])
Indeed, the resolution adopted by the Assembly at its
forty-seventh session expressed awareness that families
are the fullest reflection, at the grass-roots level, of the
strengths and weaknesses of the social and developmental
welfare environment and as such offer a uniquely
comprehensive and synthesizing approach to social issues.
for promoting moral
Today, the basic challenge facing us is to bolster the
position of families as a major catalyst for social progress
and development and to reinforce their role as the key
nucleus
and ethical values,
education, rights and responsibilities and the fundamental
foundation
impressive
achievements of the International Year of the Family are
to have any last effect, a crucial imperative will be to
consolidate and implement follow-up actions to the goals
we have set together.
democracy.
the
for
If
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
37th meeting
19 October 1994
Bangladesh has been attaching due importance to the
observance of the Year and to looking beyond it. A broad
array of activities have been undertaken to celebrate it.
These include a series of constructive activities befitting
families across the country. Emphasis on gender equality in
society and in the family has been an additional factor in
the creation of a greater awareness of the role of individual
members within this the basic unit of society.
family that children acquire the knowledge and skills that
will serve them as adults.
There is no simple view of the family, and no easy
definition of family policy. To some degree, all policies
affect families. Yet, policies and programmes tend to be
based on concepts and family models which, because of
the major changes that most societies have undergone in
recent decades, may no longer reflect reality.
A major target that has been reached is unanimous
recognition of the role of families in fostering sustained
growth and sustainable development.
Bangladesh’s
Department of Social Services is implementing a number of
programmes, both in urban and in rural areas, to ensure
balanced
families.
Emphasis is being laid on both moral and material family
development. The areas of this development include health,
sanitation,
for
self-employment, and recreation.
socio-economic
development
education,
required
of
the
skills
Families are truly the building-blocks of societies and
the essential fabric of human relationships. We are deeply
committed to appropriately supporting and sustaining
families as the means of providing a better future for our
children and as a fundamental social unit to strengthen the
local
society and the global
community.
community, national
The President (interpretation from Arabic): I call on
the Permanent Representative of Liechtenstein, Mrs.
Claudia Fritsche.
Mrs. Fritsche (Liechenstein):
In the past, families
have often been defined as the "smallest democracy at the
heart of societies". When the International Year of the
Family was being launched, it was affirmed that families as
the fundamental group units of society are entitled to
maximum protection and assistance to enable them to fulfil
their roles in ensuring the development of their individual
members and of society.
Ideally, families are the primary source of nurturing
and care. They transmit values and culture and form an
oasis in a competitive world. Families continue to be the
primary caring institutions. They look after members who
are young or elderly, ill or disabled.
It is through the
24
in
and
access
The traditional
forms of
communication
family are changing.
Improvements
to
information enable individual family members to have
increased contact with ideas and behavioural norms that
go beyond their traditional spheres. Economic factors
force families to separate when members migrate in
search of employment. Within a relatively short time,
extended families have shrunk, and single-parent families
are no longer the exception. Today, between a quarter
and a third of all households worldwide are headed by
single parents, of whom 90 per cent are women. One of
the most demanding aspects of the daily lives of many
families, especially single-parent and female-headed
families, is the constant need to balance work and familial
responsibilities. There is a great need for social-support
systems appropriate to individual cases.
One of the major objectives of the International Year
is the achievement of gender equity in the family, which
entails the equal sharing of responsibilities. The sharing
of roles by men and women requires new perspectives
and patterns of partnership. It therefore seems necessary
that major attention be given to examining and fostering
new roles and responsibilities for men. Fathers could be
given wider access to education in family life, and
parental leave and other incentives could be provided, to
encourage and enable them to play new, wider roles,
especially with regard to home-making, child care and
family planning. Affected as they are by continuing
social, economic, cultural and political pressures, women
should be enabled to explore new opportunities for
education and employment and to balance work and
familial responsibilities.
Families are valuable resources for the prevention of
crime and delinquency. An important
issue is the
prevention of domestic violence. Violence against women
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
and children is pervasive and affects families everywhere
and in all social classes. Women experience violence as a
form of control that limits their ability to pursue options in
almost every area of
the human
development of women themselves, and it affects the
well-being of children and families.
It hinders
life.
the
We welcome
appointment of
the Special
Rapporteur on violence against women. This is one of the
most important results of the World Conference on Human
Rights, which took place in Vienna last year.
In agreeing
to appoint a Special Rapporteur, the Conference recognized
gender-based violence in both public and private spheres as
a human-rights violation.
The activities instituted by the Liechtenstein National
Coordinating Committee for the International Year of the
Family were based on the following considerations.
Changes in human lives, and particularly in family life, are
associated with intense emotional and social experiences; in
living through these changes, awareness is beneficial to
both the personality and the community, and, accordingly,
can mitigate
of
psychological and social problems, such as impoverishment,
addiction and suicidal tendencies; ensuring the means of
existence, raising children and partnership are just a few of
the many tasks a family has to cope with; families are
psychologically and socially overburdened and, accordingly,
require support and assistance.
emergence
even
or
prevent
the
the
changes occur
One of the key considerations in the implementation
the
of the planned activities in Liechtenstein was that
family is where
the
and that
implementation of measures in support of the home and of
the family should not lead to State control of the family.
In creating family-support infrastructures, the State and its
institutions are only the backdrop. The stage on which the
action takes place is the family itself. Supportive action
should be something shared, something creative and
innovative.
It was against this background that a programme for
the provision of assistance to families in times of crisis and
periods of transition was initiated. Further programmes
focus on drug addiction within the family,
sexual
exploitation of children, current problems in the field of
education, and crisis management within the family.
37th meeting
19 October 1994
It has been said frequently that the family, being the
natural and fundamental group unit of society, is the
fullest reflection of the strengths and weaknesses of a
community. In spite of the many changes in society that
have influenced its role, the family continues to provide
the natural framework for the emotional and material
support that is essential to the growth and development of
its members. A strong and democratic family should be
promoted as an important element of an equally strong
and democratic society.
The President (interpretation from Arabic): I now
call on the Deputy Permanent Representative of the
Islamic Republic of Iran, Mr. Gholamali Khoshroo.
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran): My
delegation wishes to begin its remarks by acknowledging
and endorsing the rationale of the General Assembly’s
unanimous proclamation of 1994 as the International Year
of the Family - a Year to instill a global conviction to
employ intensified action and international cooperation on
behalf of families in order to advance social progress and
development.
The family, as the most fundamental institution for
human growth and happiness, has, in recent decades, been
threatened by structural and cultural transformations in
Western societies. The intrusion of the market approach
into everyday life has severely weakened the belief and
practices which were common in family, religious and
local communities. Such new processes have created
serious moral problems rather than technical ones.
As modernism proceeds, strong ties in traditional
communities become weaker and weaker, while the need
to care for each other grows stronger and stronger. Thus,
we are in a paradoxical situation: to become more modern
leads to a reliance on the market and bureaucracy, which
contributes to the destruction of modernism itself. To
solve this dilemma, we must attach utmost importance to
the
education and religion. Through this
restructuring of everyday life and of social systems we
can create a proper balance between moral obligation and
individual freedom.
It is very sad that in the current
situation the foundation of the family has become so
weak that individual autonomy has replaced moral and
social responsibility. Accordingly, narrow individualism,
family,
25
37th meeting
19 October 1994
Specific examples of Iran’s initiatives this year
include a review of the Family Protection Law with help
from the Office of Women’s Affairs and the United
Nations Children’s Fund in Tehran; the art competition
staged by the Office of
the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for children in
refugee camps; the construction of libraries at refugee
camps in a collaborative effort between the UNHCR and
the Ministry of the Interior; the implementation of a
nationwide immunization of children against polio by the
Ministry of Health; the mobilization of the mass media to
promote the International Year of
the
convening of a regional conference on family issues held
with the cooperation of the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities; the convening of youth seminars on
marriage and the family and the Parents and Teachers
Conference on the International Year of the Family.
the Family;
The International Year of
the Family is an
opportunity to inform everyone of what countries have
done or intend to do to reinforce and strengthen the
family institution. Here is the opportune moment to share
the fruits of our labour, our insights into difficulties, and
our successful solutions. Without a doubt, enhanced
regional and international cooperation in matters relating
to the family and the preparation and implementation of
proposals and plans to align socio-economic development
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
which dramatically focuses on immediate personal affairs,
is continuously developing at the cost of public happiness
and social coherence. It is unfortunate that the mass media,
in their competition in the market of popular art and
culture,
hedonistic
individualism, by dramatizing immediate desire, emotional
fantasies and trivial concerns.
provoking
utilitarian
and
are
Such maximization of self-interest, accompanied by
the increasing attachment to the comforts of life, has led to
the dissolution of social ties and family relations. These
tragic changes in Western societies have resulted in a high
proportion of divorce - almost one out of two marriages -
widespread reluctance to marry, and an increasing
acceptance of premarital and extra-marital sexual relations.
Worse still, the spread of sexual abuse within the family
and domestic violence have brought about an increasing
number of runaways and crimes.
The Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has,
since its inception, made every effort to create a conducive
and encouraging environment for families to flourish in.
Articles 10, 21, 29, 30 31 and 43 of the Constitution of the
Islamic Republic of Iran frame laws, regulations and
national plans connected with families and their stability.
These constitutional provisions are based on the principles
of the Islamic law and code of conduct.
to
Thus, the Islamic Republic of Iran regards the family
as the core of society and supports any movement that
contributes
enhancement.
Declaring 1994 the International Year of
the Family
emphasized the need for more intense attention to and a
thorough re-evaluation of existing difficulties faced by
families in the world.
strengthening
and
its
The Islamic Republic of Iran supports the initiatives
launched by the International Year of the Family because
it believes in the need for expanding collective efforts to
eliminate
common problems. We have participated
wholeheartedly and actively in these activities. The first
step was the formation of a national committee comprising
various
country. These
organizations manage the affairs of children, women, youth,
the elderly and the disabled. The many sessions held by
this committee resulted in the compilation of a national
report.
organizations within
the
26
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
with family interests will open the way for
cooperation in similar endeavours.
future
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
37th meeting
19 October 1994
27
