United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
23rd Meeting
Friday, 7 October 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.23
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Côte d’Ivoire
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by His Royal Highness Prince Mbilini
Dlamini, Prime Minister of
the Kingdom of
Swaziland
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the Prime Minister
of the Kingdom of Swaziland.
His Royal Highness Prince Mbilini Dlamini, Prime
Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland, was escorted to
the rostrum.
The President (interpretation from French):
I have
great pleasure in welcoming the Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Swaziland, His Royal Highness Prince Mbilini
Dlamini, and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Prince Dlamini (Swaziland):
I bring with me the
greetings and good wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III,
Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Government and people
of the Kingdom of Swaziland to all our friends and fellow
Members of the United Nations.
On behalf of Swaziland, may I begin by offering my
sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth
session. We are confident that with your able leadership
our deliberations will be guided towards a successful
conclusion, for the benefit of the global community.
Let me also offer Swaziland’s gratitude and praise to
your predecessor, whose wise direction ensured the
success of the deliberations of the Assembly at its forty-
eighth session.
The past 12 months have presented many challenges
to our Organization, in its pivotal role as an effective
instrument for fostering global peace and security, and as
a dynamic forum for promoting a spirit of understanding
and cooperation among the nations of the world.
Clearly, significant progress has been made in
meeting these challenges, and my delegation recognizes
the role of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr.
Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose diplomatic skills and
untiring efforts have contributed so greatly to the
continuing ability of the United Nations to achieve the
successes on which the whole world depends.
In April
this year,
the eyes of the world were
focused on South Africa as the people of that country
went to the polls to elect, for the first time, a Government
that would represent all South Africans, regardless of
race, religion or creed. Today, in a triumph for the spirit
of reconciliation, peace and compromise among all South
Africans, we welcome the new, non-racial and democratic
South Africa back into the family of the United Nations.
94-86576 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
While congratulating the people of South Africa for
their substantial achievement, the Kingdom of Swaziland
also salutes the role of the United Nations in bringing about
an end to a regime it had long opposed. As a result the
millions of South African people who had been denied a
voice in this Hall will once more be heard. South Africa’s
triumph is therefore also a victory for the principle of
universality, on which the United Nations was founded.
As neighbour, partner and ally, Swaziland, and the
other countries in the subregion, have particular reason to
rejoice at the successful process of transition in South
Africa. Quite apart from the benefit of peace to the area
brought about by a successful political transformation, we
all look forward to enjoying the fruits of closer economic
and trade cooperation with the region’s most influential
country.
Swaziland has been most impressed with the very
clear policy of His Excellency President Mandela, stated
consistently since he took office in May, on the importance
of close cooperation with others in the region.
We have already welcomed South Africa into the
Southern African Development Community, and other
initiatives are under way to forge closer trade and economic
links between our newly liberated neighbour and the rest of
the subregion, for South Africa cannot expect to stand on
its own in the future.
the economic
destinies of the nations in our subregion are inextricably
bound together.
is a fact
It
that
Even as we celebrate the return of peace and stability
in South Africa, our continent continues to provide some of
the worst examples of people’s inhumanity to one another.
Swaziland watched with horror as the tragedy unfolded
earlier this year in Rwanda. Many words have been spoken
here about the dreadful scenes we all witnessed, and our
hearts went out to the millions whose lives were shattered
by the effects of the civil war there. No other justification
is needed to spur on our efforts to address the issue of
conflict prevention and resolution than the loss of so many
lives, so quickly, in Rwanda. We pray that a formula for
true, lasting peace may be found, and that the two peoples
may be able to find some way of living side by side with
each other.
The situations in Burundi, Liberia, Sudan and Somalia
also continue to give us cause for grave concern.
Swaziland supports all peaceful efforts aimed at bringing
2
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
about negotiated settlements to the problems in these
countries.
the past
Despite the many set-backs
to peace on our
continent,
twelve months have also seen
substantial progress among a number of countries -
progress which owes much to the efforts of our
Organization.
I have spoken already of our admiration for the
developments in one of our neighbouring countries, South
Africa, which took the path of reconciliation and peace
towards the much-needed process of reconstruction and
development.
The same degree of respect applies to our other
neighbour, Mozambique, which, after so long a period of
bitter hatred amongst its people, has at last chosen to lay
down weapons in favour of the ballot box. Swaziland
joins the world in praying for a peaceful election process
later this month, and calls on the leaders to allow the
same spirit of reconciliation and unity that brought an end
to the war after so many years to continue after a new
government has been chosen.
We appeal
to the international community to
continue to provide the financial, technical, moral and
material support that will be necessary for Mozambique
to rebuild itself, and to give its people a chance to fulfil
their high potential.
The Kingdom of Swaziland warmly welcomes the
agreement that brought about a peaceful solution to the
situation prevailing in our sister Kingdom of Lesotho.
We welcome the opportunity presented now for the
Basotho people themselves to address their concerns.
It
is our
the agreement will be
implemented successfully, without undue delay, so that
lasting peace and stability may come to the kingdom.
fervent hope that
The direct effects of developments on our continent
are of obvious concern to the Kingdom of Swaziland.
But in this day and age of global interdependence, the
potential effects on us of situations outside Africa are of
equal
importance. Two recent developments provide
particular cause for hope in areas of long-running dispute.
In the Middle East,
the seeds of peace and
reconciliation, sown last year by Prime Minister Rabin
and Chairman Arafat, and encouraged by the United
States, Norway, the United Nations and others, are at last
bearing fruit. Talk of trade and cooperation is replacing
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the noise of gunfire, as the bitter rivalries of generations
give way to a new order of peace in the region.
Swaziland salutes all those who contributed to the
process of peace in the Middle East; we appeal to the
leaders of the region to join in the process and to allow it
to continue without disruption, so that precious resources
may be directed towards worthwhile development goals.
The Kingdom of Swaziland has long been concerned
about the spread of nuclear weapons, and the effect this has
had on world stability. We were therefore encouraged by
the recent initiatives on the part of the United States and
Russia to substantially reduce the number of their weapons.
We also support all efforts on the Korean peninsula,
where disaster has been pending,
to bring about real
progress on the nuclear issue. This issue has been the
focus of major instability for the entire far-east region, and
Swaziland fully supports all efforts to bring about a
peaceful resolution to the problem.
We look forward to the peaceful reunification of the
two Koreas, and encourage all moves to bring this to
fruition.
Wars and conflict situations in Africa and around the
world continue to stretch our belief that people can ever
live peacefully with one another. More and more, the
resources of the United Nations are being overextended to
meet the challenges these situations present, and conflict
resolution finds itself close to the top of the agenda for
action by this Assembly.
Mercifully, the Kingdom of Swaziland has been spared
the horrors of internal conflict, but no country can really
feel
immune to the effects of war and confrontation,
wherever these may be occurring. Deciding on the best
way for the world to cope with conflict situations is
therefore a problem we all share, and we in Africa are
conscious of our particular responsibility for deciding on
mechanisms to limit, prevent and cope with conflict
situations developing on our continent.
This issue has been central during discussions at
subregional and regional conferences. Most recently,
important resolutions were adopted at the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) summit in Tunis, and at the Southern
Africa Development Community summit
in Gaborone,
which went some way towards deciding on the regional
response to one of Africa’s most pressing problems.
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
But despite almost unanimous willingness for our
countries to become involved more directly in the
continent’s conflicts, it was clearly recognized that the
majority of us lacked the resources to lend an effective
hand.
The Kingdom of Swaziland therefore supports the
growing call
for an integrated approach to conflict
resolution on our continent, which would bring close
cooperation between Africa and the rest of the world by
establishing mechanisms to coordinate the resources of
both in the most effective way. The OAU is clearly in
the best place to mobilize the efforts of its members - and
most important of all, to undertake preventive diplomacy
before a situation has the chance to develop - while the
United Nations can continue to play its
role as
coordinator of the international response.
Many of Africa’s present conflicts could well have
been prevented or contained if properly coordinated
mechanisms had already been in place. The Kingdom of
Swaziland welcomes discussion here so that a plan of
action can be agreed upon quickly on this vitally
important issue.
In this regard, and as a measure of Swaziland’s
acceptance of her responsibility to the rest of the world,
His Majesty King Mswati III announced at the OAU
summit in Tunis this year that he would be taking steps
to decide how best the Kingdom’s small defence force
could be used alongside other troops in multinational
forces for the benefit of global peace and stability.
His Majesty has begun the process of investigating
under what conditions the nation’s soldiers can be
offered, bearing in mind the small size of the defence
force and our relative lack of appropriate weapons and
equipment. Clearly, we cannot allow our soldiers to enter
into potentially dangerous situations without proper
protection and without adequate training.
These are some of the issues to be looked at before
we can fully commit ourselves to taking this more active
role in global peace-keeping, and we will be approaching
the Secretary-General for consultations on this important
initiative.
the
task
discussing
This session of the General Assembly is entrusted
for
with
the world is on the
Development".
resources towards
requirement now to channel our
achieving lasting global stability through the sustainable
of
The focus of
"An Agenda
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
development of our countries, providing us with improved
standards for all our peoples.
The welcome end to the period of confrontation
between the world’s super-Powers should mean that
increased global
resources can now be redirected to
achieving a new and more balanced world economic order.
Closer attention can now be given to the plight of all
developing countries, which continue to suffer the effects
of serious development neglect. This crucial point was
discussed at
last weekend’s meeting of the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Madrid, where the
view of the developing world was made very clear.
length at
The continent of Africa contains the highest number
of the world’s poorest countries, and any agenda for
development
special
circumstances surrounding the inability of this region to
develop effectively.
into account
should take
the
including resource constraints;
We in the region know ourselves, all too well, what
It is a familiar
factors continue to obstruct our progress.
catalogue,
inappropriate
development policies; the slow pace of industrialization and
transformation
goods;
inadequate infrastructure; natural disasters; and a continuing
round of armed conflicts.
producers
processed
into
of
We know the problems, and we are trying our best to
overcome them. We understand our responsibility to our
people to mobilize our resources in the most effective way
to overcome the obstacles to national development. The
need is clear, and our resources and abilities are limited,
but we are trying hard. We also recognize that we cannot
hope to achieve long-term sustainable development without,
at least, the short-term assistance of the rest of the global
community.
Much of what we need is contained in the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s, and our continent’s collective appeal is for the swift
and full implementation of its many programmes. But each
nation has its separate, distinct needs.
Swaziland welcomes
towards
strengthening South-South cooperation, and we believe they
will
in real progress towards overcoming the
economic challenges facing us all in that grouping.
initiatives
recent
result
In trying to meet our national economic development
objectives, the Kingdom of Swaziland has adopted a broad
and integrated approach aimed at achieving sustainable,
4
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
"human-centred" development, through policies that focus
on the priorities of the reduction of poverty, universal
access to primary school, and affordable primary health
care.
Recent United Nations initiatives also guide us in
our Government policies. As a follow-up to the Earth
Summit, for example, we have established a national
environmental authority to ensure that environmental
concerns are properly integrated into all stages of public
policy and national development strategy formulation.
and the
in Cairo,
Swaziland welcomed the opportunity to address the
recent United Nations Conference on Population and
Development
the
Programme of Action constitutes a significant step in our
collective aim. The Kingdom had already embraced the
option of acceptable child spacing as the cornerstone of
our population growth policy, and we have begun a
comprehensive programme of education for our people in
the realities of and efforts to deal with overpopulation.
adoption of
is designed to allow all Swazis
These and all aspects of the economic development
of the Kingdom will be debated by the whole nation
during the process of national economic consultation,
which was recently initiated by His Majesty the King.
The process
the
opportunity to be involved in deciding the future direction
of the Kingdom’s economy, and will embody the nation’s
wishes for future priorities and strategies. These in turn
will form the basis of our request for future support from
our friends in the international community, and we will be
keeping
of
developments.
the United Nations
informed
fully
The process follows on from last year’s very
successful political reforms, resulting from a similar
period of national consultation, which concluded last
October with direct elections to Parliament under a new
system of secret ballot. The democratic elections were
declared free and fair by the international community and,
more importantly, were what the Swazi people themselves
had chosen.
Both processes - political and economic reform -
show clearly Swaziland’s principle of rule by consensus
of the people. We believe this principle is at the heart of
the peace and stability we have enjoyed for many
generations, and it has spared us the horrors of internal
conflict suffered by so many on our continent.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
I spoke earlier of South Africa’s return to the
international community, as, among other things, a triumph
for the United Nations in upholding the principle of
universality.
The Kingdom of Swaziland urges the
Assembly to apply the same principle to investigate the
merits of the case of the Republic of China in Taiwan.
His Majesty King Mswati III joined a number of other
Heads of State in raising this issue at the forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly. His Majesty called for
the establishment of an ad hoc committee to determine
whether or not the Republic of China had a reasonable case
for rejoining our Organization. This call has been taken up
by an increasing number of countries that support the idea
of looking into the issue in more detail.
Quite apart from the principle of universality, there are
other important factors for us to consider when reviewing
the case. The Republic of China in Taiwan has much to
offer to the world community. It clearly has the resources
to be of more use to the rest of
the international
community. More important, though, is the desire of the
Republic of China to be of use - and assistance - to the rest
of the world.
The Kingdom of Swaziland, along with a large
number of other developing countries throughout Africa,
Asia and the Americas, has had first-hand evidence of the
Republic of China’s willingness
to offer generous
humanitarian and development assistance.
As more and more worthy targets appear for the
United Nations resources, we can surely ill afford to reject
the call
that country’s
assistance can be put to wider use through the agencies of
our Organization.
to investigate further whether
At the heart of the issue, though, is the fact that 21
million people believe that they are not represented in the
they are
United Nations.
excluded from our founding principle of universality.
In
consideration of this right, which they believe has been
denied them, the time has surely come for us to listen to
their voices.
These people believe that
The Kingdom of Swaziland welcomes and supports the
participation of the Republic of China In Taiwan in the
activities of the United Nations, and we therefore call once
more for the establishment of an ad hoc committee to
review the case for their re-admittance to the Organization.
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
The United Nations has a distinguished history of 49
years of growth and achievement. The challenges we
faced almost 50 years ago, as the world emerged from
global conflict, have changed in substance but not in
importance.
We have the opportunity now, in this forum, to lay
the foundations for an agenda for development that will
bring about the stability and peace we all desire.
The Kingdom of Swaziland is proud of
its
membership of the United Nations and commends the
work of all who have contributed to the many successes
over the years. The nation is deeply indebted to the
United Nations agencies, whose efforts are contributing so
much to the attainment of our development goals.
On behalf of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her
Majesty the Indlovukazi, and the whole Swazi nation, I
should like to reaffirm my country’s full support for, and
commitment to, the Charter of the United Nations. May
Almighty God bless these deliberations with the success
they deserve.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland for the
statement he has just made.
His Royal Highness Prince Mbilini Dlamini, Prime
Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland, was escorted
from the rostrum.
The President (interpretation from French): The
next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Viet
Nam, Mr. Nguyen Manh Cam, on whom I now call.
First, allow me, on behalf of
Mr. Nguyen Manh Cam (Viet Nam) (interpretation
from French):
the
delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, to
congratulate you warmly, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session.
I am confident that, under your guidance and
with the active contributions of member countries, this
session of the General Assembly will have a successful
outcome. I also wish to take this opportunity to express
our admiration for the efficient performance of your
predecessor, Mr. Samuel R.
Insanally. We greatly
appreciate the great efforts made by Mr. Boutros-Ghali in
his high post as Secretary-General of the United Nations
in the cause of peace, national
independence and
development.
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of
The United Nations is approaching the final year of its
first half century of existence. The most appropriate way
for us
the
Organization is to help it act in a manner commensurate
with its global role and with the important, difficult and
complex tasks set out by the new world situation. Since
the last session of
the General Assembly, we have
witnessed immense and profound changes in the world as
a whole and in each region. Mankind is confronted by both
opportunities and challenges. It is the task of each country
and of the international community as a whole to realize the
noble aspirations of mankind, to overcome the obstacles to
settling global and pressing issues and to promote peace,
cooperation and development.
The world panorama is full of contradictions. While
the threat of a destructive world war has been further
checked, ethnic, religious and territorial conflicts continue
to persist or even multiply in a number of regions. Against
this disturbing backdrop, there have been some rays of hope
that certain conflicts in the world will be settled. The
success of the struggle waged by the South African people
to abolish apartheid and establish a new united, democratic
and non-racist State in South Africa constitutes a historic
achievement for the South African people,
the United
The Vietnamese
Nations and the world community.
delegation warmly welcomes the delegation of the new
South Africa to the General Assembly.
In the Middle East, encouraging progress has been
made, particularly between Palestine and Israel and between
Jordan and Israel, in the negotiating process and the search
for peace. These developments foster hopes of reaching a
just and lasting peace in the region and of restoring the
Palestinian people’s rights to self-determination and an
independent State in their own land.
Over the past year there have been certain positive
developments in the world economy.
In a number of
countries there have been signs of recovery. Globalism and
regionalism have accelerated. Economic competition is
acute and, in this context, the developing countries continue
to bear innumerable disadvantages. A considerable number
of
these developing countries, however, are beset by
poverty and backwardness; with every passing day millions
of people are threatened by starvation. The developing
countries hope that, with the conclusion of the Uruguay
Round and the decision to establish the World Trade
Organization, trade and investment will be expanded, thus
strongly enhancing international economic cooperation on
the basis of equality and mutual benefit.
6
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
They cannot, however, help being worried about
attempts to use social and environmental issues as fuel for
protectionism. This will affect the common sentiments
amongst the world’s nations at a time when joint efforts
are needed to solve global issues in the interests of the
development and advancement of every nation and of the
entire international community.
In an increasingly interdependent world in which
globalism is being strengthened,
there is continuous
pressure to facilitate increased cooperation on the basis of
equal and mutual benefit and to narrow the gap between
the level of development of the North and that of the
South with a view to securing sustainable and lasting
peace throughout the world.
We therefore welcome the Secretary-General’s
initiative in producing his "Agenda for Development".
We believe that
through wide consultations between
Member States we shall arrive at an agenda that responds
to common demands and will ensure that the United
Nations plays an active role in facilitating economic and
social development and the eradication of poverty in
Member
the
Organization’s important role in international economic
relations.
strengthening
countries,
thereby
We
share
the view -
expressed by many
delegations - that the maintenance of international peace
and security and the promotion of development are the
two paramount tasks of the United Nations.
It is our
hope that the role of the United Nations in the field of
development will be strengthened in response to the
expectation of the countries of the world.
There is an increasingly irresistible trend towards
dialogue and international and regional cooperation.
In
our view, international cooperation should be based on
observance of the principles of respect for independence
and national sovereignty, non-interference in the internal
affairs of other States, mutually beneficial cooperation on
the basis of equality, the settling of disputes through
negotiation and without recourse to force or the threat of
force.
In today’s world of increasing awareness of
national independence, respect for the right of nations
freely to determine their own course of development and
to maintain their national identity is an essential condition
for the maintenance of peace and stability and for the
strengthening of international cooperation.
Blockades, embargoes, sanctions and the imposition
of conditions in international relations are relics of the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
past. They run counter to the aspirations of peoples and to
the common trend and are contrary to international law.
In this connection, we wish to express our deep
sympathy with the Cuban people in respect of their current
difficulties. We demand an end to the economic,
commercial and financial embargo imposed on Cuba. We
demand also prompt and effective implementation of the
relevant resolutions of the General Assembly. We welcome
the joint communiqué recently signed by the United States
of America and Cuba on the question of Cuban emigrés.
We hope that the two countries will continue their dialogue
with a view to settling other outstanding differences
between them.
At a time of opportunities and challenges, of hope and
fear, the United Nations bears, more than ever, a heavy
responsibility in regard to the maintenance of international
peace and security. Never before has the United Nations
been directly engaged in dealing with so many hotbeds of
tension throughout the world. Despite the Organization’s
efforts, satisfactory solutions to the conflicts in Bosnia,
Somalia and Rwanda have yet to be found.
The tendency to resort more and more to measures of
enforcement and intervention to try to resolve intra-State
conflicts has prompted legitimate concern among many
countries. We share the view that United Nations
peace-keeping operations
should strictly observe the
principles of respect for national sovereignty and territorial
integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of other
States. We believe that the best way to secure the peaceful
settlement of conflicts is to persevere with dialogue.
Lessons should be learnt from the successes and the failures
of peace-keeping operations in recent times. This would
help the United Nations the better to discharge the tasks
that the Member States as a whole have entrusted to it.
The complex world situation and the increasingly
important role of the United Nations urgently require
restructuring of the Organization.
In view of the growing
democratization of international relations, we join those
delegations that are demanding reform to democratize the
United Nations system. This would include an increase in
the membership of the Security Council to make it more
representative, more in keeping with the changes that have
taken place in the world and more transparent
in its
decision-making processes. Revitalization of the work of
the General Assembly as the body most representative of
the interests of Member States is also necessary.
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
Through the convening of international conferences,
such as the recent International Conference on Population
and Development,
the coming World Conference on
Women and the World Summit for Social Development,
the United Nations has
clearly demonstrated its
commitment to the promotion of international cooperation
in the resolution of global social issues of vital interest to
all nations.
to celebrate
I should like to mention in this important forum a
particularly significant coincidence of history. As the
United Nations prepares
fiftieth
anniversary, the Vietnamese people are looking forward
enthusiastically to commemorating the fiftieth anniversary
of President Ho Chi Minh’s solemn declaration to the
entire world of the birth of an independent, free and
democratic Viet Nam. Only now, half a century after its
birth, is Viet Nam able to really concentrate its efforts on
socio-economic development.
its
itself
task of
the urgent
Located in the most dynamic development zone in
the world, Viet Nam is fully aware of the danger
constituted by the widening gap between its level of
development and that of other countries of the region. It
has therefore set
rapidly
overcoming its state of poverty and underdevelopment in
order to join the stream of progress and development in
the region and in the world. Viet Nam has embarked
upon the path of reform and renewal in every sphere of
its society’s life. The core of this reform and renewal is
the development of a multi-sector economy operating
through a market mechanism and employing State
regulation at the macro-economic level with a view to
maintaining the country’s socio-economic stability, along
with the step-by-step establishment of a state of law of
the people, by the people and for the people.
The reform and renewal process has achieved
important initial results. The average annual growth rate
of our gross national product for the three years from
1991 to 1993 was 7.3 per cent; for the first six months of
this year, the rate rose to 8 per cent. Our international
economic cooperation and trade relations and foreign
investment
in our country have grown rapidly. Our
people’s living conditions have been improved. Further
progress has been made in the cultural, social, educational
and health-care areas, especially regarding the care of
children.
Along with economic reforms, Viet Nam has
the reform and renewal of its
gradually carried out
political system in order to build a society in which the
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
rights of each and every one will be increasingly ensured.
We continue to move forward in our efforts to establish a
state of law, perfect the legal system and undertake national
administrative reform. After the promulgation of the new
Constitution in 1992, our National Assembly adopted a
number of important laws, including the civil law, the
labour law, the land law, and the law on the promotion of
domestic investment.
With these achievements, Viet Nam is now shifting
towards a new stage in its development - that of the
industrialization and modernization of the country. This
long and arduous process has as its final objective a
prosperous people, a strong nation and an equitable and
civilized society.
To create a favourable international environment for
national construction and development, Viet Nam has been
pursuing a foreign policy of openness, diversification, and
multilateralization of its relations, while carrying out our
desire to become the friend of all countries in the interest
of peace, independence and development. We are pleased
to note that our policy is developing in complete harmony
with the general trend throughout the world, and especially
in South-East Asia - that is, the trend towards pursuing
peace and cooperation in the interest of development, after
decades of war and confrontation. In its implementation of
this foreign policy, Viet Nam gives first priority to
enhancing the relations of friendship and cooperation with
neighbouring countries in the region, and to creating peace,
stability, cooperation and development in South-East Asia.
Our bilateral relations with each of the members of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and
with the Association itself, are experiencing rapid and
satisfactory growth, primarily in the economic and
commercial areas, particularly since Viet Nam became an
ASEAN observer in 1992. At the ministerial Conference
of ASEAN held in Bangkok last July, the ASEAN Foreign
Ministers
full
membership in this Association. With the increased support
of the ASEAN countries, Viet Nam is actively preparing to
take all the necessary steps to join this Association as a full
member. Viet Nam’s accession to ASEAN is in conformity
with the general trend towards responding to the interests
of the countries of the region and reinforcing regional
cooperation, especially in the economic and commercial
areas, and at the same time facilitates the expansion of our
relations with other countries and international organizations.
supported Viet Nam’s
unanimously
In keeping with the new regional context, all 10
countries of South-East Asia recently participated, for the
foreign ministers of
first
in the Conference of
time,
8
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
ASEAN; an ASEAN Regional Forum, at which regional
security was discussed, was also held for the first time on
25 July last
this demonstrates the
growing cooperation in South-East Asia, as well as the
robust movement towards the attainment of the common
goals of the region: peace, stability and security.
in Bangkok. All
to ensure
the peace,
In order
through bilateral
stability and
development of each country and of the region as a
whole, Viet Nam is of the view that the countries of the
region should consolidate existing points of agreement,
narrow differences and settle disputes, including those
regarding the Eastern Sea,
and
multilateral negotiations among those parties directly
concerned, without resorting to the use or threat of force.
While waiting and working for a fundamental and durable
solution, all the parties concerned should restrain from
any act that might further complicate the situation, and at
the same time strictly respect each country’s right of
sovereignty on the continental shelf and in the exclusive
economic zones, in keeping with international law and
particularly with the 1982 United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea.
With regard to the Kingdom of Cambodia, Viet Nam
to see its neighbour become an
ardently wishes
independent, peaceful, neutral, non-aligned country,
maintaining friendly relations with all countries. It is Viet
Nam’s policy to strengthen good-neighbourly relations
with the Kingdom of Cambodia and to respect
the
Cambodian people’s right
to self-determination. We
consider that all signatories to the Paris Agreement on
Cambodia are bound to scrupulously observe that
Agreement, to refrain from interfering in that country’s
internal affairs and to actively contribute to the process of
national reconciliation and the restoration of peace and
stability in Cambodia.
In the interest of maintaining and strengthening the
traditional
friendly relations between Viet Nam and
Cambodia and of protecting the legitimate rights of the
residents who have been,
Vietnamese
for many
generations,
living in Cambodia, we wish to draw
attention to the Immigration Law promulgated by the
National Assembly of Cambodia on 26 August 1994.
Certain articles of that Law have given rise to some
concern. His Royal Highness King Norodom Sihanouk
and the Royal Government of Cambodia share the
legitimate concern of the Government of Viet Nam and
have undertaken to avoid any regrettable consequences
and agreed to begin negotiations with Vietnam soon to
settle this problem.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The lifting by the United States of the embargo
imposed upon Viet Nam has opened up new prospects for
building and broadening multi-faceted cooperation between
our two countries in the interests of the two peoples and in
the service of peace, stability, cooperation and development
in the region and throughout the world.
the
the
towards
commemoration of
We firmly believe that multilateral relations, especially
within the framework of the United Nations, are playing an
increasingly important role in international life. As we
move
fiftieth
anniversary of the founding of our Organization, we shall
be reviewing all the activities of the past 50 years, drawing
the necessary lessons
to enhance the capacity and
effectiveness of the United Nations system and to pursue
tasks worthy of the confidence and expectations of the
peoples of the world. For its modest part, Viet Nam will
unceasingly strive to make positive contributions to the
common cause of
for peace,
development and social progress throughout the world.
the United Nations
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on the Secretary of the General People’s Committee for
Foreign Liaison and International Cooperation of the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, His Excellency Mr. Omar Mustafa
Muntasser.
(Libyan Arab
Mr. Muntasser
Jamahiriya)
(interpretation from Arabic): On behalf of my country and
in my own behalf, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate
you, Mr. President, on your election to the Presidency of
the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. The fact
that you belong to our beloved continent, coming as you do
from a country bound with my own by bonds of
brotherhood and relations of friendship and cooperation is
a source of added pride to us in your assumption of this
high office. My delegation is confident that, familiar as
you are with the work of the United Nations, and with your
extensive experience in the field of international relations,
you will be able to steer this session to a successful
conclusion.
I should also like to seize this opportunity to
express my delegation’s appreciation of your predecessor,
His Excellency Ambassador Insanally, for the wisdom he
displayed, the efforts he made and the initiatives he took to
reform the United Nations and enhance its role. Further, I
wish to express our gratitude to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
the Secretary-General, for his tireless efforts to strengthen
our Organization so as to enable it to face the numerous
crises that beset the international community.
The
situation witnessed many
developments during the forty-eighth session. The will of
international
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
the people of South Africa has triumphed after a long
struggle and great sacrifices.
It is indeed heartening to
see in our midst today the delegation of South Africa,
representing a united, democratic and non-racial country.
Brotherly Yemen has survived its transient crisis and
remains one united country, whose citizens are working
with more determination and greater expectations, to build
the modern State of Yemen.
Along with these
developments, tangible progress has been recorded in the
implementation of the Peace Accord in Mozambique.
Moreover, the artificial tension in the Korean peninsula is
now subsiding. We are hopeful
the difficulties
relating to the reunification of the Korean peninsula will
be overcome through dialogue to be entered into on equal
footing.
that
Such developments are a source of satisfaction and
we greatly welcome them. However, they do not mask
the gloomy points of the wider picture of the international
situation. Many disputes still await a solution. The
outbursts of nationalist passions, ethnic chauvinism and
power struggles in the absence of any power among the
people, have led to the outbreak of new regional conflicts.
Although some of these conflicts are getting closer to a
solution, as is the case in Liberia, where the conflict is
heading towards a permanent solution, the international
community must still support national
reconciliation
efforts in Afghanistan, overcome the setbacks to the peace
efforts being undertaken in the Balkans, consolidate the
role of the United Nations in establishing peace in that
region and guarantee the legitimate rights of the parties to
the dispute there.
The international community is also called upon to
renew its efforts aimed at reaching a satisfactory solution
to the problem of Cyprus. It must encourage peace talks
on Angola and support work towards a negotiated
solution in sisterly Somalia, in addition to demonstrating
increased solidarity to alleviate the tragedy of
the
Rwandan people. It must also make more efforts to solve
the problem of Kashmir on the basis of bilateral
agreements and the relevant United Nations resolutions in
particular.
In the interest of stability in the Persian Gulf region,
my country stresses the importance of the unity and
territorial integrity of Iraq, and calls for an end to all
interference in its internal affairs. We also consider that
the sanctions imposed on Iraq, which cause suffering to
the Iraqi people, should be lifted, since the reasons for
these sanctions are no longer valid. Their continuation
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
can only mean a grave injustice aimed at the destruction of
the Iraqi people and the extermination of large groups of its
population.
are
and
systematically
rights
This proves that
The United Nations has adopted many resolutions on
the Question of Palestine, all of which acknowledge the
right of the Palestinian people to return to their homeland
and to exercise the right of self-determination. Although
the United Nations has
repeatedly reaffirmed these
resolutions for more than 40 years, the Palestinian question
the Palestinian people remain
still awaits a solution,
displaced
their
and
continuously violated.
the so-called
ongoing peace process lacks the elements necessary for any
comprehensive settlement.
the
resolution of the Palestinian question and the establishment
of comprehensive peace in the Middle East cannot be
realized merely by returning Gaza back to its status as a
municipality and adding Jericho to it, but must rather come
about through the liberation of all occupied Arab territories
including the Syrian Golan and the acceptance of a
democratic solution that would meet all the rights of the
Palestinian people, including their right to return to their
homeland and establish their own independent State.
This also shows that
A few months ago, we celebrated the historic victory
of the people of South Africa. It is no coincidence that the
struggle of the Palestinian people is in many ways similar
to that of the people of South Africa, and that many of the
acts of heroism of both peoples echo each other. The
solution that made it possible to build a united, democratic
and non-racial state in South Africa offers a model for
resolving
the
establishment in Palestine of a democratic non-racial State
with Al Quds as its capital, where Arabs and Jews can live
together. This is the proper solution, without which it
would be impossible to reach a just and lasting peace that
serves the interests of both Jews and the Palestinian Arabs.
Palestine
question
through
the
of
Mr. Sinunguruza (Burundi), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
The numerous changes witnessed by the world after
the cold war have created opportunities to build a more
stable and secure world. However,
the hopes of the
peoples of the world for greater and better understanding
and for wider cooperation have started to wane. The
experience of the past few years has caused deep concern
regarding some developments. Some States have begun to
try to impose their control and to expand their hegemony,
using their power and influence in utilizing international
their plans, and using them,
organs
to implement
10
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
particularly the Security Council, as a tool to punish those
countries which abide by their principles and adopt
independent policies and positions. This was the very
context of the dispute between my country and France,
Britain and the United States of America in what has
become known as the Lockerbie crisis. This problem was
raised, pushed arbitrarily through the Security Council,
and dealt with under Chapter VII of the Charter, which is
not applicable in this case since Libya has not threatened
anybody and has never acted in a manner that jeopardized
international peace and security. The whole issue is
merely the suspicion that two Libyans may be connected
to the Pan Am flight 103 incident.
Aware as it has been all along of the motivation
behind this entire issue, my country has shown sincere
readiness to cooperate in uncovering the truth and
circumstances of that
incident. We have taken the
necessary judicial measures consistent with the Charter of
the United Nations and international law, with only one
proviso, that they do not involve any violation of Libya’s
sovereign rights.
Although the Security Council was pushed into the
adoption of resolution 731 (1992), Libya did declare its
readiness effectively to cooperate in the implementation
of that resolution.
In that respect Libya took practical
steps
that were widely welcomed by numerous
organizations, including the League of Arab States, the
Organization of African Unity, the Organization of the
Islamic Conference, and the Non-Aligned Movement. It
was our hope that the three States concerned would take
into consideration and respond positively to the
that
requests of Libyan authorities
cooperation in
completing the investigation. However, the three States
concerned responded in an entirely different way. Instead
of accepting the initiatives calling for dialogue and
negotiation, and showing flexibility in dealing with the
other aspects of the crisis, by reconsidering Security
Council resolution 748 (1992) with a view to lifting the
sanctions imposed on the Libyan people, instead, they
resorted to the Security Council once again and, using
their influence, managed to persuade it to adopt resolution
883 (1993),
imposed by
resolution 748 (1992).
tightening the
sanctions
for
The argument invoked by the three States concerned
to justify maintaining the sanctions and the threat even to
tighten them further, is that Libya has not complied with
the requirements of Security Council resolution 731
(1992). And when these States are confronted with the
fact that the Jamahiriya has really complied with these
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
up
and
and
requirements, their officials, and particularly British and
American officials, answer with the words "Libya knows
what is required of her". Officials in both countries have
repeatedly used this phrase to such an extent that we are
convinced that the aim behind the raising of the Lockerbie
incident is not to uncover the truth and the circumstances
of the issue but rather to achieve premeditated political
objectives.
Indeed, if the aim had really been to bring
Libya to comply with the requirements of resolution 731
(1992), that aim has been fully realized. Libya has taken
the legal measures necessary to pinpoint responsibility for
the terrorist acts perpetrated against both American and
French planes.
Libya has requested the three States
concerned to cooperate in completing the investigation in
this respect. Libya has even invited neutral bodies to
follow it
humanitarian
organizations to monitor its fairness. My country has
cooperated with the French judge in charge of
the
investigation aimed at determining responsibility for the
explosion aboard French UTA flight 772. Contacts in this
respect still continue. My country has also cooperated with
the Government of the United Kingdom in trying to
uncover
the British
Government of involvement in terrorist acts. To this end,
several meetings were held between the Libyan and British
sides. Today, we are very glad to see that negotiations
have already started between Britain and the political and
military wings of the Irish Republic Army (IRA) and that
an agreement has been signed by the two parties. Now the
leaders of the IRA are being received and welcomed at the
highest level in both London and Washington with a view
to holding negotiations with a view to ending the dispute
and all its side effects.
international
elements
certain
accused
by
itself
Libya has condemned international terrorism in all its
forms and declared its readiness to commit
to
whatever measures are adopted by the international
community to combat this scourge. Libya has also severed
all its relations with all groups and organizations suspected
of being involved in terrorist acts. Libya has emphasized
that it will not allow its territory, citizens or institutions to
be used for such acts whether directly or indirectly. We
have declared our readiness to punish severely whoever is
proved to be involved in any terrorist acts. Libya has also
declared that there are no terrorist training camps on its
soil.
It has repeated its invitation to the Security Council,
or any international body mandated by the Council, to
verify this. All these practical measures confirm the extent
of my country’s
the
phenomenon of international terrorism. This seriousness
has been reflected in the call by the Jamahiriya for the
convening of a special session of the General Assembly to
in stamping out
seriousness
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
be devoted to the study of the causes and dimensions of
this problem and its support of the proposal to convene an
international conference to define terrorism, including
State terrorism, and the means to eradicate it in all its
forms.
It is State terrorism with which Libya is now
being threatened at
the hands of a State which is a
permanent member of the Security Council. That State
has abducted Libyan prisoners of war from Chad and is
now training them and equipping them to undermine the
security and stability of Libya. This is the same terrorism
to which Libya fell victim in 1973 when Israeli planes
intentionally shot down a Libyan civilian airliner, killing
all 108 passengers aboard;
and also when the United
States of America in 1986 bombed Libyan cities while
people were asleep in their beds and caused great loss of
life and damage to property. Later it was revealed that
the acts used by that State as a pretext for its aggression
were unfounded.
The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has spared no effort in
trying to resolve the dispute, including trying the two
suspects in the Pan Am flight 103 incident, although the
matter has been predetermined by the 1971 Montreal
Convention which gives Libya the right to try the two
suspects itself. However, the refusal by Britain and the
United States of America to abide by this Convention, to
which they are both parties, has prompted Libya to seek
other ways of holding the trial. Thus, Libya offered to
resort to the International Court of Justice or to surrender
the two suspects to the United Nations office in Libya for
investigation. Libya has also proposed that the Secretary-
General of the United Nations should establish a fact-
finding legal commission to verify the seriousness of the
accusations,
including carrying out a comprehensive
investigation. Competent Libyan authorities referred the
matter to the basic popular congresses which constitute
our legislative authority and they in turn made the
decision that they had no objection to letting the two
suspects stand trial before a fair tribunal to be agreed
upon. Proceeding from this, my country declared its
readiness to enter
into negotiations with the States
concerned under the supervision of the Secretary-General
of the United Nations on the trial to be held in a place
agreed to by all parties concerned where full guarantees
would be available to establish the truth, indeed the very
aim of Security Council resolution 731 (1992).
Recently, new information on the American aircraft
incident has been uncovered, including a book entitled
Tracking the Octopus by Coleman and Donald and the
statements by the manager of a Swiss electronics
company. These new revelations obliterate the central
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
element on which the accusations against the two Libyan
citizens was based. Despite all this, Libya maintained its
cooperation in trying to identify all
the circumstances
surrounding the incident. On this basis, Libya accepted the
proposal of the Council of the League of Arab States
contained in its resolution 5373 of 27 March 1994. That
proposal called for trying the two suspects by Scottish
judges under Scottish law at the seat of the International
Court of Justice. Even after new information was revealed
by the Palestinian citizen, Yousef Shaaban, before a
Lebanese Court, Libya did not hesitate to go ahead with the
trial and did not waver in its declared readiness to accept
any verdict emanating from such a trial.
This, once again, underlines the fact that the Libyan
Jamahiriya has no objection to the trial of the two suspects.
All that Libya wants is for the trial to be fair and just, free
from any emotional or media influences, and with the
availability of all guarantees consistent with the norms of
legality and international law, which Libya has observed
and applied. The International Court of Justice (ICJ) can
testify to this, since that Court has considered, over the past
10 years, three cases to which Libya was a party. The ICJ
decided the case relating to the continental shelf between
Libya and Tunisia, and both parties fully implemented the
ruling of the Court. The same happened in the case of the
continental shelf between Libya and Malta; once again the
two parties implemented the ruling of the International
Court of Justice. This year, the Court decided the territorial
dispute between the Jamahiriya and Chad. Though the
ruling rejected Libya’s demands,
the Jamahiriya did
implement it in a constructive spirit that was welcomed and
appreciated by both the Security Council and the Secretary-
General.
the extent of my country’s
commitment
legality,
something that great powers pay lip service to but never
apply. These States refuse even to appear before the ICJ,
since they believe in the legality of force and not the force
of legality.
to and respect of
international
This
shows
to the three States to accept
Most international and regional organizations have
renewed their appeal
the
initiatives calling for dialogue and negotiation, with a view
to reaching a peaceful settlement to the crises. Those
organizations, including the 11th Ministerial Conference of
the States Members of the Non-Aligned Movement and the
60th Session of
the
Organization
of African Unity, welcomed Libya’s
acceptance of the Arab League’s proposal. This august
Assembly, which includes all States represented in those
organizations, is now called upon to show its appreciation
of Libya’s position, Libya’s steps and initiatives and the
the Council of Ministers of
12
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
to depict
the sanctions as being against
It should call on the
proposals that we have accepted.
three States concerned to show flexibility and enter into
dialogue with the Jamahiriya with the aim of reaching a
peaceful settlement to this problem. This Assembly is
also called upon to express its support of these demands,
so that the Security Council will reconsider its resolutions
on the crisis and lift the unjust sanctions. It is absurd and
ignorant
the
Libyan Government, because in Libya there is no
Government as such. The power is in the hands of the
people, who now suffer
these
sanctions - for example, the crash of a Libyan civilian
aircraft in 1992, leading to the death of all 157 civilians
aboard, as a result of
the ban on spare parts.
Furthermore, 1,622 people have been killed in car
accidents, and 350 people, most of whom were children,
old men and women died as a result of delays in moving
them abroad for medical treatment. These sanctions have
also caused economic damage estimated at $4.5 billion.
These damages are detailed in official document
S/1994/921.
the consequences of
Before the Second World War, and following the
end of that war, the Libyan people suffered and continue
to suffer all sorts of pressure, troubles and pains. We
have been subjected to colonialism in its worst form: a
Fascism that wreaked havoc in our country, killing,
displacing and exiling countless numbers of our citizens.
Against our will, we had to be a theatre of war between
the colonial powers, a war that was fought on our soil
and for which we were the fuel. That war’s mines are
still buried in our soil, in our farms and under our homes.
From time to time, these mines explode and kill innocent
people.
In previous sessions of this Assembly, my
country has repeatedly called on the States concerned to
cooperate with us in removing these mines. Today,
7 October, coincides with the commemoration of the
Libyan people of the 25th anniversary of the evacuation
of
the last Fascists who had settled in Libya and
oppressed its people. Once again I repeat my call and
urge the States concerned to respond positively to the
resolutions of the General Assembly, instructing them to
provide the necessary information on mines, give
technical
and pay
compensation for the losses they have caused. This may
also be a good opportunity to remind the imperialist states
that occupied our lands for over 40 years that we have
not forgotten the ruin and destruction they left behind.
in removing them,
assistance
I should also like to announce that my country,
through this Assembly and other forums, will seek to
compel colonialist states to pay fair compensation for the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
resources they have looted and the wealth and money they
have plundered from our country. The peoples of the world
are called upon to adopt a historic resolution, through this
Organization, condemning colonialism and forcing former
colonial powers to compensate their former colonies, in
order to prevent
the re-emergence of colonialism and
prevent the powerful from once more blackmailing and
oppressing the weak.
The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya welcomes efforts aimed
at enhancing security and cooperation in the Mediterranean
region. We voice our satisfaction with the initiatives whose
objective is to enhance economic, social, cultural and
environmental cooperation in the region. Libya calls for
taking all measures necessary to remove all causes of
tension in the area, especially through the withdrawal of
foreign military fleets whose continued presence jeopardizes
peace and security in the Mediterranean, which in turn are
closely linked to international peace and security. The
Arab Maghreb Union has achieved tangible progress on the
road towards economic integration among its countries and
consolidation of
towards
the underpinnings of
development in these countries.
It has also opened new
channels of cooperation with organizations in the areas to
which we belong both geographically and culturally. Libya
welcomes those steps and expresses the hope that
the
Maghreb Union will succeed in playing a similar role with
its counterpart organizations on the other side of the
Mediterranean, beginning with the intensification of
contacts and meetings, as well as active dialogue with the
institutions concerned, on a basis of equality and common
interests in a manner capable of responding to the concept
of joint development and the collective responsibility for
maintaining peace and strengthening cooperation on the
shores of the Mediterranean.
the
In view of the stability of the political system in the
Jamahiriya and its importance as an economic market, it
would be impossible to marginalize or ignore its role in any
cooperation between the shores of the Mediterranean if
such cooperation is achieve its objectives, at the forefront
of which is serving the peoples of the region and achieving
their prosperity.
Some progress has been registered recently in the field
of disarmament. This is a welcome development. Libya
looks forward to more international cooperation with a view
to destroying nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as
well as other weapons of mass destruction. We look
forward to the banning of the development, stockpiling and
use of all such weapons. My country also hopes that more
efforts will be made to conclude a treaty on making Africa
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
a nuclear-weapon-free zone and the activation of the
initiative aimed at making the Middle East region free
from weapons of mass destruction. The Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya is a party to the nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty. We hope that the preparatory committee for the
1995 review conference will, in its next session, reach an
understanding that takes into consideration the concerns
of all parties to the Treaty, especially as regards its
extension. My country still has some difficulty in
accepting an indefinite extension of the Treaty, because
such an extension does not take into account several of
including the unavailability of credible
our concerns,
security guarantees
for non-nuclear-weapon states.
Furthermore, the area in which we live suffers from a
security imbalance, resulting from Israel’s acquisition of
nuclear weapons
and
the
non-proliferation regime.
It has not acceded to the
Treaty, nor has it signed a safeguard agreement with the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). That is
why my country would like to emphasize that
is
essential
the time of
considering the extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty
in 1995.
to address these concerns at
its
non-adherence
to
it
Respect for and protection of human rights is one of
the fundamental underpinnings of Libyan policy. This
has been demonstrated in various forms which included
the setting up of the International Committee for the
Qaddafi Human Rights Prize and the adoption of the
green document on human rights and basic human
freedoms. Libya is determined to support and contribute
to all
international efforts aimed at guaranteeing the
effective enjoyment of human rights. We thus welcome
the conclusions of
the Vienna Conference, which
constitute a step on the road to the support and
enhancement of human rights.
That human rights
Conference rejected the manipulation of human rights and
their use as a tool of political pressure. This universally
adopted principle must be respected, especially by States
that selectively raise problems related to human rights.
The international community must stand up to any
attempt by any State or group of States to exploit human
rights as a means of interfering in the internal affairs of
other States.
It must also oppose any attempt by any
State or group of States to distort the principles and
values of other peoples or to promote the principles and
values of such States or groups of States as the only
proper values that should be embraced by all peoples.
The international community’s hopes for a secure
and stable world cannot be realized without addressing
economic problems, particularly in the developing
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
countries, where economies continue to face difficulties as
a result of the aggravation of the problem of external debts,
the application of protectionist trade policies, the imposition
of harsh conditions for their importation of advanced
technology, the deteriorating prices of raw materials and the
continued attempts to impose new taxes, such as the carbon
tax, which could hurt not only the economies of the oil-
exporting States but also those of oil-importing countries.
We believe it
is impossible to solve these problems
effectively unless
the international community deals
seriously with and puts an end to the erroneous practices
that continue to characterize international economic
Such practices include coercive economic
relations.
measures,
such as
the freezing of assets and the
confiscation by certain developing countries of the property
of a number of developing countries, including my own.
Such measures constitute an impediment to growth, aside
from the fact that they run counter to the Charter of the
United Nations, norms of
law and the
resolutions of the General Assembly.
international
The General Assembly is the natural place for
Member States to exercise their rights and express their
views on the initiatives aimed at reforming the United
Nations. In the course of the last session, we followed with
keen interest everything that was achieved in this regard.
My country expresses its satisfaction at the progress made
towards revitalizing the activities of the General Assembly
and the establishment of an effective working relationship
between the Assembly and the Security Council. We hope
future efforts will result in an increase in the membership
of the Security Council based on equitable geographical
distribution.
this process must be
accompanied by measures to remove obstacles to the proper
functioning of the Council, such as the privilege of veto
power, and improvements in its working methods so that it
can function in accordance with the principles of the
Charter and, eschewing double standards, deal consistently
with all issues.
To our mind,
If we examine past Security Council practices we shall
find that while the Council showed interest in trying to
secure commitment to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
it has turned and continues to turn a blind eye to Israel,
which has not acceded to the Treaty and actually possesses
200 nuclear warheads. Furthermore, the Security Council
has insisted on invoking Chapter VII of the Charter in cases
to which it is not applicable, while at the same time failing
to invoke Chapter VII in the case of Israel, despite its
defiance of United Nations resolutions and its continued
occupation of the territories of States Members of the
United Nations. The Council kept silent on the Israeli
14
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
refusal to withdraw from southern Lebanon and on the
massacres perpetrated against the Palestinians, such as the
one in Hebron’s Al-Haram Al-Ibrahimi Al-Sharif - the
Mosque of Abraham - where, in an act of terrorism, a
fanatical Zionist settler, trained in an American camp,
killed over 50 Palestinians while they were praying.
My country believes that, in the context of reforming
the Security Council, the Council must be neutral and
give none of its members a chance to dominate it or steer
it towards serving its own interests, as has been the case
in so many instances,
the latest of which was the
Council’s granting of permission to one of its permanent
members to invade an independent State Member of the
United Nations, the Republic of Haiti.
It has been said
that the objective of that action was to restore democracy
and protect human rights.
If this were true, why was
there no such action in the past, when the people of that
country were suffering under the yoke of a repressive
regime, subjected to the most vicious violations of their
human rights? What happened was a flagrant violation of
the Charter, an act of aggression against the inviolability
of an independent country.
It also establishes the
dangerous precedent of giving permission to a State,
unhappy about waves of immigrants reaching its shores,
to occupy the land where the immigration originates.
Libya cannot afford to overlook this invasion or
keep silent about it, first, as a matter of principle and,
secondly, because Haiti has a special place in our history.
Forty-five years ago Haiti played a decisive role in a
matter of interest
Its deciding vote won the
adoption of the General Assembly resolution on Libya’s
independence.
to us.
At this time next year, the celebration of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations will begin. While
developments
in recent years have revealed some
weaknesses in some of
the United Nations organs’
handling of dispute settlement and crisis management, this
cannot be attributed to the Charter but, rather, to the
tendency by certain Powers, insisting that their approach
alone should be adopted, to impose their hegemony on the
handling of international matters.
This question should be the focus of attention in the
next session because it will mark the demise of the old
order and the building of the new order that will replace
it. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya intends to participate
with others in building this new order to ensure that it
will be an order based on justice and equality that
respects peoples’ political and economic options, secures
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
full commitment to international law and full respect for the
Charter of the United Nations and stands up to those who
would push the United Nations towards the fate of the
League of Nations. The new order we need is one that
enhances and protects human rights and eradicates poverty,
suffering, division, conflicts, disputes and wars. It must be
an order in which no State seeks to impose its hegemony
and abuse its influence, an order
that supports the
settlement of disputes among States by peaceful means, not
by arbitrary and coercive means. We need a new order
under whose umbrella all peoples can look optimistically to
a future where security, peace and stability prevail.
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Solomon Islands, His Excellency the Honourable
Francis Joseph Saemala.
Mr. Saemala (Solomon Islands): I wish, first of all,
to warmly congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election as
President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session,
a responsibility he will discharge effectively with the
proven diplomatic skills with which he has served his
country and his region so well. I take this opportunity also
to applaud the good work and leadership of his predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, who presided over
the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
It
is appropriate that on the eve of
the fiftieth
anniversary of this Organization we enter a new era in
international relations, an era untainted by the cold-war
politics that held peace and positive change hostage for too
long. Opportunities now abound for change and lasting
peace. This new era demands that all Member States take
a global view of how the Organization can best meet the
objectives set out in the Charter.
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
order to build a peaceful and safe world for future
generations, our resolve to reduce nuclear and other
weapons of mass destruction must lie within the hearts of
our leaders and policy makers throughout the world. We
must therefore seize this opportunity and work together to
build a better world.
In this regard, Solomon Islands welcomes the
various peace initiatives that continue to bring hope to the
world community.
The noble efforts of President
Mandela to chart a new direction for South Africa must
be commended. In his first address as the first President
of the new democratic South Africa, President Mandela
acknowledged the efforts of the international community
in this way:
"The universal struggle against apartheid and its
final dismantlement was not an act of charity arising
out of pity for the majority of South African people
but an affirmation of our common humanity."
Progress towards a lasting peace in the Middle East
has renewed the hope of the international community for
stability in that region. The parties involved in these
negotiations deserve our sincere acclaim and praise and
our continuing support. Replacing guns with meaningful
handshakes often takes leaders beyond their physical
nature and leads
to their spiritual
mindsets - a dimension that is often ignored but which is
an essential ingredient in a recipe for conflict resolution.
them to resort
The cease-fire in Northern Ireland has changed
people’s perception of the impossibility of the simple
reality of living without guns and bullets. These are
telling achievements for our times, and their roots are
embedded in the human spirit of love and kindness.
President Bill Clinton and President Boris Yeltsin
demonstrated this new hope for peace at the opening of the
general debate, when both addressed the General Assembly
on the same day instead of on consecutive days, as was the
In a spirit of cooperation, these two world
old practice.
leaders described their intent
to reduce their nation’s
stockpiles of nuclear
and other weapons of mass
destruction. But disarmament must start from the heart.
And I hope that this is the case with the step these two
Presidents have taken towards the betterment of all
humankind.
Despite United Nations interventions to restore
intra-State and international peace and security, the world
is still riddled with trouble spots and endangered by
human-induced threats such as the potential impact of
climate change and sea-level rise. We witness with
horror the human suffering in Rwanda, Somalia, Angola,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Haiti. Solomon Islands
calls on the parties concerned to lay down their arms and
resort to non-violent means of negotiating peace. True
and real peace has to spring from within the warring
parties, replacing animosity.
Today, we would recall that peace and hatred come
from within people - the mirror of a nation, the image of a
region and the living treasure of the global community. In
Close to home in the Solomon Islands is the five-
year-old crisis on Bougainville, a province of Papua New
Guinea. It spilled over into Solomon Islands and caused
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
the
and
the
cease-fire
a rift between the two countries. Nevertheless, through a
process of mutual dialogue between the National
Government of Papua New Guinea and the Bougainville
Revolutionary Army, several important agreements have
been signed. These include the Honiara commitments to
peace,
historic
peace-keeping agreement on Bougainville. The role of the
Solomon lslands Government
in this conflict has been
conciliatory, facilitating peace negotiations amongst the
parties
the
Bougainville Peace Conference, expected to be convened on
10 October. This reflects our commitment to restoring
peace and normalcy on Bougainville.
Solomon Islands
concerned.
agreement
supports
on Women will
for Social Development
irrespective of race, creed, political affiliation or sex; the
International Conference on Population and Development
saw the need to control the soaring world population,
which now stands at 5.7 billion; and next year the World
and the World
Summit
Conference
address
poverty,
unemployment, social integration and the empowerment
of women to take their rightful place in society. These
are efforts of Member States committed to the noble
cause of securing a peaceful, safe and sustainable world
to live in. To achieve these noble goals, an effective
global
importance.
Technology has made the world’s smaller economies
become more interdependent.
partnership
paramount
of
is
Solomon Islands pledges its support and commitment
to the ideals of the United Nations. We believe it to be the
only world body capable of maintaining world peace and
security.
Solomon Islands shares the views of New
Zealand’s Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign
Affairs and Trade, the Right Honourable Don McKinnon,
the general debate provided six
whose statement at
important management
issues that should be addressed
while conducting United Nations peace-keeping operations.
There is no doubt in my mind that all of us want an
effective United Nations - an Organization that meets the
objectives it sets out to achieve, an Organization whose
Charter is valid because its actions are reliable.
Solomon Islands welcomes the current
initiatives
undertaken by the Secretary-General
in reforming the
Organization and supports proposals made by other
Member States for further reforms. These reforms, in our
view, must also reflect the needs of small island developing
States such as my own, particularly the need to remove "the
floor" to enable Member States to meet their financial
obligations.
to pay their assessed annual
contributions but do not have the capacity to do so; hence
a relative and fair formula should be worked out.
Some want
In his report (A/49/1) on the work of the Organization,
the Secretary-General has identified peace, the economy,
the environment,
justice and democracy as the five
interlocking pillars of development. These will provide the
foundations for the kind of development that will ensure
human progress.
the cold war;
"An Agenda for Peace" paved the way forward from
the dark ages of
the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development was a
reawakening initiative to save planet Earth; the Second
World Conference on Human Rights sought to establish
the world
universal
rights for all peoples throughout
16
Agenda 21,
the outcome of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, made a
special case for small island developing States because of
their peculiar vulnerabilities. The response to this call
was the convening of the Global Conference on the
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States in Barbados in April this year. The passage from
Rio to Barbados, at least for small island developing
States, was a Programme of Action outlining national,
regional and international actions. Our collective support
is needed to implement
If we agree that
development takes many forms and requires different
responses, then our task will be made easier if we act
together. Solomon Islands fully supports the Barbados
Programme of Action and calls on the members of the
international community to honour their commitments as
spelled out in Agenda 21. The successful implementation
of
the Programme of Action will depend on these
commitments.
this.
The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
in his "Agenda for Peace" report to the Security Council,
stressed that cooperation with regional arrangements and
organizations could be of great benefit to Member States
if their activities were consistent with the purposes and
principles of the Charter and governed by the provisions
of Chapter VIII. Some of those bodies have already
gained observer status at the United Nations. This shows
the useful role these arrangements and organizations can
play in international affairs. Therefore, the strengthening
of
regional arrangements and organizations that are
working closely with the United Nations is a critical
issue.
In this regard, Solomon Islands strongly supports the
decision by the South Pacific Forum to seek United
Nations observer status at the forty-ninth session of the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
General Assembly. We acknowledge with gratitude the
role of Australia, the current Chairman of the South Pacific
Forum, in guiding this initiative through the United Nations
system on the Forum’s behalf. We thank Member States
that have expressed support for this call and invite others to
do likewise.
As a member of the South Pacific Forum and the
Melanesian Spearhead Group, Solomon Islands endorses the
Forum Communiqué issued following the meeting of the
twenty-fifth South Pacific Forum held in Brisbane,
Australia, this year. We are a party to the Joint Declaration
on Economic and Trade Cooperation signed in Solomon
Islands this year between Papua New Guinea, Vanuatu and
Solomon Islands calls upon the
Solomon Islands.
international
regional
arrangements and organizations from which our strength for
collective action is derived and which are responsible for
our flow of communication.
community
support
our
to
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
International Conference on Population and Development
and look forward to the World Conference on Women, to
be held in Beijing in 1995.
The World Summit for Social Development also has
profound implications for capacity-building, institutional
strengthening and the transfer of technologies and their
appropriate use. Human-centred activities,
including
tourism development and skills training, are important for
the development of human resources. We endorse the
1994 Human Development Report of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) for its emphasis on
human-centred development, an approach that has positive
ripple effects in solving other social problems.
and
Drug
trafficking
activities
associated with it worry us in the Pacific, and we are not
alone in this. We need international cooperation to stop
the movement of illegal drugs from one region to another.
criminal
the
Forestry and fisheries resources remain my country’s
main income earners. The Solomon Islands Government is
gravely concerned about the unsustainable utilization and
management of these resources and has taken steps to
ensure sustainable harvesting and conservation measures
and to form a national policy. We are party to Agreements
reached in Brisbane at the meeting of the South Pacific
Forum to cooperate on a wider basis in order to ensure
sustainable development of fisheries and forestry resources
in our region. Because of the fragility of our ecological
system, our biodiversity resources, including forestry and
fisheries and other marine living resources, are threatened.
It
is heartening to note that after 12 years of
negotiations the world will witness the coming into force of
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in
November this year. However, we strongly feel that further
cooperation is still needed from the distant water fishing
nations regarding sustainable harvesting of straddling fish
stocks
including
non-targeted species. We therefore urge distant-water
fishing nations to come to grips with the need to complete,
as soon as practicable, negotiations on a legally binding
agreement on proper conservation and management and
sustainable utilization of high seas fisheries resources.
and highly migratory fish stocks,
Education is a priority sector in my country.
It is a
key to the effective management of my country’s natural
resources as well as a means of achieving the advancement
of women to take their rightful place in society. There is
a direct
link between the education of women and
population control. We welcome the outcome of the Cairo
Solomon Islands supports the South Pacific Forum
position that the non-proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be
extended indefinitely. However, we would like to see
firm commitments from the nuclear-weapon States to
show the world a leadership role in reducing their
stockpiles. We also wish to see a rigid review
mechanism set up to be a safeguard instrument as an
integral part of the indefinite extension agreement.
It
is encouraging to hear the United States,
the
Russian Federation and China speak in support of the
Non-Proliferation Treaty and the comprehensive test-ban
treaty.
It is hoped that a level of harmony between the
NPT, the comprehensive test-ban treaty and the cut-off
convention may be maintained to enhance the elimination
of weapons of mass destruction in an integrated manner.
Solomon Islands urges the post-Forum dialogue
partners that have not yet done so to ratify the South
Pacific nuclear-free zone Treaty. Nuclear testing in the
Pacific is not part of our vocabulary.
Consistent with our belief in a nuclear-free world,
waste dumping in the Pacific Ocean is not
to be
encouraged. We strongly oppose those who may violate
this natural
the
transshipment and transboundary movement of plutonium
in the South Pacific region.
also firmly oppose
rule.
We
We need to see some further movement towards a
speedy implementation of the Matignon Accords. In this
regard, we request the Government of France and the
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
territorial authorities to increase their efforts to achieve real
economic and social rebalancing.
Solomon Islands welcomes the move to formulate an
agenda and proposals to promote trade and investment
between the United States and the Pacific Islands, which
will be the subject of a meeting at the East-West Centre in
Hawaii later this year.
Apart from the other vulnerabilities that plague small
island developing States, the potential impact of climate
change and rising sea levels poses a great threat to Pacific
islands. There is overwhelming scientific evidence pointing
to the danger we now face.
In this regard, Solomon Islands supports the Alliance
of Small Island States, which has submitted to next year’s
Conference of the parties to the Convention on Climate
Change an additional protocol aimed at securing a reduction
of the emission of greenhouse gases to the 1990s level by
2005, a protocol to which the industrialized countries would
be obliged to be parties.
We in Solomon Islands firmly believe that
the
Republic of China on Taiwan has much to contribute to the
work of the United Nations and its specialized agencies in
terms of international cooperation and development. This
Republic, with a population more than 58 times that of my
own country and highly technologically advanced, deserves
to be admitted as a Member of the United Nations. The
full participation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the
the United Nations would be an
important work of
affirmation of
the Charter and of democracy and a
manifestation of the human spirit’s pursuit of a better
quality of life for humankind. In my Government’s view,
a move as noble as the admission of the Republic of China
on Taiwan would be not an obstacle to reunification, but a
catalyst in the process. In our view, the Secretary-General
should use his good offices to encourage the establishment
of a committee specifically to facilitate and/or work
progressively towards the re-entry of the Republic of China
to membership of the United Nations.
President Ernesto Samper Pizano of the Republic of
Colombia, speaking from this podium, described Colombia
as
"a country searching for peace because it so loves
life."
(Official Records of the General Assembly,
forty-ninth session, Plenary Meetings, 5th meeting, p.
8)
18
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
We in Solomon Islands, too, love life very much, and our
search is for a better quality of life, which should flow
from the wise and sustainable development of our
resources.
Collectively, however, our search must be for world
peace so that we can live up to our dreams, visions and
God-given potential.
I believe that the answer to the
problem of bringing about world peace lies in our own
hearts, not in the barrels of guns or military might. Here,
in this great world Assembly, let our hearts enkindle a
new torch to shine on the new path to world peace, from
the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and beyond.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Thailand, His
Excellency Squadron Leader Prasong Soonsiri.
(Thailand):
Mr. Soonsiri
On behalf of
the
Government and people of Thailand, I extend warmest
congratulations to Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on
his election as President of the General Assembly at its
forty-ninth session.
I am confident that he will provide
the General Assembly with the leadership to guide the
session to a successful conclusion.
the General Assembly’s President at
I should also like to pay tribute to Ambassador
its
Insanally,
forty-eighth session.
My delegation very much
appreciates his untiring and effective leadership and his
dedication to the work of
Under his
presidency, the General Assembly had an eventful year,
and its role was enhanced in ways which were beneficial
to the Organization.
this body.
the
the
rest of
Thailand joins
international
community in congratulating the Government and people
of South Africa on having established a united,
democratic and non-racial country. They have shown us
that compromise is possible and that even the most
long-standing and bitter of conflicts can be resolved
is due entirely to the
peacefully. This achievement
exceptional vision, courage and pragmatism of
the
country’s
in particular, President Nelson
Mandela and Executive Deputy President F.W. de Klerk.
Tribute must also be paid to the United Nations, and in
particular to the Special Committee against Apartheid, for
its contributions to the positive changes in South Africa.
leaders
-
There is another bright spot giving all of us hope for
a more peaceful world. Since the Thai Government has
the
long supported the Middle East peace process,
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
termination of the state of war between Jordan and Israel,
announced in Washington in July this year, following last
year’s historic agreement between Israel and the PLO, gives
all of us reason to rejoice. We hope that it will lead to
further agreements on "other tracks" acceptable to all
parties concerned, so that a durable peace in the Middle
East may finally be achieved.
We
the
positive
also welcome
developments
concerning the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula and
hope that dialogue and negotiation between the parties
concerned will eventually result in that part of the world
enjoying lasting peace and stability.
However,
in spite of
the promising outlook for
international peace and security, there remain political and
military conflicts of both global and regional magnitude.
It is therefore imperative that countries continue unfailing
international
efforts to secure a stable and peaceful
environment.
the
international community could support and cooperate in
towards
efforts
total
revitalization of
to enable the
Organization to meet the new challenges of today’s world
and to assist Members efficiently in their peaceful
endeavours.
comprehensive
the United Nations
As a first step in this direction,
reform and
Thailand pledges
its continued support
the
Secretary-General’s proposals in "An Agenda for Peace".
These constitute an innovative and practical framework for
the maintenance of international peace and security and
deserve serious consideration by all Member States.
for
international
environment,
and peaceful
In South-East Asia, realizing the need to ensure a
secure
the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) took the
lead in promoting political and security dialogues and
consultations in the Asia-Pacific region by initiating the
establishment of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF).
Designed to be a high-level consultative forum on political
and security matters, the ARF held its first meeting in
Bangkok on 25 July 1994, after the twenty-seventh ASEAN
ministerial meeting. Nineteen ministers from countries in
the Asia-Pacific region and from the European Union
attended this historic meeting to discuss political and
security cooperation issues, such as the latest developments
on regional situations, and decided to carry out some
practical confidence-building measures applicable to the
Asia-Pacific region.
As Chairman of the first ARF meeting, Thailand is
the meeting and its
results of
pleased with the
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
In particular, Thailand is grateful for the
achievements.
kind cooperation it received from all countries concerned.
Since the success of this first meeting, the ARF has
become a viable forum for the promotion of trust as well
as political
and security cooperation within the
Asia-Pacific region. The ARF has also demonstrated its
potential to make substantive contributions towards the
United Nations efforts at preventive diplomacy and at
maintaining international peace and security.
In other words, the ARF got off to a good start.
Thailand is fully aware that the first meeting of the ARF
in Bangkok was only the beginning. For this reason,
Thailand views the inter-sessional activities at various
levels among officials from ARF countries as necessary
for the ARF’s continued success. These activities could
help the ARF find its future direction and enable it to
become more efficient and productive.
Political and military security are but one aspect of
the bigger picture facing us. As we search for a new
international order based on a common set of principles
and values, we need to change our way of thinking. We
also need a new culture of development cooperation and
new definitions of
security and
development.
the notions of
Last year
(in Vienna),
The winds of change have begun to sweep across the
globe. We are now witnessing the creation of major
landmarks of international consensus-building.
In 1992,
the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit set a new stage for
global partnership on the environment and sustainable
development.
the World
Conference on Human Rights was held, producing a
world programme of action. Last month in Cairo we
witnessed the International Conference on Population and
Development. Next year in Copenhagen,
the World
Summit for Social Development will be held. This
Summit will serve as a bridge between this year’s
Conference on Population and Development in Cairo and
next year’s Fourth World Conference on Women in
Beijing.
It also presents a unique opportunity for the
international community to respond, on a global level, to
urgent human and social concerns that place people at the
centre of the development process.
The Thai Government accords special importance to
social development. In light of this, we have established
a social cabinet dedicated to formulating policies and
finding solutions to a number of pressing social problems.
We have also organized a joint committee comprising
members of the private sector and of Government and
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Its mandate is to oversee
chaired by the Prime Minister.
efforts to alleviate the social problems that beset a growing
economy, such as those being experienced by my country
and others in the region.
Thailand has participated and will continue to
participate actively in all global deliberations.
These
conferences create new paradigms of international conduct
which give rise to the various comprehensive global plans
of action. They have also started the new process of
redefining the notions of security and development.
Security in this final decade of the twentieth century
goes well beyond the familiar concepts of old.
It must
involve people - how they live and how they exercise their
choices. It should be security with a human face, because
it must deal directly with political, economic, environmental
and social aspects of our lives in a comprehensive manner.
Development, as pointed out by the Secretary-General,
must be seen in its five interlinked dimensions: with peace
as the foundation; the economy as the engine of progress;
the environment as a basis for sustainability; justice as a
pillar of society; and democracy as good governance. My
country shares these perceptions and supports their premises
as envisioned by the Secretary-General.
that development
It is with this awareness that Thailand approaches its
work on the international agenda for development. Such an
agenda should reflect and indeed promote self-reliance as
well as interdependence among Member States. There is
no doubt
is primarily a national
responsibility. Yet, it is also a shared responsibility of the
international community.
It is our firm belief that the
development effort of any State in today’s world must be
supported by a conducive international environment, based
on free and fair trading practices. The completion of the
Uruguay Round and the creation of the World Trade
Organization now hold out
the prospect of providing
significant benefits to the world economy.
A United Nations agenda for development should not
be given any less importance than the agenda for peace.
These two intertwined issues must be the core of any effort
to strengthen the role and activities of the United Nations
as we approach the next century.
Together with the "An Agenda for Peace", "An agenda
for development" should serve as an instrument for the
coordination of activities within the United Nations, as well
as between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods
It
institutions, and other non-governmental organizations.
20
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
should be an instrument to create unity of purpose, at
both the policy and operational
levels, within the
Organization. The United Nations cannot be a strong
force for peace unless it
is also a strong force for
development.
The United Nations remains humanity’s best hope
for creating a more desirable world - a world with a
conscience, a world which recognizes that humans
everywhere, young or old, strong or weak, are at the
centre of our communal and individual efforts. To this
end, I should like to reaffirm Thailand’s commitment to
this vision, which cannot be fulfilled without the active
participation of Member States. Thailand will do its part
in contributing to this end. We hope that other countries
will also chip in with their fair share of contributions. A
world united by this vision and this unity of purpose will
surely be a better place for us all and, more important, for
our children and grandchildren.
The President (interpretation from French): Several
representatives have asked to speak in exercise of the
right of reply.
to
decision 34/401, statements in exercise of the right of
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention
and to 5 minutes for the second, and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
I remind members that, pursuant
Mrs. Albright (United States of America): I am
obliged to reply to the speech by the representative of
Iraq, which attacked the United States, misrepresented the
facts about Iraq’s lack of compliance with Security
Council resolutions and insulted the United Nations.
The issue here is not the United States record, but
Iraq’s record. Despite the claim of its representative at
the outset of his speech to respect international law, Iraq
is in simultaneous violation of more Security Council
resolutions than any Member State in the history of the
United Nations.
ignore and
negotiate away its obligations. The only approach it has
not tried is compliance.
It has sought
to evade,
For more than three years, Iraq has failed to account
It
for Kuwaiti and other prisoners and missing persons.
has yet to return all of the Kuwaiti property it stole.
It
continues to destroy systematically one of the world’s
richest ecological regions and to suppress brutally the
human rights of its citizens, all
in contravention of
Security Council resolutions 687 (1991) and 688 (1991).
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It is the height of cynicism for the Iraqi Government
to appeal
to the General Assembly on behalf of the
suffering Iraqi people. This is the same Government
which, years before "ethnic cleansing" was employed in
Bosnia, erased hundreds of Kurdish villages from the map
of
its own
civilians.
Iraq and used chemical weapons against
The Security Council cares about the Iraqi people
more than the Government of Iraq does.
Iraq rejected the
implementation of resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991),
which would have helped feed ordinary Iraqis, not because
the United States or anyone else imposed additional
conditions, but because Iraq treated those resolutions, like
all others, not as binding international law but only as the
starting point for negotiations.
Iraq continues to request
sanctions Committee approval for import of luxury goods.
None of Saddam’s family is hungry, and his dwindling
number of supporters still enjoy imported liquor and
cigarettes. The Government of Iraq refuses to do more to
help its people precisely because it knows that
their
suffering is the only Iraqi argument the world community
views with sympathy.
Iraqi cooperation on weapons of mass destruction is
It has never revealed details
grudging and incomplete.
about its past biological-weapons programme, and it is
seeking to reactivate its network of equipment supply for
these programmes. There is no reason to believe Iraq’s
promises in this regard. The Security Council can rely only
upon an extensive long-term monitoring system, adequately
tested over an adequate period of time.
A change in Iraqi behaviour in all of these areas is the
programme of
ratified in its
resolutions. This, and no other, is the programme of the
United States.
the Security Council,
Iraq is not
This morning’s speech was a classic attempt to define
Iraq is the
white as black.
aggressor,
It has never
accepted the simple fact, agreed upon by virtually every
nation represented here, that its invasion of Kuwait was
illegal from the beginning.
the initiator of the conflict.
the victim.
We had hoped that
the Iraqi representative today
Instead, he found
would have addressed this core issue.
himself still incapable of mentioning the word "Kuwait" in
public, still unable to address the core issue of the conflict:
Kuwait’s sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and
borders.
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
by
statement
Yesterday’s
the Revolutionary
Command Council threatening action against the United
Nations if the Security Council does not meet Iraq’s
demands was a giant step backwards in meeting the
fundamental criterion of Security Council resolution 687
(1991):
that the Council be assured of Iraq’s peaceful
intentions.
This morning in New York we heard
promises of compliance; from Baghdad we hear threats
and defiance.
The two statements may be dressed
differently - one as a lamb, one as a wolf - but they
convey the same fact:
the Government of Iraq
continues to believe that the use of force and threats
against its neighbours is legitimate.
that
Even as we listened to placating words from the
Iraqi representative, the facts on the ground were quite
different.
Iraq is moving elements of two of its premier
Republican Guard divisions, the Hammurabi and Al-Nida
Iraq
armoured divisions,
southwards, close to the Kuwaiti border.
They are
deploying with ammunition and other logistical supplies.
I do not believe any member of this Assembly could
characterize these facts as evidence of peaceful intentions.
On the contrary, these military facts belie everything we
have just heard from the representative of Iraq.
from northern and central
Let it be absolutely clear to the Iraqi Government
that a repetition of its past mistakes will be met by my
Government with the same resolve as before.
Moreover, seeking to precipitate a crisis will not
encourage the Security Council to speed the lifting of
sanctions; it will have exactly the opposite effect.
Mr. Hoxha (Albania): I feel obliged to respond, in
exercise of the right of reply, to the statement made here
on 5 October by the representative of Greece, who
alleged that the Greek minority in Albania is denied
human rights as it was during the previous, Communist
regime.
I would respond by citing the following facts.
In free and fair elections held during the last two
years, the Greek minority cast 49,000 votes - that is, 1.03
per cent of the total number of voters. Article 26 of the
constitutional law on fundamental rights and freedoms,
adopted by the Albanian Parliament on 31 March 1993,
stipulates that
"Individuals belonging to minorities shall enjoy,
without discrimination and with equality before the
law, fundamental human rights and freedoms. They
may freely express, preserve and develop their own
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic identity, teach
and be taught in their mother tongue and associate in
organizations and associations to protect their interests
and identity".
That provision has been fully implemented in practice.
With regard to the Greek minority, I would mention some
important aspects of
its implementation, such as the
educational system in the Greek language. It comprises 85
schools at all levels including university, 46 classes of
which have fewer than 10 pupils, whereas the basic rule
that applies in the country requires that classes should have
not less than 20 students. The Government’s decision on
education dated 22 August 1994 increases the opportunity
for, and offers the possibility of, education in the mother
tongue for minority people living in areas of mixed
population. It took the Greek Government only one day to
describe that decision as a restriction of the right
to
education of the Greek minority in Albania.
Allow me to point out that the overall integration of
the Greek minority in all spheres of life in Albania is
already an established fact.
The Greek minority is
represented in parliament by two members from its own
party and four others from other parties; in the executive
branch by cabinet ministers, high officials and ambassadors;
and in the judiciary by judges in the
constitutional court and other low-level courts.
In the local government,
the Greek minority is
represented by 13 chairmen of communes, 159 councillors
of district councils and 32 councillors of civic councils and
so on. There are Greek newspapers, several hours of radio
broadcasts in Greek and its own cultural and political
organizations.
Since the establishment of the democratic regime, the
Greek minority enjoys the right to travel freely to Greece
and elsewhere.
During the Hoxha communist regime, many people
who attempted to cross the barbed-wired border were killed.
In contrast to the previous regime, when all churches were
banned, now, thanks to the democratic regime, churches are
built and the liturgy is given in Greek in all villages
inhabited by minority people, as witnessed by various
observers and missions from Greece and other countries
and from different international organizations.
As regards the trial of five Albanian citizens of Greek
origin, constantly referred to by the Greek Government, and
again by its representative at this session, I should like to
22
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
that
the defendants were charged with
make clear
collusion with the secret services of Greece. The court
sentenced them for smuggling several hundred firearms in
an organized manner, for recruiting and sending Albanian
citizens of Greek nationality to Greek military schools
without the knowledge of the Albanian Government, of
gathering secret military information and of
illegal
possession of weapons.
The Albanian delegation is ready to provide any
interested country with the dossier containing pertinent
materials confirming such activities. It is appropriate here
to emphasize that the guilt of the defendants has never
been questioned, whether in the resolutions or in the
recourse mentioned by the Greek delegation or in any
other reports.
Greece, whose State or quasi-State organs appear to
be involved in the findings of this trial, has reacted
strongly in all international institutions. Prejudging the
trial, the Greek Government began its campaign long
before the opening of the trial, trying to influence the
verdict of the district court of Tirane. On the other hand,
through a series of pressure and other retaliatory actions,
such as the massive maltreatment and expulsion of 70,000
Albanian emigrants working in Greece and the blocking
of the 35 million ECUs that the European Union allocated
to Albania to assist
the Greek
Government has attempted to compel
the democratic
government to violate the recently adopted democratic
legislation on the separation of powers and has intervened
to suspend the trial. This is a hostile act, unacceptable to
any country.
in its development,
As to the report of Mr. Andres Zeplinsky, to which
the representative of Greece referred, I would say that
there is no official report drafted by that person. The
only existing document entitled "Report of the trial
monitoring in Tirane" - distributed at the meeting of the
permanent committee of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation
(CSCE)
on
19 September 1994, reads as follows:
in Vienna
in Europe
"The trial was open and attended by many
journalists and observers from Greece and different
countries."
Even in this document,
there is no evidence of any
reservation concerning the charges or the innocence of the
five defendants.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Regarding, the allegation that the defendants were
tortured during the investigation process, I would like to
draw attention to the fact that the High Commissioner for
National Minorities of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe, Mr. Van De Stoel, met with the
defendants on a one-to-one basis without the presence of
the Albanian authorities.
In his briefing to the permanent
committee in Vienna, Mr. Van De Stoel said that none of
the defendants had complained about their treatment in
prison. The above-mentioned document of the CSCE also
states
system has made
considerable progress since independence".
that "the Albanian judicial
Concerning the question of the Albanian immigrants
in Greece, Albanians have
appreciated the
generosity of the Greek people. However, it must be
pointed out that the stance of the Greek Government is
quite different from that of the Greek people and violates
the relevant internationally-recognized standards.
always
I must stress that the Greek Government has failed to
offer a solution to the legalization of the status of the
Albanian immigrants despite Albania’s insistence that it
wishes to help solve this problem.
With regard to economic assistance, I have not much
to add since the Greek representative left no room for doubt
about the position of Greece, which is already well known,
namely that Greece persists in blocking the assistance of
the European Union to Albania. Nevertheless, I must add
that it is difficult for the Albanian people to understand
how Greece could block the generous aid of the taxpayers
and of the Governments of the European member States
only to serve its nationalistic ambitions.
It is regrettable that the Greek Government continues
to distort the truth about the large Albanian minority living
in Greece from time immemorial and in its own lands. The
reference to the Chams as collaborators with the Nazis is
but an attempt to justify the massacre against the Cham
people in 1944 and 1945 when many of them were forcibly
expelled and sought refuge in Albania. Neither the former
Greek authorities nor the present Government have allowed
them to reclaim their property.
In his statement,
the Greek representative did not
explain why Greece insists on denying the existence of the
Albanian minority in Greece. I would recommend that he
at
the last report of the British Helsinki
Human Rights Group of May 1994 regarding the situation
of the Albanian Macedonian and Turkish minorities in
Greece to see how far behind Greece is, as compared to
least consult
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
Albania, in abiding by the commitments deriving from
international documents on minority rights.
Despite the current difficulties, my country continues
to hope that Greece will respond positively to Albania’s
open invitation to an unconditional dialogue for we are
convinced that the crisis in the relations between the two
countries can and ought to be resolved through dialogue.
Our commitment to this end, as stated last week by the
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Albania, will be strong and
consistent.
Finally, I would like to say that the presence of
Albania in the family of democratic nations has been
decided by the free vote of the Albanian people. No
nationalism whatsoever will succeed in bringing about a
shift in its orientation towards full integration into Europe.
Prince Sisowath (Cambodia) (interpretation from
This afternoon, Mr. Nguyen Manh Cam,
French):
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Republic of
Viet Nam stated that he was concerned over the new
Cambodian law on immigration.
My delegation has the honour of informing the
Assembly that this law was adopted by a very large
majority in the National Assembly of Cambodia, a
sovereign State that emerged from the elections in our
country, which were supervised by the United Nations.
The law reflects the concerns of the Cambodian
people, responds to the current situation and is applied
uniformly to all foreigners without discrimination. Like
any law, the law on immigration will enter into force only
when the text relating to its application has been drawn
up. The text will take into account the higher interests of
Cambodia as well as the concerns expressed by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Viet Nam.
thereto will be subject
My delegation can give every assurance that there
will be no decision taken for mass expulsions of
foreigners. Any measure to implement the law and the
regulations relevant
to joint
consideration by the countries concerned, among others
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. The Prime Minister
of the Kingdom of Cambodia, His Highness Prince
Sihanouk, has sent a letter to his Vietnamese counterpart
offering to send a group of experts to negotiate on the
problem of Vietnamese residents in Cambodia.
As regards the question of human rights, I should
like to inform the Assembly that our Constitution has
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
up
in
strict
drawn
conformity with
the
been
recommendations formulated in the Paris Agreements of
October 1991 and in the Conventions signed by the
National Supreme Council on behalf of the Kingdom of
Cambodia.
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
General Assembly what we should do. Although these
very resolutions were drafted by the United States itself,
they are not being implemented - not because the Council
does not want to implement them, but because the United
States does not want them to be implemented.
Mr. Al-Qaysi (Iraq): The representative of the United
States exercised her right of reply in respect of
the
statement made this morning by my Deputy Prime Minister.
She alleged that our statement attacked the United States,
misrepresented the facts about Iraq’s lack of compliance
with Security Council resolutions and insulted the United
Nations. Evidently, the representative of the United States
was repeating the same accusations that she levelled against
my country in the periodic reviews of the Security Council,
the last of which was held on 14 September 1994.
As for the statement of the representative of the
United States to the effect that the facts on the ground
were quite different from what we stated in our statement,
and the allegation that there were troop movements, let us
reflect. An allegation is an allegation. Before it is
proven, it remains only an allegation.
If we are to base
conclusions on allegations, then it would mean, as seems
quite clear from the statement of the representative of the
United States, that even the movement of troops within
State boundaries is not an act of peaceful intention.
When the representative of the United States talks
about statements that are emanating from Baghdad, let her
be fair and equitable, and acknowledge for once that
blocking the correct process of the implementation of
Security Council resolutions which Iraq has implemented
for so long, and perpetuating the suffering of our whole
nation, certainly results in frustration and anger. Are we
not even allowed to express our frustration and anger,
according to the representative of the United States?
To conclude,
let me repeat
that facts are facts.
Commitments under the Charter are clear. The rights and
obligations of Member States under the Charter are clear.
We are talking about the present; we are not talking about
the past. We are not here to play worn-out records
simply for the sake of not allowing the correct process of
implementation to continue.
It is quite obvious to me that the statement of the
representative of the United States is an open attempt to
draw my delegation into a rhetorical exchange, an attempt
which I shall resist.
Facts are facts. The statement of my Deputy Prime
Minister this morning presented to the General Assembly a
factual account which we are prepared to prove - an
account that even American newspapers say is true.
I
would refer those who wish to verify that fact to this
morning’s issue of the Washington Post. The United States
is in fact the permanent member of the Security Council
that,
is blocking the
consequences of Iraq’s implementation of Security Council
resolutions.
in violation of
the Charter,
I wonder, therefore, whether calling in the General
Assembly for the correct implementation of its commitment
to the Charter by a Member State can be characterized as
an insult to the General Assembly.
One would think, to listen to the statement of the
representative of the United States, that we in Iraq should
not only be accountable before the United States for what
we say, but we should also be accountable for what we do
not say. The representative of the United States says that
the issue here is not the record of the United States, but the
record of Iraq.
I disagree. The record that is at issue in
our statement is the record of the members of the Security
Council, notably that of one or two permanent members
when they block the correct process of the implementation
of commitments under the Charter.
In our view, we are entitled, in accordance with the
clear-cut obligations set forth in the Charter, to ask the
24
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It is a fact that the United States is the permanent
member of the Council that is blocking the implementation
of the provisions of resolution 687 (1991) in favour of
Iraq - the very resolution that it drafted itself. I fail to see,
in the reply of the representative of the United States,
anything that refutes what we said in our statement this
morning.
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
23rd meeting
7 October 1994
25
