United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
45th Meeting
Wednesday, 26 October 1994, 10 a.m.
New York
A/49/PV.45
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Côte D’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 24
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and
financial embargo imposed by the United States of
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/49/398 and
Add.l)
Draft resolution (A/49/L.9)
The President (interpretation from French): I call on
the representative of Cuba to introduce draft resolution
A/49/L.9.
Mr. Remírez de Estenoz (Cuba) (interpretation from
Spanish): This is the third session at which the General
Assembly has had to consider an item that constitutes one
of the most obvious remnants of the cold-war period. For
the second consecutive year the Government of the United
States has failed to comply with the will of the international
community expressed in two resolutions of
this the
principal organ of the United Nations.
The economic, commercial and financial blockade
carried out by the United States against Cuba has not been
reduced in any way; on the contrary it has been
strengthened. That Government has not even attempted to
moderate the extraterritorial reach of the blockade but has,
by its actions, ignored the request of the General Assembly
and the international community including the opinion of
ever-wider sections of society in North America itself.
Today the United States not only maintains the
complex system of laws and regulations that comprise its
aggressive policy against Cuba, which my delegation has
placed before Member States on previous occasions, but
during the time that has elapsed the Government of the
United States has continued to enact measures and
provisions geared to strengthening the
economic,
commercial and financial siege against my country.
At the same time, it has continued to carry out a
series of political and diplomatic actions as well as covert
actions aimed at bringing pressure to bear on independent
Governments to prevent the establishment of links with
Cuba in violation of internationally recognized norms,
including those of the United States Government itself.
Cuba’s response, which is contained in the report of the
Secretary-General, presents an abundance of examples
demonstrating what I have said.
As part and parcel of its determination to render the
situation of the Cuban people even more difficult, and
perhaps in the futile hope of stimulating violent actions
that would justify a response of another kind, as recently
as 20 August this year the President of the United States
announced new regulations designed to make the
conditions of the blockade even more severe.
Those
broadcasting
aggression against Cuba; they prohibit remittances of
regulations
intensify
the
94-86830 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
money to Cuba by Cuban-American citizens and residents
in the United States; they significantly limit the sending to
Cuba of parcels and air cargo, consisting mainly of
foodstuffs, medicines and products to meet essential needs;
and they provide for an arbitrary and severe decrease in
travel and exchanges between Cuba and the United States,
mainly affecting Cuban citizens and the Cuban-American
community, including a drastic reduction in family visits
between the two countries.
After the adoption of these new regulations the United
States Department of the Treasury recognized that these
measures were addressed to strengthen even more the
embargo against Cuba and thus to limit the capacity of the
Cuban Government to accumulate foreign exchange.
Moreover,
these actions constitute an enormous
political paradox as they are designed to create obstacles to
initiated by the Cuban Government, of
the process,
promoting normal
relations and family reunification,
bringing together Cuban emigrants - throughout the world,
but especially in the United States - and their country of
origin.
That process has the broad support of all of the Cuban
people, including Cubans residing abroad. Those provisions
make Cuba the only country whose nationals in the United
States are prevented by law from maintaining normal
relations with their country.
Furthermore,
the
interpretation adopted by the
Treasury Department early in 1994 constitutes a widening
of the restrictions that already existed in what it prohibits
United States citizens
facilitating
operations related to Cuba by companies in third countries.
In accordance with this interpretation, not a single United
States scientist would be able to cooperate with a foreign
company to evaluate, for example, an investment project in
any scientific or industrial field in Cuba.
from assisting or
Some figures deserve special mention. Only 15 days
after the adoption of the latest United Nations resolution
against the blockade, at a hearing of the subcommittee of
the House of Representatives, it was recognized that, as a
result of the suspension in the granting of licences by the
Treasury Department
to subsidiaries of United States
corporations in third countries, trade with Cuba by United
States subsidiaries abroad fell to $1.8 million in 1993 in
contrast to a total of $718 million in 1991. In practical
terms, trade that did not apply to luxury items, but rather,
essentially, to the acquisition of medicine and foodstuffs in
short supply, virtually disappeared.
2
45th meeting
26 October 1994
As the result of other restrictions contemplated in
legislation against Cuba, the Cuban economy had to spend
more than an additional $34 million in 1993 on foodstuffs
alone owing to higher prices and freight costs than those
to which Cuba had access.
The freight costs of tankers servicing Cuba have
increased by between 15 and 30 per cent in comparison
with normal prices. Something similar has occurred with
regard to air freight.
the losses to the
economy for this reason alone amounted to more than $50
million in 1993.
In general,
According to the most recent estimates, damage to
the Cuban economy in 1993 alone as a direct result of the
strengthening of the blockade amount to more than $970
million.
The United States Government also persists in the
extraterritorial application of its laws and regulations
regarding the blockade. It has not enough that countries
with close ties and relations with the United States had
adopted special provisions prohibiting foreign companies
located in their territory from complying with United
States law. Nor has it sufficed that in its 1993 report on
trade with the United States and investment barriers, the
Commission of the European Communities condemned
unilateral trade measures adopted by the United States
Government, in particular those affecting freedom of trade
and shipping. In that regard, the report concluded that the
continuation of the extraterritorial application of United
States laws contributed to the creation of serious conflicts
of
jurisdiction between the United States and the
Community and its member States; and that it also had a
negative influence on the climate for trade and investment
between the United States and the Community.
The official response given by the Director of the
Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States
Treasury Department reaffirmed that his Government
would continue to apply United States law in the way in
which it has been laid down and would require companies
subjected to that legislation to fulfil the provisions of the
blockade against Cuba.
But above and beyond the consequences deriving
from the extraterritorial dimension of the blockade, it is
the impact of the blockade on the most varied facets of
Cuban life that arouses international repudiation.
The situation created by the strengthening of the
blockade continues very seriously to affect such matters
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
45th meeting
26 October 1994
as the health and nutrition of the population. It is the
children, the elderly, women and the sick who are the most
seriously hurt. Moreover,
capacity to provide
transportation, electric power and other services is also
significantly curtailed.
the
economic links forged over more than 30 years. They
have not only ensured the survival of our nation but, in
the course of the present year, several sectors of the
economy have begun to show clear signs of
the
beginnings of recovery.
The sufferings of the Cuban people, the day-to-day
deficiencies, difficulties in purchasing the most basic staples
to ensure life and even the deterioration of sectors that have
for years been an example for all of the third world —
such as health and education services - are inevitable
consequences of the cruel blockade imposed against Cuba.
In this regard, the observations of the United Nations
Children’s Fund are especially significant. They appear in
the report of the Secretary-General (A/49/398) on this item
and they are illustrative of the effects of the blockade on
Cuba’s children. The damages pointed out in that document,
which are directly associated with the reduction in the
availability of
the
deterioration of the nutrition levels and the quality of the
drinking water, have been detected in the last two or three
years, coinciding with the reinforcement of the blockade.
foodstuffs and medical
supplies,
Cuba’s efforts to purchase medicines or medical
supplies continue to be grossly abused. Restrictions are still
in place forbidding any company anywhere in the world
from selling to Cuba medicines or medical supplies of any
kind containing components or technology originating in the
United States. This even includes the purchase of items as
simple as pacemakers for people with heart conditions.
Given these facts, it is undeniable that the persistence
of the economic, commercial and financial blockade against
my country constitutes a flagrant and general violation of
the
people to
independence, sovereignty, and self-determination, as well
as
to development, health, nutrition and
employment, and even to life itself.
fundamental
the Cuban
its
right
rights
of
Only the development achieved by the country in 35
years, the social policy it has followed, the programmes it
has adopted to try to counter the negative effects of the
strengthening of the blockade and the measures and changes
adopted to encourage the integration of the Cuban economy
into the new world economy - have prevented the
consequences of the blockade from taking on disastrous
dimensions.
Precisely because of those efforts and the results
achieved, my country has been able to resist this criminal
international
blockade and the disappearance of
its
It is not idle to reaffirm that of all the limitations
besetting Cuba the only one that responds to a political
initiative on the part of a foreign Government and the
only one that could also disappear as a result of a
political act is the United States blockade.
In spite of this, Cuba reaffirms its decision to
continue along the path it has chosen independently and
in all sovereignty — that is, the path of transformations
to support its reintegration into the world market and to
reactivate its productive structure. We will not agree to
anything being imposed on us, but will continue this
process, ensuring the preservation of the most important
social achievements of more than 35 years and, above all,
maintaining the defence of our independence and national
sovereignty — a sacred victory that we will never
renounce.
At the same time, we reaffirm our readiness to work
to find political and negotiated solutions in order to
overcome differences with any country, on the sole basis
of sovereign equality and mutual respect; we have clearly
and unequivocally demonstrated this willingness both
internationally and bilaterally.The
on
migration issues recently concluded here in New York
between delegations of Cuba and the United States are
proof of this willingness, and they demonstrate what can
be achieved when there is a serious sense of responsibility
on both sides.
agreements
Nevertheless,
in spite of those results,
the only
substantive solution that can eliminate all the existing
differences continues to be the dismantling of
the
aggressive policy against Cuba, a policy whose backbone
is the economic, commercial and financial blockade.
Today, when the many arguments that have been
officially brandished for more than 30 years to maintain
the blockade against Cuba have been disproved and left
behind by history and by recent developments in United
States policy, the blockade against Cuba constitutes not
only one of the greatest injustices but also one of the
greatest anachronisms in today’s world, lacking any sense
or rationality whatsoever.
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Since that policy violates fundamental principles that
are enshrined in the United Nations Charter and constitute
the very cornerstone of this Organization, as well as other
internationally recognized principles such as the freedom of
trade and navigation, we once again address the General
Assembly with the aim of obtaining a new decision by the
United Nations that will contribute to putting an end to the
illegal blockade which is directed against Cuba today but of
which any other nation could be the victim tomorrow.
I have the honour therefore of introducing the draft
resolution in document A/49/L.9, which has been the
subject of wide consultations with delegations here and has
been published in all the official languages of the United
Nations. It basically maintains the structure, language and
scope of
resolution 48/16, adopted by the General
Assembly at its last session; the only changes consist in
updating the situation by referring to the most important
developments that have taken place over the last year.
The decision that the General Assembly is to adopt
shortly remains fundamental for the very existence of the
United Nations and for the preservation of its guiding
principles. Moreover, it affects the existence of an entire
people.
We therefore hope that, by the decisive and
overwhelming adoption of this draft resolution, the General
Assembly will once again reaffirm its commitment to those
principles and its support for all those who, small though
they may be, are struggling to defend their independence.
(Brazil)
(interpretation
changes
Mr. Sardenberg
from
Spanish): There have been major
in the
international system in recent years. Relations between
States are losing their markedly ideological nature, opening
a path to the strengthening of cooperation. In regard to
trade,
there are signs of the opening of international
markets and the liberalization and freedom of trade instead
of discriminatory and obstructionist practices. At the same
time, we are witnessing instances of the extra-territorial
application of laws and measures with legal, political and
economic effects that distort relations between States.
The General Assembly, in adopting resolution 48/16
last year, reiterated its appeal to all States that they refrain
from promulgating and applying laws and measures whose
extra-territorial effects affect the sovereignty of other States.
The imposition of embargo measures has grave
repercussions on the economic life of the country affected,
because it deflects normal flows of trade and promotes
4
45th meeting
26 October 1994
unjustifiable rises in the price of imports. It also has
direct effects on the well-being and health of a people —
from changes in priorities to a deterioration in the quality
of public services. The organs and agencies of the United
Nations system have produced significant data in that
respect, as
in
document A/49/398 indicates.
the Secretary-General
the report of
With regard to the specific case that is of concern to
the international community,
the Minister of Foreign
Affairs of Brazil, Ambassador Celso Amorim, stated
during the general debate of the present session of the
General Assembly that
“Political, economic and commercial isolation, apart
from being unjustifiable, only contributes
to
aggravating the hardship endured by the Cuban
people at a time when we perceive positive
indications of democratic reform and reconciliation”
(Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-
ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 4th meeting, p. 2)
Brazil bases its foreign policy on the promotion of
the principles of the sovereign equality of States, non-
intervention and non-interference in the domestic affairs
of other countries, and freedom of international trade and
navigation.
We believe that States should give pride of place to
dialogue and that any problem that arises between them
should be solved in conformity with the United Nations
Charter and international law, not by unilateral measures.
My country will vote in favour of
the draft
resolution before the Assembly for the sake of defending
the principles of international law and promoting peaceful
and friendly relations between nations, and as an
affirmation of the principles of cooperation. Cuba should
not be deprived of the opportunity to participate freely
and without hindrance in international economic and
commercial relations.
Mr. Lopez-Pulecio (Colombia) (interpretation from
Spanish): My country’s foreign policy is based on a firm
commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter
of the United Nations and the charter of the Organization
of American States. Colombia believes that international
relations are based on the sovereign equality of States;
respect for their identity, sovereignty and independence;
compliance in good faith with international obligations;
the peaceful settlement of disputes; and non-intervention
in the domestic affairs of States.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
history,
country’s
Throughout my
various
Governments,
led by diverse political parties, have
maintained a tradition of respect for and compliance with
the principles and norms of international law and a deep-
rooted conviction that the inviolability of States’ autonomy
is the basis of concord among them.
Another deep conviction of my country is that the
strengthening of democracy is intimately related to stability,
peace and especially development, with a view to satisfying
the needs of society and guaranteeing well-being and
economic and social equity. Democracy flourishes in the
favourable environment of an internal, politically mature
process, an essential condition for democracy’s stability and
durability.
An important part of this democratic climate is free
trade. There is no more formidable force for demolishing
privileges than the exercise of free trade and the equality of
opportunity it generates. We have expressed this view at a
number of opportunities offered in important international
forums.
Inspired by the principles of the Charter, the General
Assembly of the United Nations has expressed its view in
two resolutions on the necessity of ending the economic,
commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United
States of America against Cuba.
through its
resolutions 47/19 and 48/16, the General Assembly called
on all States to refrain from promulgating and applying
laws and measures whose extraterritorial effects affect the
sovereignty of other States and the legitimate interests of
entities or persons under their jurisdiction, as well as the
freedom of trade and navigation. Colombia voted in favour
of those resolutions.
Indeed,
Similarly, and also with Colombia’s support, a
statement was issued by the Ibero-American Heads of State
or Government at the Summits held in Salvador de Bahia
in 1993 and in Cartagena de Indias in 1994. The Heads of
State or Government, in conformity with the principles of
international law and General Assembly resolutions, voiced
the necessity to eliminate the coercive unilateral application
of economic and trade measures which affect the free flow
of international trade and harm the living conditions of
Ibero-American peoples.
Furthermore, the Heads of State or Government of the
Rio Group, meeting in Rio de Janeiro on 9 and 10
September this year, expressed their determination, within
the framework of the principle of non-intervention,
to
proceed with a constructive dialogue with Cuba and
45th meeting
26 October 1994
stressed the need to lift the embargo against that sister
Republic.
Colombia takes this opportunity to reaffirm its
longstanding policy on a matter that has been the subject
of pronouncements by the United Nations General
Assembly and the Heads of State or Government of the
Ibero-American Summits and the Rio Group, as well as
once again to express its adherence to the principles and
laws governing relations between States.
Mr. Flores Olea (Mexico) (interpretation from
Spanish): This year has seen important steps taken
towards dialogue and peaceful coexistence. In regions that
were long affected by disputes and conflicts, we have
seen surprising progress made in negotiations that have
allowed us to foresee a lasting peace in various parts of
the world. We wish to express our satisfaction at the
progress made in the peace process, especially in the
Middle East, South Africa and Central America. Dialogue
and negotiation have overcome confrontation and impasse.
The principles of international law upon which the
very existence of our Organization is based represent the
collective aspiration to be able to rely on a framework of
rationality, order and legality and to make it possible for
nations to entertain the best of relations. Mexico remains
convinced that, at this stage, dialogue, conciliation and
negotiated political
solutions are acquiring greater
applicability and relevance as the best paths towards
understanding. Today, following the end of the cold war,
experience teaches us the necessity of
finding new
answers to the aspirations to peace, justice and well-
being. The ways of promoting the purposes and principles
of the United Nations Charter are far removed from
hostility and violence.
My delegation wishes to reiterate that, as with all
States, it is the exclusive responsibility of Cuba and its
people to define the forms of organization and the
objectives and goals of
its economic and social
development. We appreciate the measures adopted by
Cuba
and
procedures, as well as a closer adherence to the general
trends towards globalization and interdependence. We also
recognize the constructive effort of
its people and
Government to broaden contacts and exchanges with all
countries and regions.
and modernize
to improve
structures
We wish, too, to reaffirm our conviction that it is
precisely dialogue that can end this longstanding dispute
in our hemisphere, in a framework of full respect for the
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
sovereignty and the right to self-determination of the Cuban
people. Dialogue has already lead to positive results, which
we welcome.
same determination and
perseverance must continue in order to make that dialogue
broader and more fruitful.
Indeed,
the
the multilateral
But only respect for international law can guarantee
lasting peaceful coexistence between countries. Norms,
accepted at
level, provide stability and
certainty to relations between States. With a view to the
future, we must seize opportunities that may emerge in the
process of global transformation. The obsolescence of old
practices designed within the framework of bipolar
confrontation is increasingly evident.
Mexico has favoured and will always favour dialogue
and negotiation as the most effective means to the solution
of disputes. For all these reasons, my delegation will vote
in favour of the draft resolution contained in document
A/49/L.9. Pressure imposed by one country upon another
has not been and never will be the best way to ensure a fair
international order consistent with law and free of the threat
of violence and force. We therefore hope to see a prompt
resumption of the dialogue between the parties in order to
discuss and negotiate their longstanding differences and
arrive at a state of normal relations and coexistence
between equal States of the region.
Mr. Wisnumurti (Indonesia): I deem it a privilege to
the non-aligned
statement on behalf of
this
deliver
countries.
is
the
that
also particularly regrettable
It is with deepening concern that we have observed the
prolonged differences between the United States and Cuba.
It
adverse
relationship between the two countries, which has persisted
for over three decades, has been further aggravated by the
imposition of numerous measures, including a devastating
embargo on trade. Punitive economic actions on such an
untenable scale have inflicted immense hardship on the
people of Cuba. The resulting weakening of the Cuban
economy has profoundly affected living conditions in that
country and has severely impeded its development efforts.
Continuing economic pressure and isolation may well
portend disastrous consequences, not only for Cuba but
beyond. We therefore believe that such differences, no
matter how deep and how intense they may be, should be
resolved through sustained dialogue on the basis of equality
and mutual respect.
45th meeting
26 October 1994
and trade measures directed against other States for
politically motivated reasons. They have also declared
their opposition to the promulgation of laws that have
extra-territorial effects which impinge on freedom of trade
and navigation, and thereby adversely affect the interests
of many countries. Hence, the repeal of those laws would
be in conformity with the principles of the sovereignty of
nations, non-intervention and non-interference. The
non-aligned countries have always maintained that the
attainment of a stable peace, common security, and social
and economic justice must be firmly rooted in the rule of
law and the precepts of the Charter, which should not be
diluted or abridged.
In this regard, I should like to cite the communiqué
issued by the Non-Aligned ministerial meeting held
earlier this month in New York:
“The Ministers and heads of delegation called
upon the Government of
the United States to
terminate the economic, commercial and financial
embargo imposed on Cuba for over three decades
and for the speedy and effective implementation of
General Assembly
further
reaffirmed their view that the differences between
the two countries should be resolved peacefully and
through comprehensive negotiations. They noted the
joint communiqué signed by both countries on
migration on 9 September 1994, and expressed the
view that it constituted a positive development in
this direction”.
resolutions. They
It is now time to move on. The resumed talks on
the question of migration in Havana should now be
extended to resolve outstanding political and economic
so long has proved
issues, whose persistence for
to the interests of
detrimental
the Cuban people.
Specifically,
the lifting of the embargo will create a
climate more conducive to the normalization of relations
between the two countries and contribute in a concrete
manner to the stability of the region and to the promotion
of cooperation.
It
is the hope of the non-aligned countries that
renewed consideration of this item and broad support for
the draft resolution now before us will lead to the speedy
solution of this issue, which will in turn promote the
economic progress and social advancement of the Cuban
people in an atmosphere of peace and tranquillity.
Many Member States have in the past expressed in no
uncertain terms the inapplicability of unilateral economic
Mr. Mumbengegwi (Zimbabwe): Zimbabwe has
stated on numerous occasions, both in the General
6
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Assembly and in other international forums, that the end of
the cold war opened up a vista of opportunity for the
solution of hitherto seemingly intractable international
problems. It is therefore a source of deep regret to my
delegation that the economic, commercial and financial
embargo against Cuba, which has its origins in the cold-war
confrontation, is still in place so long after the end of the
cold war. The extra-territorial provisions of that embargo
have made it even more pernicious. It is extremely difficult
to see how the Republic of Cuba, in the context of this
post-cold-war era, could possibly pose a threat
to the
United States of America.
We would like to reiterate our view that universal
economic measures against any State should be imposed
only by collective enforcement action through the United
Nations. In the absence of any such enforcement action, all
countries should be able freely to carry out their economic,
commercial and financial transactions.
Apart from these important provisions of international
law, Zimbabwe is particularly concerned at the devastating
effect that the economic embargo against Cuba is having on
the humanitarian situation in that country. Cuba’s public-
health, education and social-welfare systems, which ranked
among the best in the world, have been adversely affected
by the embargo, causing unnecessary suffering to the Cuban
people. Needless to say, the principal victims are the
children, the women, the elderly and the sick.
The harsh measures that are being inflicted upon the
Cuban people are totally out of step with the spirit of our
times, which dictates that care and compassion should be
extended to the weak and the vulnerable and that disputes
and differences should be resolved through negotiation,
dialogue and reconciliation. The world today is full of
examples of former enemies and adversaries becoming the
closest of allies and friends.
It is our earnest hope that the current discussions
between Cuba and the United States will create the
necessary environment and mutual understanding to enable
the two sides to undertake comprehensive discussions on
the wider issues relating to the lifting of the embargo.
Mr. Azwai (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): Today, the 26th of October, is a day of
mourning in Libya. On that date, Italian colonialists exiled
countless Libyans to uninhabited or semi-inhabited Italian
islands: one of
Italian
colonialism committed against the Libyan people. It is my
duty and the duty of my delegation to spend the day in
the most
abhorrent
crimes
45th meeting
26 October 1994
prayer for the souls of the Libyan martyrs and to engage
in no work, which is the least we can do for our departed
brethren. But the importance of this item, in the light of
our friendly relations with the Cuban people and our
understanding of and sympathy with their suffering as a
result of the embargo unjustly imposed upon them, just as
it is imposed upon us, by the United States of America,
made it my duty to participate in this debate. It
is
unfortunate indeed that we small peoples have come to
use this forum as a wailing wall to shed our tears, voice
our grievances and adopt resolutions that are never
implemented.
legal
Article 32 of the Charter of the Economic Rights
and Duties of States, adopted by the General Assembly at
its twenty-ninth session, states that no State may use or
encourage the use of economic, political or other
measures to coerce another State in order to obtain from
it the subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights.
Based on this, and on other principles set out in numerous
international
instruments, which underline the
sovereign co-equality of States and their equality with
respect to freedom of international trade and navigation,
the General Assembly adopted resolution 48/16, by which
it called on all States to refrain from promulgating and
applying laws and measures whose effect may infringe
upon the sovereignty of other States, because such
measures constitute a violation of the Charter of the
United Nations, specifically Article 1 (2), which states
that a main purpose of the United Nations is to develop
friendly relations among nations, and also because they
run counter to the principles of international law and
relevant General Assembly
including
resolutions 38/197, 39/210, 40/185, 44/215 and 46/210.
Those resolutions call on all countries to refrain from the
threat
blockades,
embargoes and other economic sanctions and from the
imposition of restrictions on developing countries, since
this runs counter to the Charter of the United Nations and
other agreed multilateral commitments.
restrictions,
resolutions,
imposing
of
trade
At its forth-seventh session, the General Assembly
adopted resolution 47/19, by which the international
community conclusively rejected the economic, trade and
financial blockade imposed by the United States of
America against Cuba and the pressure being exerted on
other countries to stop cooperating with Cuba in those
areas. This rejection was reconfirmed in resolution 48/16.
Yet the available information shows that the response to
those two resolutions has been disappointing. As stated by
the Foreign Minister of Cuba in his statement to the
General Assembly last month, this has not been limited to
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
silence or to ignoring the Assembly’s appeal to countries to
refrain from promulgating and applying laws and measures
similar to those imposed on Cuba. In fact, one Member
State has adopted additional restrictive measures aimed at
tightening the blockade against that small country in order
to force it to abandon its political and economic orientation.
This totally contradicts the principles of international law
calling for non-intervention and non-interference in any
form in the internal affairs of other countries.
The blockade that the United States of America has
imposed on Cuba for more than three decades has created
great economic difficulties and imposed restrictions on
economic and social development. It is not at all difficult
to understand the disastrous consequences of this blockade,
especially for countries that have been subjected to similar
and, sometimes, more stringent coercive measures, such as
my country, which has been subjected, since 1986, by the
United States of America, to such measures. The United
States Administration has been renewing those measures
once a year under the pretext that Libya poses a threat to
United States national security. Of course, this is not only
untrue, but also risible. How could a small country such as
Libya threaten the security of the United States? How could
a small country such as Libya, with its limited resources,
pose a threat to the United States of America, a country the
size of a continent and the strongest in the world? It has
never been proven that Libya is the source of any threat,
especially to the security of the United States.
Of course, it is the opposite that is true: in 1986, while
Libya was asleep, cities were subjected to military
aggression from the air and the sea, in which the United
States employed more than 100 aircraft that had previously
been at
the ready to face the former Soviet Union.
Moreover, coercive economic measures were adopted
through the Security Council under the pretext of a mere
suspicion of alleged involvement by two Libyan citizens in
a certain incident. The United States of America and its
allies know better than anyone else that Libya is entirely
unconnected with that incident. If there is any proof or
evidence, let an international court sitting in The Hague or
a Scottish court, or any other court in any place in the
world other than the United Kingdom and the United States
of America, decide the issue. The only thing we reject is
that courts in the United Kingdom or the United States
should try the case, for a trial of the two suspects in either
of those countries would be a show trial whose only aim
would be to besmear Libya. This, in fact, is the hidden
motive behind all the measures and all the actions aimed at
Libya.
8
45th meeting
26 October 1994
My delegation is totally convinced that economic
blockades and other coercive measures will not resolve
disputes between States. Negotiations and other peaceful
means remain the only logical way to settle disputes. The
United States and Cuba have set successful precedents in
this respect, as recently as September 1994, and this
positive course should continue to be pursued, particularly
since Cuba has always declared its readiness to continue
in this direction because it is the proper way to settle its
remaining disputes with the United States of America,
including the issue of the economic, trade and financial
blockade.
My country supports this approach in dealing with
Cuba and other countries against which similar measures
have been taken. If adopted, such an approach will lead
to comprehensive international economic growth, will
strengthen the foundations of constructive international
cooperation and foster
friendly relations that would
enhance international peace and security and create a
spirit of confidence and trust amongst
the world’s
peoples.
(Lao
Mr. Kittikhoun
People’s Democratic
Republic) (interpretation from French): Once again the
General Assembly is called upon to consider the necessity
of ending the economic, commercial and financial
embargo imposed against the Republic of Cuba. As we all
know, that embargo, which dates back more than 30
years, has had an enormous effect on the living standards
of the vast majority of the Cuban people. Above all, it
has not contributed one iota to that country’s efforts to
become part of the world economy. Notwithstanding the
repeated appeals of the international community,
the
embargo, to our great regret, remains in force today.
In keeping with our obligations under the United
Nations Charter and international law, we in the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic have never promulgated or
applied such laws or measures, which in our view,
derogate from the sovereignty of other States and harm
freedom of trade and navigation.
Like all the world’s other peoples, the Cuban people
are entitled to a life in dignity and prosperity. To attain
that noble goal,
they must be allowed to establish
economic, commercial and other relations with the rest of
the world.
in which a spirit of
cooperation between States generally prevails, should we
not promote and expand various types of economic
cooperation between the peoples of our world, including
the Cuban people? It is only natural that such beneficial
In this new era,
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
cooperation should be expanded and strengthened in the
interests of the entire world. We therefore find it difficult
to agree with those who continue to advocate the adoption
of anachronistic coercive economic measures against other
countries.
It is true that the item under consideration is sensitive
and difficult. This debate is supposed to be a serious one,
one that should lead to a positive result. The innocent
Cuban people have already suffered greatly, and today they
deserve all our support and sympathy. Of course, we cannot
brush aside the arguments advanced by the parties, but if,
together and with political will, we can look to the future
without becoming overly mired in the past, a positive
solution to the problem can surely be found.
In the view of the Lao delegation, this debate is not an
occasion for mutual criticism, but, rather, an opportunity to
gain a full awareness of the situation and to seek, together,
a solution. On that note, we would make a friendly appeal
to the two parties concerned, the Republic of Cuba and the
United States of America, to commit themselves to sincere
dialogue in order rapidly to reach a just and honourable
solution that satisfies the legitimate interests of both peoples
and of peace in the region and the world.
Mr. Ngo Quang Xuan (Viet Nam) (interpretation
from French): I would like first of all
to thank the
Secretary-General and his colleagues for the report before
us, submitted in accordance with resolution 48/16, adopted
by the Assembly a year ago.
The trend towards dialogue and international and
regional cooperation is becoming a more and more
irresistible force. In our view, international cooperation
should be based on the principles of respect for the
independence and national sovereignty of other countries,
non-interference in their internal affairs, mutually beneficial
cooperation on an equal footing,
the settlement of all
disputes through negotiation and the non-use of force or
threat of force.
our
awareness
In
today’s world, where
of
independence is being constantly reinforced, respect for
to choose freely its own path of
each nation’s right
development and for its right
to preserve its national
identity is an essential condition for the maintenance of
peace and stability and for the strengthening of international
cooperation. Blockade and sanction measures and the
imposition of conditions in relations between States are
vestiges of the past that go against the common will of
the prevailing world-wide tendency and the
peoples,
45th meeting
26 October 1994
principles of international law. Hence, we fully support all
the resolutions adopted by the countries of the Non-
Aligned Movement calling upon the United States to end
its blockade against Cuba.
We reiterate Viet Nam’s position: laws whose effects
are extraterritorial, because they harm not only Cuba’s
legitimate commercial interests but also those of third
countries, must be abrogated. The resolutions adopted in
this respect by the General Assembly must be promptly
and effectively implemented.
On numerous occasions we have reaffirmed that the
relations between Cuba and the United States should be
resolved by means of negotiation. We welcome the joint
communiqué recently signed between those two countries
on the question of Cuban emigrants. We hope the two
parties will continue their dialogue to resolve the other
outstanding problems between them.
In conclusion,
I wish to convey the profound
sympathy of the Vietnamese people for the people of
Cuba, which is now undergoing such hardship. In a spirit
of understanding and solidarity with the Cuban people,
the Government and the people of Viet Nam have
undertaken and will continue to undertake activities
manifesting solidarity and support, thus providing both
moral and material assistance to the people of Cuba to
help them overcome their difficulties and the effects of
the blockade policy.
Ms. Zachariah (Malaysia): I am speaking on behalf
of the Permanent Representative of Malaysia, Ambassador
Razali Ismail.
Malaysia wishes to support the statement by the
representative of Indonesia, who spoke in his capacity as
Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement. The statement
duly reflects the position taken by the leaders of the Non-
Aligned Movement at the Jakarta summit in 1992 and
reiterated recently at
the Non-Aligned Ministerial
meetings in Cairo in June this year and in New York
earlier this month.
In our previous statements on this agenda item,
Malaysia consistently expressed the belief that this matter
can best be settled between the two countries. At the
same time, Malaysia acknowledges Cuba’s right to appeal
to the United Nations, particularly on an issue involving
extraterritoriality, which impinges on the fundamental
principles of international law and which runs counter to
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
a number of resolutions adopted over the years by this
body.
We believe that making international law prevail must
be the fundamental commitment of all nations. As Members
of the United Nations, we are all obliged to support the
fundamental principles of international law. Upholding the
principles of international law and promoting peaceful and
friendly relations between nations have been basic tenets in
governing relations. Consistent with these tenets, Malaysia
will vote in favour of the draft resolution before us.
Mr. Mwakawago (United Republic of Tanzania): I
wish to express my delegation’s sincere appreciation of the
report of the Secretary-General contained in document
A/49/398 of 20 September 1994, concerning agenda item
24, now being considered by the General Assembly.
Like last year’s report, this one contains replies from
Member States on the implementation of resolution 48/16
of 3 November 1993. The report is reassuring to the extent
that, of the 38 replies reproduced in the report, not a single
one records compliance with the contentious United States
law that imposes an economic, commercial and financial
embargo on Cuba and seeks to extend the application of
domestic laws to third countries.
Regrettably,
the call
to all States to refrain from
promulgating and applying laws and measures such as those
imposed on Cuba continues to be flouted. Indeed, draft
resolution A/49/L.9, now before the Assembly, affirms the
concern that, since the adoption of resolutions 47/19 and
48/16,
strengthening and
extending the embargo against Cuba have been promulgated
and applied, with dire effects on the Cuban people.
further measures aimed at
Tanzania has consistently supported those resolutions
because their overwhelming adoption by the Assembly
attests to the international community’s clear rejection of
the embargo against Cuba and of any pressures exerted on
third countries to withhold cooperation from that country.
We also maintain the view that the embargo is a
violation of the provisions of Article 1 of the Charter of the
United Nations — in particular, the provisions of paragraph
2, which stipulates that the fundamental purpose of the
United Nations is the development of friendly relations
among nations, based on respect for the principles of equal
rights and the self-determination of peoples.
The changing post-cold-war era is replete with
promises of improved understanding and cooperation. The
10
45th meeting
26 October 1994
new environment calls on the community of nations to
coexist in peace with mutual respect and full observance
of international law. In this connection, Tanzania believes
that embargoes, such as that imposed on Cuba, and the
attendant extension of the application of national laws to
third countries are not in keeping with the mood of the
times and are at variance with the purposes and principles
of the Charter of the United Nations.
in full
As many delegations have stressed in the course of
this debate, amicable negotiations offer the only sensible
way to resolve the differences between the United States
and Cuba. Fortunately, Tanzania maintains salutary
diplomatic and consular relations with both countries.
Therefore,
trust and friendship towards these
neighbourly countries, we hope that they will put to full
use their capacity to engage in meaningful dialogue for
the mutual benefit of their peoples. Their recent encounter
in New York to negotiate on immigration matters was as
constructive as it was amply demonstrative of their latent
energy to initiate negotiations leading to the lifting of the
embargo and to improved relations.
In conclusion, Tanzania wishes to express the hope
that the climate is ripe for the lifting, during the course of
the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, of the
embargo imposed against Cuba more than 30 years ago.
In this context, we support draft resolution A/49/L.9, as
it provides further impetus towards good-neighbourliness
between the United States and Cuba.
Mr. Van Dunem “Mbinda” (Angola): Allow me,
Mr. President, to reiterate my delegation’s appreciation of
the way in which you are conducting the General
Assembly’s proceedings.
It is indeed a great honour for me to address the
Assembly on this important agenda item, “Necessity of
ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
I do so in the hope that a comprehensive solution can be
found.
At a time when the international community is
encouraging the settlement of disputes between States by
negotiation and other peaceful means it is unacceptable
and senseless that unilateral measures, such as the
economic blockade against Cuba, continue to be applied
as a solution to internal problems and to settle bilateral
differences. Recent developments in the Middle East, on
the Korean peninsula and in Northern Ireland clearly
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
demonstrate that dialogue is preferable to any other course.
The blockade against Cuba violates — particularly
because of its extraterritorial application — the principles
of international law and the objectives enshrined in the
United Nations Charter. Angola deplores the fact that, in
spite of General Assembly resolutions 47/19 and 48/16,
which urge that it be lifted, the embargo has, rather, been
tightened, thus jeopardizing all United Nations efforts in
this regard and giving rise to gravely deteriorating living
conditions for the people of that sister country.
The embargo and its tightening, far from contributing
to a solution of internal problems, will lead only to violence
and to the loss of lives and property, and it will continue to
affect mainly the people of that
island — particularly
children and women.
strongly believe
Angola is very encouraged by the quick and positive
manner in which Cuba and the United States are conducting
their bilateral talks on migration issues, which led to the
conclusion of the Agreement signed in New York last
September. We
same
determination is applied to solving the outstanding issues
concerning the two countries — in particular, the question
of the economic blockade — the tension in the relations
between them will soon be alleviated. Therefore, we
strongly appeal to both countries to enter into dialogue so
that these last remaining consequences of the cold war may
be completely eradicated.
that
if
the
As in previous years, my country will vote in favour
of the draft resolution.
The President (interpretation from French): Having
heard the last speaker in the debate on this item, we shall
proceed to consider draft resolution A/49/L.9.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish to
explain their votes before the voting. May I first remind
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10
minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
Mr. Marrero (United States of America): The United
States notes that the question before us today is a bilateral
issue. The United States, like any other nation, has the
sovereign right
to determine its bilateral relationships,
including its trading partners.
45th meeting
26 October 1994
The goal of United States policy is, through the
careful application of sanctions directed at the Cuban
régime, to promote a peaceful transition to democracy.
We have made it clear, on many occasions, that
reviewing our embargo depends upon whether the Cuban
régime moves
observes
international norms regarding human rights. Our response
will be calibrated to reforms in Cuba.
democracy
towards
and
The human rights situation in Cuba remains grim; it
has not improved. Concerted suppression of all dissent
and the absence of many fundamental human freedoms
still prevail. If anything, the situation has worsened in
recent months as the Government has cracked down on
dissidents and human rights activists following a major
expression of anti-Government feeling in Havana in
August. The recent massive seaborne exodus from Cuba,
in which thousands risked their lives, showed how little
hope Cubans have for a better life and future under the
current régime.
Therefore, the United States maintains the embargo
in order to keep pressure on the Castro régime to
establish freedom and democracy, because Americans
oppose the repression of
their Cuban friends by a
dictatorial régime - the last one in this hemisphere.
The Cuban leadership often cites the embargo as the
reason for Cuba’s increasing economic troubles. The real
problem, however, lies with the failed economic policies
of the régime. Its economic control has failed to generate
the foreign exchange to purchase imported goods
sufficient to meet the import needs of the Cuban people.
is
What
sorely missing in the
inappropriate
resolution before the General Assembly is mention of the
need
“for a peaceful
transition to a democratic and
pluralistic system which respects human rights and
freedom of opinion”,
as stated in the Rio Group’s declaration of September this
year.
Cuba has trumpeted similar General Assembly
resolutions as triumphs for its dictatorial actions, while
concealing from the Cuban people other calls of
international organizations for democratic reform and
human rights in Cuba. The General Assembly should not
appear to condone the abuses of a repressive régime.
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
We recognize that the people of Cuba must determine
the future that they want for their nation. However, for 35
years they have been denied the right to choose their own
representatives,
to voice their opinions without fear of
reprisal, to meet or to organize freely.
-
to move
The United States embargo is our way of signalling
the Cuban regime’s
continuing strong disapproval of
intransigence
towards
its unwillingness
democracy or to respect the human rights of the Cuban
people. A vote against
the resolution before us will
reinforce that signal. We ask that this body not support
another message to the Cuban people that
this body
endorses their repression. The United States will not send
such a message, and therefore will not vote for this
resolution.
Mr. Zhaoxing (China)
(interpretation from the
Chinese): In its resolutions 47/19 and 48/16, the General
Assembly reiterated such principles as equality of national
sovereignty, non-intervention and non-interference in the
internal affairs of another country, and called on all
countries to fulfil their obligations under the United Nations
Charter and to abide by international
law and the
international freedoms of navigation and trade. This has
reflected the just aspiration of the international community.
Regrettably, the economic, commercial and financial
embargo against Cuba, which has lasted for more than three
decades, still exists, causing enormous difficulties for
Cuba’s economy and great suffering for its people and even
leading to a huge exodus of Cuban refugees and instability
earlier this year. This cannot but draw grave concern from
the international community.
It is the consistent position of the Chinese Government
that the right of people in all countries to choose their own
social systems and that their paths of development should
be respected. We oppose the interference in the internal
affairs of other countries through resort to an economic
embargo and other methods of power politics.
Since the end of the cold war, there has been an
international trend, in both bilateral and multilateral
12
45th meeting
26 October 1994
diplomacy, towards resolving State-to-State disputes and
differences through negotiation and dialogue rather than
through sanctions and confrontation. We hope that the
country concerned will give up its policy and practice of
imposing pressure and embargoes on other sovereign
States on the basis of its own domestic law, and will act
in the spirit of the United Nations Charter and in line
with the norms of international
law and the relevant
General Assembly resolutions by resolving its dispute
with Cuba through negotiation and dialogue.
In view of those considerations, the delegation of
China will vote in favour of draft resolution A/48/L.9.
Mr. Henze (Germany): I am speaking on behalf of
the European Union in explanation of vote on draft
resolution A/49/L.9. Austria, Finland, Norway and
Sweden also support this statement.
The European Union strongly favours a peaceful
transition to democracy and a market economy in Cuba.
We are concerned about
the negative effects of the
embargo on the situation of
the Cuban population.
However, this is not the main reason for the difficult
situation in Cuba. Because of its choices in economics
and politics, the Cuban Government is largely responsible
for the deterioration of the situation in the country.
The European Union condemns
repeated
violations of human rights in Cuba, in particular in the
political field.
the
The Cuban Government has embarked on a process
of limited economic reform that will we hope pave the
way towards a more comprehensive plan to move to a
market economy.
the Cuban
Government retains a firm monopoly on political power.
Additional efforts to promote dialogue and cooperation at
all levels are required to allow for the necessary evolution
towards democracy and pluralism, as elsewhere in Latin
America.
In the political
field,
The opposition of
the European Union to any
extraterritorial application of national legislation is well
known. We have always rejected the United States actions
aimed at
involving third States in the application of
commercial measures that fall exclusively within the
foreign or
the United States.
Accordingly, we have opposed United States legislative
initiatives, including the Cuban Democracy Act, designed
to tighten further the unilateral trade embargo against
Cuba by the extraterritorial application of United States
security policy of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
45th meeting
26 October 1994
jurisdiction. We believe that such measures violate the
general principles of international law and the sovereignty
of independent States.
mutual advantage, and in strict compliance with generally
accepted principles of sovereign equality of States, non-
interference in their internal affairs and freedom of trade.
The European Union cannot accept the United States
unilateral determination and restriction of European Union
economic and commercial relations with any foreign nation.
The President (interpretation from French): We
have heard the last speaker in explanation of vote before
the vote.
The European Union believes that the United States
trade embargo against Cuba is primarily a matter that has
to be resolved bilaterally between the Government of the
United States and the Government of Cuba. The member
States of the European Union, as well as Austria, Finland,
Norway and Sweden, will have these concerns in mind
when voting on the draft resolution before us.
Mr. Kudriavtsev (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): The Russian Federation intends to vote in
favour of the draft resolution on ending the economic
embargo against Cuba, contained in document A/49/L.9,
since we can agree neither with the unilateral actions
undertaken in violation of
time-honoured norms of
international law, nor with the practice of extending the
domestic jurisdiction of States beyond the confines of their
own territory, which does harm to third countries.
Russia believes that
the unilateral measures taken
under the commercial and financial blockade of Cuba, not
only do not promote more openness in Cuban society, but
on the contrary impede democratic transformations and
economic reforms in that country, and hamper Cuba’s fuller
integration into international and Latin American economic
structures. The continuation of this approach is consonant
neither with the positive signs that have appeared recently
pointing to the start of economic reforms in Cuba, nor with
the decision by Havana to accede to the Treaty of
Tlatelolco, nor with the invitation made to Cuba by the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. But
of course this does not denote any change in our position
of principle with regard to the guaranteeing of human
rights.
The Russian delegation believes that a mutually-
acceptable solution to the economic blockade of Cuba
should be sought primarily through constructive dialogue
between the United States and Cuba, with the aim of
normalizing relations between them. In this connection, we
welcome the negotiating process, which has recently been
expanded between the two countries.
As far as Russia is concerned, we continue to support
normal commercial relations with Cuba on the basis of
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/49/L.9. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Myanmar,
Namibia, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Seychelles,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against: Israel, United States of America
Bulgaria,
Abstaining: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Bhutan,
Brunei Darussalam,
Côte d’Ivoire,
Czech Republic, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Fiji,
Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan,
Latvia, Lithuania, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Micronesia
(Federated States of), Morocco, Nepal,
Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, San Marino,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Swaziland, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
45th meeting
26 October 1994
Draft resolution A/49/L.9 was adopted by 101 votes to
2, with 48 abstentions (resolution 49/9)*.
during the cold war — by means of establishing an open
dialogue based on mutual trust and sovereign equality.
The President (interpretation from French): I shall
now call on those representatives who wish to explain their
votes. I remind delegations that explanations of vote are
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations
from their seats.
Mr. Hayes (Ireland): The representative of Germany
gave an explanation of vote on behalf of the European
Union, of which Ireland is a member, and on behalf of
Austria, Finland, Norway and Sweden. My delegation
fully endorses that explanation.
Mr. Fukushima (Japan): I have asked to speak to put
on record the position of Japan in abstaining in the vote on
draft resolution A/49/L.9.
As indicated last year and the year before, Japan has
some doubts as to whether a discussion at the United
Nations General Assembly can actually be conducive to
resolving, in a constructive way, the question of the United
States embargo against Cuba.
This question is very complex in nature. Japan
wonders if the resolution that has just been adopted can in
fact properly address such complexity. If not, the question
will remain unsettled until a better way is found to achieve
an appropriate solution.
Ireland abstained in the vote on the resolution. That
does not mean that Ireland supports a continuation of the
measures with which the resolution deals. On the
contrary, the Irish Government agrees with the call to all
States to refrain from promulgating and applying laws and
measures of the kind referred to in the resolution. We
further believe, in the light of the great changes that have
taken place in recent years in international affairs, that
States that apply such laws and measures should consider
urgently their repeal.
The question that arises in relation to the United
States and Cuba is how best to encourage development in
this direction and whether the adoption of the resolution
at this time is the best way to achieve that aim.
Mr. Motsyk (Ukraine) (interpretation from Russian):
The delegation of Ukraine voted in favour of the draft
resolution which has just been adopted by the General
Assembly. In so doing, the delegation of Ukraine believes
that the adoption and application by States Members of the
United Nations of legislation of an extraterritorial nature, in
particular an economic embargo, can adversely affect the
sovereignty and legitimate interests of other States, as well
as freedom of trade and navigation.
In this respect the Irish Government has been greatly
heartened by the recent talks between the Governments of
the two countries. We want to encourage that process and
allow it time to develop. The resolution which has just
been adopted, envisages a review of the issue at next
year’s session of the General Assembly. We sincerely
hope that before then the embargo will be lifted and that
the conditions can be created to enable the relations
between the United States and Cuba to be normalized.
In our view such measures run counter
to the
generally recognized principles of international law. We
believe that only those sanctions that have been duly
imposed by the international community on the basis of
decisions taken by the United Nations deserve international
support.
Ukraine will not accept the use of economic measures
as a means to attain any political goals and believes that
relations between States should be established in full
compliance with the basic principles of the United Nations
Charter and the norms of international law.
Ukraine, having voted in favour of the draft resolution,
hopes that
there will be a speedy settlement of this
protracted conflict in the relationship between two States —
a conflict that dates back to a period of confrontation
14
Ireland’s concerns in relation to human rights in
Cuba and to the extraterritorial application of national
legislation were set out
in the explanation of vote
delivered by the representative of Germany, to which I
have already referred.
Mr. Karsgaard
careful
consideration, Canada supported the resolution we have
just adopted.
(Canada): After
I would underline that Canada’s primary concern
with the embargo is its extraterritorial reach, the way in
which the laws and regulations governing the embargo
seek to constrain the freedom of trade of third countries
such as Canada. Canada has always taken a vigorous
stand against such measures and in 1992 issued a
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
45th meeting
26 October 1994
blocking order to ensure that Canadian companies were not
subjected to foreign laws on trade with Cuba.
resolution on the necessity of ending the embargo against
Cuba.
I also wish to stress that our vote on this resolution
does not imply that the embargo should be blamed for all
the difficulties Cuba currently faces. In our view, reform in
Cuba is necessary. Last June, the Canadian Government
made a number of adjustments in its policy towards Cuba
which were intended to assist Cubans in need at
the
grass-roots level, and to enhance our ability to support
economic and political reform in Cuba. I would mention in
particular our continuing concerns over the state of human
rights and democratic development
in Cuba. We will
continue, both bilaterally and in the forums offered by the
United Nations, to press for improvement in these areas.
At the same time, we believe that in this post-cold-war
world, the international community should engage with
Cuba, not isolate it, in order to achieve our goals.
Mr. McKinnon (New Zealand): New Zealand has
voted in favour of the resolution contained in document
A/49/L.9. We did however cast
this vote with some
reservations.
We voted in favour because there is an important
underlying principle at stake with direct implications for
economic and trading interests. We consider
that all
countries must be able to go about their ordinary economic,
commercial, financial and trading business free from the
extraterritorial reach of legislation imposed unilaterally by
third countries.
We would have preferred, however, a resolution on
this subject
to have been solely concerned with this
principle. It is with regret therefore that we note that the
resolution continues to contain certain extraneous material
unrelated to concerns about the extraterritorial reach of
legislation and that it also draws selectively on principles
contained in the Charter. We also regret that this year’s text
is once again aimed at institutionalizing this matter in the
United Nations.
Equally, we wish to emphasize that our vote is not to
be interpreted in any way as support for the policies or
practices of Cuba. Our action in casting a positive vote for
this resolution is due to our concern over the principle at
stake.
Mrs. Klein-Loemban Tobing (Suriname): The
delegation of Suriname voted this year in favour of the
The decision to vote in favour was prompted by the
positive trend prevailing in the world today, which is
supported by the United Nations and subscribed to by the
Government of Suriname,
to solve problems through
dialogue, cooperation and understanding.
Suriname has always supported the promotion of
friendly and progressive relations among peoples and the
non-use of coercive measures in relations among States.
At the same time, however, my delegation continues
to be concerned about the fact that not every country in
the Latin American and Caribbean region has a
democratically elected Government in conformity with the
trend which has developed in recent years in this region.
The Surinamese delegation strongly supports efforts
by the international community with a view to the
restoration of democracy and the protection of human
rights and fundamental freedoms in the entire Latin
American and Caribbean region.
Nr. Nieto (Argentina) (interpretation from Spanish):
Argentina has once again abstained in the vote on the
resolution just adopted because we believe that this text
presents a problem of a bilateral nature between two
States with which we have deep relations of friendship.
Argentina trusts that the Cuban people can look
forward to a future of freedom through a peaceful
transition to a democratic and pluralistic regime.
Likewise, we are sure that in the course of the talks
between the two countries that were resumed earlier this
week they will be able to take up those issues that they
believe deserve urgent treatment.
Mr. Tejera-Paris (Venezuela) (interpretation from
Spanish): In recent years, the international system has
made substantial strides towards peace and a healthier
climate of trade through dialogue and direct negotiation.
We all agree on the need to encourage those initiatives
and to promote a climate of confidence and friendship
among States
full
compliance with the United Nations Charter, the rules of
international law and the international legal instruments.
It was precisely in support of those aims that we have
voted in favour of the resolution.
in every sphere providing for
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
We believe that the result of the voting is exclusively
a confirmation of those principles, not as a parliamentary
failure or success.
The problems besetting mankind need to be resolved
through a strengthening of international cooperation and
agreement and not
through any military, political or
economic coercion or any other form of pressure that
undermines the independence and sovereignty of peoples.
We therefore believe that the imposition of unilateral
economic measures
to free
participation in economic relations between nations and that
it is incompatible with our aspirations to establish a socially
and economically just international order.
an obstacle
represents
The vestiges that still remain of interventionist policies
are not limited to impositions by one executive on another
executive. The two other classic branches of government
also at times embark upon such initiatives and we should
therefore recall that legislations can have an effect outside
of borders only when treaties have been signed.
We believe that
the adoption of measures of this
nature by one State against another for political reasons
does not contribute to resolving the differences between
them. As we have witnessed in many situations, they rather
stimulate confrontation and result in suffering among the
population without generating changes in the regimes
against which they are imposed. They generate a natural
nationalistic reaction, a reaction which tends to hamper a
healthy return to democracy and to greater respect for
human rights.
On the other hand, the new, emerging atmosphere of
understanding and cooperation presents an extraordinary
opportunity to leave behind the sequels of ideological
confrontation. We therefore share the idea of promoting a
positive atmosphere in which to resolve all problems
deriving from confrontations that persist in our continent.
In Rio de Janeiro, our President, Mr. Rafael Caldera,
recently stated the following:
“We hope that the United States of America and the
Republic of Cuba will make peace with each other,
along the lines established by international law and in
keeping with the concord that is now being practised
by civilized countries. A cessation of the blockade
imposed upon the Cubans would be one direct and
immediate consequence of such a decision, and based
upon it a new phase of discussion could begin to
16
45th meeting
26 October 1994
resolve the other pending issues that may exist
between the two countries.”
Mr. Gervais (Côte d'Ivoire) (interpretation from
French): Côte d'Ivoire has abstained once again in the
vote on the necessity of ending the economic, commercial
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of
America against Cuba. My delegation’s abstention in no
way reflects a wish to see extended the tragedy of the
Cuban people, which has for so many years been
subjected to the economic and social difficulties generated
by the blockade, but is predicated upon its belief in
avoiding any impediment to the ongoing process that Côte
d'Ivoire has always advocated - namely, the bilateral talks
finally embarked upon by the United States and Cuba.
Côte d'Ivoire welcomes the establishment of this
dialogue and hopes that it will continue and be speedily
completed, in order to put an end to the unfair blockade
of which the Cuban people is the unfortunate victim and
which runs counter to the principles of our Charter.
Mr. Mwaungulu (Malawi): In past votes on similar
draft resolutions, the Malawian delegation abstained. That
did not mean that Malawi supported the economic
embargo against Cuba or, indeed, that it opposed the draft
resolutions.
In doing so,
However, the Malawian delegation has now voted in
favour of the adoption of draft resolution A/49/L.9, on the
necessity of ending the economic, commercial and
financial embargo against Cuba.
the
Malawian delegation is of the firm conviction that this
matter is long overdue and should be resolved, thereby
ending the unnecessary suffering it is imposing on the
innocent Cuban people. The best, proven format for
resolving the outstanding problems that exist between
Cuba and its bigger and most powerful neighbour, the
United States, is the process of bilateral discussions. This
process is, in fact, already in motion, albeit on one issue
only, and it should be expanded and intensified.
The Malawian delegation strongly believes that all
impediments to a productive dialogue between Cuba and
the United States should be removed. Only then can an
atmosphere conducive to its success be established. The
removal of
the existing economic, commercial and
financial embargo by the United States against Cuba
would be a positive step in this direction.
The President (interpretation from French): We
have heard the last speaker in explanation of vote.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 24?
It was so decided.
Programme of work
The President (interpretation from French): Before
taking up the next item, I should like to announce that the
General Committee will meet on Friday, 28 October, at
9.30 a.m. in Conference Room 3, in order to consider a
request for the inclusion of an additional sub-item submitted
by Rwanda and contained in document A/49/233 and a
request for the inclusion of an additional item submitted by
a number of countries and contained in document A/49/234.
I
to draw the
should also like
attention of
representatives to document A/49/452, containing a letter
addressed to me by the Chairman of the Fifth Committee
concerning the proposed revisions to the medium-term plan
for
the period 1992-1997, and to document A/49/6
containing programme 6 of
the medium-term plan
concerning the elimination of apartheid.
Members will recall that at the 16th plenary meeting,
held on 4 October 1994, I requested delegations to submit,
in writing, their views on the programme, for transmittal to
the Chairman of the Fifth Committee.
I should like to inform members that we have received
no replies to date. I shall therefore send a letter to the
Chairman of
informing him
accordingly.
the Fifth Committee
Agenda item 22 (continued)
Assistance in mine clearance
Report of the Secretary-General (A/49/357 and
Add.1)
Draft resolution (A/49/L.8)
Amendment (A/49/L.11)
Prince Sisowath Sirirath (Cambodia): Mr. President,
on 30 September 1994, my Government, expressed its
warm congratulations to you on your assumption of the
presidency of
forty-
ninth session. Allow me, as your friend and colleague who
the General Assembly at
its
45th meeting
26 October 1994
has had the honour and privilege of working closely with
you for many years, to pay homage to you personally
from this rostrum and to wish you every success in the
professional manner
in which you are guiding the
Assembly.
outcome
A little more than a year has passed since Cambodia
held free and fair elections under the supervision of the
United Nations. The
a
democratically elected Parliament and Government.
Although Cambodia is now looked upon by the world as
a country that enjoys peace and harmony, its countryside
is still heavily infested with land-mines, and the need to
clear them is becoming ever more urgent.
brought
about
attaches
The Kingdom of Cambodia
great
importance to the problem of land-mines. That is why my
delegation is very pleased to be a sponsor of draft
resolution A/49/L.8, “Assistance in mine clearance”,
which was introduced before the Assembly by my
colleague the Permanent Representative of Germany, on
behalf of the European Union.
Cambodia, a country ravaged by war for more than
20 years, appreciates the initiative taken on this land-mine
problem by the European Union. My delegation notes
with great satisfaction the report of the Secretary-General
in document A/49/357, entitled "Assistance in mine
clearance".
So much has been written about Cambodia during
the past two decades - about its war, occupation, poverty
and refugees - though very little has been based on
first-hand observation of the horror of land-mines, and so
much happened prior to that which has been forgotten or
remains confused and obscure, that the average citizen in
my country has every reason to be puzzled and
frightened.
Mines in Cambodia have been laid over a period of
more than two decades by all parties and countries
involved in the country’s conflict. It is difficult for any
Cambodian to think about his or her country without an
almost constant sense of revived sadness and guilt, not
only for the war which ravaged their land and the vast
loss of life and tremendous destruction it caused, but also
for the decline and degradation of the arable lands
themselves — due to a high increase in injuries caused by
land-mines among agricultural workers. These deadly
devices limit Cambodia’s ability to meet its own food
requirements and to expand its productive base, and they
are a constant and serious threat. They continue to create
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
soldiers
more than 300 amputees per month,
non-combatants alike - more than any other weapon.
and
Deeply concerned about the dangerous situation facing
Cambodia today, His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk has
on several occasions made his position on this issue very
clear by severely condemning the use of land-mines. His
Majesty has called upon the countries of the world to halt
the production of land-mines and to destroy all those that
are still being stockpiled. Our King highly appreciated the
actions of those concerned countries that have declared
moratoriums on the export, transfer or sale of anti-personnel
land-mines and related devices. His Majesty has also called
upon the Cambodian National Assembly to pass legislation
banning these deadly devices in Cambodia forever.
Hence, my Government welcomed President Clinton’s
in which he
address to this body on 26 September,
proposed the first step towards the eventual elimination of
the world’s 85-or-so million anti-personnel
land-mines.
Cambodia, a country that possesses 8 to 10 million mines
on its soil, supports the United States President’s call to
join him in concluding an agreement to reduce the number
and availability of those mines. This is indeed welcome
news because, as we know, land-mines, unlike chemical
and biological weapons, have never been banned. They not
only are durable and effective, but are readily available
from the countries that make them and the vast global
network of private arms dealers. All sorts of mines are also
easy and relatively cheap to produce locally or elsewhere.
The land-mine has become a weapon of choice for many
armies and resistance freedom-fighters around the world.
Mines along Cambodia’s roughly 700-kilometre border
with Thailand are so widespread that non-governmental
organizations now rank them the country’s third most
serious public-health hazard, after malaria and tuberculosis.
Long before the creation of the Cambodian Mine-Action
Centre — which is actually the Cambodian successor
programme to the programme created under the United
Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) —
Cambodian villagers had no way of knowing where mines
were laid except when they were told by soldiers or those
living around previous battle zones that there was a heavy
concentration of mines around military bases, water sources
and abandoned villages. Previously, no mapping or
recording of mines or mine incidents had been done. Local
people and agricultural workers were aware of mines, but
they nevertheless continued to be killed and maimed by
them.
18
45th meeting
26 October 1994
During the United Nations transitional period in
Cambodia, the Security Council mandated UNTAC to
carry out programmes of mine awareness, mine marking
and mine clearing and training in mine clearance.
Following UNTAC’s successful presence in Cambodia,
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) was
designated in November 1993 to undertake a support and
capacity-building role for the Cambodian Mine-Action
Centre, with the backing of
the Department of
Humanitarian Affairs. UNDP immediately began its
technical assistance and capacity-building programme in
Cambodia.
the
Cambodian Mine-Action Centre’s four principal areas of
de-mining responsibilities over a two-year period while at
the same time moving towards full Cambodian operation.
supported the maintenance of
It
In Cambodia, it is estimated that mines are scattered
in an area of 3,200 square kilometres of mostly
agricultural and resettlement areas. A general mine survey
was recently conducted by the Cambodian Mine-Action
Centre under the UNTAC mandate, covering 80 per cent
of the country.
It produced the following results: 1,851
minefields have been registered in the database; over
352,000 metres of minefield perimeters have been
marked; over 8 million square kilometres of area have
been cleared; and over 20,000 anti-personnel mines, 132
anti-tank mines and 132,000 unexploded ordnance devices
have been destroyed. About 30 per cent of the population
at risk has received mine-awareness training through the
Cambodian Mine-Action Centre and other United Nations
bodies and non-governmental organizations.
My Government is pleased with the result of the
work done by UNDP and various other international
organizations, as well as foreign Governments, in close
cooperation with the Cambodian Mine Action Centre, on
the problems of land-mines. The mine-clearance training
unit has trained some 2,332 Cambodians as de-miners and
99 as supervisors. Today, there are some 1,900 trained
de-miners active in Cambodia, with 1,400 directly
working for the Cambodian Mine-Action Centre.
The Royal Government of Cambodia wishes to
express its profound thanks and appreciation for the
tireless efforts and dangerous work done every day by the
staff of La Compagnie francaise d’assistance specialisee,
Norwegian People’s Aid,
the International Labour
Organisation,
the European Union,
Fondation Pro Victimis, United Kingdom ODA, and the
United States State Department.
the Halo Trust,
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It
Mine clearance is indeed very expensive.
is
estimated at present that more than $18 million will be
spent in Cambodia within a two-year period, of which
$9.1 million have already been received for the year 1994
from the following donors: Australia, Canada, Denmark,
Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the United States of
America and the United Kingdom. The United States has
provided an additional $1.6 million for de-mining
equipment, over 90 experts in the field of de-mining, and
road and bridge engineers under a separate arrangement
with the Cambodian Government. The Government of
Sweden has pledged $2.3 million. Belgium and Norway
have provided personnel, along with the countries I have
just cited, as part of a technical advisory group.
Though I am informing the Assembly today of this
positive result in de-mining, last week the Khmer Rouge
group once again laid mines in Siem Reap Province,
causing the deaths of two Cambodian de-miners working
for La Compagnie francaise d’assistance specialisee. The
Khmer Rouge
12 October
1994,openly boasted about its fighters’ laying 100 new
land-mines between 1 and 3 October along Route 10, which
runs south from Battambang City. This is a serious threat
to the well-being of the people.
on Wednesday,
radio
the development
to work hard for
But the will of the Cambodian people is strong. They
continue
and
rehabilitation of their country and allow no Khmer Rouge
intimidation to frighten them away. Despite the on-and-off
harassment of the destructive Khmer Rouge group, the
situation in Cambodia is improving from day to day. I
express thanks to the General Assembly for this.
Mr. F. A. Khan (Pakistan): We are greatly heartened
to see that the issue of uncleared land-mines has seized the
attention of the international community and is being
discussed with the seriousness it deserves.
This issue was considered for the first time in last
year’s session of the General Assembly. There has been
some forward movement since then in dealing with this
issue. We are now more aware of the magnitude of the
problems posed by uncleared land-mines and the obstacles
in the way of removing these mines. Some steps have
already been taken to overcome these obstacles, and there
is increasing understanding of the further measures that
need to be taken.
The facts on the indiscriminate use of land-mines
make for grim reading. Over 110 million land-mines are
spread over many parts of the world. More than 800
45th meeting
26 October 1994
people, mostly innocent civilians, are killed every month
by such mines. Food production in areas infested with
land-mines has gone down dramatically. The physical
infrastructure of many countries — roads, power lines,
irrigation systems — has been gravely affected.
facilities. We
These facts are not mere abstractions for us in
Pakistan. We have experienced firsthand the ravages of
indiscriminate land-mine use. Thousands of Afghan
refugees injured by these mines have been treated in our
medical
are providing rehabilitation
treatment to many who have been maimed for life. We
also continue to host a huge number of refugees, many of
whom are unable to return to Afghanistan because of the
dangers posed by uncleared mines. The line of control in
Jammu and Kashmir has also been heavily mined,
contrary to the 1949 Karachi cease-fire agreement. This
has created a great human tragedy.
The steps needed for successful mine clearance
become clear with the identification of the impediments
in the way of the removal of land-mines. The main
impediments are: the woefully limited mine-clearance
capacity of most States faced with this problem, lack of
coordination among various agencies involved in mine-
clearance efforts, rudimentary mine-detection and mine-
clearance technology and, above all, the abysmal level of
funding for mine clearance.
Mr. Yassin (Sudan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
have
We are happy to note that some of the required steps
for effective mine clearance are already being taken.
United Nations agencies are focusing on enhancing the
capacity of States to undertake mine-clearance activities.
Where the States are not in a position to take on this task,
the non-governmental
even with outside assistance,
organizations
correctly
been
to
participate. There are also increasing moves to coordinate
and integrate efforts where multiple actors — non-
governmental organizations, State authorities and United
Nations agencies — are involved in mine-clearance
activities. The designation within the United Nations of
the Department of Humanitarian Affairs as the focal point
for such activities will further help in integrating United
Nations efforts and in increasing coordination with other
organizations in the field.
encouraged
While the organizational aspects of mine-clearance
activities are being addressed,
there is not enough
emphasis on upgrading mine-clearance and detection
technology. It is not correct to say that the technical
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
problems in the way of speedy and effective detection and
destruction of mines are insurmountable. In fact, the Secretary-
General’s report on “Assistance in mine clearance” reveals
that the technology to create a multi-sensor mine detector
already exists; only the
engineering and software
programming would be required. Nevertheless, the level
and volume of research remains “too low and lacking in
practicality” (A/49/357, para. 10). This is one area where
further efforts could yield significant results.
The crucial area on which the ultimate success of
mine-clearance activities depends is the provision of
adequate funding. A useful start is being made by the
establishment of a voluntary trust fund for assistance in
mine clearance. Two aspects of the fund need attention.
First, where should the major contributions come
from? This, in turn, raises the larger question of who bears
the responsibility for the removal of land-mines. We are of
the view that those who lay the land-mines must primarily
bear the responsibility for their clearance. Parties that have
wreaked havoc by indiscriminately spreading mines must
not be allowed to walk away from the scene of the carnage.
They should be made to pay for what they have wrought.
to financing
information and
The other aspect of
the fund that needs to be
considered is the manner in which it will be administered
and utilized. This issue will arise when the terms of
reference of the fund are drawn up. We would suggest that,
in addition
training
programmes relating to mine clearance, the fund should be
used to advance mine-clearance
and mine-detection
technology. This could be done by providing seed money
for initiating research activities and by arranging workshops
that bring together the results of research already being
undertaken by different groups working in this field.
The question of the clearance of land-mines that have
already been laid needs to be distinguished from the issue
of controlling the use of new land-mines. At one level these
are undoubtedly related issues. If the use of land-mines is
not controlled, the task of mine clearance becomes almost
impossible. But the control of the use of land-mines raises
issues
lie in the realm of arms control and
disarmament. These issues will quite correctly be dealt with
in the First Committee.
that
Our delegation will actively participate in the First
Committee deliberations on these issues. We shall be doing
so with the objective of contributing to the evolution of a
comprehensive set of measures that will both control the
use of land-mines and help in their speedy clearance.
20
45th meeting
26 October 1994
Mr. Ghebremariam (Eritrea): Three years ago
Eritrea emerged victorious from a devastating 30-year war
of liberation. The war has ended, but the effects of war
continue to haunt us. Among the major problems
emerging as a direct byproduct of war is that of land-
mines. The continued presence of more than 700,000
mines throughout Eritrea — but particularly near farms,
water wells, irrigation systems, transport systems, bridges
and other facilities — has become a major threat to the
reconstruction, rehabilitation and development of the
country. It has also been a major impediment to the
resettlement of the large numbers of Eritrean refugees and
displaced persons.
It is not easy to give the exact number of mines that
were planted during 30 years of war. It is estimated —
and the estimate itself may be misleading — that no less
than 1 million anti-personnel mines may have been
planted. That is too many in a small country like Eritrea.
To date, Government experts have cleared about 300,000,
but much remains to be done. This is evident from the
almost daily land-mine accidents that are reported.
Statistics show that there are about 750 deaths annually.
This has made the return to normal life extremely
difficult, since it has been made impossible to live in
whole regions in certain provinces.
In areas where
settlement has been attempted, livestock are being lost,
and children, women and farmers are being crippled or
killed. This, I must repeat, is making the resettlement of
refugees and displaced persons difficult. It also has a
grave psychological impact on the population.
Land-mines are spread all over the country, although
there is a high concentration in only six of our nine
provinces and around strategic towns and sites.
As mentioned earlier, the Government of Eritrea,
during the three years since liberation, has been doing
whatever it can with the means at its disposal, but it
recognizes its severe limitations. Its major needs are
technical and financial, particularly in the areas of
training, surveying, mine-clearing equipment, medical
equipment, experienced medical personnel and adequate
supplies of artificial limbs.
I wish finally to refer to the Secretary-General’s
report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session
on the work of the Organization, in which he wrote that
“Of all the tasks involved in setting a nation on
a new road to peace and prosperity, perhaps none
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
has the immediate urgency of mine clearance. ... [No]
attempt to restore a sense of community and security
can succeed without effective land-mine removal”.
(A/48/1, para.459)
It is for this reason that my Government appeals for
assistance in clearing these instruments of war, which
continue to wreak havoc long after the war has ended.
to
like
I would
congratulate
Mr. Bunnag (Thailand): On behalf of
the Thai
delegation,
the
Secretary-General and his staff for the very informative
report on assistance in mine clearance. This report is a grim
reminder of the nature of land-mines and their effects on
the victims and their societies. The report contains good
advice to be taken into serious consideration whenever any
country or anyone else wishes to buy, sell, produce or plant
land-mines.
When a draft
resolution on assistance in mine
clearance was first introduced by the European Union at the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, last year,
Thailand not only supported but also joined in sponsoring
it, and we would not hesitate to do so again. For Thailand
fully realizes that land-mines and other similar destructive
devices constitute a terrible threat to the safety, health and
the military as well as civilian populations,
lives of
humanitarian,
including
peace-keeping,
and
reconstruction operations. We appreciate the magnitude of
the problem and have tried our utmost to assist others in
the matter.
peace-building,
rehabilitation
participating
personnel
in
The problem caused by land-mines and their after-
effects cannot be overstated. Engineered to be deadly for
decades, uncleared land-mines, unlike other
types of
weapons, remain lethal long after a conflict has ceased.
Designed to kill, to injure, to impede movement, and to
sow uncertainty and chaos during time of combat, land-
mines continue to fulfil their destructive purposes until they
are found and destroyed. They do not differentiate between
military and civilian, tanks and tractors, combatants and
children.
It is devastating to learn from the report that the
number of mines being laid each year outweighs the
number of such mines that can be cleared during the same
period. About 2 million new land-mines are being laid each
year, while only 100,000 were cleared last year, at a cost of
$70 million to the international community. This means that
every three-dollar land-mine that
is planted will cost
between $300 and $1,000 to clear. There are approximately
45th meeting
26 October 1994
110 million land-mines currently planted in 64 countries
in various parts of the world. It will be an extremely
costly operation to destroy them all — not only in terms
of money and effort, but possibly in terms of lives as
well, not to mention the suffering they continue to wreak.
At present there are about a quarter of a million amputee
mine victims needing care. Many more lives have been
lost. The overall number of victims is expected to
increase by around 10,000 a year. Nor are the victims the
only ones to have to bear the suffering. The families of
the victims suffer just as much. This has far-reaching
negative effects on the societies of which these victims
are members.
When many of us were celebrating the conclusion of
the Paris Peace Accords on Cambodia and when the
United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia was
being formed, three years ago almost to the day, Thailand
served the international community by immediately
dispatching two battalions of Royal Thai Army Engineers
into Cambodia, under bilateral agreement and also under
United Nations auspices, to undertake mine clearance and
road rehabilitation. Their service has helped to open up
access and to clear the land to enable some 300,000
Khmer refugees to go back home.
At present we are considering the request of the
Cambodian Mine Action Centre to provide further
assistance in training. The Centre also requested 30
trained mine-clearing dogs as well as six trainers. The
cost of this latest assistance will probably be borne by the
Royal Thai Government under our allocation for the
economic
assistance programme for
Cambodia, which totals 30 to 40 million baht this year. In
this connection, we are gratified to note that a United
Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for mine clearance is being
established. This will help expedite mine clearance
worldwide, and those with smaller resources can also
benefit.
and technical
With regard to the draft resolution before us, my
delegation shares its deep concern at
the tremendous
humanitarian problems caused by the presence of mines
and other unexploded devices that have serious and
lasting social and economic consequences for the people
of mine-infested countries. These humanitarian problems
constitute obstacles to the safe return of refugees and
displaced persons, to humanitarian-aid operations and to
reconstruction and economic development, as well as to
the restoration of normalcy.
21
45th meeting
26 October 1994
Moreover, it is often those in the most-disadvantaged
sectors of the population who run the greatest risk of
being wounded, killed, maimed or permanently disfigured
by mines. The intense suffering inflicted upon the very
high numbers of innocent victims of mines, primarily
among the civilian population,
to the
conscience of mankind.
is an affront
The broad parameters of this problem, which must
be confronted by the United Nations, its agencies, its
Member States and non-governmental organizations,
necessitates
comprehensive
approach to achieve the requisite coordination and address
the operational, financial and legal aspects of this issue.
encompassing
and
an
Egypt welcomes the designation of the Department
of Humanitarian Affairs as the focal point within the
United Nations responsible for coordinating de-mining
activities and the creation of a mine action unit within the
same Department. The inclusion of mine clearance in the
mandates of some peace-keeping operations is a welcome
step which should be taken further
to emphasize
de-mining efforts in the terms of reference of all relevant
peace-keeping operations.
The United Nations, its agencies and Member States
can also contribute in setting up institutional mechanisms
for the exchange of information and expertise as well as
the training of personnel in mine-clearance techniques and
conducting joint mine-clearance efforts with regional and
national authorities.
The establishment of a Voluntary Trust Fund to
finance information and training programmes relating to
mine clearance is an important step forward, but it will
not be sufficient in itself to meet the cost of removing the
over 100 million mines laid throughout the world. We
urge all Governments to contribute to the Fund while
stressing the responsibility of those who have laid the
land-mines for their clearance.
Egypt is a signatory of the 1981 inhumane weapons
Convention. We welcome the work of the Group of
Experts preparing for the review of that Convention and
those efforts will ultimately contribute to
hope that
strengthening existing humanitarian laws against
the
indiscriminate use of land-mines.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
With regard to the draft resolution to be considered by
the Assembly, my delegation is convinced that it deserves
our full support. In addition, we also believe the provisions
contained therein should be translated into tangible results.
We would like to urge all States, therefore, to strengthen
restrictions on the use of anti-personnel land-mines with a
view to their total elimination; to render assistance to the
victims,
to share all
information of mine locations for mine clearance as well as
other educational information regarding land-mines; to help
in personnel
to
contribute generously to the Voluntary Trust Fund.
their families, and their societies;
training in mine-clearing and,
lastly,
the
by
appointment
Thailand attaches great importance to the role of the
United Nations in mine-clearance activities. For this reason,
Thailand welcomes
the
Secretary-General of a de-mining expert with an overall
coordinating role between the Departments of Humanitarian
Affairs
Peace-keeping Operations. This will
complement the establishment of the Voluntary Trust Fund
by gathering and disseminating information, setting up
training programmes
relating to mine clearance and
facilitating the launching of mine-clearance operations.
and
We would therefore like to urge all Member States,
regional organizations, governmental and non-governmental
organizations and foundations to consider rendering full
cooperation to the Secretary-General and the United Nations
Departments concerned in mine-clearance activities as
mandated by the General Assembly. These activities are an
important step for the international community in assisting
nations to rid themselves of this barbaric scourge that
continues to plague our planet.
Mr. Elaraby (Egypt): My delegation welcomes the
consideration by the General Assembly of the issue of
assistance in mine clearance for the second consecutive
year and hopes that our affirmation of the importance of
this issue will be the catalyst for concerted action by the
international community to eliminate this scourge.
As the report of the Secretary-General attests, the
nature and scope of the problem are grim indeed. He
reminds us that there are over 110 million mines left in the
aftermath of the conflicts in 64 countries and that they
continue to claim 800 victims every month. Many of these
mines predate 1945. Some of them are in the western sector
of my own country. As if this were not enough,
the
combined efforts of the international community were
capable last year of removing only a fraction of this vast
number of indiscriminately laid mines.
22
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Finally, it is important to note that de-mining is not a
panacea for
the global problem of uncleared mines.
Universal regulation of the use, transfer and ultimately the
production of land-mines offers the humane and practical
solution. It is also necessary to take steps to strengthen the
legal sanctions against the indiscriminate use of land-mines
and the application of the principle of responsibility to the
States and parties responsible for the indiscriminate laying
of mines.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in the
debate on this item. I should like to inform members that
action on the draft resolution, as amended, will be taken at
a later date to be announced in the Journal.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
Annex
Changes in record and/or roll-call votes
Resolution 49/9
Subsequent to the voting, the delegation of Lesotho
it had intended to vote in
that
advised the Secretariat
favour.
45th meeting
26 October 1994
23
